M A N DA I PA R K H O L D I N G S YEARBOOK 2018 –2019 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS Mandai Park Holdings (MPH) is the parent company for Wildlife Reserves Singapore (WRS) and Mandai Park Development (MPD). WRS is the operating arm of MPH, and is responsible for Jurong Bird Park, Night Safari, Singapore Zoo and River Safari. WRS is dedicated to the management of world-class leisure attractions that foster conservation and research, while educating guests about animals and their habitats. A self-funded organisation, WRS also collaborates with various partners, organisations and institutions aimed at protecting local and global biodiversity. In this financial year the four parks welcomed just over 5 million visitors for the first time, with Jurong Bird Park contributing 0.77 million, Night Safari 1.3 million, Singapore Zoo 2.1 million and River Safari just under 1 million. MPD works on refreshing the Mandai district to become a world-leading nature and wildlife district. Once the project is completed, Mandai will feature five zoological parks, two indoor nature-themed attractions, a variety of accommodation options, an array of new restaurants, extensive public spaces and a wildlife bridge to allow animals safe passage across Mandai Lake Road. CONTENTS 04 MESSAGE FROM CHAIRMAN & GROUP CEO 06 OUR VISION, OUR MISSION, OUR CORE VALUES 07 THE TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE, STRATEGIC THRUSTS & KEY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 09 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 10 BOARD OF DIRECTORS, COMMITTEE MEMBERS & SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14 ADOPTERS & DONORS 16 YEAR IN REVIEW 18 CARING FOR OUR PLANET 20 The Future of Mandai 24 Providing World-Class Animal Care 42 Playing A Leading Role In Conserving Biodiversity 52 Spreading The Message 56 Environmental Sustainability 62 In Memory Of Inuka, 1990-2018 64 BUILDING A PEOPLE-FOCUSED CULTURE 66 The Mandai Service Promise 68 Learning And Development 69 Human Capital Management 70 Social Sustainability 72 SUSTAINING OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 74 Rainforest Lumina 75 Enhancing Park Experiences 78 Getting The Nod From Guests 79 Driving Footfall 80 Financial Attendance Highlights 83 THE YEAR AHEAD MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 4 MESSAGE from Chairman & Group CEO in-situ protection, supported by ex-situ management programmes. And there’s no better place to start than our own backyard here in Singapore. To save one of our iconic native animals, the critically endangered Sunda pangolin, we contributed to the multi-party effort to develop a National Conservation Strategy and Action Plan, which was launched by Mr Desmond Lee, Minister for Social and Family Development and Second Minister for National Development. The highlight of the launch was the release of a rescued pangolin, Sandshrew. This pangolin became the first of his species to be hand-raised for the purpose of reintroduction back to the wild. His release process is a prime example of acting on the species-specific strategy plan and will help inform future pangolin rehabilitation S Dhanabalan Mike Barclay and release protocols. We are confident the plan will help CHAIRMAN GROUP CEO us coexist harmoniously with pangolins in our densely MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS populated country. Local wildlife research continued to benefit from the The 2018/19 financial year commenced on a sombre Wildlife Reserves Singapore Conservation Fund (WRSCF), note. We witnessed the rapidly declining health of Inuka, which supported a total of 12 projects, up from nine last Singapore Zoo’s beloved polar bear, despite the best efforts year. Beyond our shores, WRS funded 31 conservation of his care team. The difficult decision to euthanise Inuka projects, with a key focus on threatened Southeast Asian was made with the knowledge that his health issues had species such as the Sumatran elephant, orangutan, black eroded his quality of life and seriously impacted his crested macaque, freshwater turtles and songbirds. welfare. News of Inuka’s ill health and passing triggered an outpouring of love and grief over the loss of one of At the same time, we have deepened our direct Singapore’s icons. We would like to thank everyone for involvement in saving another endangered species. their support as we came together to mourn the passing Nine months after they first flew to the Solomon Islands of this very special polar bear. to care for 112 malnourished Santa Cruz ground-doves rescued from poachers, staff of Jurong Bird Park returned WRS became the first international member of the to the Islands to select 60 ground-doves and bring them Zoo and Aquarium Association of Australasia (ZAA) back to Singapore to establish an ex-situ assurance colony. and the first zoological institution to have double We are pleased to report that the doves are breeding well. accreditation from both ZAA and the European Eventually, we hope to reintroduce the birds to their Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA). Undergoing native habitat. these accreditation processes helps us to affirm that our animal care and operations are of the highest international WRS also supported and hosted conservation strategy standards. With the accreditations, we are now able to meetings, a key one being the first official meeting of the participate more fully in managed breeding programmes Asian Songbird Trade Specialist Group (ASTSG) since its across the Australasian and European regions to ensure inception in 2017 under the auspices of the International the long-term sustainability of animal populations in Union for Conservation of Nature, Species Survival human care. We now participate in 77 species-specific Commission (IUCN/SSC). Another IUCN SSC initiative breeding programmes. we hosted was the Asian Species Action Partnership (ASAP). With WRS’ funding and help in capacity building, Our primary conservation focus continues to be on ASAP has grown to include 80 partners working to threatened Southeast Asian species in need of conserve 199 critically endangered land and freshwater MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 5 Southeast Asian species. By gathering researchers and Our annual Sustainability Campaign in October continues conservationists from around the world, we hope we can to be the flagship of our advocacy efforts. Last year, collectively bring about the kind of evidence-based change we introduced the concept of ‘The Deadliest Monster’ to and impact needed to save endangered species. cast a spotlight on plastic waste as the biggest danger to health of marine animals. Building on the success of this On the home front, the Mandai Rejuvenation Project is effort, we rallied our guests and community to join us progressing well, with the new Bird Park and quarantine to ‘Fight the Deadliest Monster’ by reducing their use of buildings beginning to take shape and a wildlife bridge being plastic disposables. constructed across Mandai Lake Road. The bridge, as well as the new quarantine buildings, are slated for completion in Apart from hosting some 7,000 beneficiaries from various late 2019. Meanwhile, work has started on the 10-year WRS Social Service Organisations, we enhanced engagement with Development Masterplan, which will ensure we continue guests from disadvantaged backgrounds to create inclusive to upgrade and enhance our operating zoological parks in and meaningful wildlife experiences for them. With the parallel with developing the new Mandai offerings. support of the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA) Nature Connect grant, we launched a specially In celebration of Singapore Zoo’s 45th birthday, we curated programme ‘Let’s Play Outside’ for families with introduced Rainforest Lumina, a multimedia night walk autistic children. This programme, co-created with the through the Zoo that offers guests an immersive and Autism Resource Centre, was greatly appreciated by the interactive experience in a forest setting. The Lumina families as it allowed the children to explore nature in an experience is the first of its kind in Southeast Asia, attracting assuring and inclusive environment. over 200,000 guests in its first season of operations. In response to the extremely positive feedback received for Lumina and other guest experience innovations helped our Wow Wild Learn (WWL) Programme in Chinese, a us to attract a record 5.2 million guests to our parks. collaboration between the Committee to Promote Chinese Singapore Zoo was named the world’s third best zoo in Language Learning and WRS, we have expanded WWL to the 2018 Travellers’ Choice awards by TripAdvisor. Night include the Malay and Tamil languages. We would like to Safari was once again crowned Best Attraction Experience thank the Ministry of Education for their generous support at the 2018 Singapore Tourism Board (STB) Awards, while in the successful launch of this initiative. Mr Emmey Mohamed Bin Nenpari from Night Safari walked away with the STB Best Customer Service award in Through our varied educational offerings, we engaged more the Attractions category. Our guest satisfaction score hit than 398,000 school children, park guests and members a record high of 85.3% and we had a record 179 winners of the public during the reporting period. This was made for the 2018 Excellent Service Awards (EXSA) organised possible with the help of our volunteers who have worked by the Association of Singapore Attractions (ASA). Every tirelessly with us to raise public awareness and inspire year, ASA honours the best of the Star category winners people to do the right thing to protect biodiversity. with the EXSA Superstar award. Our congratulations go to Chandran A/L V P Kunhikannan from Night Safari for It has been a year of tremendous achievements. We would bagging this ultimate award. like to thank our board and committee members for their guidance, and our partners, members, adopters, donors On the environmental sustainability front, WRS was and volunteers for their unwavering support. Last but not proud to receive the Singapore Packaging Agreement least, we would like to express our appreciation to our staff (SPA) Excellence Award in recognition of our efforts to for their dedication and commitment. We look forward to eliminate single-use plastics from our operating parks. We your support in the coming year as the Mandai Rejuvenation have also made notable strides in green procurement and Project takes shape and we continue to deliver world-class the adoption of best practices in water, energy and waste animal care, expand our conservation footprint and inspire management. people to protect wildlife. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 6 The Triple Bottom Line, Strategic Thrusts & Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 3Ps STRATEGIC THRUSTS SDGs Provide World-class Care For Our Living Collection PLANET Be A Regional Leader In Environmental Sustainability & Conservation Apply Leading Organisation & HR Practices PEOPLE Forge A Strong National Love & Pride For Our Parks Create Exceptional PERFORMANCE Guest Experiences Ensure Long-term Commercial Viability MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 8 OUR COMMITMENT TO KEY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) QUALITY EDUCATION Our parks are living classrooms that strengthen early childhood and multi-disciplinary learning, including the mother tongue languages, as well as 21st century competencies through volunteerism, work attachment and career guidance. Through our educational offerings, we empower guests, including those with special needs and from disadvantaged backgrounds, with the chance to learn about wildlife and connect with nature. Robust training for our staff facilitates lifelong learning and acquisition of specialist skills. AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY We review energy consumption in our parks through comprehensive audits. We are converting to energysaving electrical devices and solar panels. We have converted all trams at Jurong Bird Park to run on electricity. The principle of using clean energy through innovative solutions guides all development work in Mandai. SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES We galvanise the community to refuse single-use plastic and to choose sustainably-sourced products. We save 1.3 million single-use plastic bottles per year by providing water refill points in our parks. This year, we received the Singapore Packaging Agreement (SPA) Excellence Award, in recognition of our efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle packaging waste. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION We embrace sustainable best practices through a stringent procurement process for sustainable products. We use certified segregated sustainable oil for cooking and we serve sustainable seafood in all F&B outlets. We use paper packaging for drinking water, in place of plastic. Other than reducing energy consumption and single-use plastic, we also cut down on food waste in our operations by creating closed loop systems. LIFE BELOW WATER Through River Safari, we highlight the fragility of river ecosystems to our guests, and encourage them to take action to protect freshwater life forms, which are disappearing faster than those on land or in the sea. We support local and regional conservation projects to protect biodiversity in aquatic ecosystems. We spread the message on plastic pollution and rally our guests to join us in taking sustainable action. LIFE ON LAND We provide world-class care for the animals in our living collection, which serve as ambassadors to connect people with the natural world. Through conservation messaging with a strong call to action, we encourage people to do their part for wildlife. We work with other zoos through Managed Species Programmes to save threatened species. We support local and regional conservation and are directly involved in saving endangered wildlife such as the Santa Cruz ground-dove. PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS We forge strong partnerships, locally and globally, with wildlife institutions, conservationists, NGOs, governmental agencies, businesses, sponsors, donors, schools, volunteers and various communities to achieve our goals. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 9 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS Mike Barclay Group CEO Mandai Park Holdings MANDAI PARK WILDLIFE RESERVES CORPORATE SERVICES, DEVELOPMENT SINGAPORE MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS Project Management Life Sciences Human Resources Planning & Development Sales & Marketing Finance & Legal Attractions Development Estate & Property Strategy & Innovation Asset Development & Park Operations & Brand & Indoor Attractions Revenue Communications Sustainable Solutions Internal Audit Cost, Contracts & Procurement Programme Management Office MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 10 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS CHAIRMAN Mr S DHANABALAN Mr S Dhanabalan is also Chairman of Temasek Trustees Pte Ltd, the philanthropic arm of Temasek. He serves on the board of GIC. He is a member of the Council of Presidential Advisers as well as the Presidential Council for Minority Rights. Mr Dhanabalan has been the Patron of the Singapore chapter of Habitat for Humanity since September 2003. DEPUTY CHAIRMAN DIRECTORS Mr TAN Chuan-Jin Mr Mike BARCLAY Mr Tan Chuan-Jin is the current Speaker of the Parliament of Mr Barclay holds the position of the Group CEO of Mandai Singapore. He has served as the Minister for Social and Family Park Holdings. He also serves on the Board of the Changi Development, as well as the Minister for Manpower. He is Airport Group, the Raffles Hospital Ethics Committee and currently Advisor to the National Council of Social Service, the Governing Council of the World Association of Zoos and also oversees SG Cares, the national movement that works and Aquariums. towards building a more caring society. He is the President of the Singapore National Olympic Council and Chairman, Advisory Board of Healthway Medical Corporation Ltd. Mr Tan is also the Ms Claire CHIANG Patron of SHINE Children and Youth Services, Club Rainbow Ms Claire Chiang is the co-founder of Banyan Tree and Centre for Fathering. Hotels & Resorts and the Chairperson for China Business Development, Banyan Tree Global Foundation, Wildlife Reserves Singapore Conservation Fund, Singapore Book Council and Shirin Fozdar Program in Singapore Management University. She is a director of ISS A/S, Denmark and Dufry AG, Switzerland. She is also a member in the Advisory Committee for Guilin Tourism University and School of Hotel and Tourism Management of Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mr KEE Teck Koon Mr Kee is the Executive Director of NTUC Enterprise Co-Operative Limited, the holding entity of NTUC FairPrice, NTUC Income, NTUC Health and seven other social enterprises. He is also a director of two public listed companies, namely, CapitaLand Ltd and Raffles Medical Group Ltd. Mr Kee is the Chairman of Changi Airports International (CAI), Deputy Chairman of NTUC Income, and also sits on the boards of Fullerton Fund Management Company and Lien Foundation. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 11 Ms NEO Gim Huay Mr SIM Hwee Cher Ms Neo Gim Huay is Managing Director, Sustainability of Mr Sim is a Council Member of Community Chest, Member Temasek International Pte Ltd. She sits on the Boards of of Duke-NUS Medical School Centre for Ageing, Research Surbana Jurong Pte Ltd, Singapore National Library and and Education (CARE) Advisory Board, Council Member the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore. She is also the of the National Youth Achievement Award Association, and Secretary of Eisenhower Fellowships Singapore. Director of Mandai Park Holdings Pte Ltd, The Esplanade Co Ltd, NTUC Income and UOL Group Ltd. Mr Dilhan Pillay SANDRASEGARA Mr Sandrasegara is Chief Executive Officer of Temasek Professor Leo TAN International Pte. Ltd. He serves on the boards of the Singapore Professor Tan chairs the Temasek Foundation Innovates, Management University, the National Research Foundation and the Science Sub-Commission of the Singapore National in Singapore, Singapore Innovate Pte. Ltd and Enterprise Commission for UNESCO. He is Singapore Governor of Singapore. He is also a member of the Future Economy Asia-Europe Foundation (ASEF), a Fellow of the Singapore Council and the Financial Centre Advisory Panel of the National Academy of Science and Governing Member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Singapore Environmental Council. Mr LAM Yi Young Mr Stephen FORSHAW Mr Lam Yi Young is Deputy Secretary (Industry) in the Mr Forshaw is the Head, Public Affairs and Managing Ministry of Trade and Industry. He serves on the boards of Director, Australia and New Zealand for Temasek. He also CapitaLand Commercial Trust Management Limited, EDB serves on the board of the Real Pet Food Company. Investments Pte Ltd, JTC Corporation, Sentosa Development Corporation and Singapore GP Pte Ltd. Ms CHONG Siak Ching Ms Chong Siak Ching is the Chief Executive Officer of Professor TAN Chorh Chuan National Gallery Singapore and Head of the Visual Arts Professor Tan is Executive Director of the Office of Healthcare Cluster (VAC) Singapore comprising the Singapore Art Transformation as well as the Ministry of Health’s Chief Health Museum, Singapore Tyler Print Institute and the National Scientist. He is on the Board of Directors of the Monetary Gallery Singapore. She is a Director on the Board of Singapore Authority of Singapore, and of the Health Promotion Board. Press Holdings and also a member of the Yale-NUS Governing He is also a member of the Yale-NUS Governing Board and Board. She is Singapore’s Non-Resident Ambassador to the Senior Advisor to the Boards of the National University Health Republic of Chile. System and Duke NUS Medical School. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 12 COMMITTEE MEMBERS Animal Welfare and Ethics Committee Chairman: Prof Leo Tan Secretary: Dr Cheng Wen-Haur Members: Dr Yap Him Hoo Dr Leslie Retnam Dr Tan Hwa Luck Dr Adrian Loo Dr Stephanie Ho Mr Vinayagan Dharmarajah Prof Joseph Chun Mr Mike Barclay WRSCF Specialist Panel Chairman: Dr Shawn Lum Secretary: Dr Jessica Lee Members: Dr Benjamin Lee Dr Huang Danwei Dr Cheng Wen-Haur Dr Leong Tzi Ming Dr Sonja Luz Dr Norman Lim MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 13 SENIOR MANAGEMENT Mr Mike BARCLAY ■ Group Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Mandai Park Holdings Dr CHENG Wen-Haur ■ Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Chief Life Sciences Officer Mr Benjamin TAN ■ Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Chief Commercial Officer Mr LEONG Yue Kheong ■ Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mandai Park Development Mr Melvin TAN ■ Chief Estate and Property Officer Ms LOW Wai Peng ■ Chief Financial Officer Mr Marcus HENG ■ Chief Human Resources Officer Ms Isabel CHENG ■ Chief Marketing Officer Ms Sherri LIM ■ Chief Park Operations & Revenue Officer Ms Belina LEE ■ Chief Strategy & Innovation Officer Mr Marc CREMADES ■ Vice President, Attractions Development Ms HO Hui Ching Suzanne ■ Vice President, Brand & Communications Mr CHIA Gim Peng Chris ■ Vice President, Cost, Contracts & Procurement Mr TANG Siew Wah Terrence ■ Vice President, Digital Ms LOW Min Hwee ■ Vice President, Finance Ms TAN Mui Tian Karen ■ Vice President, Internal Audit Ms Jolene GOH ■ Vice President, Legal Mr David TK GOH ■ Vice President, Project Management Mr NG Kong Wey Kenneth ■ Vice President, Project Management Dr LEE Hui Mien ■ Vice President, Sustainable Solutions Ms Gail LAULE ■ Director Animal Presentation Dr Sonja LUZ ■ Director Conservation, Research & Veterinary Services Ms May LOK ■ Director Education Mr CHAM Tud Yinn ■ Director Exhibit Design Mr Donald TAN ■ Director Facilities Management Mr Steven WONG ■ Director Finance Mr Steven TAN ■ Director Food & Beverage Mr George KYAW ■ Director Horticulture Ms May YEO ■ Director Human Resources Mr Thomas CHUA ■ Director Information Technology Ms Daisy LING ■ Director Jurong Bird Park Ms Sandy LEE ■ Director Marketing Ms Kelly CHEW ■ Director Procurement Ms Jean CHOI ■ Director Sales Mr Kumar PILLAI ■ Director Special Projects Mr Andrew CHAI ■ Director Technical Services Dr Luis Carlos NEVES ■ Director Zoology MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 14 ADOPTERS & DONORS Jurong Bird Park Goodwood Park Hotel Limited Brahminy Kite, Ronnie II Hong Leong Foundation Flamingoes from the High Flyers Show Lee Foundation Singapore Penguin Coast M1 Limited Malayan Fish Owl, Tupa M1 Limited Great-Pied Hornbill SPH Foundation Ltd High Flyers Show State Bank Of India (Singapore) Flamingo Lake The Shaw Foundation Pte Fly Pass Macaws from the High Flyers Show Night Safari Goodwood Park Hotel Limited Fishing Cat Trail Haw Par Healthcare Limited Malayan Tiger JTB Pte Ltd Lion JTB Pte Ltd Sambar Deer & Elephant JTB Pte Ltd Baby Elephant, Neha Khoo Teck Puat Foundation Fishing Cat Trail M1 Limited Hippopotamus Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd African White Lion Mr. Martin Storey Babirusa Singapore Refining Company Pte Ltd Barasingha Starisland Travel Pte Ltd Indian Rhinoceros Thai Beverage Public Company Limited Asian Elephant, Chawang The Shaw Foundation Pte Slow Loris Trip.com Asiatic Black Bear, Lance River Safari Arcadis Singapore Pte Ltd Chinese Giant Salamander CapitaLand Limited Presenting Sponsor & Conservation Donor of Kai Kai & Jia Jia Khoo Teck Puat Foundation Red Panda M1 Limited Jewel Tank Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Mekong Giant Catfish Starisland Travel Pte Ltd Alligator Snapping Turtle The Shaw Foundation Pte Manatee Feeding Program MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 15 Singapore Zoo Alipay.com Co. Ltd Elephant, Komali ams Sensors Singapore Pte Ltd Chimpanzee, Togo CTBC Bank Co. Ltd Chimpanzee, Akinyi DBS Bank Limited Buddy Barn Dimension Data Asia Pacific Pte Ltd White Rhinoceros Gemini Travel N Tours Pte Ltd (SAEX) Cheetah Haw Par Corporation Ltd Leopard Henkel Singapore Pte Ltd Chimpanzee, Gangga Hong Leong Foundation Fragile Forest Hotel Properties Limited Orangutan, Adi House On The Hill Pte Ltd Giant Tortoise, Mahe Industrial And Commercial Bank Of China Limited Cotton-Top Tamarin Jason’s Pet Relocation (Singapore) Giant Tortoise, Astove Kellogg Asia Marketing Inc. Primate Kingdom Kentucky Fried Chicken Management Pte Ltd Zebra Lee Foundation Singapore Orangutan, Chomel Lee Foundation Singapore Tropical Crops M1 Limited Amhara Stone Village M1 Limited Orangutan, Endah Mitsui & Co. (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Elephants at Work & Play Show Mrs Christina Ong Orangutans, Binte & Saloma Ms Kay Kuok Asian Elephant, Aprila Ms Nicola Barrett Memorial Bench Nomanbhoy & Sons Pte Ltd White Tiger, Keysa NSL Ltd Chimpanzee, Jengo Oiltanking Singapore Ltd Giant Tortoise, Claude Peng Ya & Chen MuFeng Asian Elephant, Jati Petrochina International (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Lion Samsung Asia Pte Ltd White Tiger, Pasha SPH Foundation Ltd Celebes Crested Macaque at SPH Conservation Centre Starbucks Coffee Singapore Pte Ltd Komodo Dragon Starisland Travel Pte Ltd Gibbon Island State Bank Of India (Singapore) Asian Elephant, Gambir Thai Airways International Public Co. Ltd Asian Elephant, Intan The Shaw Foundation Pte The Shaw Foundation Amphitheatre Tour East Holdings Pte Ltd Jungle Breakfast with Wildlife Tradecom Services Pte Ltd Chimpanzee, Ida Trip.com Giraffe, Marco Wuthelam Holdings Pte Ltd Rabbit Wildlife Reserves Singapore Event DKSH Pte Ltd Singapore Zoo 45th Anniversary (May June 2018) Haw Par Healthcare Limited Rainforest Lumina (July 2018 Feb 2019) HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited Dragons and Beasts (Nov Dec 2018) Lam Soon Singapore Pte Ltd Rainforest Lumina (July 2018 Feb 2019) Pico Art International Pte Ltd Rainforest Lumina (July 2018 Feb 2019) PT Bank Central Asia TBK Rainforest Lumina (July 2018 Feb 2019) MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 16 YEAR IN REVIEW ❉ ❉ Welcomed Singapore Zoo a record was voted the world’s 5.2 million guests, third best zoo by TripAdvisor, a 4% increase over while Night Safari was crowned FY17/18. the Best Attraction Experience ❉ by the Singapore Tourism Received Awards 2018. accreditation from European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA). ❉ Singapore Zoo ❉ launched new butterfly, fossa and Completed Celebes crested macaque exhibits, the schematic design for the while the Indian gharials were given Mandai Rejuvenation Project, a new home in Night Safari and while making significant Jurong Bird Park started to exhibit progress on the construction the iconic shoebill. of the new bird park and River Safari launched a new quarantine building. animal presentation concept titled ‘Once Upon A River’. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 17 ❉ ❉ Singapore Zoo Received the Singapore turned 45; Packaging Agreement Rainforest Lumina Excellence Award for night event replacing all single-use launched to mark plastic bottles in our the occasion. parks with cans or ❉ paper cartons. Contributed to the multi-party effort to save the Sunda pangolin in Singapore through the development of a National Conservation Strategy and Action Plan. This included releasing the Sunda pangolin Sandshrew back to the wild in Singapore, the first of his species to be hand-raised for reintroduction. ❉ ❉ Supported 12 local and Engaged 398,000 31 regional/global conservation children and adults on projects with funding and wildlife conservation resources, while collaborating and sustainability with other wildlife institutions through in-park and to save 77 threatened species outreach programmes through Managed Species with a strong call to Programmes. action. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 18 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 19 Caring for our Planet Besides nurturing a highly-skilled team to deliver world-class care for our animals, we also drive conservation efforts by leading field conservation projects, supporting research and education, empowering people to take action, and building relationships with like-minded organisations. FY18/19 HIGHLIGHTS Provided care for 956 animal species, 25% of which are threatened in the wild Participated in 77 global managed species programmes to save these threatened species from extinction Invested $2 million in conservation projects and related work Engaged and empowered 398,000 people through conservation and sustainability education Replaced all single-use plastic bottles with cans or paper cartons MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 20 THE FUTURE OF MANDAI The new Mandai precinct builds on our proud tradition of creating and managing world-class wildlife parks and experiences, and prepares the ground for us to continue in our leadership role in wildlife conservation, education and research well into the 21st century. Works for Rainforest Park and East Node commenced in early 2019, with construction for West Node and the new bird park well underway. The Mandai wildlife bridge and quarantine building are slated for completion by the next FY. MORE PROTECTIVE which coincides with the active to discourage wildlife from MEASURES FOR hours for nocturnal animals. crossing during Night Safari’s WILDLIFE operational hours. We also obtained approval to The measures to protect wildlife decommission a pair of busIn April 2018, we installed along Mandai Lake Road are stops along Mandai Lake Road. a rope bridge, the first in continually reviewed, and They may potentially impede to Singapore, to reconnect the we regularly seek input from wildlife crossings due to their two sides of the nature reserve relevant stakeholders, including proximity to the temporary divided by Mandai Lake Road the nature community and ground crossing, which local since the 1970s. This is to wildlife experts. An added wildlife is known to use to facilitate safe crossings for protective measure is the cross Mandai Lake Road. Light tree-dwelling animals, while closure of Mandai Lake Road curtains are also deployed at the wildlife bridge is being during non-operating hours the temporary ground crossing constructed. Mandai Lake Road closure from 1.30am to 6.00am to facilitate wildlife crossings. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 21 1 3 4 2 1 & 2: Long-tailed macaques observed using The rope bridge saw its first to mimic tree trunks, the twelve the rope bridge along Mandai Lake users – long-tailed macaques poles are to help colugos glide Road. – within the first week of with ease in the area. 3: A colugo settles on a high pole which installation. A second rope mimics a tree trunk. These poles were bridge was put up across the In the longer term, as part of our specially designed with the gliding water inlet near Mandai Lake re-greening strategy, we will be mammal in mind. 12 such poles have been installed along Mandai Lake Road in January 2019. planting in many more native Road to improve habitat connectivity. tree species which will go towards Temporary colugo poles were enriching local biodiversity and 4: Colugos glide from tree to tree using the skin flaps located along the sides of also erected along Mandai Lake enhancing wildlife connectivity their body. These nocturnal creatures Road, a first in Asia. Designed in the area. spend most of their waking hours foraging for leaves and young shoots. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 22 DEVELOPING the surroundings and mandatory 45 environmental compliance SENSITIVELY biodiversity awareness training audits were carried out over the for all site workers to inculcate last FY. We are commited to minimising environmentally responsible impact to the surrounding practices on the project sites. To better understand the local environment during this Over 4,000 staff and workers biodiversity in the area where development phase. Guided received biodiversity training works are taking place, we by the recommendations from during the reporting period. continue to work with wildlife our Environmental Impact experts to conduct fauna and Assessment, we continue to Regular site checks are also flora surveys. Analysis of the take in special consideration conducted to ensure contractors data collected allows us to the flora and fauna in the area. comply with our stringent respond quickly in the shortThis includes the restriction of environmental requirements. term and guides our long-term construction hours to daylight 250 environmental, health and animal management plans and hours to reduce disturbance to safety inspections and more than planting strategy. A group of site workers undergoing biodiversity awareness training. Training is mandatory, and refresher sessions are conducted every six months, to ensure environmentally responsible practices on the project sites. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 23 We work closely with our contractors to implement innovative best practices, as well as enhance existing measures. As part of capacity building efforts, we started to host Environmental Health and Safety Roundtable sessions where contractors of the different work sites came together to share effective measures, learnings and good practices that could be replicated across the work sites. ENGAGING EXTERNAL and small group sessions to create from private organisations, STAKEHOLDERS additional opportunities for tertiary institutions, industry interactions and robust discourse. associations, environmental As we transform Mandai into an NGOs, community groups integrated wildlife and nature We launched our first series and government agencies. The destination that will welcome of workshops to extend our workshops sparked discussions even more guests, we stepping up stakeholder engagement to and generated an exchange of external stakeholder engagement individuals and organisations ideas around sustainability that to develop meaningful from the sustainability could be implemented for the partnerships. and research community. wildlife district, as well as research The two workshops were opportunities that could equip To maintain open attended by more than 40 us with deeper understanding of communications, we continue to individuals and professionals local biodiversity. engage regularly with members of the nature community. We have also introduced site visits Right (above): Our Sustainable Solutions team conducting a work site audit. These audits are carried out monthly to ensure compliance with environmental and safety guidelines. Right: Our appointed ornithologists recording observations of birds based on sight and sound within the development’s buffer zones, setback and retained forests. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 24 PROVIDING WORLD-CLASS ANIMAL CARE Our accreditation by two of the top international regional zoo associations is testament to the fact that the standards of animal care and welfare in our four parks are on par with the top zoos in Europe and Australasia, and helped reaffirm our position as a world-leading zoological institution. With improved technology and scientific knowledge, we seek to enhance the quality of life of the animals in our care, through all stages of their life. Over the FY, we • Provided care for 16,363 animals across 956 species • Participated in 77 global managed species programmes to save these threatened species from extinction • Bred 897 young across 123 species, 20% of which are threatened with extinction • Devoted 1,269 hours of veterinary care for 2,647 wild rescued animals brought in for treatment OUR VALUABLE LIVING COLLECTION Our living collection is one of the largest and most biologically diverse among zoos worldwide. A quarter of the 956 species we care for are threatened in the wild, according to The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. We coordinate with other like-minded zoological institutions to maintain healthy populations of these species under human care, to ensure their continued survival. Being stewards of such a valuable collection requires tremendous hard work and careful planning on the part of the Life Sciences team. Extinct In The Wild (EW) NOT EVALUATED As at 31 March 2019: 1 species and DATA DEFICIENT TOTAL ANIMAL COLLECTION: 169 species Critically Endangered (CR) 16,363 specimens, 53 species 956 species (25% are threatened) Endangered (EN) 78 species Least Concern (LC) 480 species * Threatened species include animals that are Vulnerable (VU) extinct in the wild, 107 species critically endangered, endangered and vulnerable; classification is based on Near Threatened (NT) The IUCN Red List of 68 species Threatened Species. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 25 Saving Species White rhino calf At The Global Level White rhinos White rhinos in the wild are As accredited members of EAZA threatened by habitat loss and and ZAA, our four wildlife parks are poaching. Through the breeding and exchange of white rhinos to now able to participate more fully zoos worldwide, we have long in managed breeding programmes contributed to the sustainability of across the European and Australasian zoo rhino populations. To start a regions. This FY, we added another new bloodline, we brought in a new 26 of these programmes to our list, a female, Nana, in 2014. She gave 50% increase from last year’s number. birth to her first calf, Baako, on We now participate in 77 Managed 7th June 2018. On 19th August 2018, Species Programmes (please refer to Maha, was born to Shova, one of our the Annex pg 84 for the complete list). older females. Maha is the 23rd calf to be born in Singapore Zoo. The Managed Species Programmes are aimed at conserving healthy Sloth bear cubs populations of animals under human Sloth bears care while safeguarding their genetic Although still found scattered across health. They provide a future for some much of its range in India, Nepal, of the world’s most vulnerable species, Sri Lanka and possibly Bhutan, the especially where natural habitats can overall population of the sloth bear is be stabilised through education and decreasing. Major threats are habitat in-situ conservation work to make loss or degradation due to urban reintroduction to the wild possible. expansion, poaching and retaliation from human-bear conflicts. As a member of EAZA, we are In September 2018, a pair of twins now included in the EAZA Ex-situ was born to one of the female sloth Programme (EEP) for the white bears at Night Safari. As their rhino and sloth bear. Our breeding mother was inexperienced, the pair successes in these two species during were hand-raised by the care team, the reporting period are a welcome who provided round-the-clock care boost to their population. to ensure their survival. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 26 Bundles Of Joy, Big And Small One of the goals of breeding wildlife in our parks is to achieve sustainable populations in human care. Those of threatened species also double up as members of assurance colonies to safeguard against extinction in the wild. Ultimately, the hope is to return some of these animals to their natural habitat. Over the FY, 897 young across 123 species were born at our parks. King penguin assisted hatching This king penguin chick was having difficulties hatching by itself. It was in a breech position and intervention became necessary. The penguin care team helped by cracking a bit of the eggshell for fresh air to enter and so the chick could chip away at the rest of the shell. This delicate procedure is called assisted hatching, the closest equivalent to a caesarean section in the bird world. The yolk was still largely intact, indicating that the chick was rather premature. A large, unabsorbed yolk poses a great risk of infection. In addition, it contains large vessels that connect to the chick’s liver and other internal organs. If ruptured, the chick can bleed to death. 1 To complicate matters, the chick began defecating, which further increased the chances of infection. The care team had to 2 3 speed up the hatching. They continued to remove parts of the shell and membrane, careful not to disturb the yolk. It took close to a week before the cord connecting the chick to the yolk sac could be severed and the chick ‘officially’ hatched. 1. The chick in the process of assisted hatching. It is still attached to the yolk, which contains large vessels connecting to the chick’s internal organs. 2. It took close to a week before the cord connecting the chick to the yolk sac could be severed and the chick ‘officially’ hatched. 3. The chick cuddling up for a snooze after its week-long ordeal. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 27 Henkel’s flat-tailed gecko young Proboscis monkey mother with her offspring Sloth bear cub Santa Cruz ground-dove hatchling Electric blue gecko hatchling Oriental small-clawed otter cub Bottle-feeding of manatee calf MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 28 Enriching Our Animals’ Lives During the reporting period, our animal care team has expended much time and effort in preparing and implementing effective enrichment programmes. Enrichment is designed to add novelty and more importantly, elicit natural behaviour in animals under human care. To prevent the novelty from wearing off, keepers are tasked with coming up with new ideas for and designing purposeful enrichment activities. By scheduling these on a rotational basis into an enrichment calendar, the keepers ensure every animal under their care is offered a variety of enrichment options. In this way, our animals can demonstrate typical natural behaviour and get the opportunity to exercise control or choice over their environment, which enhances their physical and mental well-being. Box surprise for the red pandas To keep our red pandas busy, our keepers came up with a flap-box with treats within. This was hung from a branch in their enclosure: when the rope is pulled, the flap opens, releasing the food treats hidden in the box. The red pandas initially tried to retrieve the treat with brute force and destroyed the box. They eventually figured out the rope-pull mechanism by trial and error. The device kept them busy for several minutes. Left: Red panda investigating the flap-box and figuring out the rope-pull mechanism. Photo credit: Anais Tritto Toys for the hyacinth macaws Macaws love to chew on stuff and they can wreak much damage on the furniture in their aviary. Feather plucking and excessive screeching are other common behavioural issues of macaws. Enrichment in the form of new toys that they can manipulate and tear apart keeps them occupied. Only natural, non-toxic materials are used in the making of the enrichment devices. In this instance, various fresh fruits, nuts and metal wire were used to make food loops for the hyacinth macaws. A pair of hyacinth macaws investigating a food loop of treats including apples and nuts. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 29 Asian elephant enrichment The elephant care team varies enrichment opportunities for their charges from day to day to elicit natural behaviour. They might be encouraged to break wooden stems, consume whole palm stems, or stretch for leaves in tall trees. The team also offers enrichment options that allow the elephants to express self-maintenance behaviours, by providing different substrate options. The elephants enjoy bathing in sand and mud, and even put aside their personality and age differences to play in sawdust as a herd. The care team also taps on the elephants’ enthusiasm for enrichment activities during the daily elephant Sumatran elephant Intan stretches Asian elephants Tun (foreground) presentations. These mentally-stimulating sessions serve to access an overhanging coconut and Jamilah enjoying a morning as excellent cognitive enrichment for the elephants. leaf. This enrichment setup doubles sand bath. up as exercise for the elephants. Melting spherical popsicles The spherical popsicle consists of three frozen layers, each holding different amounts of meat. Depending on the ambient temperature, each popsicle can last approximately five hours. Multiple popsicles may be deployed and distributed all over an exhibit, working like timed feeders by releasing food at random times and random locations. This encourages the animals to ‘work’ for their food, just as their wild counterparts do. For an arboreal animal like Daisy, our Sri Lankan leopard, the device is hung at an elevated position in the exhibit. A popsicle can keep her occupied for hours, till all the ice has melted and all the meat dispensed. Other than the leopards, various other mammals in our Sri Lankan leopard Daisy ... before lunging collection also enjoy this icy treat and with its use, we have seen eyeing the spherical popsicle ... in for the kill. an increase in their activity levels. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 30 Diets Reviewed Over the FY, the wildlife nutrition team continued to work closely with the animal care team to finetune the diets of the animals in our collection. Besides on-ground work with our animals, we have also documented and published our works to share information with the zoo community. Many of the studies jointly conducted by the nutrition and care teams, for example the ones on slow loris, bear and cobra nutrition, also directly benefit field conservation efforts we support. Burgers for the maned wolf Though often mistaken to be carnivores, maned wolves are omnivores. A large proportion of their natural diet in the wild is plants. A strictly carnivorous diet in maned wolves causes kidney disease, which could be fatal. Our maned wolf Samanta is fed a mix but she was only eating the meat portion of her diet, not her fruits or vegetables. She was severely underweight and her health was plagued by digestive and kidneyrelated issues. After some trial and error, her keepers came up with a solution of putting all of Samanta’s food in the blender and shaping it into ‘burger’ patties. She took to the patties and in this way, fibre and vitamin E were successfully added to her diet. Samanta gained 5kg in weight, her faeces became firmer and her coat took on a healthy, shiny sheen. Her blood values also normalised, and she has not had a 1 kidney problem since. 1. Maned wolf 2 3 2. & 3. Some of the initial ‘prototype’ patties prepared for Samanta. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 31 Medical Conditioning for Stress-free Health Checks With the right training, animals can be conditioned to cooperate with medical checks. Doing away with the need for sedation or restraint significantly reduces the stress for both animals and staff involved while allowing for early detection of illness and timely treatment. Toothbrushing for the sea lions Our veteran sea lions Pedro and Philipp suffer from dental cysts, a condition associated with their age. To provide timely interventions, it is important to adopt a proactive care approach. The veterinarians and other medical professionals need to be physically close to the sea lions to work on their teeth. This was especially challenging for Philipp as he was not comfortable with people touching him or getting too near. The vets teamed up with the trainers to train the sealions, three to six times a day. It took one to two months to achieve complete competency in the target behaviours. Below: Veterinarian Dr Guillaume Douay (left) and Senior Trainer/Presenter Mr Suwanchatri Pongthep placing a dental X-ray plate in Philipp’s mouth. Before actual instruments are used, vets and keepers work together to familiarise the sealions with the positioning. Pedro getting his teeth brushed by Senior Trainer/Presenter Mr Suwanchatri Pongthep. The toothbrush was slowly introduced in a positive manner, according to the following schedule: 1st week Showing toothbrush to the sea lion 2nd week Using toothbrush to touch the body and head area 3rd week Putting the toothbrush into the mouth 4th week Touching the teeth with the brush MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 32 Up in arms against EEHV in Asian elephants EEHV-HD, which stands for elephant endotheliotropic herpes virus hemorrhagic disease, has become the single greatest cause of death in young Asian elephants between one and eight years of age. Our youngest elephant, Neha, is highly susceptible. Her training is therefore essential for the elephant care team to collect blood samples, monitor body Neha up to her playful antics in the morning with mother Nandong (behind) temperature and look out for other symptoms and Tun (right of photo). of EEHV-HD. Training started at the tender age of ten months. It was a challenge to separate Neha from her mother and other herd members, whom she is very attached to. Also, her playful nature meant she sometimes does not want to concentrate and cooperate. Using methods of positive reinforcement, the care team took six months to train Neha for the basic behaviours, including voluntary blood draw. Sessions continue to be conducted two to three times Senior Keeper Mr Arumugam Lachmana conducting an oral check for Neha. daily. A flexible barrier separates her from her Cyanosis, which causes the tongue to turn blue, presents within 24 hours of trainers and she could always choose to take the onset of EEHV. Once symptoms are detected, Neha must receive treatment part in the training or not. immediately or risk losing her life. Crowned hornbill weight-watching When crowned hornbills Ian and Nikki were first housed in Jungle Jewels, it was a challenge to get them to come down for daily visual checks. Keepers started the training process by bridging with a whistle, whenever the birds came down for feeding. This reinforces the target behaviour. It took at least a month to gain their trust and for keepers to come close during feeding. When that trust had been established, a special feeding stand that incorporates a weighing scale was introduced. This enables keepers to conduct weekly weighings of the hornbills. Nikki is more sensitive and she took a long time to trust the keepers. Ian, on the other hand, has grown confident and can Crowned hornbill nabbing a reward for cooperating with remain still for keepers to have a close look at him during daily the weighing and visual check. checks, for any abnormalities. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 33 2 Giant panda urine collection Giant pandas go on heat (estrus) only once a year and the best chance of successful fertilisation is within 24 hours after the female’s estrus peak. It is crucial she is inseminated within this time frame. Our panda care team needs to know the exact time Jia Jia’s estrogen level peaks and urine samples are required to run hormonal tests. Hence, being able to train Jia Jia to urinate on command would ensure fresh and clean urine samples can be obtained. Training was, and still is, done at least once a day, and as frequently as every four hours, if she is responsive. It took about five months before Jia Jia started to urinate on cue occasionally, and another half a year for the keepers to get Jia Jia to urinate on cue, on a regular basis. 1. At the start of the conditioning process, a keeper would stand near 3 the weighing scale and call for Jia Jia to come over. The keeper would use an auditory cue for Jia Jia to pass urine into the drain. The keeper would then use a syringe to collect the urine. 2. Jia Jia is rewarded with her favourite food – carrots – when she urinates on cue. 3. As the urine might get contaminated in the drain, keepers introduced a small bottle for collection and conditioned Jia Jia to urinate directly into it. 4. The keepers needed a container that minimised spillage and could be easily manoeuvred through the den bars. They innovated a solution with a 5-litre PET bottle, some PVC piping and a length of rubber hose. 1 4 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 34 Keeper Research Initiatives On top of their day-to-day work, many of our staff also dedicate time to research initiatives. From the natural moulting patterns of penguins to the effect of kidney stones on otters and even how food sizes impact behaviour and food intake in primates, keepers are involved in scientific work that will improve the health, husbandry, enrichment and welfare of our living collection. Other projects, like the ones that focus on aspects of animal visibility and activity as well as the assessment of guest perception on whole prey feeding aim to enhance the effectiveness of conservation communication and education activities. Raising peculiar dragons Dragon-headed katydids are a unique long-horned grasshopper originating from Borneo. As very little is known about their biology, they have proven to be a difficult species to breed under human care. One of the major challenges in their breeding process is a low egg hatch rate. Three different incubation methods were trialled, and results showed banana ‘stem’ to be the most suitable substrate for egg laying. When the eggs successfully hatched, caring for the nymphs became a draconian task. The nymphs were provided with the same diet given to the adults, but most of the food were left unconsumed as the mandibles of nymphs are much smaller than that of an adult. A specialised diet catering to different mandible growth stages was developed. With the research conducted, we have managed to compile best practice guidelines for this species. Right: Dragon-headed katydid nymph displaying its mandibles. Keepers developed a specialised diet for the nymphs that catered to different mandible growth stages. Eggs of the dragon-headed katydid Photo credit: Delvinder Kaur MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 35 Suitable feeding regime for small cats Little research has been done on the feeding regimes of small, undomesticated cats in human care. To find out if small cats should be fed the way big cats are, with fasting days between each large meal, the animal care team set out to test the effect of varied feeding regimes on the behaviour, body condition and stress metabolites on the small cats in our collection. Data from 21 small cats ranging from servals to leopard cats was gathered for this study. It was observed that when fed large meals with fasting days, the small cats tended to forage less, with more uneven use of their enclosure space, an indication that daily feeding of our small cats is still the better arrangement. Right: For this study, data was collected from 21 small cats like this leopard cat. The research findings helped the team decide on the feeding regime most suited to these cats in an evidence-led way. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 36 VETERINARY HIGHLIGHTS Our veterinary team comprising clinicians, pathologists and technicians continued to work closely with the keepers in providing whole-of-life care for the animals in our collection, across their health span. This was achieved through a preventive programme consisting of examinations, vaccinations, parasite screenings, deworming and quarantine of new animals joining the collection, as well as proactive health management strategies like our geriatric animal plan. Our vets are also playing an expanded role in the rehabilitation of rescued wildlife, in close cooperation with local NGOs and the government. Vets On The Case In the FY, the veterinary team responded to a gamut of medical conditions arising in the animals, from cancer to overgrown teeth. We are very grateful for the enthusiastic support of a network of specialists like orthopaedic surgeons, dentists and ophthalmologists who generously lent us their expertise for the more complicated cases. Jary the hornbill cancer warrior 3D prosthesis in its place. The vets On 13 July 2018, keepers at Jurong engaged the help of Keio-NUS CUTE Bird Park noticed that Jary, one of (Connective Ubiquitous Technology the great hornbills in their care, had for Embodiments) Centre, NUS Smart an estimated 8cm-wide gash on its Systems Institute, and NUS Centre for casque. Jary was sent to the Veterinary Additive Manufacturing to produce Emergency and Specialty Hospital for the prosthesis, harnessing their a CT-guided biopsy to extract a tissue 3D-printing capabilities. Honorary sample from the affected area. Close Consultant Dr Hsu Li Chieh from The examination of the sample confirmed Animal Clinic was roped in to assess that it was cancer. To give Jary the best the 3D prosthetic models, and it took Honorary Consultant Dr Hsu Li Chieh chance of survival, the vets formulated almost two months of designing and from The Animal Clinic, in the process a specialised approach involving highdiscussion before a model was deemed of removing part of Jary’s casque with an tech engineering gadgetry. a perfect fit for the hornbill. oscillating saw. The plan was to remove the cancerous A day after the hour-long surgery, part of the casque and put in a Jary was eating normally. After a short recovery, he also started rubbing his prosthetic casque on his preening gland, indicating that he has accepted the prosthesis as part of him. On 30 January 2019, Jary underwent his first health check post surgery. His X-ray results revealed new, Jary the great healthy tissue growth and no sign of recurrence of the tumour. The overall Dr Xie Shangzhe (left), Assistant Director hornbill (Veterinary) and Honorary Consultant Dr prognosis for him in the long term is Hsu Li Chieh (right) placing Jary’s prosthetic positive and the team is hopeful for a casque in position. The prosthesis will stay on complete remission. till a new casque grows out. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 37 1 2 3 4 Hippo teething issues Dental treatment was delivered to both the Nile and pygmy hippos over two consecutive days. Due to the alignment of his jaws, Nile hippo Kassim’s tusks require rather frequent trimming. Pygmy hippo Minah, on the other hand, had abscesses forming at the roots of some teeth, which were swelling to the point she could not open her jaw and causing her a great deal of discomfort. Both animals recovered well after their treatment. Kassim went back to eating hay right after. As a number of teeth were affected in Minah’s case, she had to go through a few followup rounds of dental extractions. 1. Kassim undergoing general anaesthesia in 3. Kassim’s vital parameters were monitored by the team. The chest of hippos is so preparation for dental work. His tusk had wide that listening to their heart is near impossible. Veterinarian Dr Heng Yirui just begun to perforate his upper lip and (foreground), explores getting a pulse indicator from the artery under the tail. This there was an infection was about to start. is important to monitor how the animal responds to the drugs used, as well as the potentially painful procedures. 2. Tooth trimming requires power tools, and very steady hands. Veterinary Nurse, 4. It took a big team to get two tonnes of hippo under anaesthesia. But Kassim probably Mr Nor Sham Bin Ab Wahab uses an stills weighs more than their collective weight. industrial saw to trim Kassim’s tusk. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 38 ... Hippo teething issues 1. Dr Abraham Mathew (foreground), Assistant Director (Veterinary) puts 1 2 Minah, who is significantly smaller than Kassim, under general anaesthesia. Radiographs confirmed the presence of decaying teeth and abscesses at the tooth roots. The challenge was keeping Minah’s baby, Abina, occupied in the meantime. 2. The vets getting Minah’s pulse from the artery at the back of her eye. 3. Veterinarian Dr Anwar Ali uses a head lamp to look inside Minah’s swollen mouth. The affected teeth were removed and the purulent discharge drained from the cheek. 3 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 39 Geriatric Animal Plan One of the few wildlife institutions in Asia to tackle the ageing issue head-on, we are into the second year of our dedicated senior animals’ programme. Patients under the geriatric animal plan get a specialised diet, regular visits from an in-house vet and customised exercise regimes. We have 159 animals on this programme. 1 2 Caracara cataracts Miguel, an elderly southern caracara and a star of the Kings of the Skies show became reluctant to perform. He would only fly short distances and had trouble landing accurately on his cues. When examined by the vets, he was found to be developing cataracts in both eyes. Miguel was brought to the Veterinary Emergency and Specialty Hospital, where a specialist ophthalmologist performed a 3 phacoemulsion procedure for him. The surgery went well. A month later, Miguel was able explore his aviary with confidence, find food scattered around the aviary and fly up to the highest perches and land with accuracy. His trainers hope he can begin training for the show again. This will keep him occupied and interested in his surroundings, and keep him mentally and physically active in his geriatric years. 1. Miguel the southern caracara arriving at the Veterinary Emergency and Specialty Hospital (VES). 2. The VES team performing a phacoemulsion procedure for Miguel. 3. Veterinarian Dr Ellen Rasidi bringing Miguel out from the surgery room. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 40 Rehabilitating Rescued Wildlife WRS is the designated centre for rescued wildlife in Singapore. On top of looking after our living collection, our vets and keepers attend to and care for rescued animals brought in to our animal hospital. Berani the Sunda pangolin Sandshrew the Length of rehabilitation: July 2018 present Sunda pangolin Length of rehabilitation: In July 2018, a juvenile pangolin that was January 2017 walking with a limp was rescued by Animal September 2018 Concerns Research and Education Society (ACRES) and brought to WRS. On a full In January 2017, a young physical check, it was discovered he had a pangolin was found by complete fracture of this right thigh bone. The members of the public and team decided to attempt a fracture repair. was brought to WRS. As he was too young to survive on Berani underwent two long surgeries to have his own, our staff decided to his fracture fixed by Dr Hsu, our honorary hand-raise him until he was consultant for veterinary surgeries. Because of Mr Desmond Lee, Minister for Social the pangolin's anatomy the presence of scales ready to be released back to and Family Development and Second the wild. Minister for National Development and short muscular legs with thick bones, the and Ade Kurniawan, Life Sciences repair was very challenging. It is possibly the He had to be bottle-fed Associate, checking on Sandshrew at first time such an operation has been successfully initially, until he was weaned. his soft release site. performed on a pangolin. Berani is on the road Once he was eating solids, to recovery. The process of his rehabilitation – his rehabilitation for release Social and Family Development building up his fitness and flexibility – is well started in earnest. This and Second Minister for underway while we allow time for his leg to heal involved encouraging him to National Development completely. learn the skills he would need officiated at the release, which to survive in the wild, such as coincided with the launch of Honorary Consultant Dr Hsu Li Chieh from the Animal Clinic and our veterinary team conducting a physical climbing, digging and looking the Sunda Pangolin National check for Berani on the day he was brought to WRS. for natural food. Working Conservation Strategy. together with NParks, a release site was chosen and Sandshrew wandered out a soft release pen was built. into the wild when the door The soft release pen allowed of the soft release pen was Sandshrew to acclimatise to finally opened. The radio the new location before the transmitter enabled the team actual release. A final full to track him in his new home. health check was performed He was tracked for about two and a radio transmitter was weeks before the transmitter attached before he was moved dropped off. By all accounts, he to the soft release pen. Mr appeared to have been doing Desmond Lee, Minister for well on his own. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 41 White-bellied sea eagle Length of rehabilitation: April to October 2018 In April 2018, ACRES rescued a white-bellied sea eagle at Upper East Coast. It was found on the ground, unable to fly. The eagle was brought to Jurong Bird Park for veterinary attention. As it had multiple broken feathers, it was given time to moult and grow new feathers. Four months later, the bird still had not moulted and its feathers were still broken. To help it fly again, our vets carried out a feather transplant (imping), where normal feathers are attached to the shaft of the broken feathers. The transplant was a success. The bird was then sent to the Sungei Buloh aviary for soft release. After a week’s observation, it was finally released to fly free in the wild. Right (Above): The white-bellied sea eagle was found to have multiple broken primary and secondary feathers. Right (Below): A feather transplant in process. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 42 PLAYING A LEADING ROLE IN CONSERVING BIODIVERSITY To save threatened species in Singapore and the region, we have made good progress in our conservation work, establishing ourselves as thought leaders in biodiversity conservation. We continue to nurture wildlife and sustainability advocates to walk the talk together with us for sustainability. Over the FY, we • Supported 12 local field projects with WRSCF funding • Funded 31 projects beyond our shores • Sponsored 8 conservation conferences, workshops and meetings PROTECTING LOCAL WILDLIFE We fund scientists working on studies of local species across land and marine habitats through the Wildlife Reserves Singapore Conservation Fund (WRSCF). These species range from banded langurs to swiftlets and pangolins; sharks to corals and seagrass. Over the FY, we invested $300,000 to support these 12 projects in their work to protect wildlife in Singapore. Raffles’ Banded Langur Sunda WRS Biodiversity Pangolin Survey Bamboo Shark & Seagrass Coral Shark Ray Yellow-crested Songbird Swiftlet Cockatoo 1 Raffles’ banded langur species action plan: 8 Competition between corals and seaweed in Partnerships with government agencies and Singapore’s urbanised reefs: Findings are that organisations have led to improved efforts to safeguard the frequency of interactions between corals Raffles’ banded langur habitats, carry out research on and seaweed differed across months and that the their population, and conduct public outreach. chemical effects of seaweed on coral growth varied with the seaweed species in question, as well as 2 Sunda pangolin diet in human care: Adding chitin chemical concentration levels. and soil were noted to aid digestibility of the diet, improving faecal condition and body weight of the 9 Yellow-crested cockatoo population and ecological pangolins. niche: Researchers are investigating population changes of this feral bird over time and its impact 3 Sunda pangolin movement, range and habitat: on the local ecosystem. The findings will help in Pangolins found to use drains to cross beneath busy the management of the species in Singapore and highways and move around urban areas. Also found possibly that of populations in its native range. to favour the edge of roads, footpaths and other urban structures like reservoirs as sleeping spots. These 10 Ecological and genomic studies of five local findings are useful for management and songbird species: Of the 54 sites surveyed for the development plans. ecological component, target species were sighted in 36 sites across 18 localities. For the genomic 4 WRS biodiversity surveys: 284 species recorded component, DNA samples of all five species except at parks at Mandai, including 21 locally threatened the white-rumped shama species complex have been species and 59 species recorded at Jurong Bird Park, acquired. The studies will provide updated data on including 4 locally threatened species. the ecology and genetic health of birds threatened by the cagebird trade. 5 Bamboo shark biology and distribution: 72 sites sampled during 16 field trips; 59 adult sharks tagged. 11 Demographic study of local songbird owners: Increased public awareness through website and 51 questionnaire responses were gathered from social media, public lectures and community songbird owners at 30 pet bird shops and 19 engagement events. bird hanging sites in Singapore. Preliminary results showed the majority songbird owners to 6 Biodiversity of shark and ray catch at local fishery be Chinese males, aged 40 years and older. The ports: Started on DNA sampling aspect of study, 79 project is ongoing and more responses will be DNA samples have been collected. Findings will help collected to obtain a more accurate representation, inform fishing policies to ensure sustainability of fish which will help in the crafting of more targeted populations. communications to increase public awareness. 7 Biodiversity of marine fungi associated with seagrass: 12 Activity and home range of two species of edibleSignificant differences found in fungi collected from nest swiftlets: This study sought to understand and varying locations and structures around Singapore, differentiate the nesting habits, chick development, an indication that conservationists should consider feeding ranges, as well as echolocation properties fungi composition before proceeding with seagrass of the two species, with a view to inform future transplant or restoration programmes. conservation measures. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 44 Implementing the Raffles’ banded langur species action plan The Raffles’ banded langur was on the verge of extinction in the 1990s. WRSCF supported the implementation of the species action plan, which has renewed hopes for the continued survival of this langur. The plan is executed by the Raffles’ Banded Langur Working Group, the representatives of which include WRSCF researcher Ms Andie Ang, and experts from NParks and National University of Singapore. By working hand-in-hand, WRSCF researcher, government agencies, universities and NGOs have put in place safeguards for the langurs’ habitats, consistent population monitoring efforts and increased public awareness. A major breakthrough is the gazetting of part of the forest next to Old Upper Thomson Road as Thomson Nature Park. This green buffer zone will expand the langurs’ current range, giving them a larger area in which to forage for food and creating “green corridors” that will allow the langurs to move between forest fragments. Along with this development, a park connector linking the Central Catchment Nature Reserve with Thomson Nature Park will be built over one lane of Old Upper Thomson Road. The closure of this lane would likely mean safer crossing for animals going between the two forests. Traffic noise and light will also be Over the FY, the fifth and sixth Besides spurring public engagement, reduced, creating a more conducive rounds of citizen science surveys were the surveys have also had the positive environment for animals in the completed. The data collected has effect of connecting people with nature. vicinity. There are also plans to install provided important information on Since the inception of the surveys, a rope bridge at Old Upper Thomson the langurs’ group size, home range, more than 230 members of the public Road to enhance canopy connectivity. behaviour and infant development. have come forth as volunteers. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 45 Yellow-crested cockatoo population and ecological niche PHOTO: DAVID TAN Exploited by the cagebird trade, the yellow-crested cockatoo has suffered substantial population declines. Experts estimate that just 2,000 individuals remain in its native range of Indonesia and Timor Leste. The bird was introduced to Singapore over the last century and researchers are investigating its population changes over time and its impact on the local ecosystem. This project seeks to provide insight into the ecological conditions allowing for the yellow-crested cockatoo to establish itself in a new environment and grow. The information will help in the management of this species in Singapore and could subsequently help in the management of populations in its native range. Yellow-crested cockatoo Biodiversity of shark and ray catch at local fishery ports Globally, a quarter of shark and ray species are threatened with extinction, with overfishing as their main threat. WRSCF supports The Dorsal Effect in their sharks and rays monitoring programme, which entails Rays kept upside down in frozen The small size of many of the sharks bi-monthly trips to the Jurong Fishery and Senoko layers, which makes it challenging in relation to their species indicates Fishery ports. The research involves the identification to collect data on them. that they are immature. and measurement of thousands of sharks and rays, as well as interviews with fishermen about the origins of their catch. The results have been sobering. Almost all the rays imported were the white-spotted whipray, which is listed as ‘Vulnerable’ on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species; even the trade-controlled hammerhead shark has been spotted. A large portion of the sharks were found to be immature an indication that the adults have been depleted and the population exploited. These project findings help inform policies at the national and global levels, as well as shed light on shark biodiversity and potential protection measures. Ms Kathy Xu (right) takes the measurements of a shark while Ms Naomi ClarkShen (left) takes note. Both Ms Xu and Ms Clark-Shen are researchers with The Dorsal Effect. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 46 PROTECTING WILDLIFE BEYOND OUR SHORES Over the FY, we continued to ramp up our support for conservation work in biodiversity hotspots around Southeast Asia. All of the projects we fund work on the protection of threatened species, and nearly 7 out of 10 projects focus on critically endangered species in the region. Besides the conservation of these species in our region, we also continued to contribute to the research and conservation of the giant panda. LAOS THAILAND VIETNAM THE PHILIPPINES CAMBODIA MALAYSIA THE SOLOMAN ISLANDS INDONESIA BRAZIL We supported the important conservation work that is being done in these projects to protect wildlife in and beyond the region. BEAR PRIMATE ELEPHANT SAOLA SNAIL TIGER FOREST & RESERVE LAW ENFORCEMENT SNAKE TORTOISE, TURTLE CROCODILE & TERRAPIN BIRD MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 47 MAMMALS INVERTEBRATES 1 Developing a research-based conservation 20 Surveying distribution of two highly invasive monitoring tool for the Celebes crested snail species and investigating their effect on macaque in North Sulawesi, INDONESIA native snails in PENINSULAR MALAYSIA 2 Protecting the Delacour’s langur in Kam Bang Forest, Ha Nam Province, VIETNAM NATURE RESERVES 3 Protecting Javan gibbon habitats and promoting shade-grown coffee in Java, INDONESIA 21 Protecting species in Nakai-Nam Theun National Protected Area in LAOS 4 Mitigating human-orangutan conflict in Sumatra, INDONESIA 22 Protecting threatened species like the babirusa and anoa by conserving the Nantu Forest in 5 Studying the Hepatitis B virus through faecal Sulawesi, INDONESIA samples from wild pileated gibbons in Cardamom Rainforest, CAMBODIA 6 Conserving the Sundaland tarsier in Tanjung LAW ENFORCEMENT Puting National Park, Central Kalimantan, INDONESIA 23 Enhancing law enforcement to protect threatened species in West Kalimantan, 7 Constructing a new sanctuary to rehabilitate INDONESIA bears rescued from bear bile farms in LAOS 8 Protecting elephant habitats and mitigating human-elephant conflict in Way Kambas BIRDS National Park, INDONESIA 24 Community breeding and release of the 9 Saving saolas in LAOS Bali starling in Melinggih Kelod, Bali, INDONESIA 10 Engaging people to value and protect tigers and their habitat in MALAYSIA 25 Surveying the population of the Edwards’s pheasant, VIETNAM 26 Involving coastal communities in Philippine REPTILES cockatoo conservation, THE PHILIPPINES 11 Protecting the nests of the Cantor’s giant 27 Building capacity at the Kembali Bebas Avian softshell turtle, CAMBODIA Rescue, Rehabilitation and Release Centre in INDONESIA, which houses Indonesian 12 Surveying the range of the Forsten’s tortoise and parrots confiscated from the illegal trade and Sulawesi forest turtle in Sulawesi, INDONESIA prepares them for release back to the wild 13 Researching diet and conditions conducive 28 Preserving critically endangered Indonesian to fertility for the Palawan forest turtle, to songbirds through breeding programmes in successfully breed the species under human care, the Cikananga Conservation Breeding Centre, THE PHILIPPINES West Java, INDONESIA 14 Paving the path for repopulation of the Roti 29 Constructing a facilities complex for future Island snake-necked turtle, INDONESIA breeding and release of the Spix’s macaw, BRAZIL 15 Saving turtles of SOUTHEAST ASIA by uncovering trade laundering routes of wild30 Putting a stop to vulture poisoning in caught turtles falsely sold as captive-bred CAMBODIA through public awareness 16 Conserving the Southern river terrapin in 31 Using research evidence from songbird CAMBODIA markets to push conservation efforts for the white-rumped shama in SOUTHEAST ASIA 17 Recovering a Siamese crocodile population in Sre Ambel River, CAMBODIA Our staff flew to THE SOLOMON ISLANDS to bring back 60 endangered Santa Cruz 18 Securing the last known population of Siamese ground-doves for breeding. The doves were crocodiles in INDONESIA rescued from poachers. On 31 Dec 2018, the first chick hatched successfully. We have since 19 Tracking and documenting king cobra welcomed numerous hatchings. The goal is movements and behaviour in Northeast to reintroduce the birds back to their native THAILAND Solomon Islands. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 48 Protecting Sumatran elephant habitats and mitigating human-elephant conflict in Way Kambas National Park, Indonesia Way Kambas National Park in To address this, four Elephant We have been supporting the Sumatra is home to nearly 200 wild Response Units have been set up along operation of these units since Sumatran elephants, more than the park boundaries to monitor wild 2015. Since the start of the project, 10% of the entire remaining wild elephant herds and prevent illegal the number of crop raids by wild population. Illegal activities such as activities. The units employ mahouts elephants has gone down more than logging, poaching, land cultivation and their trained elephants from the 70% while loss of crops has decreased and cattle grazing threaten the park’s elephant conservation centre more than 90%. Possibly due to an integrity of the park and push the to conduct regular forest patrols. The increase in income from crop yields, elephants closer to human settlement. trained elephants are deployed to herd illegal activities within the park Conflicts and the resulting damage to the wild ones away from the farmland has fallen and there is less hostility crops, homes and property often occur and back into the park. The units towards the elephants. at the park border and farmlands, also train local community groups Above: Night-time crop guarding along the leading to local community hostility to conduct regular night-time crop park border at Rawa Panjang, assisted by towards wild elephants. guarding along the park borders. trained ERU elephants. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 49 Constructing a new sanctuary to rehabilitate bears rescued from bear bile farms in Laos An estimated 120 bears are held in bile extraction facilities across Laos. We have been supporting Free the Bears since 2016 in their efforts to work with the Lao government and other international partners to end bear bile farming. Last year, a new site of 25 hectares within Luang Prabang province was secured to be their second sanctuary, on top of the existing Tat Kuang Si Bear Rescue Centre. Free the Bears rescued 13 more bears over the course of the year, bringing the total number of bears under their care to more than 60. Our funding over the FY went towards the construction of a new bear house with a capacity of 20 bears, as well as Our group CEO Mr Mike Barclay (far right) planting trees within the new Bear House 3 complex at the Luang Prabang Wildlife Sanctuary. He is accompanied by his wife, Ms the salaries of two keepers. The funds Isobel Barclay (second from right), Director of Conservation, Research and Veterinary also covered the costs of food and Services Dr Sonja Luz (second from left) and Free the Bears Technical Advisor Ms veterinary health checks for 20 bears. Maddie Russman. An Asiatic black bear looks around his new home. The new A pair of Asiatic black bears face off in a play fight. The new habitat features climbing poles and platforms, submerged caves bear house allowed for the transfer of a group of bears over and swimming pools to allow the bears to cool off during the from Tat Kuang Si Bear Rescue Centre to Luang Prabang warmer months. Wildlife Sanctuary. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 50 CONSERVATION LEADERSHIP AND PARTNERSHIP We continued to play a pivotal role in the work of conservation planning and training, by offering a unifying platform for researchers in the field to collaborate with government agencies, non-government organisations (NGOs), the private sector, academia, the public and international organisations. Regional Resource Centre for IUCN CPSG in Southeast Asia The Conservation Planning Specialist Group (CPSG) of the IUCN aims to save threatened species by using scientifically sound, collaborative processes that bring together people with diverse perspectives and knowledge to catalyse positive conservation change. WRS hosts CPSG’s newest regional resource centre in Southeast Asia. Members of our Conservation and Research team hold the posts of co-covenors, committing time and effort to lead and coordinate regional efforts to build conservation capacity. In alignment and support of the IUCN SSC Asian Species Action Partnership (ASAP), we seek to streamline and prioritise conservation action planning for critically endangered species in Southeast Asia. We also provide funding to achieve conservation targets that have been defined. IUCN SSC Asian Species Action Partnership (ASAP) The IUCN SSC Asian Species Action Partnership (ASAP) is a coalition working together to halt the extinction of critically endangered land and freshwater vertebrates in Southeast Asia. As the host organisation to the ASAP, we fund all operational costs and pay the salaries of two full-time staff that make up the ASAP Secretariat. We are the major financial contributor to the initiative and with our support, ASAP has grown to include 80 partners, each delivering on the conservation of 199 critically endangered species. A new 5-year strategy was launched, to bring more attention to the needs of ASAP species. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 51 To achieve the objectives and mandates of the CPSG and ASAP, we collaborated with our conservation partners on a range of activities to fight extinction, including species assessments and strategy planning workshops. Here are some of the key conservation planning activities we were involved in over the FY. Species assessments Sunda Basin Freshwater Fishes IUCN, WRS and ASAP co-organised the Sunda Basin Freshwater Fishes Red List Review Workshop at River Safari between 28 January and 1 February 2019. Assessments of the conservation needs of 400 freshwater fish species native to the region were reviewed and agreed upon at the workshop. The capacity development needs for this often-overlooked group of species were also evaluated. The assessment and reclassification process ‘spotlights’ species that need more protection, placing certain species in threatened categories to help them gain more conservation attention. IUCN Hornbill Specialist Group In August 2018, WRS supported the first meeting of the Steering Committee (SC) of the IUCN SSC Hornbill Specialist Group, held in Bangkok. The agenda was to prioritise actions for hornbill conservation, especially for seven threatened Asian species: the helmeted, Sulu, rufous-headed hornbill, Visayan, Mindoro, wrinkled and Narcondam. The group is also expecting to uplist the global conservation status of several Sundaic hornbill species, including the rhinoceros, black, wreathed, bushy-crested, white-crowned and great hornbills. The uplisting will spotlight the need for urgent conservation action for these species. Strategy planning Illegal Trade In Helmeted Hornbill WRS supported a workshop to strengthen CITES implementation to eliminate illegal trade in the helmeted hornbill. The objective of the workshop was to discuss and decide on a strategy for further action to save the helmeted hornbill. Sulu Hornbill Conservation Strategy And Action Plan Workshop WRS supported the Sulu Hornbill Conservation Strategy and Action Plan Workshop in March 2019 held in the Philippines. During the IUCN SSC Hornbill Specialist Group First Steering Committee meeting in Bangkok, the development of a comprehensive Conservation Strategy and Action Plan was identified as a critical first step to halt the decline of the Sulu hornbill. Endemic to the Philippines, there are currently less than 40 Sulu hornbills in the wild. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 52 SPREADING THE MESSAGE To extend our conservation and sustainability messaging to different segments of the community, we continue to deepen partnerships and explore innovative platforms to raise awareness of the need to protect wildlife. Over the FY, we have • Engaged 398,000 park guests and members of the public on conservation and sustainability messaging • Offered a wide range of outdoor learning journeys at our parks to 131,900 students • Garnered the support of 1,900 volunteers who devoted over 44,800 hours to help us spread the conservation and sustainability message LIVING CLASSROOMS champions, we designed agekindergartens that offered us appropriate programmes as a privileged access to an authentic Leveraging on the increasingly continuous thread to connect environment to prototype and refine strong emphasis on outdoor students from nursery to tertiery the programmes. learning by the Ministry of levels to the wonders of wildlife. Education (MOE), we stepped up Thanks to the support of the Malay efforts to create greater visibility We worked closely with early Language Learning and Promotion of our programme offerings childhood specialists, Early Committee (MLLPC) and the through teacher engagement Childhood Development Agency Tamil Language Learning and sessions, conferences and various (EDCA) and various pre-schools to Promotion Committee (TLLPC), the partnerships. Through the help revamp and co-create kindergarten popular Wow Wild Learn (WWL) of our animal ambassadors, programmes for better alignment Programme is now available not programme offerings now with the Nurturing Early Learners only in Chinese, but also in Malay better refreshed to facilitate (NEL) Framework. and Tamil. The programme aims early childhood development to engage and excite children and cultivate the 21st century Our new nursery programmes in the learning of their mother competencies. Guided by valuable received very positive feedback tongue language by providing fun feedback from educators and from education practitioners opportunities for parents to interact our strategic intent to inspire and parents. We appreciate the with their pre-school children and conservation and sustainability wonderful partnership with the equipping preschool language 10 PAP Community Foundation teachers with the relevant knowledge MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 53 to conduct learning journeys in encouraged a call to action and message and inspire people to protect River Safari. promoted guest interaction and biodiversity. family bonding were organised to Apart from a range of learning enhance our signature Conservation, The Life Sciences team worked journeys and overnight camps, Sustainability and School Holiday closely together to create content we also engage youths through Campaigns. To this end, appropriate with powerful narratives to tug at the internship and work attachment, training on family learning and heartstrings of social media users. The creating opportunities for them to facilitation skills was conducted digital platform allows us to reach gain social experience and to be to prepare staff and volunteers to out to the world to raise awareness of future-ready. deepen guest engagement. the plight of threatened animals and galvanise support for conservation We welcome to 5.2 million guests Beyond our parks, we intensified and sustainability efforts. during the reporting period and outreach efforts in schools, tertiary seized every opportunity to spread institutions, community spaces, Below: Preschoolers learning about wildlife at the conservation and sustainability malls, welfare organisations and the WRS booth at the Early Childhood message. Themed activities that even the Istana to spread the Development Agency (ECDA) Conference. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 54 Children listening rapt in attention during a Wow Wild Learn Tamil Ms Syila Rokman, Senior Executive (Education) engaging preschool language storytelling by their mother tongue teacher. children with panda tales during the launch of the Malay Wow Wild Learn programme. Children engaged in a puzzle activity during a Chinese Wow Wild Learn programme at River Safari. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 55 PAssionArts FESTIVAL In July 2018, the PAssionArts Festival organised by People’s Association saw us collaborating with students from Meridian Secondary, Yishun Town Secondary and Dunman High as well as beneficiaries of the Business Times Budding Artists Fund, to recreate a rainforest art installation using only recycled materials. Visitors to the installation at the Pasir Ris Beach Arts Festival also had the opportunity to create their own animal art pieces to add on to the installation. Through the installation, we turned the spotlight on five endangered inhabitants of the rainforest to increase awareness of the threats they face in the wild, and what people can do to ensure a safer future for them. Volunteer guides from the Little Arts Academy brought the art installation to life, sharing our conservation messages with the 8,000 A young participant adding her work of art, a model of the Singapore freshwater crab, visitors who attended the event. to the art installation at PAssionArts Festival. VOLUNTEERS FOR WILDLIFE Our engagement with different segments of the community deepened tremendously in the reporting year and this was made possible with the help of our committed volunteers. We are grateful for their tireless dedication and can-do spirit – they devoted over 44,800 hours in helping us inspire people to protect wildlife, and assisting the Life Sciences team care for our living collection. Tapping on a different skillset of the volunteers, we held two workshops to engage their help in making enrichment devices for our animals. Enrichment is an important part of animal welfare that allows animals to express their natural behaviour. Left: A volunteer interacting with guests at the RepTopia Ranger Station. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 56 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY This year saw the development and adoption of the Environmental Sustainability Strategy, which is a holistic approach that takes us another step closer to becoming a regional leader in this area. The strategy guides the entire organisation towards sustainability best practices to optimise resource usage in our daily operations and development work. Additionally, we also advocate for sustainability to inspire and empower the community beyond our parks. Over the FY, we • Converted all trams at Jurong Bird Park to run on electricity instead of fuel • Replaced all single-use plastic bottles with cans or paper cartons • Cut our water usage by almost 50% • Won the Singapore Packaging Agreement (SPA) Excellence Award AWARDED FOR SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS In July 2018, we received the Singapore Packaging Agreement (SPA) Excellence Award, in recognition of our efforts in reducing, reusing and recycling packaging waste. With the installation of 27 dispensers across four parks, we avoided an estimated 13 tonnes of plastic packaging waste that would have come from the consumption of bottled water. Around 2.33 tonnes of plastic packaging was also saved in a year, arising from our move to stop providing free carrier bags at our retail stores. We have also engaged our staff and vendors towards more sustainable practices. By collaborating with our F&B partner Curry Gardenn to serve food in reusable stainless steel containers instead of disposable styrofoam ones, approximately 1.08 tonnes of plastic Group CEO Mr Mike Barclay receiving the SPA Excellence Award from Minister for packaging waste was avoided over the year. the Environment and Water Resources, Mr Masagos Zulkifli. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 57 OUR CONTINUOUS Pruned branches and leaves gathered from around our parks are fed into this wood and The shredded material is used as animal bedding. After around two months, it JOURNEY TOWARDS leaf chipping cutter. decomposes into excellent mulch for our plants. SUSTAINABLE BEST PRACTICES We continue to make notable strides in the adoption of sustainable best practices in water, energy, waste management and sustainable procurement through various initiatives. In 2018, we significantly reduced from our procurement activities, been used for about two months, it water and energy consumption as well as providing sustainable decomposes into excellent mulch for in our existing Mandai parks by purchasing guidelines for staff. our plants. undertaking several measures including detecting and repairing Our Life Sciences and Horticulture The Zoology team is breeding leaks from underground pipes, teams achieved great milestones soldier flies to trial vermicomposting. implementing time-based water this year testing sustainable, closed Food waste is ‘upcycled’ as food for operations, converting to LED loops. Instead of just disposing of the larvae of soldier flies. The larvae lighting, and optimising equipment pruned branches, they are chipped are then harvested as food for some through the use of nozzles, valves, and used as animal bedding. of the animals in our collection. pumps and sensors. The concurrent The animals enjoy their leaf and As they feed on and digest the completion of comprehensive water wood chip bedding a natural food waste, the larvae also generate and energy audits will allow us to substrate that encourages foraging rich compost, which is used as build on our efforts to realise further behaviour. After the bedding has fertiliser for the plants in our parks. reductions moving forward. Another priority area is the reduction 1 3 of food waste in our operations by creating closed loop systems. We partner a landscaping company to compost all raw fruit and vegetable waste from our kitchens off-site. The composted product will be used as liquid fertiliser within and outside our parks. 1. A black soldier fly breeding station. After mating, females lay their eggs in the containers on the ground. When the To strengthen our commitment larvae hatch, they feed on and decompose towards responsible buying, we 2 food waste. implemented a Green Procurement Policy. The policy serves to improve 2. Black soldier flies at the adult stage. the sustainability of our operations 3. Black soldier fly larvae: a clean and by reducing the negative impact to nutritious food source for some of the the environment and wildlife arising insect-loving animals in our collection. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 58 Philipp the sealions, Ippy the scarlet FIGHT THE DEADLIEST macaw and Luke the great white MONSTER CAMPAIGN pelican delighted guests during 2018 animal presentations while rallying them to join our fight against the The annual Sustainability Campaign Deadliest Monster. continues to be the flagship of our sustainability advocacy efforts. In As part of the campaign and 2017, we introduced the concept to deepen youth engagement, of ‘The Deadliest Monster’ to cast we collaborated with Temasek a spotlight on plastic waste as the Polytechnic to organise a deadliest monster of our waters, Sustainability Design Competition one that kills over a million animals open to all polytechnic and ITE annually. Building on the success of students in Singapore. We this effort, we rallied our guests and challenged the contestants to recommunity to join us to ‘Fight the think the prolific use of disposable Deadliest Monster’ by reducing their takeaway containers in Singapore use of disposables. and propose ways to change the way we live for a more sustainable future. We engaged our guests with inThe competition attracted over 30 park campaign messaging and creative and innovative entries. programmes which included activity trails, pledging stations, educational Beyond our parks, we continued to booths and animal presentations. engage the Singapore community on Go Green For Wildlife (GGFW) fighting ‘The Deadliest Monster’ at Guests enjoying the ‘Fight the Deadliest animal ambassadors Pedro and various outreach events. Monster’ campaign activities. The Sustainability Design Competition winning team from Nanyang Polytechnic. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 59 Ippy the scarlet macaw Luke the great white pelican Pedro the Californian sea lion Above: Our Go Green For Wildlife animal ambassadors (clockwise from top left) Luke, Ippy and Pedro rally our guests to ‘Fight the Deadliest Monster’. Left: Our staff engaging students at an outreach event outside our parks. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 60 CHRISTMAS TREES FOR JUSTIN BEAVER At the end of December 2018, our very own Justin Beaver put out a call to the public asking for donations of unwanted, live Christmas trees to be re-purposed for animal enrichment. Many of our animals enjoyed the scent of the trees and relished rubbing up against them, foraging for treats amongst the foliage or simply destroying them for fun. Leftover trees were sent for chipping, and the wood chips used for animal bedding and substrate. This sustainability initiative was enthusiastically supported by the public, with many lauding our excellent sustainable practices and animal care. The response was overwhelming: we received 587 trees from nurseries and public drop-offs at the Zoo. Top: Close to 300 Christmas trees were dropped off at Singapore Zoo by the public. Right: Positive response from the media on our Christmas tree collection drive. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 61 (Clockwise from top left) Our meerkats, Asian elephant and beaver were some of the animals who partook in the Christmas festivities, thanks to the ‘tree-mendous’ response from the public. POLYTECHNIC FORUM 80 students came to the Zoo for learning journeys where they In September 2018, we hosted the gained first-hand experience and opening ceremony of the annual insights into our sustainability Polytechnic Forum at Jurong Bird initiatives and wildlife conservation, Park as part of our direct outreach as well as environmental mitigation efforts. With sustainability as measures under our development a core theme of the forum, we project. The interactions inspired shared our collective work in 50 students to sign up as volunteers environmental sustainability and after the event. wildlife conservation with 400 Students from the polytechnics tried their student leaders and lecturers from hand at manning an educational booth Singapore’s five polytechnics. Over in Singapore Zoo, where they shared the course of the week-long forum, conservation messages with visitors. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 62 IN MEMORY OF INUKA 1990 2018 The only polar bear born and bred in the tropics, Inuka had a largerthan-life personality. He was a star who brought people together and touched their hearts in his own special way. He is dearly missed by all who knew and loved him. Here, we remember some of the times we had the privilege to share with him. Inuka enjoyed  a close bond with his mother Sheba. At nine months, he had grown to ‘Inuka’ means ’silent stalker’ an impressive size. in the Inuit language. The He weighed over Inuka was born on 26 name was selected from December 1990. He weighed 500kg as an adult. 10,000 entries. only 350gms. He was the first polar bear to be born in the tropics. Singaporeans flocked to the Zoo to catch a glimpse of Inuka when he made his first public appearance at three months old. Inuka celebrated his 10th birthday in style. SPH Foundation, his adopter, invited everyone to join in the birthday bash. Inuka’s birthdays were Inuka was the not only milestones of inspiration for a storybook, his development but used as a teaching resource also events that his fans to encourage children looked forward to. to learn the Tamil language. In 2013, Inuka moved into his new home in Frozen Tundra. He preferred to spend time in the outdoor area and pool instead of the ice cave. Inuka will always have a special place in our hearts. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 64 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 65 Building a People-focused Culture We adopt forward-looking, best-in-class practices to develop our people to provide world-class animal care, to increase our conservation footprint and deliver exceptional guest experiences. Strengthening our social sustainability pillar, we not only ensure that our parks are accessible to all segments of the society but also deepen engagement with those from disadvantaged backgrounds to provide specially curated wildlife experiences. FY18/19 HIGHLIGHTS Clocked 35,000 hours of staff learning clocked Launched The Mandai Service Promise Launched Life Sciences Associate Programme Launched Zookeeper Development Programme Welcomed some 7,000 beneficiaries from various Social Service Organisations MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 66 THE MANDAI SERVICE PROMISE “Welcome. Let me bring you closer to wildlife.” This is the Mandai Service Promise to every guest, a simple mantra that motivates and reminds our staff of the larger purpose they serve – to inspire people to value and conserve biodiversity in the service and experiences they provide. The Service Promise, rooted in the 3W pillars – willing, welcoming and well-versed was launched with a series of training to equip our staff with the necessary skills in fulfilling it. Specialised training on interaction with special needs guests and product knowledge of our parks were also covered to facilitate the promise delivery. SERVICE RECOGNITION To continue to nurture a strong service culture, we presented the Service Hero Award to service role models, applauding their efforts in delivering exceptional guest experiences. Adopting a holistic approach to encourage staff to serve from the heart, we also recognized, through the HEART Awards, those who have provided exemplary service to fellow colleagues. Our efforts in cultivating a strong service culture earned industrial recognition. Mr Emmey Mohamed Bin Nenpari from Night Safari walked away with the coveted STB Best Customer Service award in the Attractions category at the 2018 Singapore Tourism Board (STB) Awards. Every year, the Association of Singapore Attractions (ASA) presents Excellent Service Awards (EXSA) to celebrate service heroes in the industry. We had a record win, clinching 179 awards in the Silver, Gold and Star categories. Our congratulations go to Chandran A/L V P Kunhikannan from Night Safari for bagging the EXSA Superstar Award, which recognises the best of the Star Ms Winnie Tan, Service Leader (Park Ops), attending to a guest's enquiry. category winners. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 67 The winners of the HEART Awards 2018 taking a group shot with Group CEO Mr Mike Barclay (centre front, in green). The Awards serve as a big thumbs up to the excellent internal service shown by the winners to their colleagues. Mr Chandran A/L V P Kunhikannan Mr Emmey Mohamed Bin Nenpari from Night Safari receiving the STB Best Customer from Night Safari, bagging the EXSA Service award in the Attractions category from President of Singapore Mdm Halimah Superstar Award. Yacob at the 2018 Singapore Tourism Board (STB) Awards. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 68 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT During the reporting period, our staff attended some 350 different courses and conferences and spent 35,000 hours to enhance their work skills. 84% of the full-time workforce clocked at least 16 hours of training, up from 80% last year. Continuing education sponsorship was also made available for staff who aspire to further their studies. 7 HABITS OF HIGHLY LIFE SCIENCES ZOOKEEPER EFFECTIVE PEOPLE ASSOCIATE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (LSAP) PROGRAMME To forge a culture of excellence, we rolled out an organisational wide We launched the Life Sciences The Zookeeper Development training programme to encourage Associate Programme (LSAP), Programme was launched to map the adoption of the 7 Habits which is a 2-year accelerated out a path to guide keepers in of Highly Effective People. The learning programme aimed at attaining different competencies. programme reached out to 70% nurturing aspiring individuals It also includes a framework for of our staff, who spoke highly of through knowledge enhancement keepers to be trained as coaches its effectiveness. and skills development for a and assessors to the junior keepers fulfilling career in Life Sciences. participating in the Development Six employees were selected and Programme. On-the-job training ON-THE-JOB TRAINING they will be rotated across the (OJT) blueprints were developed various Life Sciences departments for the various skills within each On-the-job training blueprints for to gain exposure, insights and competency category, and made new staff in Retail, F&B and Park perspectives, in preparation for available to all keepers. Operations were also developed bigger roles. to facilitate and scaffold training in a structured manner in order to ensure consistency in service MASTERCLASSES delivery and operational standards. Masterclasses on animal husbandry, animal behaviour, CHANGE MANAGEMENT enrichment, conservation, early childhood outdoor learning, As the development of Mandai family learning and zoo operations gathers pace, multi-dimensional provided platforms to learn from changes impact everyone in the the best in the industry. The organisation. A change management training empowers the various workshop was conducted for the teams to provide world-class care senior management team and other for our living collection, increase key stakeholders to bring forth our conservation footprint and open discussions and alignment so strengthen conservation messaging that we can rally as a team for the through guest engagement. journey ahead. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 69 HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Our people are our most important asset. To attract and retain talents, we continued to embrace HR best practices, offer best possible compensation packages and enhance our Employer Value Proposition. PAY STRUCTURE STAFF ENGAGEMENT world. After a rigorous process involving user research and REVIEW AND JOB Our organisation is made up prototyping, the Keepers’ App RETITLING of dedicated team of over 1,000 was born. The App is a content full-time staff working hard to sharing platform that empowers To maintain our competitiveness, our keepers to upload images and protect wildlife. The animal care we conducted a review of pay videos, which are used on social team responsible for keeping our structure through market media to tell authentic stories that animals healthy and happy are vital benchmarking. Resulting from the the public would otherwise not contributors to the effort to protect initiative, we implemented a set of have access to. These stories tugged and inspire love for wildlife among competitive new salary ranges and at many heartstrings, with social our guests. activated a job retitling exercise. engagement ratings above the The bond between our keepers industrial average. Keepers’ App and the animals they look after is bagged the Silver Award for Best profound and a source of countless Use of Advocates in the Loyalty FLEXIBLE WORK and Engagement Awards 2019 by behind-the-scenes moments that ARRANGEMENTS we would love to share with the Marketing Interactive. Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA) has been the subject of Images and videos uploaded by our growing attention over recent zookeepers on Keepers’ App were used years. As a progressive employer, on social media to tell authentic stories that the public would otherwise not we believe that the FWA enhances have access to. These stories tugged at our Employer Value Proposition, the heartstrings of our social media and contributes to a supportive followers, garnering social engagement and conducive work environment ratings above the industrial average. for our people. This propelled us to be a forerunner in FWA in the Attractions Industry – we introduced three flexible work arrangement (FWA) options including staggered work hours, telecommuting and Blue Sky Friday. The scheme has been well received with 82 Employees on at least one FWA. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 70 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY To ensure that our parks are accessible to all segments of the community, we offer complimentary admission to over 450 Social Service Organisations (SSOs). During the reporting period, we welcomed around 7,000 beneficiaries from various SSOs to our four parks and Rainforest Lumina. ‘Let’s Play Outside! Nature Learning for all Families’ As a recipient of the WAZA Nature Connect grant, we initiated ‘Let’s Play Outside! Nature Learning for all Families’, a four-part programme that reached out to families with autistic children. Working with our partner, the Autism Resource Centre (ARC), we created autism-friendly resources and conducted autism awareness training to equip our staff and volunteers with the necessary skills to engage the children and their families. The customised programme was greatly appreciated by the Junior Keeper Ms Noor Najilah Binte Anifah accompanying children with autism on their parents as it allowed their children third visit: a walk with Pangolina the Sunda pangolin. Pangolina came to us with a severe spinal to explore nature in an inclusive injury sustained in a hit-and-run accident. Because of the injury, she will never walk normally environment. and must always be under our care. DSA-MINDS FAMILY DAY ‘Wild Adventures’ We worked with Movement for the Another four-part programme, Intellectually Disabled of Singapore ‘Wild Adventures’, was designed to (MINDS) and Down Syndrome offer meaningful outings for families Association Singapore (DSA)(S) to affected by incarceration. We partner engage eight youths with intellectual Salvation Army and Candlemight challenges to co-design and coSocial Enterprise to train youths facilitated the DSA-MINDS Family affected by incarceration to coDay. The event turned out to be a design and co-facilitate activities for great success with all enjoying a day the families. Apart from creating of fun, animal interaction and family opportunities for the families to bonding. enjoy our parks and bond, the programme empowers the youths and boost their self-esteem. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 71 STAFF VOLUNTEERING DAY On 5 March 2019, we hosted 120 children from Asian Womens’ Welfare Association (AWWA) School and their caregivers at Singapore Zoo. More than 50 staff served as volunteer guides to provide a memorable wildlife experience for the group. At Rainforest Kidzworld, the children mingled with our friendly zookeepers and enjoyed close encounters with rabbits and goats. The kids and their caregivers were also Mr Danny Tan, Assistant Vice President (Digital) is all smiles as he plays host to two enthralled by the antics of our sea lion at guests from AWWA. Mr Tan is one of more than 50 staff who came forward to be the Splash Safari Show. volunteer guides. HAIR FOR HOPE 2018 During the inaugural fundraising event for the Children’s Cancer Foundation (CCF) on 2 July 2018, 50 staff shaved to raise a total sum of $75,430 in support of children suffering from cancer. Right (above): (From left) Deputy Chief Executive Officer Mr Leong Yue Kheong, Senior Manager Ms Maxine Khoo (Sales) and Chief Human Resources Officer Mr Marcus Heng, relinquishing their locks for a worthy cause. Right: Our shavees making a bald statement together to raise funds for cancer-stricken children and their families. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 72 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 73 Sustaining our Business Performance To do good, we need to do well. In order to provide the best possible care for our animals, support field conservation work and offer innovative, immersive wildlife experiences that inspire people to take actions to protect wildlife, we are constantly seeking to grow and diversify revenue streams. FY18/19 HIGHLIGHTS Welcomed 5.2 million attendance at our parks Achieved 85% guest satisfaction score, a record high Singapore Zoo ranked #3 in the world by TripAdvisor Night Safari bagged the Best Attraction Experience Awards 2018 by Singapore Tourism Board (STB) Launched Rainforest Lumina, the first multimedia, phygital night walk in Southeast Asia MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 74 RAINFOREST LUMINA We have been redefining guest Rainforest Lumina helped to increase a QR code to retrieve their digital experiences since Singapore Zoo footfall by attracting over 200,000 photos after the visit, offering us a opened its doors to our guests guests. It also drew people from nondigital platform to share nuggets of in 1973. To mark the Zoo’s 45th traditional consumer segments and information on our living collection anniversary, we launched Rainforest provided us a rare opportunity to that inspired the characters (the Lumina, a multimedia night walk connect them with nature. Creature Crew) of Rainforest that facilitates a better appreciation Lumina. To date, we have seen of the rainforest and its inhabitants Leveraging on technology, Rainforest click-through rates doubling that of through an a an immersive and Lumina addresses the need to reindustry benchmarks for the postinteractive ‘phygital’ experience. The engage guests beyond park visits. experience electronic direct mails. first of its kind in Southeast Asia, Using a wristband, they can scan 1 2 1. The entrance to Rainforest Lumina. 3 2. When night falls, the Zoo is transformed by well-choreographed lighting into a magical dreamscape. 3. An interactive game setup invites guest participation. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 75 ENHANCING PARK EXPERIENCES Frequent guest feedback on the need for higher interaction at River Safari fuelled the launch of ‘Once Upon a River’, a river life-themed show. Headlined by aquatic animals’ natural prowess, the new show takes guests on an imaginative journey through riverine habitats to experience the natural behaviours of various aquatic species. The stars of the show: the capybaras, the great white pelican, the brahminy kite and the Asian small-clawed otters win over guests’ hearts and nudge them towards conservation action. 1 River Safari Cruise was revamped and renamed Reservoir Cruise 1. Our capybara stars munch their way to their audience’s hearts at the ‘Once Upon a River’ to better reflect the experience of animal presentation. the scenic ride on Upper Seletar 2. Photo-taking with a great white pelican after the show. Reservoir. This resulted in an increase in guest satisfaction by 100%. 3. A young guest tries his hand at feeding a capybara. 2 3 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 76 Over at Singapore Zoo, the conducted by the fossa care team, care. The shoebills are currently at the revamped Elephant Presentation through an access window from park’s Wetlands exhibit. allows the elephants to double up the guest area. Guests can view the as ‘scriptwriters’ and ‘directors’ animals at close range and interact The marsh bird exhibit at Fishing Cat as they are given free rein to with the keepers during these Trail, Night Safari, was converted into participate in enrichment activities sessions. an exhibit for the Indian gharials, as of their choice, showing off the reptiles were getting too big for their natural behaviours and At the same time, the SPH their old home. This new exhibit, personalities in the process. The Conservation Centre welcomed a replete with 2-metre deep pools, idea is that elephants are amazing, troop of Celebes crested macaques. is three times larger than the old engaging and interesting to watch At this glass-fronted exhibit, guests Indian gharial exhibit. This move just by being themselves. The can view the macaques up-close. to improve animal welfare turned reimagined elephant presentation out to be a win-win, as the gharials is part of our continuing efforts Earlier in the FY, Fragile Forest added are very active and display well at to improve animal welfare and is a walk-in aviary where butterflies night, enhancing the walking trail also in line with the evolution of flutter freely. The Butterfly Aviary experience for guests the care of our elephants towards is home to 11 species of butterflies, the protected contact elephant including eight that are native to To better manage the capacity management system. Singapore. Other than the plain tiger, challenges in Night Safari, common mormon, great eggfly, guests improvements in the time-based For the first time ever, the fossa can also catch a glimpse of the clipper admission system were made, cutting went on display at Singapore Zoo. butterfly, a native species that is now queue time by half. The pair were brought in under extinct in the wild in Singapore. the recommendation of the EAZA Ex-situ Programme (EEP). The Jurong Bird Park welcomed a pair of 1. Reimagined Elephant Presentation at EEP is a breeding programme shoebills, making us the only wildlife Elephants of Asia by the European Association of park in Southeast Asia to display 2. Butterfly Aviary at Fragile Forest Zoos and Aquariums (EAZA) of these impressive birds. Named after which Singapore Zoo is a member. their shoe-shaped bills, there are only 3. New Indian gharial exhibit at Fishing Medical conditioning sessions are around 30 of them under human Cat Trail 1 2 3 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 77 1 2 3 1. A Celebes crested macaque and her young. Guests can view these charismatic primates up-close at their new glass-fronted exhibit. 2. A shoebill taking in its new surroundings at Jurong Bird Park’s Wetlands. 3. The fleet-footed fossa at its newly-opened exhibit. This is the first time Singapore Zoo has brought in the fossa. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 78 GETTING THE NOD FROM GUESTS Collective efforts to improve overall Awards. This is the 13th time Night park experiences have also reaped Safari has won the coveted award in rewards for us. Guest satisfaction the tourism industry. score hit a record high of 85%. At the same time, we received fewer On the global front, we did the complaints and more compliments nation proud again. The only Asian from guests. zoo to make it to the top ten zoos last year, Singapore Zoo moved up Night Safari was crowned Best the ranks and was named the world’s Attraction Experience at the 2018 third best zoo in the 2018 Travellers’ Singapore Tourism Board (STB) Choice® awards by TripAdvisor®. (From left) STB Chairman Mr Chaly Mah, Group CEO Mr Mike Barclay, Deputy Chief Executive Officer and Chief Life Sciences Officer Mr Cheng Wen-Haur, Chief Park Operations & Revenue Officer Ms Sherri Lim. It is the 13th time Night Safari has won Best Attraction Experience at the STB Awards. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 79 DRIVING FOOTFALL Sustained effort in marketing and coverage allowed us to maintain offer perks to their Plus! members. travel agent engagement helped the mindshare and heart share of Besides tapping on the star power us stay ahead in the competitive consumers. Special targeted deals of celebrities like singers Jay Chou landscape. Signature campaigns tying in with memorable dates and JJ Lin, hobnobbing with the during the major school holidays like the Zoo’s 45th birthday and Arsenal football team and ONE and festive seasons, and attractive Singapore’s 53rd birthday found Championship mixed martial arts packages and promotions reeled in favour with the locals, as did our fighters also helped us reach out to the crowd while extensive media partnership with NTUC Link to the sporty segments of the crowd. Seasonal exhibits that span over six to nine months encourage repeat visits to Singapore Zoo. Over the year end, we launched Dragons and Beasts, which featured life-like animatronic collection of 17 dragons and mythical beasts inspired by cultures and animals around the world. By linking these mythical beasts to the Zoo’s animals, we hope to showcase how amazing living, breathing animals truly are and in turn instill a deeper sense of appreciation for wildlife. MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 80 FINANCIAL & ATTENDANCE HIGHLIGHTS REVENUE FOR FY18/19 $171,923,000 66.8% ADMISSION & RIDES 19.7% F&B 7.9% RETAIL 4.0% OTHERS 1.6% ADOPTIONS & DONATIONS TOTAL GUESTS 5,189,811 5.5 5.0 962,121 River Safari 4.5 19.2% 966,890 18.6% 874,593 4.0 19% 849,188 Jurong Bird Park 3.5 754,674 16.9% 768,933 14.8% 16.4% 3.0 1,300,269 Night Safari 2.5 1,159,422 25.9% 1,321,718 25.5% 25.2% 2.0 1.5 1,910,936 Singapore Zoo 1.0 1,803,957 38.0% 2,132,270 41.1% 39.3% 0.5 FY 14/15 FY 15/16 FY 16/17 FY 17/18 FY 18/19 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 81 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 82 MANDAI PARK HOLDINGS I YEARBOOK 2018 – 2019 83 THE YEAR AHEAD As construction of the new The WRS Master Plan continues to A new KidzWorld will also be Mandai precinct gathers pace unfold, focusing on capital projects developed. The concept of the and the 10-year WRS master that will deliver the Mandai service new KidzWorld is firmly rooted plan unfolds, we are rallying as a promise to bring guests even closer to in consumer-centricity. Applying team and working doubly hard wildlife, dramatically improve guest the process of design thinking, to minimise impact on our living comfort, facilitate world-class animal we undertook a deep dive to collection, guests and staff. In care and enhance animal welfare. understand our customers better, the face of the disruptions, we The first phase of the Master Plan through participant observation continue to innovate, redesign includes a gamut of developments and focus group discussions processes and leverage on at our parks at Mandai, with key with end-users including parents technology to enhance our park projects happening at Night Safari and children. Our aspiration offerings and service delivery. and Singapore Zoo. is to develop a KidzWorld that combines animal interaction, play, The construction of East Node of The old giraffe exhibit at Night Safari F&B and retail in an integrated the new Mandai precinct requires is to be converted into a rhino exhibit, manner that is not seen in any major works to be carried at as part of tram ride enhancements other petting zoo in the world. the Zoo entrance plaza and to improve guest experience. Over at We hope that children will grow Corporate Office. Guest services the Zoo, a new Elephant exhibit will up creating memories with their including ticketing, admission, be developed on a new site five times families in KidzWorld through membership registration, F&B larger than the existing elephant discovery and play, and nurture and Retail will be affected. In exhibit at the Zoo. The development the love for animals and nature preparation, our team is gearing will provide more space for the through the experience. up to relocate these services pachyderms to play, forage and rest and the Corporate Office while and at the same time allow guests to With the passing of polar bear reviewing operations to reduce observe how they are cared for by Inuka, the plan is to convert Frozen the negative impact on guest their keepers in a way that is currently Tundra to a coastal-themed habitat experience and revenue. not possible at the existing exhibit. for sealions and penguins. ANNEX Managed SPECIES SCIENTIFIC NAME PROGRAMME IUCN RED LIST STATUS Species African Hunting Dog Lycaon pictus EEP EN Programmes Asian Elephant Elephas maximus EEP EN Baer's Pochard Aythya baeri ESB CR FY 18-19 Bali Myna Leucopsar rothschildi EEP CR Bar-pouched Hornbill Rhyticeros undulatus ESB VU Bat-eared Fox Otocyon megalotis EEP LC Black Hornbill Anthracoceros malayanus ESB NT Black Howler Alouatta caraya ESB LC Black-winged Myna Acridotheres melanopterus ISB CR Blue-crowned Laughingthrush Garrulax courtoisi GSMP CR Blue-throated Macaw Ara glaucogularis ISB CR Bornean Orangutan Pongo pygmaeus SSMP / ISB EN Buff-cheeked Gibbon Nomascus gabriellae ESB VU Buffon's Macaw Ara ambiguus ISB EN Chimpanzee Pan troglodytes EEP EN Chinese Alligator Alligator sinensis EEP CR Common Squirrel Monkey Saimiri sciureus EEP LC Cuban Boa Chilabothrus angulifer ESB NT De Brazza's Monkey Cercopithecus neglectus EEP LC Ecuador Amazon Amazona lilacina EEP EN Emperor Tamarin Saguinus imperator EEP LC False Gharial Tomistoma schlegellii ESB EN Fossa Cryptoprocta ferox EEP VU Gaur Bos gaurus ISB VU Giant Anteater Myrmecophaga tridactyla ISB VU Giant Panda Ailuropoda menaloleuca China Wildlife Conservation Association / China Conservation & Research Centre for Giant Panda VU Giant Otter Pteronura brasiliensis EEP EN Goeldi's Monkey Callimico goeldii EEP VU Golden Cat Cattopuma temminckii EEP VU Golden Lion Tamarin Leonthopithecus rosalia ISB EN Golden-headed Lion Tamarin Leonthopithecus chrysomelas ISB EN Goodfellow's Tree Kangaroo Dendrolagus goodfellowi GSMP EN Great Hornbill Buceros bicornis EEP NT Hamerkop Scopus umbretta ESB LC Hooded Pitta Pitta sordida SSP LC Indian Rhino Rhinoceros unicornis ISB VU Jaguar Panthera onca EEP LC Javan Langur Trachypithecus auratus EEP VU King Bird-of-paradise Cicinnurus regius ESB LC Komodo Dragon Varanus komodoensis EEP VU Lear’s Macaw Anodorhynchus leari ISB EN Lion-tailed Macaque Macaca silenus EEP EN Malayan Peacock-pheasant Polyplectron malaccense ESB VU ABBREVIATIONS AND Malayan Tapir Tapirus indicus SSMP EN ACRONYMS Maned Wolf Chrysocyon brachyurus ISB / EEP NT Markhor Capra falconeri ESB NT PROGRAMME Meller's Duck Anas melleri EEP EN EEP Mexican Beaded Lizard Heloderma horridum EEP LC EAZA Ex-situ Programme Minadao Bleeding-heart Gallicolumba criniger SSP VU Mountain Peacock-pheasant Polyplectron inopinatum ESB VU ESB European Studbook Northern Bald Ibis (Waldrapp) Geronticus eremita EEP CR Oriental Small-clawed Otter Aonyx cinereus ISB VU GSMP Palm Cockatoo Probosciger aterrimus EEP LC Global Species Management Plan Papuan Hornbill Rhyticeros plicatus ESB LC Pileated Gibbon Hylobates pileatus EEP EN ISB Ploughshare Tortoise Astrochelys yniphora ISB CR International Studbook Purple-naped Lory Lorius domicellus ESB EN SSMP Pygmy Hippo Choeropsis liberiensis EEP EN SEAZA Species Raggiana Bird-of-Paradise Paradisaea raggiana SSP LC Management Red Dhole Cuon alpinus EEP EN Programme Red Panda Ailurus fulgens GSMP EN Red-bellied Tamarin Saguinus labiatus ESB LC IUCN RED LIST STATUS Red-billed Toucan Ramphastos tucanus ESB VU EW Rhinoceros Hornbill Buceros rhinoceros EEP NT Extinct in the Wild Sloth Bear Melursus ursinus EEP VU Southern Cassowary Casuarius casuarius ESB VU CR Critically Endangered Southern Cheetah Acinonyx jubatus jubatus EEP VU Spix’s Macaw Cyanopsitta spixxi ISB CR (EW) EN Spotted Hyena Crocuta crocuta EEP LC Endangered Sri Lankan Leopard Panthera pardus kotiya EEP VU VU Sun Bear Helarctos malayanus ESB VU Vulnerable Swamp Wallaby Wallabia bicolor ESB LC NT Von Der Decken's Hornbill Tockus deckeni ESB LC Near Threatened White-backed Vulture Gyps africanus EEP CR White-headed Vulture Trigonoceps occipitalis EEP CR LC Least Concern White-winged Duck Asacornis scutulata EEP EN Wrinkled Hornbill Rhabdotorhinus corrugatus EEP EN ANNEX Scientific Publications FY 18-19 1. Cabana F., Maguire R., Hsu C. D., & Plowman A. 18. Ahmad A. A., Wahab N. A., Yeo C. W., Oh S. J. W. Y., & (2018) Identification of possible nutritional and stress risk factors Chen H. C. in the development of marmoset wasting syndrome, Zoo biology (2018) Comparison of alfaxalone-medetomidine and tiletamine-zolazepam in rescued common palm civets 2. Banes G. L., Chua W., Elder M., & Kao J. (Paradoxurus musangus). (2018) Orang‐utans Pongo spp in Asian zoos: Journal of Veterinary Medical Science, 18-0297. current status, challenges and progress towards long‐term population sustainability, International Zoo Yearbook. 19. Cabana F. and Lee J.G.H. (2018) Feeding cluster preferences in four genera of Lories and 3. Sim S.H., Ong C.E.L., Gan W.H., Wang D., Koh V.W.H.K., Lorikeets (Loriinae) that should be considered in the diet of Tan Y.K., Wong M.S.Y., Chew J.S.W., Ling S.F., Tan B.Z.Y., Ye A.Z., nectarivorous psittacine species in captivity Bay P.C.K., Wong W.K., Fernandez C.J., Xie S., Jayarajah P., Tahar T., Journal of Animal Physiology and Animal Nutrition 1–9. Oh P.Y., Luz S., Chien J.M.F., Tan T.T., Chai L.Y.A., Fisher D., Liu Y., Loh J.J.P. and Tan G.G.Y. 20. Ade Kurniawan, Gladys Lee, Nasruddin bin Tohed & (2018) Melioidosis in Singapore: Mary-Ruth Low. Clinical, Veterinary, and Environmental Perspectives. 2018 King cobra feeding on a monitor lizard at night. Tropical Medicine and Infectious Disease Singapore Biodiversity Records 2018: 63 4. Cabana F., Jasmi R., & Maguire R. 21. Morgane Tidie`re, Xavier Thevenot, Adamantia Deligiannopoulou, (2018) Great ape nutrition: low‐sugar and high‐fibre diets can Guillaume Douay, Mylisa Whipple, Aure´lie Siberchicot, lead to increased natural behaviours, decreased regurgitation and Jean-Michel Gaillard and Jean-Franc¸ois Lemaıˆtre reingestion, and reversal of prediabetes, (2018) Maternal reproductive senescence shapes the fitness International Zoo Yearbook consequences of the parental age difference in ruffed lemurs. Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, 285(1886) 5. Hsu C. D., & Mathura Y. (2018) Severe visceral pentastomiasis in an oriental 22. Ali Anwar AHMAD, Sofeah SAMSUDDIN, small-clawed otter with functional thyroid carcinoma, Serena Jocelyn OH Wai Yin, Pedro MARTINEZ-PEREZ and Journal of Veterinary Medical Science, 17-0383. Abdullah RASEDEE (2018) Hematological and serum biochemical parameters of 6. Koda H., Murai T., Tuuga A., Goossens B., Nathan S.K.S.S., rescued Sunda pangolins (Manis javanica) in Singapore; Stark D.J., Ramirez D.A.R., Sha J.C.M., Osman I., Sipangkui R., The Journal of Veterinary Medical Science Seino S., Matsuda I. (2018) Nasalization by Nasalis larvatus: Larger noses audiovisually 23. Yoong Y. T., Fujita K., Galway A., Liu M. H., & Cabana F. advertise conspecifics in proboscis monkeys, (2018) Urolith Prevalence And Risk Factors In Asian Small-Clawed Science Advances Otters (Aonyx Cinereus). Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine, 49(4), 863-869. 7. Fung T. K. & Low M. R. (2018) Common Malayan racer at Mandai, 24. Cabana F., Tay C., & Arif I. Singapore Biodiversity Records 2018:37 (2019) Comparison of growth rates of hand-reared and mother-reared Sunda pangolin (Manis javanica) pups at 8. Tay T., Li D., Huang Y., Wang P., Tahar T. and Kawi J. the Night Safari (Singapore). (2018) Effects of changes in photoperiod and temperature on Journal of Zoo and Aquarium Research, 7(1), 44. the estrous cycle of a captive female giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca), Zoo Biology, Pg 1-8 25. F. Cabana, J. B. Clayton, K. A. I. Nekaris, W. Wirdateti, D. Knights & H. Seedorf 9. Chua J. & Low M. R. (2019) Nutrient-based diet modifications impact on the gut (2018) Melanistic dog-toothed cat snake at Mandai, microbiome of the Javan slow loris (Nycticebus javanicus), Singapore Biodiversity Records 2018: 38-39. Scientific Reports, 9. 10. Tan R. & Low M. R. 26. Baveja P., Tang Q., Lee J. G., & Rheindt F. E. (2018) Painted bronzeback attacking four-line tree frog at Mandai, (2019) Impact of genomic leakage on the conservation of the Singapore Biodiversity Records 2018: 40. endangered Milky Stork. Biological Conservation, 229, 59-66. 11. Kumar M., Lee J. and Cabana F. (2018) Husbandry and breeding of Greater green leafbird Choloropsis sonnerati at Jurong Bird Park, Singapore, OTHER PUBLICATIONS International Zoo Yearbook, 52: 1-8. 27. Jain A., Lee J. G. H., Chao N., Lees C., Orenstein R., 12. J B Clayton, A Gomez, K Amato, D Knights, DA. Travis, Strange B. C., Chng S. C. L., Marthy W., Yeap C. A., R Blekhman, R Knight, S Leigh, R Stumpf, T Wolf, K E. Glander, Hadiprakarsa Y. Y. and Rao M. F Cabana and TJ. Johnson (Eds) (2018) Helmeted Hornbill (Rhinoplax vigil): (2018) The gut microbiome of nonhuman primates: Status Review, Range-wide Conservation Strategy and Lessons in ecology and evolution. Action Plan (2018-2027). American Journal Primatology. IUCN Species Survival Commission Hornbill Specialist Group. 13. Delvinder Kaur, Luis Carlos Neves and Francis Cabana 28. Lee PB, Chung YF, Nash HC, Lim NT-L, Chan SKL, Luz S & Lees C (2018) Rearing Unlikely Dragons; Breeding of the Dragon headed (2018) Sunda Pangolin (Manis javanica) National Conservation katydids, Eumegalodon blanchardi (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae), Strategy and Action Plan: Scaling up pangolin conservation in Journal of Entomology and Zoology Studies. Singapore. Singapore Pangolin Working Group 14. F Cabana1,2, J Clayton3, KAI Nekaris,2, W Wirdateti4, D Knights3 , 29. Nash H. C., Lee P. B. & Low M. R. H Seedorf5,6 Sunda pangolin (Manis javanica) in Singapore. Altering the diet of rescue centre animals may alter microbiome IUCN Reintroduction Specialist Group Book 2018: pp. 221-225. leading to improved success of translocations. 30. Low M. R. 15. Bryan T. M. Lim, Keren R. Sadanandan, Caroline Dingle, Reticulated pythons (Malayopython reticulatus) in Singapore. Yu Yan Leung, Dewi M. Prawiradilaga, Mohammad Irham, IUCN Reintroduction Specialist Group Book 2018: pp. 78-81. Hidayat Ashari, Jessica G. H. Lee, Frank E. Rheindt Molecular evidence suggests radical revision to species limits in 31. Plowman, Amy & Cabana Francis the great speciator white-eye genus Zosterops, (2019) Transforming the Nutrition of Zoo Primates (or How We Journal of Ornithology, 160(1), 1-16 Became Known as Loris Man and That Evil Banana Woman): Their Role in Conservation and Research. 16. Jonathan B. Clayton, Gabriel A. Al-Ghalith, Ha Thang Long, Bui Scientific Foundations of Zoos and Aquariums, pp.274-303 Van Tuan, Francis Cabana , Hu Huang, Pajau Vangay, Tonya Ward, Vo Van Minh, Nguyen Ai Tam, Nguyen Tat Dat, Dominic A. Travis, 32. Cabana F. Michael P. Murtaugh, Herbert Covert, Kenneth E. Glander, Tilo (2018) Feeding Mangabeys In Mueller and Abello (Eds) Nadler, Barbara Toddes, John C. M. Sha, Randy Singer, Dan Knights EAZA Best Practice Guidelines for Mangabeys. & Timothy J. Johnson, EAZA Press, Amsterdam. Associations Between Nutrition, Gut Microbiome, and Health in A Novel Nonhuman Primate Model, Scientific Reports, 8 (2018) 33. Cabana F. (2018) Feeding Orangutans In Becker and Abello (Eds) 17. Kwak M.L., Hsu CD., Duoay G., Ahmad A.A. EAZA Best Practice Guidelines for Orangutans. (2018) The first authenticated record of the pangolin tick EAZA Press, Amsterdam. Amblyomma javanense (Acari: Ixodidae) in Singapore, with notes on its biology and conservation, Experimental and Applied Acarology pp 1-7 JURONG BIRD PARK 2 Jurong Hill Singapore 628925 NIGHT SAFARI / RIVER SAFARI / SINGAPORE ZOO 80 Mandai Lake Road Singapore 729826 Tel: 62693411 www.wrs.com.sg
