Furnas 2019 Annual Report Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action CORPORATE INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS Wilson Pinto Ferreira Junior Felipe Sousa Chaves Lucia Maria Martins Casasanta Luiz Carlos Ciocchi Magali Rogéria de Moura Leite Susana Hanna Stiphan Jabra Vânia Lúcia Ribeiro Vieira FISCAL COMMITTEE Full Members Bruno Ramos Mangualde Roberto Pinheiro Klein Júnior Rodrigo Vilella Ruiz Substitutes André Luiz Amaral dos Santos Daniel Mário Alves de Paula EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Luiz Carlos Ciocchi Caio Pompeu de Souza Brasil Neto Claudio Guilherme Branco da Motta Djair Roberto Fernandes José Alves de Mello Franco Pedro Eduardo Fernandes Brito UHE Furnas (MG) Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 2 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action CONTENTS 01 02 03 04 Introduction Corporate Profile Operational Performance About Furnas..................................08 Excellence About the Report.....................................04 How We Create Value...................09 Governance and Risk Management...... 17 Operation........................................27 Message from the Administration......06 Awards and Recognition.............14 Ethical and Integral Performance.......... 23 Financial Results............................32 Outlook............................................15 05 06 07 08 Transformation Environmental Relationships and Attachments and Future Vision Management Social Action Strategy .....................................................35 Environment ..................................43 Employees ......................................56 ANEEL Indicators ..........................71 PR&D and Innovation.............................38 Climate changes...........................45 Customers.......................................62 Social Audit ....................................82 Commitments to Sustainability...........40 Water................................................48 Suppliers..........................................63 GRI Content Index ........................85 Biodiversity.....................................51 Communities.................................64 SASB Indicators.............................92 Social Action................................... xx Capitals Map ..................................93 SDG Map.........................................94 Credits..............................................95 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 3 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and INTRODUCTION Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action ABOUT THE REPORT GRI 102-32; 102-40; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44; 102-46; 102-50; 102-54; 102-56 Commitment Content For the 21st consecutive year, we publish our Report, We present our management and performance between honoring the commitment to maintain a solid, transparent January 1st and December 31st, 2019, focusing on the and open relationship with our stakeholders. As of this year, most relevant economic, social and environmental in line with the Eletrobras Holding Report, this document aspects and priorities for the Company’s sustainability, sois renamed Furnas 2019 Annual Report and continues to called material topics. bring relevant information about our operations. These topics are identified based on an ongoing process INTRODUCTION Best Practices conducted by our parent company, Eletrobras to consult stakeholders and to review the strategic planning. We have built this publication based on the best global and sectoral sustainability reporting practices: Based on the material topics defined by the parent company, we performed analysis of scenarios and • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standard guidelines interviews with business leaders to identify necessary Core option; adaptations to the materiality matrix based on the context • Manual for Developing the Annual Social and and specificities of Furnas. In 2019, this process involved a Environmental Responsibility Report of Electricity face-to-face workshop with leaders and employees from Companies, by the National Electric Energy Agency 01 different areas of the business and a sector study. (ANEEL); • International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) In doing so, we arrived at our strategic materiality, guidelines; aligned with the Holding company, which is the driving • Sectoral materials topics from Sustainability force of this report and of our management for business Accounting Standards Board (SASB); sustainability. presented on page XXX, which addresses • Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). our sustainability strategy. To fully learn about materiality analysis performed by Eletrobras, access its 2019 Annual Report at https://bit.ly/38Uc25q 4 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and INTRODUCTION Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action How to Navigate In addition to the linear reading of this publication, you have other possibilities for guided navigation according to the reporting guidelines adopted: GRI CONTENT INDEX and SASB Indicators: the index explains what each GRI disclosure and SASB indicator are and displays the page on which they are reported, where CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL you will find the symbol GRI XX-X and SASB IF-EU-XXX. Natural Financial Manufactured CAPITALS MAP (INTEGRATED REPORTING): the map shows the different capitals underpinning the business model and the pages on which they are addressed, where you will find the corresponding symbols. CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL SDG MAP: the map shows the Company’s contribution to Human Social and Intellectual the SDG, where you will find the corresponding symbol, Relationship also presented throughout the report pages whenever we mention the contribution of FURNAS with an SDG. TO LEARN MORE The Management Report and the Financial Statements are available on our website, featuring more detailed information on Furna’s operating and economic performance in 2019: https://bit.ly/2TfOp2G Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 5 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and INTRODUCTION Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action MESSAGE FROM THE ADMINISTRATION GRI 102-14 Over six decades ago, Furnas was born year. Our net income, totaling R$ 3.2 billion, grew 200% Ethics is also an irrevocable value that is present in with the mission of upholding the over the previous year while the EBITDA increased 22%, all of our work. In 2019, we were recognized with the development of the Brazilian economy and reaching R$ 4.3 billion, with a margin of 49%. 4th Certification of the Governance Indicator IGsociety from a solid supply of electricity. SEST, granted by the Secretariat of Coordination and We continue to invest in maintaining high standards Governance of State-owned Companies (Sest), in which Throughout the path, we built a remarkable legacy of operational quality, with improvements and 61 companies were evaluated and only 14 reached the and, in 2019, we introduced a new cycle to enhance it reinforcements in our energy transmission park and the maximum score, among them, Furnas. We were also the facing a future of innovation, operational and financial installation of about three thousand new equipment, first Brazilian generation and transmission company efficiency, ethics, transparency and sustainability. ensuring a more reliable system and at the same time to receive the Building Awareness Champion 2019 expanding our revenue generation, contributing to the Certificate, from the Institute of Internal Auditors of To this end, we have worked in all different dimensions of Company sustainability. Brazil (IIA Brasil), which recognizes institutions that stood the business, with a meticulous eye and attentive to the out in the actions promoted during the International details that will take us to the next decades. The main The achievement of these results is a consequence Internal Audit Awareness Month ( IIA May). pillars of this transformation are the Strategic Drivers of hard work and the harmony between senior of the Eletrobras Group, mainly in relation to the sale of management and our competent technical and Regarding sustainability, we remain committed to energy, financial discipline and modernization, in which managerial staff, having as background Furnas’ carrying out the essence of our activity. Since 2003, we we have achieved important advances. commitment to values and competencies such as have been a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global transparency, ethics and sustainability permeated Compact, generating value to society through a business We increased profitability with the sale of throughout our company operations. that provides everyone with access to energy, an energy, doubling the revenue compared to essential resource for economic and social development, 2018, exceeding the goals established by We have a widespread culture of entrepreneurship in an increasingly efficient manner , honest and the Holding and achieving the best result and experimentation, fostered by our longstanding responsible when relating with different audiences and among the Eletrobras companies. experience in Research and Development, the environmental resources. continuous search for improvements in different work We significantly reduced our indebtedness, with a processes and partnerships with different industry With this report, we want to bring to all our audiences positive impact of 30% on the Net Debt/EBITDA agents, which positions us as a major player in the more than an account of our achievements: a indicator, and improved our financial result by 65%, transformation of the energy business scenario, creating commitment to the future and the certainty that we are which added about R$ 1 billion to Furnas’ results for the new, more sustainable and value-generating solutions. on the right path to build the next decades. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 6 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and INTRODUCTION Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action P.S.: At the moment we are closing this report, we are experiencing a global public health emergency that severely impacts the Brazilian population. With planning, leadership and respect for people, Furnas managed to structure, in a period of just 15 days, a series of emergency processes and protocols for safety, health and hygiene in the operation and control centers. Once again, we demonstrate our ability to adapt and react. About 70% of our employees are working remotely, providing support to technicians who are at the forefront of the Furnas System’s generation, transmission and monitoring facilities. Everything to ensure that there is no lack of energy needed to turn this critical page of our lives. Luiz Carlos Ciocchi CEO Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 7 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action ABOUT FURNAS GRI 102-1; 102-2; 102-3; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7; 102-10 Furnas Centrais Elétricas S.A. is a Company operating in the generation, transmission and trading of electricity and is controlled by Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S.A. – Eletrobras. Founded in 1957, with headquarters in Rio de Janeiro (RJ), is present in all regions of Brazil. CORPORATE PROFILE Mission To provide integrated, sustainable and profitable services on energy markets. Values 02 • Focus on results; Vision 2030 • Ethics and transparency; ETo feature among the top three clean • Recognize people and their commitment energy companies in the world and to the business; the top ten electric power companies, • Entrepreneurship and innovation; and achieve best-in-class profitability and • Sustainability. receive acknowledgement from all target markets. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 8 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action HOW WE CREATE VALUE GRI 102-12; Eu-1 Operating Structure PERFORMANCE GENERATION* 18,145.97MW 15 states and Federal District: 16.23% (4) • Bahia; own hydroelectric power plants. • Ceará; • Espírito Santo; of power generation capacity 25.44% (6) • Goiás; in 23 power plants. hydroelectric power plants • Mato Grosso; under quota system (affected 97.91% • Mato Grosso do Sul; by Law 12,783/2013). • Minas Gerais; • Paraná; 56.24% (11) • • Pará; Rio de Janeiro; de capacity from clean hydroelectric power plants • Rio Grande do Sul; energy sources. in partnerships or SPEs. • Rondônia; • Santa Catarina; 2.09% (2) • São Paulo; and own thermoelectric • Tocantins. power plants. 2.832 3.994 * The difference in values compared to the previous year is due to TPP Santa Cruz, where we disregard 150 MW that are still under construction, and also to the revision of the installed capacity at the São Manuel and Santo Antônio HPPs. employees suppliers Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 9 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action HOW WE CREATE VALUE GRI 102-12; Eu-1 Operating Structure TRANSMISSION TRADING 29,945.67 km 69 39,988 GWh in transmission lines. substations. energy sold. 20,434.50 km (68.24%) in wholly owned property; 66.7% (46) in wholly owned renewed property; 4,089 GWh 1,635.00 km (5.46%) 11.6% (8) energy purchased. In wholly owned not renewed property; and in wholly owned not renewed property; and 7,876.17 km (26.30%) de SPEs. 21.7% (15) de SPEs. 446.7 MW average in long term purchase contracts. 141,691.72 MVA 75.3% (106,770.43 MVA) in wholly owned renewed property; of transformation capacity. 3.1% (4,342.49 MVA) in wholly owned not renewed property; and 21.6% (30,578.80 MVA) de SPEs. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 10 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action COMPLEXO EÓLICO FORTIM* SYSTEM MAP PLANTS IN OPERATION (UNDER CONSTRUCTION) CEARÁ PARÁ HYDROELECTRIC MW Itumbiara 2,082 Marimbondo 1,440 Furnas 1,216 AMAZONAS L. C. B. Carvalho (Estreito) 1,050 M. de Moraes (Peixoto) 476 Corumbá 375 SANTO Porto Colômbia 320 ANTÔNIO SÃO MANOEL Complexo Simplício-Anta 333.70 COLETORA Funil 216 PORTO VELHO TELESPIRES Batalha 52.50 TOCANTINS THERMOELECTRIC MW INTERLIGAÇÃO NORTE/SUL RONDÔNIA Santa Cruz 500 XINGU Campos (R. Silveira) 30 MATO GROSSO GURUPI BARREIRAS PEIXE ANGICAL PEIXE 2 BAHIA Furnas Total: 8,091.20 NOBRES RIO DAS ÉGUAS PARTNERSHIP/SPEs IN OPERATION SERRA DA MESA Furnas Hydroelectric Power Plant/SPE MANSO NIQUELÂNDIA (operating) ITAPACI B. GERAL B. SUL HYDROELECTRIC MW CUIABÁ SAMAMBAIA Other Company’s Hydroelectric Power Plant BARRO ALTO B.LESTE Interconnection points with the Furnas System COXIPÓ GOIÁS PIRINEUS BRASÍLIA LUZIÂNIA Santo Antônio 3,568 RONDONÓPOLIS XAVANTES TR INDADE Teles Pires 1,819.80 BARRA DO PEIXE IRAPÉ Furnas/SPE Wind Farm PALMEIRAS BANDEIRANTES Serra da Mesa 1,275 (under construction) BATALHA MONTES CLAROS 2 Foz de Chapecó 855 RIO VERDE CARAJAS PIRAPORA 2 ARAÇUAÍ 2 Três Irmãos 807.50 COUTO DE MAGALHÃES NORTE EDEIA CORUMBÁ PARACATU 1 Furnas Thermoelectric Power Plant JATAÍ CORUMBÁ Peixe Angical 498.75 (operating) Serra do Facão 212.58 RIO VERDE QUIRINÓPOLIS SERRA DO FACÃO MINAS GERAIS Manso 210 ITUMBIARA Other Company’s Thermoelectric Power Plant BARRA DOS C. DOURADA EMBORCAÇÃO RETIRO BAIXO CURVELO 2 VALADARES São Manoel 700 Interconnection points with the Furnas System COQUEIROS BAGUARI Baguari 140 CHAPADÃO L.C.B. ESPÍRITO SANTO DO SUL SÃO SIMÃO CARVALHO BOM MESQUITA LINHARES Retiro Baixo 82 (ESTREITO) DESPACHO Other Company’s Nuclear Power Plant VOLTA ESTREITO NOVA BARREIRO (operating) MATO GROSSO ÁGUA VERMELHA GRANDE M. MORAES MASCARENHAS (PEIXOTO) Partnership/SPEs Total: 10,168.63 DO SUL MARIMBONDO I PORTO VITÓRIA Furnas Substation/SPE (operating) MARIMBONDO II COLÔMBIA FURNAS PIMENTA OURO PRETO PADRE FIALHO VIANA CACHOEIRO (operating) TRÊS IRMÃOS RIBEIRÃO DO ITAPEMIRIM VI ANA 2 RETO POÇOS ITUTINGA CAMPOS (R. SILVEIRA) UNDER CONSTRUCTION/EXPANSION Substation ARARAQUARA 2 ARARAQUARA DE CALDAS JUIZ DE SIMPLÍCIO/ (under construction) SÃO PAULO CACHOEIRA PAULISTA FUNIL FORA ANTA CAMPOS ASSIS FERNÃO ITAJUBÁ VOLTA REDONDA IRIRI WIND MW Other Company’s Substation DIAS RESENDE ROCHA LEÃO ROCHA LEÃO CAMPINAS Interconnection points with the Furnas System TAUBATÉ MAGÉ VENDA DAS PEDRAS GUARULHOS Complexo Fortim* 107.07 MW PARANÁ ITATIBA IBIÚNA ANGRA SANTA RIO DE JANEIRO ITABERÁ I e II Furnas Transmission Lines MOGI DAS CRUZES CRUZ (operating) IVAIPORÃ NORDESTE ITAPETI TIJUCO ZONA PRETO OESTE Furnas Transmission Lines ADRIANÓPOLIS / SÃOJOSÉ / (under construction) ITAIPU GRAJAÚ /JACARÉPAGUÁ / IMBARIÊ INTERLIGAÇÃO BATEIAS TOTAL TRANSFORMATION CAPACITY: 134,633.92 MVA COM A REGIÃO SUL Other Company’s Transmission Lines Interconnection points with the Furnas System FOZ DO IGUAÇU Furnas Total: 109,137.92 MVA Partnership/SPEs Total: 25,496.00 MVA Optical Fiber * Plants, transmission lines and substation in partnership. XANXERÊ Furnas system map for illustrative purposes only. SANTA CATARINA FOZ DO CHAPECÓ GUARITA Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 11 RIO GRANDE CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Value Created Generating value to society is closely connected Business Model to our business existence, making it possible to provide access to energy to all, an essential WORKFORCE AND THEIR FAMILIES 2,832 professionals resource for economic and social development. Employment and income creation R$ 1.14 billion in active employees’ compensation. We want to make the most of this potential for positive impact, working to build an increasingly efficient, upright and responsible business in Promoting diversity 100% retention of male and female employees after parental leave. relations with all the different parts and resources that feed and make the Company’s operation Training and professional development 138,438 training hours for active employees. possible, presented below: Health and safety care 100% covered by health and safety agencies. Caption Related STAKEHOLDER Capital Attributes of our performance Value created PARTNERS, SPONSORS AND SUPPLIERS to generate value in 2019 Perpetuation of inputs R$ 859.9 million spent on contracts with 3,994 suppliers, 99.99% of which are local Wealth generation suppliers. Fostering a more sustainable 100% of significant investment contracts include human rights clauses. and ethical supply chain CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL Natural Financial Manufactured 100% of suppliers must complete integrity risk assessment forms. Net Operating Revenue of R$ 8.7 billion. CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL Solid results (SPEs) Human Social and Intellectual Relationship R$ 4.3 billion EBITDA. Receipts of dividends of R$ 236 million. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 12 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action COMMUNITIES, SOCIETY AND GOVERNMENT Research and Development Investment of R$ 65.4 million in R&D projects. Investment of R$ 10.5 million in R&D projects related to energy Promoting energy efficiency efficiency and R$ 31.6 million in energy systems planning. Improvement in the country’s infrastructure 18.1 thousand MW of generation capacity, of which 97.91% were from clean and Availability of clean energy for all energy generation sources and 29.9 thousand kilometers in transmission lines. R$ 1.4 billion distributed as taxes and R$ 145.2 million paid as financial Wealth generation compensation for the use of water resources in hydroelectric dams. 100% of employees and governance agents communicated on ethics and Ethical and transparent conduct anticorruption. R$ 11.7 million invested in programs aimed at the social development of Social and community development communities surrounding our projects. Environmental preservation and recovery R$ 122.7 million invested in environmental protection. CLIENTS 85.17% customer satisfaction for generation, transmission and research, Sustainable and fair price hiring development and innovation. 95.35 % average availability in hydroelectric generation, 80.98% in thermoelectric Reliability when receiving energy and 99.89% in transmission. Papagaio verdadeiro (Amazona aestiva) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Porto Colômbia (MG/SP). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 13 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action AWARDS AND RECOGNITION During the year Furnas was awarded several prizes and recognitions for its performance and value generation for both the electrical sector and society. Below you will find the main awards: GOVERNANCE INDICATOR CERTIFICATION (IG-SEST) ABRASCA AWARD FOR BEST ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Furnas received the highest score in the 4th Certification of the Furnas’ Sustainability Report was one of the finalists in the “Closed Governance Indicator (IG-SEST). The assessment made by the Companies” category of the Abrasca 2019 Award, which recognized Secretariat of Coordination and Governance of State-Owned Companies the best reports produced in 2018. The award, delivered by the (SEST), considers the level of corporate governance in state-owned Brazilian Association of Publicly-Held Companies, is educational and and federal government subsidiaries. Of the 61 companies evaluated, encourages quality improvement in corporate publications, with more 14 received top marks, including Furnas, for implementing good clarity and transparency. management practices, control and audit mechanisms, disclosure of information in a transparent manner, committees and councils. BUILDING AWARENESS CHAMPION 2019 CERTIFICATE Institute of Internal Auditors of Brazil (IIA Brasil) granted Furnas the 2019 MARIO BHERING MEMORY PRESERVATION AWARD Building Awareness Champion 2019 Certificate, at the ceremony of The Furnas Memory project won the Mario Bhering Memory the 39th Brazilian Congress of Internal Auditing (Conbrai). The award Preservation Award, promoted by the Electricity Memory Center of recognizes the institutions that stood out for actions promoted during Brazil, which aims to stimulate actions to rescue and enhance the the International Internal Audit Awareness Month (IIA May). The IIA is history of the electricity sector. considered the leading global entity in the area of internal audit and brings together more than 200 thousand members in 170 countries. CHILDHOOD BRAZIL Furnas’ commitment to activities that value the Human Rights of Children MINISTRY OF HEALTH CERTIFICATION and Adolescents was recognized by the Childhood Brazil Foundation In a ceremony commemorating the National Day of Milk Donation, in through the Na Mão Certa Program. Certification takes place since 2009 Brasília, Furnas received a certificate from the Ministry of Health for to mobilize companies, governments and civil society in tackling the the breastfeeding support room at the Company’s headquarters in Rio sexual exploitation of children and adolescents on Brazilian highways. de Janeiro (RJ). The space was conceived in 2018 so that employees who return from maternity leave can collect and store their own milk, allowing their babies to continue to benefit from the food. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 14 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action OUTLOOK Macroeconomic Scenario PERSPECTIVES The Brazilian economy remained in expectation for the resumption of growth in 2019 and For the next ten years, EPE projects a growth of 3.8% per year in electricity consumption, GDP grew by 1.1%, the same level as the previous year. which represents the need for investments around R$ 456 billion in the Brazilian electricity sector, of which R$ 353 billion in generation and R$ 104 billion in transmission. Inflation measured by the Extended Consumer Price Index (IPCA) dropped 0.47 percentage points ending the year at 3.28%, remaining below the target of the National Monetary REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT Council (CMN) target. In this scenario, it was possible to cut the basic interest rate (Selic), Rainfall scarcity and the emptying of reservoirs in previous years maintained adverse which, at the end of 2019, was 4.5%. hydrological condition. According to data released by the Chamber of Electric Energy Commercialization (CCEE), the Generation Scaling Factor – (GSF), adjustment factor of the Industry scenario Energy Reallocation Mechanism (MRE) was de 81%, meaning that the plants participating in the MRE generated 81% of their physical guarantees. CONSUMPTION In 2019, electricity consumption in Brazil was 482 thousand GWh, according to data by the Additionally, we had important topics that influenced the sectorial context, listed below, Energy Research Company (EPE), a 1.4% increase in relation to the previous year. which can be found in our Management Report (available at https://bit.ly/2Tem0tH): Evolution in energy consumption by segment: • Transmission and Generation Assets Extended; -1.6% +3.1% +4.0% • • Periodic Tariff Review of Transmitter’s Annual Revenue; and Weighted Average Cost of Regulatory Capital (WACC) Generation and Transmission. Industrial Residential Commercial Evolution in energy consumption by region: +3.1% +2% +0.2% +2.0% +4.3% Northeast North Southeast Midwest South Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 15 CORPORATE Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments PROFILE Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action DECARBONIZATION, DECENTRALIZATION AND DIGITIZATION The global energy sector is undergoing major transformations that will support the sustainable development of the sector and society: • There is a growing need for decarbonization, through the expansion of the renewable energy matrix since non-renewable energy is dependent on finite resources and has a greater negative impact on climate change; • Digitization, accelerated by the internet of things, will allow to expand automation and have gains in energy efficiency while opening the way for new business models with a distributed energy production and usage architecture; and • As the number of consumers connected to the energy distribution networks grows, in a short time the traditional generation model, fundamentally centralized, will have a new model more participatory and the electrical system will tend to become more interconnected and complex. ELETROBRAS In 2017, the Ministry of Mines and Energy announced a decision to democratize Eletrobras’ capital, reducing the Union’s participation in Eletrobras’ capital. Therefore, the intention is to guarantee strategic decisions for the country and to boost the Company’s investment capacity in the face of economic growth resumption. For the continuity of the process, a decision from the National Congress is awaited, where Bill nº 5,877/2019 is being analyzed. Get to know in detail other regulatory events that influenced the generation and transmission scenario in 2019 in our Management Report, available at: https://bit.ly/2Tem0tH UHE Itumbiara (GO/MG). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 16 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Shareholding Structure GRI 102-7 Furnas is a joint-stock corporation with closed capital, with Capital Stock composed, at the end Shareholder Common Share Preferred Share of 2019, of 52,739,026,167 common shares and 14,864,684,511 preferred shares, totaling a market value of R$ 6.5 billion. Quantity % Quantity % OPERATIONAL Of these shares, 99.83% of common shares Eletrobras 52,647,326,561 99.83 14,659,406,538 98.62 EXCELLENCE and 98.62% of preferred shares are held by the parent company Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S.A. – Eletrobras which is publicly traded on the Other 91,699,606 0.17 205,277,973 1.38 stock exchanges of São Paulo, New York (USA) and Madrid (Spain). 03 Management of Holdings Furnas participates directly in 24 Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) and has continuously improved governance control practices and management mechanisms, with the mapping of processes, the consolidation of normative instruments and the computerized system to support Furnas managers and professionals who perform the functions of fiscal and management counselors in these SPEs and the update / revision of the Business Plans. As a result of this progress, we recorded benefits from capital reduction and dividend receipt actions in the amount of R$ 236 million. 17 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action Commitment Governance Structure GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 GRI 102-18; 102-19; 102-22; 102-24; 102-29; 102-31; 102-34 As a subsidiary of a publicly traded company, we have a robust Corporate Governance model guided Shareholders Meeting by ethics, transparency and accountability and by compliance with the Brazilian Corporate Law (Law No. 6,404 / 1976) and the requirements of the SarbanesFiscal Council Oxley Act (SOx ) and the good practices of New York Stock Exchange’s Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the São Paulo Stock Exchange’s Corporate Board of Directors Sustainability Index (ISE-B3), indexes in which the Holding company’s shares are present. Secretariat of Governance In 2019, Furnas reached the maximum Ombudsman level in the 4th Certification of the Governance Indicator (IG-SEST), Audit Claims Verification an assessment made by the State Management Companies Coordination and Governance Secretariat (SEST). The recognition crowns the efforts made to Executive advance in governance, transparency Board Control Agencies and management practices. Internal Audit Management Assistance Management Presidency Department of Department of New Business Department of Operation Department Department of Engineering Management and Participations* and Maintenance of Finance Administration * In 2020, this Department was renamed to Regulation and Trading Department. The Corporate Governance structure also has an Audit Committee and Statutory Risks (CAE) that assists the Boards of Directors of Eletrobras Companies in strategic matters. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 18 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action Below, we present the profile and the main BOARD OF DIRECTORS (CA) EXECUTIVE OFFICE responsibilities of each governance body. To learn Manages the Company with the powers and duties Executes and monitors the implementation of the their detailed composition, access: defined in the Bylaws and in its Internal Regulations. Company’s guidelines, plans and goals and meets https://bit.ly/316K4Bo On a monthly basis, it is informed by the Executive periodically with superintendents and assistants. Office on the Company’s management and the Regulatory and statutory decisions of the Executive GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING monitoring report of the goals agreed upon through a Office are taken in a weekly meeting and constitute Evaluates the Management Report and Corporate Goals and Performance Agreement (CMDE) the deliberative process in which the matters of Financial Statements, defines the allocation of signed with Eletrobras (learn more on page XX). In interest to each Board are submitted. In 2019, 59 profits and dividends, elects the members of 2019 the Council met 31 times. meetings were held. the Board of Directors and Fiscal Committee, establishes the total value of the board Composition: one Chair and six members with a Annually, the CA conducts a performance review of members and executives’ compensation at two-year term of office and up to three consecutive executives. Furnas, which is proposed by the Board of reelections allowed, one member nominated by the Directors, with limits established by the Ministry Ministry of Planning Budget and Management (current Composition: one Chair and five executives elected of Planning, Development and Management. Ministry of Economy)1, one elected as employee by the Board for two-year terms, with a maximum of representative, chosen by their direct vote and the three consecutive re-elections allowed. The Board meets ordinarily once a year and other five, including the Chair, nominated by the extraordinarily whenever necessary. In 2019, shareholders, two of whom are independent. FISCAL COMMITTEE there were three Extraordinary Meetings to Supervises the Company’s administrative acts and deliberate on the Rectification of the Eletrobras accounts, having the obligation to report errors, fraud shareholder vote regarding the allocation of the or identified crimes. In 2019, the Fiscal Committee previous year’s results, the Election of a member Diversity in high leadership convened 16 times. of the Company’s Board of Directors and the At the end of 2019, our Board was made issue of debentures. up mostly of women: four members, Composition: six members, being three permanent who represent 57% of the total seats, and three alternates, elected at the GSM, with a term For more information access: all of whom are white, three are over 40 of two years and a maximum of two consecutive https://bit.ly/2G3izi1 years old. As for men, in a total of three reelections allowed. One of the members and his/ members, all are white and one of them is her alternate are nominated by the Ministry of under 50 years old. Economy, another by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and another by the Holding. 1 This Ministry was incorporated into the current Ministry of Economy. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 19 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action AUDIT COMMITTEE AND STATUTORY RISKS (CAE) Work Plan (PAINT) and the special demands of Senior SELECTION AND LEADERSHIP The CAE is an auxiliary body of Eletrobras’ Board of Management resulted in the issuance of 34 reports. DEVELOPMENT Directors, which, since 2018, advises the Boards of Additionally, the Audit carried out the 1st consultancy GRI 102-27; 102-28; 102-35; 102-36; 102-37 Directors of Eletrobras Companies and establishing service as programmed in PAINT, which resulted in the structures for controlling and supervising the performance issuance of Technical Information. The State-Owned Enterprises Act and its of companies, managers and employees. regulations in 2016 brought new requirements for the selection and qualification of The Committee is composed of independent members candidates in state-owned enterprises. With and aims to comply with a series of legal and regulatory that in mind, we have improved our processes External Audit provisions, notably Law 13303/16, instructions of the for compliance analysis and qualification of In compliance with the legislation, the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM), nominees and we have promoted a series of Holding engages independent auditing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the State Governance of B3 and initiatives to develop these professionals. services for all subsidiaries, in order Governance Indicator of the Secretariat of Coordination to increase the reliability of financial and Governance of State-Owned Companies. statements and activities. INTERNAL AUDIT Linked to the Council, it examines the activities of the Ethics and Compliance organizational units, analyzing management, procedures, in Selection computer systems, records and documents, evaluating controls and compliance with guidelines, internal SELECTION AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT regulations and legislation. Advisory groups composed of representatives from Continuous development all boards, who support the decisions of the Board of Continuing the internal control environment adaptation Executive Officers on issues relevant to the business. process to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOx), in 2019 the In 2019, we chose to reduce the number of collegiate Internal Audit promoted the evaluation of the Company’s bodies, maintaining those with legal requirements Compensation aligned with internal controls, based on corporate risks considered (Audit and Statutory Risks Committee CAE and business value creation critical, determined according to the materiality defined by Eligibility and People Management Committee Eletrobras. In 2019, 31 processes were evaluated. CGPE) while reinforcing the executive function of the responsible Superintendence. The 24 activities scheduled in the Annual Internal Audit Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 20 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE DURING SELECTION DEVELOPMENT COMPENSATION ALIGNED TO VALUE We have preliminary analysis processes for the conformity The Improvement Program for Eletrobras CREATION and qualification of nominees to positions of directors Executives and Directors has since 2017, Board of Directors and Fiscal Committee: and officers, in line with the Law 13,303 ( State-Owned continuously promoted educational actions (such members’ salaries in these cannot exceed 10% of Enterprises Act). as lecture rounds, annual conferences, facethe average monthly remuneration of the directors, to-face and online courses) to develop Board according to the legislation for public companies The analysis is conducted by the Holding’s integrity of Directors members, Fiscal Councilors and and federal mixed-capital companies. and governance areas, which consult the database of Executives. sanctions applied by the Public Ethics Committee and Board members do not receive any additional to the electronic regulators2, to assess whether there is Annually, the Board members, the Executive compensation for participation in committees and / any breach of integrity, as well as to the ombudsmen of Directors and the members of the Fiscal or advisory committees of the board, except for Audit Eletrobras Companies. Committee and other Committees and the Committee members, who may have a different Directors appointed in the Special Purpose Entities compensation depending on the working hours. (SPEs) also undergo an evaluation process, with a unique methodology for all Eletrobras Companies, Board of Executive Officers: the monthly Since 2017, the Management, People and ensuring the progress of the leadership compensation of the Board of Executive Officers Eligibility Committee of the Holding has been performance in line with the Company’s strategy. is approved at the General Shareholders’ Meeting, deliberating on the appointment of members of following the guidelines of the State-Owned the management and Fiscal Council, promoting In 2019, this process was carried out in Furnas Coordination and Governance Secretariat (SEST). and monitoring the adoption of good corporate by an independent external consultancy and The Annual Variable Compensation Program (RVA) governance practices regarding compensation included a structured interview, self-assessment in 2019 can add up to 4.5 salaries and is structured and succession for all Eletrobras Companies, and personalized assessment for the Chairman based on targets for performance indicators agreed proposing updates and improvements of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive between Furnas and the Holding. whenever necessary. Officer, in three pillars: competencies, results and attributions of the body. The results support a report that indicates priority actions for the continuous evolution of 2 Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM), Court of Audit of the governance and the training of senior leadership Union (TCU), Superior Electoral Court (TSE) and the Court of State Accounts (TCE). and the evaluated professionals participate in a feedback meeting. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 21 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action Risk Management GRI 102-15; 102-29; 102-30; 102-31; 102-33 The Risk Committee is responsible for prioritizing risks and for preparing the Matrix, subject to We continuously promote the identification, the Board of Executive Officers approval. The prevention and mitigation of business risks, key monitoring of impacts, risks and opportunities is the factors for corporate sustainability. Therefore, our risk responsibility of the Board of Directors. management process involves the annual design of a Corporate Risk Matrix, from the Holding Risk Matrix. Corporate risk management supports the achievement of goals, prevents loss of resources and Good risk management practices require procedures contributes to ensuring effective communication to identify, assess, prioritize, treat, monitor and report and compliance with laws and regulations, potential risk events. preventing damage to our reputation. Steps of the risk management process In 2019, the Furnas Risks Matrix was composed by four pillars Strategic, Financial, Operational and Compliance 1 Identification -, which are subdivided into 21 categories, and evaluated 12 events: 2 Analysis and Evaluation Regulatory Framework, Human Rights, New Businesses, Cash 3 Treatment Flow, SPE Business Management, Energy Commercialization, Dam 4 Monitoring Safety, Transmission Operation and Maintenance, Socio-Environmental Management of Enterprises, Formation 5 Communication and Management of Litigation, Fraud and Corruption and Accounting and LT Foz do Iguaçu Ivaiporã (PR). Financial Statement. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 22 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action ETHICAL AND INTEGRAL PERFORMANCE GRI 102-17; 205-1; 205-2 We have a non-negotiable commitment to ethics • Lectures on ethics, compliance, information • Training for Furnas’ Directors, board assistants, external and the fight against corruption, which underlies the security, ombudsman, audit and risk management advisors, superintendents and managers on “Advanced sustainability and trust of our stakeholders, so we are in the areas in the Traveling Integrity project for all compliance topics: legislation and risks for joint-stock always working on several fronts that support the employees; corporations”; maintenance of these precepts: • Training “Maturing the Governance, Risk and • Itinerant Ombudsman program, with lectures Compliance practices” to the Boards of Directors and trainings carried out in regional offices by the • We adopted the Eletrobras 5 Dimensions Program, and Fiscal Committee; Ombudsman and Ethics Committee; which is based on the guidelines proposed by the Implementation Guide of the Integrity Program in the • Training for managers and technicians in areas • Furnas Compliance Management together with State-Owned Companies of the General Comptroller of that are more sensitive to fraud and corruption CGU, Eletrobras, Petrobras, FINEP and EPE created the Union (CGU) and by the Committee of Sponsoring risk, such as supplies and relationships with public the State-Owned Corporations Integrity Forum, with Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), agents, with the theme “Protection and Integrity monthly meetings for discussions and best practices offering a solid structure of institutional and normative Mechanisms in the Relationship with Suppliers and exchanges for the implementation of integrity and instruments, promoting the continuous improvement the Public Sector”; ethics actions; of compliance indicators; • Integrity Portal launched by the Company CEO, • The Internal Audit verifies the adherence and confirming the importance of Furnas’ corporate compliance with the Integrity Program every year; integrity system comprised of Audit, Compliance and Key policies and standards for promoting Risks, Ombudsman’s Office and Ethics Committee – to • Each year, the Ethics Committee of one of the business integrity consolidate prevention practices and treatment of coordinating companies participates in the National misconduct, fraud and corruption; Ethics Management Forum in State-Owned • Code of Ethical Conduct and Integrity: Companies, which promotes studies and study groups; https://bit.ly/2UbFopw • Ethical Culture Week, held in conjunction with all Eletrobras Companies, coordinated by the Holding, • The Ethics Committee, through the National Forum • Anti-Corruption Program Manual for with dissemination of communication newsletters for Ethics Management in State-owned Companies, Eletrobras Companies: about the Program and Integrity actions across all also promotes the Annual Seminar, open to all https://bit.ly/2tKHWix subsidiaries; and employees of participating companies, renowned • Anti-Corruption Policy for Eletrobras academics, government authorities and the general • Annual Seminar on ethics on the national Ethics Day companies: https://bit.ly/2Ek4v2t public every year; (May 2nd). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 23 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action Claims GRI 102-21 We offer three reporting channels that can be used by anyone to notify employees, thirdparties or managers action that violate the Eletrobras Companies’ Ethics Code or the legislation in force in the Country: OMBUDSMAN’S OFFICE For 11 years it has been an impartial and independent channel for citizens, linked to the Board of Directors. The Ombudsman also mediates out-of-court disputes, provides data for organizational assessment and assures society the right to access information, meeting the demands of the Citizen Information Service (SIC), in compliance with the Access to Information Act. In 2019 there were 135 requests for information to the SIC and 1,038 claims made to the “Advanced Compliance and Risk Themes” Training. Ombudsman’s Office (61% from external origin, 25% from internal origin and 14% were not identified), of which: With that, we total 100% of employees and 100% of leaders trained in ethics and fighting corruption: Employees engaged in ethics and Communication initiatives Training Initiatives 51.0% 45.8% anticorruption (total and percentage) complaints (530) requests (475) 2018 2019 2018 2019 16 16 16 16 Governance bodies 2.6% 0.6% (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) Employees 210 208 210 208 Managerial position (100%) (100%) (100%) 100%) suggestions (27) compliments and 1,158 1,073 1,158 1,073 Higher education position (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) thanks (6) Elementary and middle education 1,669 1,551 1,569 1,551 position (100%) (100%) (94;5%) (100%) Business partners 3 (4.5%) 0 0 0 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 24 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action ETHICS COMMITTEE Responsible for disseminating the Code of Ethical Conduct and Integrity and for educational actions to raise awareness among employees, the Commission aims to guide and advise CONTACT CHANNELS on professional ethics, in addition to identifying violations of ethical principles. 1 Furnas Ombdusman 2 Furnas Ethics Commission In 2019, there were 42 claims made to the Ethics Commission, of which, until the end of the period: www.furnas.com.br/ouvidoria etica@furnas.com.br • 15 under analysis; ouvidoria@furnas.com.br Letter or in person Rua Real Grandeza, 219 bloco A • 26 closed; and Sala 901 CEP 22281-900 (21) 2528-3815 Botafogo RJ • 1 discontinued. Letter or in person Rua Real Grandeza, 219 bloco A UNIFIED REPORTING CHANNEL OF ELETROBRAS Sala 904 CEP 22281-900 COMPANIES Botafogo RJ Managed by an independent, third-party company, available in Portuguese, English and Spanish, every day, 24 hours a day, offers secrecy, anonymity and confidentiality guarantee. The Channel centrally manages the verification, accountability and remediation processes, classifies the report criticality and 3 Centralized Whistleblower Channel of Eletrobras Companies directs them to the CSI (Integrity System Committee). On a quarterly basis, the Ombudsman’s Office forwards the reports of www.canaldedenuncias.com.br/eletrobras the period to the Company’s senior management. In 2019, 126 claims were received at the Channel, the most 0800 377 8037 frequent issues were related to fraud and corruption and breach of rules, regulations, contracts and legislation and, in internal complaints, to human resources and shared services. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 25 Corporate OPERATIONAL Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile EXCELLENCE And Future Vision Management Social Action Conflict of Interest Management As provided by law, in addition to the Public Ethics No breaches of customer privacy with leaking or data GRI 102-25 Committee, the Federal Comptroller’s Office (CGU) also breaches were identified in 2019. acts in the supervision and evaluation of conflict of As a joint-stock corporation, we are subject to Law 12,813 / 2013, which regulates the performance interest situations. Integrity in the Supply Chain of public agents (employees and executive officers, For the second year, we applied the Integrity including those on leave) in relation to a conflict of Information Security Mechanisms for Third Parties, in line with the interest, defining conflict-generating situations, the GRI 418-1 Biddings and Contracts regulation, which determines rules to be followed, and the public agencies and tools the hiring rules for compliance with the Act 13.303 / for monitoring and evaluating conflicts. We have an Information Security area that promotes the 2016 (State-Owned Enterprises Act). information security management, ensuring its Availability, Since 2016, we have the Normative Ruling which Integrity, Confidentiality and Authenticity (DICA). The Mechanisms provide for application of a establishes the criteria for prevention, evaluation and supplier integrity due diligence form that results in a treatment of conflict of interest situations, which must In 2019, we increased the security and reliability level classification into four risk integrity categories: low, be respected by both Furnas’ employees and SPEs’ of our website through the HTTPS standard, which medium, high, and very high. employees that the Company is part. establishes a secure information transfer channel between the user’s browser and the server, preventing In cases with high and very high risk, we promote a All our employees are guided by the Normative illegal access to the data transferred on the network while more in-depth assessment of the risk aspects, prior Instruction and our executive officers must also inform ensuring that sensitive information are not misused. to begin relation with the company. the company about: During the year, we also carried out regulationsIn 2019, 137 suppliers were evaluated and 9.49% of • Their financial position; strengthening actions, as well as their dissemination the total suppliers, identified as critical and subjected throughout the Company, focusing on the Information to the assessment of corruption risks. • Their equity interests; Classification, in accordance with the Access to Information Act, and on the implementation of the • Their professional activities or possible acceptance initiatives prioritized in the Information Security Plan of of contracts or business in the private sector and Eletrobras Companies to , mainly, decrease cyber risk. the potential conflicts of interest; and • The existence of a spouse or relative by With respect to the General Data Protection Law, which consanguinity or affinity in activities that may will come into force in 2020, Furnas created a project arise a conflict of interest. structure, with representatives from several functional fronts, for adaptation and compliance. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 26 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action OPERATION Generation NEW PROJECTS GRI G4-EU1; G4-EU2; G4-EU10; EU-30 • We participated, via SPEs, in the implementation of five wind farms in Fortim (CE), with a total installed capacity of 123 MW. INSTALLED CAPACITY • We are also implementing the combined cycle Our installed generating capacity of the 23 plants in of TPP Santa Cruz, 150 MW, scheduled to start operation at the end of 2019 was 18,145.97 MW. operating in 2021. Plants profile: ENERGY PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE • Six own plants 100% Furnas SASB IF-EU-000.D (four HPPs not renewed) • Six under special administration – affected by Law In 2019, we generated 66,776.97 GWh, 7.1% more no. 12,783/2013 than the previous year. Of this total, 45.8% were from • Two in partnership with the private sector owned plants or under special administration and • Nine under SPEs 54.2% from plants of invested companies (SPEs). RESERVOIRS Installed Capacity by source (MW) The year 2019 presented a drop in the storage of 04 the Company’s largest accumulation reservoirs 17,765.97 (97.91%) over last year. 380.00 (2.09%) At the end of the year, storage levels were around 13% in the HPP Furnas reservoir, 16% in the HPP Itumbiara, 38% in the HPP Funil, 9% in the HPP Serra da Mesa and 52% in the APM Manso. The equivalent reservoir, which is the representation Hydroelectric of the total volume of water stored at Furnas Thermal hydroelectric plants reservoirs, closed the period with 15% capacity, below the 24% observed at the end of 2018. 27 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Reservoir Storage 2019 AVAILABILITY GRI G4-EU6 100 The availability factor is the indicator that is associated with the time a power plant 90 is available to generate power, i.e. fewer stops and duration for planned and forced maintenance. 80 70 In 2019, the availability index of the plants in the Furnas generator park totaled Useful volume (%) 94.83%, considered satisfactory because it is above the limit established by ANEEL, 60 which is 89.40%. Find below the comparison of the evolution of operational availability, 50 in the last twelve months, with the monthly and accumulated availability, year by year: 40 30 OPERATIONAL GENERATION AVAILABILITY 20 10 2018 2019 Variation 0 Planned outage hours Hydroelectric jan feb mar apr may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec 17,993.62 14,296.40 -25.86% Furnas M. Moraes Marimbondo Batalha Corumbá Itumbiara Funil Serra da Mesa Manso Equivalente Unplanned outage hours Hydroelectric 14,682.97 10,270.81 -42.96% The reservoirs HPPs Furnas, Itumbiara, Funil, Serra da Mesa and APM Manso receive Average generation availability Hydroelectric (%) 95.33 95.35 +0.02% annual regularization and operate storing water during the rainy season (November to April) to be used during the dry season (May to October). This allows plants to produce Planned outage hours Thermoelectric (gas) 3,757.07 1,827.78 -105.55% the required amount of electricity throughout the year, as well as supplying water so that other downstream plants can also operate. Unplanned outage hours Thermoelectric (gas) 1,382.69 1,503.74 +8.05% The plants are part of the (SIN) and its operation is planned and programmed in conjunction with the ONS. In the case of hydroelectric plants, the reservoir level and the energy dispatched are defined by the ONS, which operates the Brazilian reservoirs in an Average generation availability Thermoelectric (gas) (%) 80.56 80.98 +0.48% integrated manner with the objective of guaranteeing energy security at lower costs. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 28 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Transmission quickly, safely and with no accidents, based on the Emergency Response Plan (PAE), and the shutdown did not result in a power cut at the SIN. OUTLOOK GRI G4-EU4; EU-12; SASB IF-EU-000.C SYSTEM MAINTENANCE In 2019, our transmission line network totaled We have adopted the MCC (Reliability Centered approximately 29,945.67 km, 73.7% (22,069.50 km) Maintenance), which identifies the functions and owned and 26.3% (7,876.17 km) in SPEs, as well performance standards of the equipment and performs as 69 substations with transformation capacity of surveys and details failure modes, their probable causes and 141,691.72 MVA, of which 78.2% were owned. their consequences. NEW OPERATIONS Investments in the General Plan for Transmission Projects Furnas participates, under SPE, in the construction of in Operational Facilities (PGET) totaled R$ 254 million in the the TL 500 kV transmission lines Itatiba-Bateias, TL year and R$ 868 million in the 2016-2019 quadrennium. 500 kV Araraquara 2-Itatiba, TL 500 kV Araraquara 2-Fernão Dias and Jandaia Russas II transmission With this, 442 new pieces of equipment was installed lines and SE Fernão Dias and SE Jandaia Substations. during the year, among which 214 pieces of equipment in compliance with the various Authorization Resolutions AVAILABILITY of ANEEL with previous revenue or to be defined in the GRI G4-EU6 tariff review. In 2019, the operating availability rate of the transmission lines (basic network), that is, the percentage These efforts led to the conclusion of the projects in the of hours in the year in which the lines remained available Vitória, Adrianópolis, Brasília Sul, Foz do Iguaçu, Mascarenhas for the transmission system, totaled 99.89%. de Moraes, Viana, Brasília Geral, Porto Colômbia, Itutinga, Itaberá, Marimbondo, Poços de Caldas, Samambaia, The transmission line availability indicator has its limit Furnas, Tijuco Preto, Ivaiporã, Itumbiara, Ibiúna, Bateias and set at 99.65% for this exercise in the CMDE protocol Cachoeira Paulista substations. and Furnas is fulfilling the agreement with Eletrobras in this scenario. LOSSES The transmission loss index closed 2019 at 2.61%. In the year, Furnas faced one downfall event in five transmission towers and damage to a tower, caused by extreme weather conditions, in TL 500 kV Gurupi Miracema. The maintenance services were performed Recovery of Towers TL Furnas Itutinga (MG). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 29 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action UHE Peixe Angical (TO). Trading SASB IF-EU-000.A; IF-EU-000.E GENERATION We trade energy for energy distribution companies, marketers and free consumers Energy Sold by Furnas (GWh) Energy Purchased by Furnas (GWh) throughout the country. 40,476 39,988 Our marketing strategy, aimed at maximizing results, considers risk analysis in the 38,111 38,391 various energy market scenarios, contemplating the uncertainties inherent in each 4,068 4,089 3,780 business while diversifying our contract portfolio. 3,426 The participation strategy in the various biddings includes the specificities of the Company and the market, with the objective of gaining competitiveness in energy trading environments. In 2019, we sold a total of 39,988 GWh, an increase of 2.5% compared to 2018, but 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 with a 8.9% increase in sales, totaling R$ 5.7 billion. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 30 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Our energy purchase amounted to 4,089 GWh at cost (gross value) of R$ 778.4 million, an Services increase of 0.5% when compared to 2018. Furnas is recognized for the knowledge and experience in the management and Our customer base is diversified, which dilutes the risk of default: 10 concessionaires operation of assets of the electric sector and applies this expertise in the provision of account for 53.4% of the contracts in the ACR and those of Physical Guarantee Quotas, services to other companies. of a total of 54 concessionaires, demonstrating a spraying of customers that mitigates eventual risks of default. The Concession Agreement (CTT) allows the development of other activities through revenues that are not part of the public service provision regulated by ANEEL, governed In all, there are 335 bilateral contracts entered into the Regulated Contracting by its own contractual instrument, shown in the graph on the side. Environment (ACR) and the Free Contracting Environment (ACL) with large consumers and the main energy marketers and 324 contracts in the Physical Guarantee Quota regime, with the country’s main distribution companies. Revenue from service provision contracts (r$ million) TRANSMISSION Trading in transmission is carried out in the public service environment (concession) and in the 18.2 19.0 environment of exclusive interest of the accessing party (other revenues). 12.2 In 2019, our transmission contracts revenue totaled R$ 5.1 billion, stable value compared to 13.8 the previous year. 2.0 4.4 4.8 Revenue from transmission contracts (R$ million) 2018 2019 Facilities Sharing Contracts (CCI) 5,088.8 5,085.3 Maintenance Service Contracts (CPSM) 174.0 199.5 Other revenues (Facilities sharing, Operation and Maintenance Services Contracts (CPSOM) Maintenance, and Operations 4,914.8 4,885.8 Services Contracts) Contracts for the Provision of 2018 2019 Transmission Services Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 31 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action FINANCIAL RESULTS GRI 201-1 In 2019, we had very expressive financial results that show the significant evolution of NET OPERATING REVENUE Furnas in relation to its main performance indicators, highlighting: • In relation to Net Operating Revenue, we reached the amount of R$ 8,668 million in • The increase of 200% in net profit, which reached R$ 3,216 million, with a net margin 2019, an amount 2% higher than 2018 (R$ 8,471 million). Such variation is the result of 37%; of increased revenue from the generation segment, with emphasis on: • The 22% increase in EBITDA, from R$ 4,270 million, with a margin of 49%; • The electricity supply, with an increase of 8% (R$ 287 million); and • The 65% increase in the Financial Result, corresponding to an increase of • The Revenue from Plants Operation and Maintenance Generation, with an increase approximately R$ 1 billion in the result for the year; and of 26% (R$ 258 million). • The sharp reduction in indebtedness, with a positive impact of 30% on the Net Debt / EBITDA indicator Net Operating Revenue (R$ Million) Summarized Statement of Income (in millions of reais) 2019 8,668 2018 8,471 2018 2019 Percentage Variation Net Operating Revenue 8,471 8,668 2% Operating Costs and Expenses (4,842) (4,650) -4% Operating costs and expenses In 2019, we reduced our operating costs and expenses by 4%. The result had as main EBITDA 3,509 4,270 22% reasons: Financial Result (1,580) (552) -65% • Cost reduction in Materials and services, totaling 7% reduction in the period; • The Reversal of R$ 455 million (which in 2018 reached -R$ 211 million), with emphasis Net Profit 1,071 3,216 200% on reversals of R$ 338 million in the impairment tests of corporate assets (Impairment and onerous contract) and R$ 497 million in tests linked to Special Purpose Entities – SPEs; and Learn detailed information on the Economic-Financial Results in our Financial Statements, available at: https://bit.ly/2WXfN65 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 32 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action • Dismissal of 1,043 outsourced employees as established in the agreement among EBITDA Margin (EBITDA/Rol) the Company, the Public Ministry of Labor (MPT) and the National Federation of Urban Workers (FNU). Also, we have implemented the Consent Dismissal Plan, which The EBITDA Margin was 49% in 2019, compared to 41% recorded in 2018. resulted in the termination of 276 employees, which will reduce costs and expenses in the coming years. These actions, added to the judicial indemnities, resulted in an EBITDA Margin extraordinary disbursement of R$ 578 million. 2019 49% Operating Costs And Expenses (R$ million) 2018 41% 2019 4,650 2018 4,842 Financial Result We had 65% improvement in the Financial Result, which went from R$ 1,580 million to R$ 552 million, from 2018 to 2019,as a result of the reduction in the Company’s indebtedness, in the cost of debt, combined with the revision of the methodology for EBITDA calculating the receivable from RBSE, with changes in assumptions, including the change in the rate used to adjust to fair value (NTN-B for the regulatory WACC). In addition to the impacts already presented which influenced revenues, costs and expenses we had an improvement in equity income (R$ 358 million), with an increase Net Profit of 22% in EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), which reached R$ 4,270 million in the period. In 2019 the company presented Net Profit of R$ 3,216 million, 200% higher compared to 2018. The main factors that influenced the result were: EBITDA (R$ million) • The 22% increase in EBITDA (R$ 761 million); • The 65% improvement (R$ 1,028 million) in the Financial Result, and 2019 4,270 • The 62% reduction in IR/CSLL due to the recognition of Deferred Tax Assets in the amount of R$ 1.16 billion. 2018 3,509 Net Profit (R$ million) 2019 3,216 2018 1,071 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 33 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction PERFORMANCE Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Net Margin (Net Profit/Rol) Also, the results presented in 2019, show that the indicator Net Debt/EBITDA CVM was significantly reduced from 2.3 to 1.6. Net Margin totaled 37% in 2019, compared to 13% in 2018. Net Debt/EBITDA CVM Net Margin 1.6 6,962 2019 37% 2019 4,270 2018 13% 2.3 8,153 2018 3,509 Debt Given the basic rate of the economy reaching minimum levels in history, we followed the strategy of improving the debt profile, by settling more onerous contracts in Net Debt advance, at the same time extending the debt payment term, maintaining the EBITDA CVM liquidity necessary to deliver our short-term commitments. Net Debt / EBITDA CVM In doing so, the operations carried out within the scope of the capital market stand out, such as the structuring of the FIDC Imperium (Receivables investment Fund), in the amount of R$ 600 million, and the First Issuance of the Company’s Debentures, in the total amount R$ 1,250 million, of which R$ 450 million were settled in December 2019. As a result, we had a 15% reduction in Net Debt, from 2018 to 2019, which totaled R$ 1,192 million. Net Debt (R$ million) 2019 6,962 2018 8,153 SE Campinas (SP). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 34 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action STRATEGY GRI 102-16; 102-26; 102-28 The Company’s strategy is defined based on the Strategic Plan 2015-2030 and in its deployment, the Business and Management Master Plan (PDNG) within a five-year horizon, both prepared by the Holding company, being embodied in the Company’s Business and Management Plan (PNG). For more information, see: https://bit.ly/2zpc6ye TRANSFORMATION AND FUTURE VISION Furnas and the other Eletrobras Companies have signed the Corporate Goals and Performance Agreement (CMDE) with the parent company containing results indicators in the financial, operational, management, integrity, people and socio-environmental dimensions. Besides being the main instrument for monitoring 05 business performance, CMDE also guides metrics of managers ’annual variable compensation and the participation in profits and results of the workforce, including managers. UHE Funil (RJ). 35 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action In relation to the 2019 CMDE, we highlight the achievement and overcoming of the following goal: • Net Debt / Adjusted EBITDA ratio: 1.62, a better result EN than the target of 1.83; VI • Generation Availability Rate: 1.083, higher than the L RO target of 1,000; IA Future Vision N SO To be an innovative clean C L • Transmission Availability Rate: 99.89%, higher than the energy company, TA goal of 99.65%; and recognized for excellence MEN • Global Indicator (generation and transmission): 1.06, and sustainability higher than the target of 0.95. In March 2020, Eletrobras’ Board of Directors approved the new Business and Management Master Plan for Performance Management the period from 2020 to 2024 (PDNG 2020-2024). The and Business PURPOSE Guidelines Company’s business strategy was developed based on Guidelines We put all our • Culture and People energy into • Management Sustainability, a premise that determines the company’s • Value and Investment society's sustainable • Innovation and guidelines, transversal to all processes of the Company • New Business development • Commercialization Digital transformation and our way of doing business. The guiding principles • G&T efficiency • Governance of this new PDNG are: • G&T expansion Purpose: We put all our energy into society’s sustainable development; Values N • Respect for people and life ECO • Ethics and transparency TY Future Vision: To be an innovative clean energy • Excellence IL I company, recognized for excellence and sustainability; OM • Innovation AB IC-F • Collaboration and recognition N AI and IN AN S T Values: Respect for people and life Ethics and CIA SU transparency Excellence Innovation Collaboration and L recognition. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 36 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT In the last years we have been working on the SAP ERP Implementation Program on a Single Instance, a sophisticated management system that integrates business information providing reliability, transparency and traceability to the data relevant to the operation of all Eletrobras Companies, with the same information base centralized on a single server. In doing so, we can have more speed and assertiveness in decision making, with real time access to reliable information and greater control in the monitoring of developments. Furnas supported the implementation with the Holding and with its professionals monitored all stages of implementation, contributing to meetings, workshops and acting in training as multipliers while providing “Blue Print” and training material as accelerators We also supported the training of more than 1,500 users and over 300 multipliers to underpin the system. There were about 70 workshops and 90 management committee meetings where Furnas was present. Additionally, the ERP is an important basis for the operation of the Shared Services Center (CSC), which enhances the calculation of savings and synergies by connecting Eletrobras Companies in a single management. LT Furnas Itutinga (MG). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 37 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action R&D AND INNOVATION GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; G4-EU8 Innovation is a systemic and continuous look at the day to day and management Investment in Research, Development and Innovation (R$ thousand) of our business. Looking to the future is fundamental in the sector, in which the 65,418.7 demand for energy and infrastructure is growing, as well as the search to mitigate 60,665.2 negative impacts and expand the value generation in the interaction with 13,414.9 environmental and human resources. Innovation, therefore, is a fundamental condition for sustainable development. 32,687.6 This process is structured in the open innovation model, our R & D + I is 31,597.5 collaborative and provides the exchange of knowledge with external partners or with the internal public, through engagement workshops with the culture of innovation, to amplify the vision on the themes and, then, develop new solutions 23,760.9 5,907.6 while adding competitive advantages. 714.4 540.9 1,481.8 8,239.8 As a result, our R&D has been increasingly strategic, with a priority focus on 10,540.6 energy efficiency and the promotion of clean sources for electricity generation to 8,544.8 20,047.3 1,430.4 create new business opportunities or new niche markets. 1,880.5 6,261.9 6,554.8 In 2019, we invested R$ 65.4 million in projects, 2017 2018 2019 R$ 18.8 million to the MME, in order to fund the studies and research for planning the expansion of the energy system, and R$ 37.7 million for the Alternative sources of energy National Fund for Scientific and Technological Watershed and reservoir management Development (FNDCT), totaling R$ 121.9 million. Environment Energy Efficiency Our investments in R&D projects were mainly focused on the following topics: Electric Power Systems Operation Planning of energy systems Other Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 38 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action 2019 Highlight Connection with the future Altogether, around 100 employees have participated We created several initiatives to accelerate the in the project and we have received approximately STORAGE OF SEASONAL ENERGIES advancement of digitalization and business R$ 3 million in benefits. Since 2016, we have started the Hydro solar Synergy innovation, fostering the intrapreneurial with Storage Systems Support project, which seeks to culture and, thus, accelerating the realization FURNAS DIGITAL face the challenge of storing energy generated from of innovation projects in processes, products Project to digitize and integrate internal processes, the forces of nature that are not under human control. and organizational methods that resulted in the reducing the use of paper and monitoring information generation of value for the Company. Below are with greater timeliness and quality. In its first cycle, We are building a photovoltaic solar energy generation the main projects in this direction: in 2019, 11 projects were presented by leaders from system by installing panels around and in the reservoir different areas. In the first three months alone, it of the Itumbiara Hydro Power Plant (MG / GO), storing INOVA FURNAS generated savings of R$ 343 thousand. this energy in batteries. Since 2016, the program selects and trains teams of employees on innovation methodologies and Examples of these projects were the review of processes Thanks to this pioneering initiative, the power proposes cycles in which these teams identify, for issuing financial opinions, printing and sending produced by the solar plant installed in the reservoir of validate and expedite potential innovations, engineering documentation and generating evidence the Itumbiara hydroelectric plant in Goiás, which has which may lead to changes in processes, new for audits, allowing savings of around 50% in human the best solar generation indexes, will be stored in high technologies, partnerships with the market and material resources. performance electrochemical batteries and, in a second (including startups) and R&D projects. phase, it is also foreseen the storage of hydrogen, to be obtained by means of the electrolysis of the water. The project is a partnership between Furnas, the State University of São Paulo (Unesp), the University of Campinas (Unicamp), the National Service for Industrial Training (Senai) from Goiás and the University of Brandenburg, Germany, an academic institution with experience in the storage of hydrogen. Inova Furnas Program Team. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 39 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action COMMITMENTS TO SUSTAINABILITY GRI 102-13; 102-20 Fundamentals • Brazilian Association of Electricity Generating Companies (ABRAGE) We are committed to generate and transmit energy on We also assist the development of the • Brazilian Asset Management and Maintenance a sustainable basis and, to do so, we use a conscious innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem Association (ABRAMAN) management, guided by economic viability, respect by supporting Rio de Janeiro’s bid to be the • Brazilian Association of Large Electricity Transmission for the environment and social inclusion, contributing “Silicon Valley of Energy”. Companies (ABRATE) to the country’s development while making business • Rio de Janeiro Commercial Association (ACRJ) increasingly more competitive and sustainable. With the project “Energy and Sustainability • Brazilian Committee of the World Energy Council Innovation ecosystem” in partnership with (CBCME) Collaboration • Brazilian Center for Strategic Studies (CEBRES) several companies in the sector, government agencies and universities in the region -, We potentiate our contribution to sustainable • Brazilian Center for International Relations (CEBRI) we signed a letter of intent to bring the development by working with entities representing the • Electricity Memory Center in Brazil Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) sector and initiatives focused on themes relevant to our • Brazilian National Committee for the Production and methodology for ecosystem development , business and the impacts generated by them. Transmission of Electricity (CIGRÉ-Brasil) places of innovation and entrepreneurship, • Rio de Janeiro Industrial Center (CIRJ-FIRJAN) already applied in 49 countries. With this, we We participate in a number of business and sectoral • FGV Energia-Fundação Getúlio Vargas Center for seek to foster the integration of companies, development initiatives and associations: Energy and Sustainability Studies with Scientific government, universities, investors and Support entrepreneurs. • Brazilian Association of Electricity Companies (ABCE) • Business Management Committee Foundation • Brazilian Association for the Development of Nuclear (FUNCOGE) The Energy and Sustainability Innovation Activities (ABDAN) • Group of Institutes, Foundations and Companies ecosystem will be the world’s first of this theme • Brazilian Nuclear Energy Association (ABEN) (GIFE) created and will allow Furnas to develop more • Brazilian Association of Non-Destructive Testing and • Electric Sector Strategic Development Institute business and technologies in partnership Inspection (ABENDI) (ILUMINA) with startups, ensuring its relevance and • Brazilian Association of Risk Management (ABGR) • Interstate Electric Energy Industries Union (SINERGIA) participation in a constantly changing scenario. • Brazilian Association of Ombudsmen Rio de Janeiro • Latin America Utilities Telecom Council (UTCAL) Section (ABO) Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 40 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action We support several initiatives and associations for sustainable development: Institutional Commitment • Environmental Agenda in Public Administration (A3P); The sustainability look in the strategic definition and decision-making is transversal and permeates the day-to-day of our entire operation, in the most diverse • Commitment to Fight Sexual Exploitation of Children and Adolescents by Firjan; areas. This means that we take ethics and responsibility into account in all our • Brazilian Business Commitment to Biodiversity; relationships, with the different audiences that make up the business and the environment. • Abrinq Foundation’s Child Friendly Company; • Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS); As guardian of this culture, we have the Strategy and Sustainability Management Administration, linked to the Presidency’s office. • Thematic Group on Human Rights and Labor of the Brazilian Network of the Global Compact; This structure ensures the planning, strategy, performance and sustainability • Brazilian Global Compact Committee (CBPG); connection. The management is responsible for implementing internationally • Business Initiatives (IEs) of the Center for Sustainability Studies of the Getúlio Vargas recognized sustainable management processes, procedures and tools, monitoring Foundation (FGVces); and evaluating the results, preparing goal and improvement plans related to the theme, proposing the material themes to the Board of Executive Officers. • IHA International Hydropower Association; • United Nations Development Program (PNUD); • Network of Companies for Learning and Eradication of Child Labor, an initiative of the Ethos Institute, the International Labor Organization, and the Ministry of Labor; • Na Mão Certa Program of the Childhood Brazil Institute; • Pro-Gender Equality Program, promoted by the Presidential Secretary of Women’s Policies (SPMPR); • Permanent Committee on Gender, Race and Diversity Issues of the Ministry of Mines and Energy and Related Entities (Cogemmev); • Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP). SE Foz do Iguaçu (PR). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 41 Corporate Operational TRANSFORMATION Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence AND FUTURE VISION Management Social Action Strategy Materiality GRI 102-47 In 2019, we conducted a process to review the strategic priority pillars for business sustainability. Based on the relevant (material) themes defined by BUSINESS SUPPORT PILLARS the Holding, we carried out an in-depth analysis of the sector that supported the presentation of a workshop Corporate Energy Financial with Furnas executives and employees to define our Governance Supply Result ten material themes. DEVELOPMENT LEVERS At the meeting, more than 40 people from different Socio-Environmental Responsibility areas of the business assessed the strategic relevance 1, 3, 4, 8, 9 and 10 of the themes presented, their potential for impact, risk and opportunity. Operational Excellence 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 The completion of this work gave rise to our sustainability strategic pillars, which base the construction of this report and the monitoring Transformation and Vision of the future 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10 and evolution of our management, through the development levers: Social and Environmental Responsibility, Operational Excellence and Transformation and Vision of the Future. MATERIAL THEMES: 1. Energy transition; 6. Risk and crisis management; 2. Research and development + innovation; 7. Fighting corruption and ethics management; 3. People management and development; 8. Socio-environmental aspects in decision-making; 4. Water; 9. Human Rights; and 5. Cybersecurity and digital transformation; 10. Climate changes. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 42 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT The management of interaction with natural resources For over two decades now, we have implemented the and with environmental, urban and socio-cultural Furnas Environmental Policy and, currently, we also heritage is a theme that is increasingly analyzed by follow the Environmental Policy of Eletrobras Companies, companies, in view of the degradation processes principles and guidelines for environmental legal experienced over the past centuries. compliance, continuous improvement of environmental processes and natural capital conservation. ENVIRONMENTAL At Furnas, this attention has always been a reality in the planning, construction and operation of projects Read the policy at: https://bit.ly/2WUWxVb MANAGEMENT so that they are in harmony with the environment and society, minimizing negative impacts while improving In 2019, we invested R$ 122.7 million in environmental environmental quality, thus guaranteeing the protection, 24.6% more than in the previous year. generation of value over time. 06 Investments (in R$ million) 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, we started a Cleaner Production pilot project at TPP Santa Cruz (RJ), which focused on Equipment and maintenance 82.3 79.4 115.9 reducing the generation of oily water and the consumption of fossil fuels in the vehicle fleet. Environmental Education and 1.2 0.4 0.9 Training We started using ethanol instead of gasoline Research and Development 7.7 17.9 4.0 in this TPP fleet, thereby avoiding emissions of 11,069 kg of CO2e in 2019, equivalent to the Others 1.0 0.8 1.9 benefit that would be achieved by planting 2,140 tree seedlings. Total Investments 92.2 98.5 122.7 43 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action In 2019, technical inspections were made to update the Plans to Monitor Effluents and Water Quality (PMEQAs), Waste Management Plans (PGRs) and Emergency Response Plans (PAEs) in 17 substations, 13 hydroelectric and two thermoelectric plants. Following the National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS), 245 direct and indirect workers were also trained in solid waste management in five plants and six substations. Aplastodiscus eugenioi Fauna monitoring LT Angra/Angra (RJ). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 44 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action CLIMATE CHANGES GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 302-4; 302-5; SASB IF-EU-110.a.3; IF-EU-120.a.1 We are committed to minimizing our impact and contributing to a low carbon economy, by means of a Furnas has carried out important studies to support future strategies for mitigating and adapting to climate strategy focused on clean and renewable energy climate change: generation, such as hydropower, which accounts for more than 97% of our installed capacity (considering Adapting to Climate Change Study: we concluded the study that diagnoses the vulnerability of the Furnas HPPs in partnership/SPEs). Hydroelectric Power Plant to climate changes until 2060, identifying which extreme weather events are more likely in the future, so that we can take adaptive measures in an climate change Adaptation Plan. The study We have joined Eletrobras Companies’ environmental estimated an increase in the rainfall pattern of up to 20% in the months of December to April and a decrease of policy, which includes commitments to minimize up to 50% in the months of May to November; emissions and energy consumption from non-renewable sources and assumed the Eletrobras Commitment Internal Carbon Pricing Study: identifies and evaluates risks and opportunities associated with a mandatory Declaration on Climate Change, setting goals to reduce pricing scenario in the future in order to subsidize emissions mitigation strategies and to identify and measure greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) since 2013. their socio-environmental externalities; and We also participate in two committees dedicated to Carbon footprint study: we carried out a pilot project for Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) to estimate the carbon energy efficiency and climate strategy: the Eletrobras footprint of the Xavante Transmission Line Prineus 230 kV. With the results, we were able to learn about carbon System Integrated Energy Efficiency Committee emissions at different stages of the life cycle, from construction to operation, enabling better management of (CIEESE), focused on promoting energy efficiency these emissions. The result shows that the processes carried out during the construction of the line represent through the development of technological solutions, about 40% of the carbon footprint, while the operation is responsible for 60%. and the Working Group on Climate Change (WG 3/ SCMA), which elaborates the GHG Emissions Inventory, develops emission reduction strategies and currently has also studied the vulnerability of Eletrobras Companies concerning climate changes. SE São José (RJ). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 45 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action Cause Type of Risk Risk Consequences Opportunities Impacts Social and environmental impacts Reputational Development of projects GRI 201-2 Damage to corporate Image with stakeholders The impact of our operations on climate change occurs through the consumption of fossil fuels, the consumption Rupture of dams of electricity from fossil sources and associated losses, Fines and penalties Adequacy of dam safety plans as well as the generation of waste, which promotes Change in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. rainfall pattern Physical Adequacy of seasonal Profitability loss operation and maintenance plans On the other hand, we are also impacted by climate Reduction in electricity change by different factors that may bring risks and Uncertainty about the generation opportunities, presented next. reservoirs level Identification of new Financial Profitability loss alternative energy sources Reduction of electricity Regulatory Water uptake reduction generation Adequacy of seasonal Change in Average Behavioral change of the Market Profitability loss operation and maintenance Temperature consumer plans Adequacy of seasonal Reduction of electricity Physical operation and maintenance Change in generation plans Frequency Pattern Fallen transmission towers and Wind Intensity Investments in research Financial Profitability loss and innovation aimed at adapting to climate change Development of internal Regulatory carbon pricing project Unfeasibility of carbon Development of Carbon Profitability loss intensive projects Credits Projects Climate change Market in general Exploration of new market niches (e.g.: Renewable Energy Certificates Market) Failure to obtain climate Low carbon business Financial Lower investment capacity financing development SE Viana (ES). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 46 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action Mitigation and Adaptation Furnas plans to reduce its absolute emissions by 1% with regard to energy consumption obtained by local concessionaire and fossil fuel by 2022. Since 2016, we have invested in risk identification and treatment measures to reduce our vulnerability to impacts associated with climate change. The total emissions in 2019 were 1,573,562.4 tCO2e, and 52.09 t of NOx and 2.65 tons from other atmospheric emissions. The emission intensity in 2019 was 8,668,451 tCO2e Opportunities / R$ thousand of Net Operating Revenue. We are continually seeking opportunities to create new technologies and business models aligned with the pursuit of a low carbon economy. Our Research, Development and Innovation (R&D+I) projects seek to support the reversal of the risks arising from climate change in new value generating opportunities for the business and for society. Learn more in Greenhouse gas emissions (in thousands of tons of CO2e) the R&D and Innovation chapter on page 38. Indicators 1,548.90 740.30 As a contribution to a low-carbon economy, Eletrobras’ Business and Management 459,389.60 331,331.20 1,103.90 Master Plan (PDNG 2018-22) is committed to maintaining the indicator “Greenhouse Gas 322,936.30 Emissions (GHG) Intensity / Net Operating Revenue” at 0,33 for 2018 and 2019; at 0.38 for 2020 and at 0.37 for 2021 and 2022. 1,428,989.10 1,503,851.50 1,249,522.20 Furnas is one of the founders of the Brazilian Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) program, a tool with internationally recognized methodology for measuring and managing GHG emissions. In 2019, for the seventh consecutive year, our GHG inventory received a Gold 2017 2018 2019 Seal, recognition given to companies with complete inventories and verified by agencies accredited by Inmetro. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 To access Eletrobras Companies’ emissions inventory, go to: https://bit.ly/36FhBW3 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 47 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action WATER Since 2010, Eletrobras Companies have a Water Resources Policy that guides the Water Use promotion of the sustainable and rational use of these resources, considering GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 303-1; 303-2; 303-3; 303-4; 303-5; SASB IF-EU-140a.3. their multiple uses. Since 2005, we have participated in the Working Group on Hydric Resources IMPLEMENTATION OF PLANTS and Hydroelectric Potential of Eletrobras Companies (GTRH-EE), which prepares In the hydroelectric project phase, we estimate water availability at the project site and annual reports for evaluation and monitoring of flows and also the situation of the energy to be generated carrying out projections of the consumptive use of water for water resources for energy generation. the concession period (regulated in 35 years), based on studies and plans in accordance with the guidelines and scenarios of the National Water Resources Plan (PNRH). Considering the relevance of the resource for our business, we also participated in several initiatives aimed at developing the water management of the National The Environmental Impact Studies (EIA) consider minimum flows for the maintenance of Water Resources Management System (SINGREH), through the National Water environments, species and ecological processes downstream of hydroelectric plants. Agency (ANA), the Hydrographic Basin Committees (CBH), the State Water Resources Councils (CERH) and the National Water Resources Council (CNRH). Before issuing a grant for the project, the National Water Agency (ANA) evaluates these studies and considers the future demand for basin water use, in order to allow the multiple use in the future or preserve the resource. The water volumes stored in the reservoirs of the National Interconnected System (SIN) are defined by the National System Operator (ONS), according to the observed flows, According to Law No. 7,990 / 1989, Furnas pays financial compensation storage capacities and operating system restrictions, also considering the other water for using water resources in its hydroelectric dams. The National Electricity uses in the projects’ locations with a view to water security in the basin. Agency (ANEEL) manages the collection and distribution of these resources among the beneficiaries: states, municipalities and State direct administration Volumes withdrawn from all operations are monitored, as well as water and effluent agencies. The values are calculated based on the energy generation each year. quality, and data are made available to competent bodies. Technical inspections are In 2019, the amount of R$ 145.2 million was paid. periodically conducted to evaluate water management systems. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 48 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action OPERATION SASB IF-EU-140a.1 Var Withdrawal of water 2017 2018 2019 2018x2019 Hydroelectric plants, responsible for about 97% of the energy generated, are by source (m3) (%) supplied by large reservoirs, which extends over an area of 5.560 km², distributed along several hydrographic basins. Administrative activities All the water used in the hydroelectric power plants is fully returned to the water Supply network 175,575 160,350 154,463 -4 bodies with similar quality when it was captured, however, there may be a change in the water flow. Ground sources 126,598 105,263 66,224 -37 Run-of-river hydroelectric plants do not store water and do not alter the flow, Surface source 2,786,023 2,781,769 2,731,990 -2 but those with reservoirs alter the amount of water downstream of the damming. However, plants with reservoirs ensure minimum flow in times of low inflows, still Thermal generation provide flood control and can avoid natural flooding. Surface source 84.934 84.458 58.988 -30 In all reservoirs, water quantity and quality are systematically evaluated by hydrological and limnological (relating to the scientific study of freshwater Rainwater collected 530 169 120 -29 extensions) monitoring programs, which provide fundamental data such as storage level, tributary and defluent flow, nutrient contents and respective biological productivity, pollutants concentrations and bathing. The PDNG 2020-24 of Eletrobras Companies, aligned with the UN Sustainable We monitor water quality and track the conditions for safe use, for water supply, Development Goals (SDG), stipulated a reduction target of 0.3% in administrative water irrigation, fishing, navigation and leisure. consumption year by year until 2022, with 2017 as base year. Var Water discharge 2017 2018 2019 2018x2019 (%) Turbocharged by hydroelecNA 159,446 202,272 +27 tric power plants (millons m³) Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 49 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action At substations and transmission lines we use water Effluents management in administrative and operational activities, such as equipment cooling. The Ibiúna and Foz do Iguaçu Our projects have the PMEQA (Plan to Monitor substations, which are part of the HVDC (Continuous Effluents and Water Quality), which establishes Current) Transmission System, also require water to procedures to control the quality of water for cool their converters. human consumption, reducing the organic load of sanitary sewage effluents and controlling the In thermoelectric plants, water is collected from surface discharge of industrial liquid effluents. sources for refrigeration and steam generation and returned to the original water body complying with The sanitary sewage effluents are treated at legal standards of temperature and quality, minimizing the Effluent Treatment Station (ETEs) and the impact on ecosystems and habitats. some parameters of the effluents should be periodically monitored, such as pH, suspended In administrative activities, water is mostly provided by solids, BOD, COD and any others that may be the supply network and in our plants and laboratories, requested by the environmental agencies. we encourage the reuse of water and the use of rainwater, in addition to adopting eco-efficient All effluents discharged follow the standards measures such as the installation of sensors in the defined in CONAMA 357/2005, CONAMA bathrooms. 430/2011 and other applicable resolutions. We also have a Technical Notebook with Guidelines for the Management of Residues and Effluents in Works and Services, which defines the environmental instructions and requirements to be followed by the suppliers (contractors), aiming at preventing pollution, controlling and managing the liquid effluents resulting from the activities. Lonopsis paniculata Flora survey LT Angra-Angra (RJ). Guerlinguetus ingrami Fauna monitoring LT Angra-Angra (RJ). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 50 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action BIODIVERSITY GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 304-1; 304-2; 304-3; 304-4; EU-13 Since 2012, the Environmental Policy of Eletrobras Companies presents specific guidelines for biodiversity, aiming to improve management and include the theme in decision-making processes. We are also part of a permanent working group the Working Group on Aquatic Resources and Biodiversity of Eletrobras which, since 2016, has developed a study on the exposure to risks related to biodiversity and ecosystem services and the opportunities of this interaction, aiming at companies’ management and performance improvement. We are committed to complying with environmental legislation and internal policies in order to eliminate or mitigate impacts at each project phase. In 2019, Eletrobras joined the Brazilian Business Commitment to Biodiversity, launched by the Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS), which defines nine goals to be met by 2030. The Commitment seeks to emphasize the importance of biodiversity and ecosystem services for companies and promote actions aligned with national and global biodiversity strategic plans. The working group on Aquatic Resources and Biodiversity from Eletrobras Companies Environment Committee actively participated in the elaboration of the commitment, which is in line with the Biodiversity Guidelines of the Environmental Policy of Eletrobras Companies. Chopim do brejo (Pseudoleistes guirahuro) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Porto Colômbia (MG/SP). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 51 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action Biodiversity Management at The projects are developed with a focus on the least Power Plants possible impact in each phase: • We require contractors to provide environmental IMPLEMENTATION OF PLANTS management in accordance with legal provisions. The construction and implementation of hydroelectric • We use higher towers (“lifting”), avoiding the power plants brings the main potential impacts on shallow cutting of any vegetation present in the biodiversity and may affect hydrology and climate and right of way, or special cable laying techniques, to cause erosion and sedimentation, also affecting flora, avoid deforestation in areas with a high degree of fauna and the local landscape. biodiversity. For each one of these impacts, we define actions that aim ENVIRONMENTAL LICENSING at the maximum reduction, as detailed presented on our All the studies and reports prepared for the environmental website: https://bit.ly/38QfD4O licensing of our projects are conducted in order to meet the conditions established by the competent These actions involve programs and plans that contribute environmental agencies and look for best practices. Irerê (Dendrocygna viduata) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Porto Colômbia to the conservation status of the species and their (MG/SP). respective ecosystems and actions that enhance the During the process, we carry out the monitoring of the integrity of the ecosystems and their services, resulting in ichthyofauna, the monitoring and rescue of wild fauna, OPERATION biodiversity conservation. programs to minimize vegetation suppression and In the hydroelectric plants operation phase, the possible reforestation, and the implementation of environmental impacts are the change of water quality, the proliferation IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSMISSION PROJECTS education and communication programs. of aquatic macrophytes and the changes in the The main impacts of transmission projects are the composition and abundance of the ichthyofauna, as well suppression of vegetation to create rights of way, the In 2019, we obtained 40 legal permits, granted by nine as the proliferation of vector insects. cleaning of areas for the assembly of towers and the agencies for our plants, transmission lines and substations construction of launching places for conductive cables, as in operation. It is also relevant to manage the use and occupation of well as the access routes for transportation of materials reservoir banks, which are surrounded by Permanent and equipment to the sites of the towers. We also presented to the Brazilian Institute of the Preservation Areas and therefore must observe use and Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) occupation restrictions. These impacts may cause reduction in plant biomass, the Environmental Impact Study Environmental Impact fragmentation of terrestrial habitats, edge effect and, Report (EIA / RIMA) of the Angra Angra Transmission Learn about the main programs in 2019 potentially, loss of habitat by local fauna and reduction in Line and held a Public Hearing in the municipality of in the sub-chapter “Environmental abundance. Angra dos Reis (RJ) ), complying with the requirements for Conservation and Recovery”, next: obtaining the Preliminary License. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 52 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action Preservation And Environmental Recovery GRI 304-4 ENDANGERED SPECIES Our operational area occupies 7,326.14 m2, of which 127.17 m2 are From the projects for which there is recent and traceable information, the species that are protected areas. Find out more at: https://bit.ly/2XIVWYJ on the IUCN red list and their status on the national conservation list have been compiled (MMA, 2014). Protected or restored habitats (km²) 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, the Fauna Monitoring of TPP Porto Colombia was carried out, for which there was no recent data. Therefore, two species were included in the previous list: Aratinga Areas degraded by transmission proj0.467 0.389 0.197 ects in operation that were recovered auricapillus, a Near Threatened bird according to IUCN; and Rhinella diptycha, whose evaluation is still pending for being Data Deficient. Recovered Permanent Preservation Areas (APP) that have 1.683 1.332 0.0015 been affected by hydroelectric projects in operation Altogether there are 36 birds, 22 mammals and six reptiles and amphibians. Data-deficient species have also been recorded, that is, little studied species that have not yet defined Permanent Preservation Areas (APP) that have been 0.028 6.697 their status, being eight mammals and five reptiles / amphibians. affected by hydroelectric projects in operation Areas degraded by hydroelectric projects in opThe categories found were: five endangered, 36 near threatened and 23 vulnerable. eration that have been recovered 0.149 0.0011 0 Actions for the conservation of endangered species: In addition to fauna monitoring programs, which are carried out periodically in projects Species included in the conservation list* with habitats in order to detect any changes in the dynamics of threatened species, in 2019, FURNAS in areas affected by company operations committed to Ibama to start Conservation Projects for threatened species in two TPP in IUCN MMA operation phase: Near threatened 35 0 • Conservation Program for the Mutum-de-Penacho (Crax fasciolata, Vulnerable according to IUCN and Critically Endangered according to MMA) and Aracuã (Ortalis Vulnerable 21 33 remota, Critically Endangered according to MMA), in the TPP Marimbondo area of influence, already initiated. Critically endangered 0 4 • Small Feline Conservation Program (four target species, including Leopardus Endangered 6 8 tigrinus, Vulnerable according to IUCN; Leopardus colocolo, Near Threatened according to IUCN), in the area of influence of HPP Batalha, starting in 2020. * IUCN Red List (International Union for Conservation of Nature) and List of the Ministry of the Environment. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 53 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action ENDANGERED SPECIES INVENTORY IN THE FURNAS AREA 3 Next, get to know the main projects developed in 2019: HPP Serra Mesa BAHIA REFORESTATION We carry out reforestation actions in Permanent Preservation Areas, in addition to the forest restoration DISTRITO FEDERAL in reservoirs remaining areas of hydroelectric plants and 9 10 transmission lines. GOIÁS 1 2 3 In 2019, about 750 hectares were HPP Batalha reforested, equivalent to 678 soccer fields. 5 1 Nascentes de Furnas Project committed to mitigate the impact of the water crisis on the HPP of Furnas (MG), HPP Itumbiara MINAS GERAIS in 2017 we signed a partnership with the Association of Lago de Furnas Municipalities for the recovery of riparian forests in 400 springs, totaling 50.4 hectares. By 5 4 5 3 ESPÍRITO SAN TO the end of 2019, 62 thousand seedlings were planted in 310 springs in the Atlantic Forest and Cerrado biomes, LT 500 kV HPP Marimbondo Bom Despacho III 15 in 31 municipalities located around the Furnas HPP Ouro Preto 14 10 Reservoir, adding up to a total of 40 hectares. In total, 8 50.4 hectares will be reforested. 1 2 3 1 LEGENDA 4 SÃO PAULO 2 2 HPP Simplício LT 138 kV Birds 10 Anta-Simplício 7 HPP Funil & Simplício-Rocha Leão Mammals 15 RIO DE JANEIRO 14 Amphibians and Reptiles LT 345 kV Tijuco-Preto-Itapevi-Nordeste Flora 3 Ichthyofauna LT 138 kV Angra (FURNAS) Angra (Enel) HPP Hydroelectric Power Plant LT Transmission Line Seedlings from the Nascentes de Furnas (MG) project. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 54 Corporate Operational Transformation ENVIRONMENTAL Relationships and Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision MANAGEMENT Social Action ICHTHYOFAUNA CONSERVATION In 2019, we carried out continuous ichthyofauna monitoring initiatives in seven plants. It is worth noting the partnership with ICMBio (PAN Paraíba do Sul) and the Piabanha Centro Socioambiental Project, for which we carried out the experimental reintroduction of 80 fish specimens in the Paraíba do Sul River, near the Anta Plant dam. Of these, 60 are endangered species (Piabanha, Surubim-do-paraíba and Grumatã) and 20 are migratory species (Curimbatás). The fish received a radio transmitter, which will allow our telemetric network in the region to track them and, therefore, expand our knowledge about the ecology of these species. MONITORING OF TERRESTRIAL FAUNA In the year, we started monitoring the populations of Mutum-de-Penacho (Crax fasciolata) and Aracuã (Ortalis remota) in the vicinity of HPP Marimbondo, two birds critically endangered according to the national list of threatened species (2014). We also carry out fauna monitoring at five plants. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION We have developed Environmental Education Programs (PEAs) and Social Communication Programs (PCS) with populations directly or indirectly affected by our projects. The PEAs promote the empowerment of the social actors involved through the engagement with a focus on the preservation and conscious use of natural resources and the PCS inform the population about the project, its impacts and mitigation and control measures, as well as the contribution to national public policies and regional development, in addition to acting as a channel for receiving claims from this population. In 2019, 3,867 people participated in the PEAs and 2,578 in the PCS in communities affected by the plants and six transmission lines. In the following chapter, Relationships And Social Action, we present Eletrobras Companies’ social responsibility policies which guide the relationship with our stakeholders and promote our value generation. Onça parda (Puma concolor) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Marimbondo (MG/SP). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 55 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION EMPLOYEES Outlook GRI 102-7; 102-8; 102-22; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 401-1; 401-3; 405-1; 405-2; 406-1 We are a Company comprised of 2,832 professionals, who conduct daily operations, build our strategy and our longevity, with which we are committed to subsidize development professional and personal and appreciation. With that in mind, People Management Policy and the People Management Regulation of Eletrobras Companies set out the concepts, practices and common rules for integrated performance of the people management areas, aiming at the standardization of processes aligned with the Holding’s strategic guidelines, enhancing synergies and RELATIONSHIPS contributing to the construction of the same corporate culture. AND SOCIAL ACTION Our hires are done by civil service exam and follows the legislation of State-Owned Companies, the Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT) and Collective Labor Agreements, observing the determinations of the Holding, the Ministry of Mines and Energy and the Secretariat of Coordination and Governance of State-Owned Companies (SEST). Get to know our active workforce profile*: 07 By region By gender 2,388 2,318 349 514 89 Southeast Mid-West 6 South Male North Female * Information on non-permanent employees is available on the pages XXX. 56 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION By gender and employment type Leadership (managers) by age group Employees by age group 2,419 148 1,856 484 60 938 38 1,935 Between 30 and 50 413 Between 30 and 50 30 Over 50 383 Over 50 Under 30 Full-time Part-time Male Female Gender Region Age group Between 30 * Female Male North Northeast Mid-west Southwest South Under 30 Over 50 and 50 Total hires 29 80 0 0 25 83 1 0 62 47 Hiring rate 0.06 0.03 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.03 0.01 0.00 0.03 0.05 Total terminations 55 235 2 0 35 242 11 0 24 266 Turnover rate 0.11 0.10 0.29 0.00 0.10 0.10 0.12 0.00 0.01 0.28 * The figures do not consider the employees assigned between Eletrobras Companies. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 57 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION DIVERSITY We are one of the pioneers in joining the Pro-Equity Gender and Race Program, coordinated by the Secretariat for Women’s Policies of the Presidency of the Republic. We have adopted non-discrimination in all our development policies and actions for female and male employees, making no distinction based on gender or race in the provision of opportunities and in the definition of compensation. E In 2019, no cases of discrimination were registered in the Company. Regarding gender, we monitor indicators regarding pay equity and balance in after parental leave retention, presented below: Managerial position Higher education position Primary and secondary level Ratio between women Salary Compensation Salary Compensation Salary Compensation vs. men’s compensation 0.98 0.95 0.91 0.79 1 0.67 In the past two years we have had a 100% return rate on parental leave between women and men and a 100% retention rate after one year of return. In 2019, we partnered with the Civil and Environmental Engineering School (EECA) of the Federal University of Goiás and the Regional Council of Engineering and Architecture (CREA) and launched the project “Girls and Female Engineers Talk: sowing opportunities for gender equality in science.” The project promoted the visit of 45 girls from three public schools to our laboratory in Aparecida de Goiânia, to stimulate girls’ interest in engineering, contributing to a future with more gender equality in this career. SE Campinas (SP). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 58 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION RESTRUCTURING The reduction of 316 employees in 2019 is mostly explained by the implementation of the Consent Dismissal Plan (PDC), in Furnas, including 276 employees, as determined by the Holding. In recent years we have been working to adjust the structure of our workforce and service providers, Eletrobras’ strategic orientation to support and execute the Company’s strategic planning. Our focus is to align the Company with the best people management practices, transforming our management philosophy so that professionals can have a career with more and more qualifications and opportunities. In this changing scenario, we have important tools: • The Knowledge Transfer Program, which seeks to ensure the preservation of the Company’s intellectual capital and the quality in our operation; New Furnas headquarters (RJ). • The Talent and Opportunity Bank enables the implementation of an adequate succession plan, with processes and criteria in line to the People Management In relation to the demobilization of service provision Another new aspect, to be completed in 2020, is the move Regulation of Eletrobras Companies so that succession contracts, the 2019 changes also focused on adapting to our new headquarters, in a modern and functional takes place in a planned manner, allowing for an contracts to the Company’s specific needs, with greater space, where we will concentrate our team, providing adequate career transition; and effectiveness. better integration. Along with the change of location, the Furnas Memory Project is promoting a curatorship • A specific program for retirement preparation To carry out the demobilization of the 1,043 third-party to compose a museum that preserves the memory of supporting this moment of transition. employees, we signed an agreement with the Association of our Company, with iconographic materials, stories and Contractors, Ex-Contractors and Service Providers in Furnas testimonies. (ACEP) and the National Federation of Urban Developers (FNU), approved by the Supreme Federal Court. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 59 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION Career and development GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 404-1; 404-2; 404-3; 405-2; G4-EU14 Our Global Learning Plan guides continuing education through actions of the Corporate Education and Knowledge Management focused on the development of general competencies and on the specific works’ needs and processes of each function. Global Learning Plan Development Axes: • Individual Development Plan (PDI); • Strategic Actions Specific to the Company’s Business Areas; and • Health and Safety. Basic Concepts of the Electrical Sector” training (RJ). In all, in 2019, 138,438 training hours were offered, an average of 48.88 per employee. The training also meets the demands mapped out in the Individual Development Plans (PDI), resulting from the employee performance evaluation process. In % of employees who received Average hours of training offered performance evaluation the assessment, both the employee and his/her manager list the skills to be developed for career development and, then, the necessary educational actions By gender 2018 2019 2018 2019 are offered. Women 71.0 39.48 97.1 99.07 During the year, we started the development of a new evaluation model, Men 36.7 50.97 98.3 99.79 improving the feedback practice, the clarity of goals and objectives and the monitoring of the evolution to reach them. To support these advances, we held By position lectures with a people management specialist focused on managers and staff, who highlighted the practice of feedback as an important ally to interpersonal Managerial positions 79.1 34.97 100 100 relationships and people management. Higher education positions 44.2 74.85 97.2 99.6 Positions without higher 25.3 32.78 98.4 99.7 education Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 60 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION Occupational health and safety Among the actions of the different professionals in the Company, no risk of specific occupational diseases was identified. GRI 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 403-1; 403-2; 403-3; 403-4; G4-EU16 We have a consolidated health and safety culture that is present in all our activities. Furnas’ Employees Gender 2018 2019 The preservation of this culture is continuous: all our employees and service providers are constantly trained on the subject and we train a fire brigade through Male 2.11 4.67 Injury rate our Training Center for Emergency Response, at the Furnas HPP, in São José da Female 2.68 1.85 Barra (MG). Male 0 0 Occupational disease rate Furnas’ Occupational Health and Safety management, linked to the Human Female 0 0 Resources area, counts on the collaboration of two working groups: the Male 83.88 59.5 Occupational Health and Safety Committee, with representatives from all Lost Days Rate executive offices, and a Standing Accident Prevention Committee, which has the Female 8.95 0.93 participation of trade union representatives. Male 2.33 2.44 Absenteeism rate These Committees monitor the actions developed by the Occupational Health and Female 3.98 5.31 Safety, as well as the strict compliance with the Safety and Occupational Medicine Male 0 0 Brazilian Legislation. Fatalities Female 0 0 All of the Collective Labor Agreements, both national and specific to Furnas, address health and safety topics and 100% of employees are represented by the 26 Internal Accident Prevention Committees (CIPAs), 11 Safety Units (USEG) and five Assignees, which assume the duties of CIPAs in the units where they are not mandatory. Suppliers hired by the Company are required by contract to train their employees and to develop Environmental Risk Prevention (PPRA) and Medical Control and Occupational Health Programs (PCMSO) and provide Personal Protective Equipment (EPI). Transmission Line Maintenance. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 61 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION CUSTOMERS GRI 102-43 One of the measures of our operational excellence is our RESULTS OF THE 3RD CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SURVEY customers’ satisfaction. With that in mind, Since 2014, Eletrobras has been conducting a unified biennial survey with 85.17 focus on the generation and transmission business, in which Furnas’s performance is also evaluated. % The survey uses the Customer Window methodology, as Goal of of global a method to measure the customer satisfaction of the generation and transmission business, based on customer perception about value attributes and level of importance. 85.31 satisfaction % satisfaction with generation, transmission and The third edition, in 2018, brought breakthroughs in customer partially Research, Development and Innovation satisfaction. reached* * In Generation distribution customers and in Transmission services users, we exceed the goal. 92.22 of importance % degree for customers of the researched value attributes Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 62 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION SUPPLIERS GRI 102-9; 102-10; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3; 204-1; 407-1; 408-1; 409-1; 412-3 In 2019, Furnas hosted the 1st National Meeting with Management For each of the risk levels, monitoring actions are applied Eletrobras Companies’ Suppliers, addressing topics such and, for those presenting greater risk, diligence is as Sustainability, Human Rights in the Supply Chain and SELECTION AND MONITORING Our Supply Logistics Policy, based on internationally performed and an Integrity Opinion is issued to identify Corporate Integrity. possible alert points to be monitored. recognized management practices, establishes the Outlook requirements of social, environmental and ethical In 2019, the Critical Suppliers WG, created within the scope commitments for our suppliers, since the hiring process, Our supply chain is made up of 3,994 operating promoting sustainability and integrity. of the Sustainability Committee, continued the studies to companies from the most diverse sizes and segments. implement the supplier evaluation methodology developed In 2019, of these companies, 235 were new contracts Contractual obligations determine that the supplier is by FGV, establishing actions according to the risk level established in the year, totaling R$ 859.9 million, of responsible for knowing and complying, as appropriate, associated with its suppliers. which 99.99% were local suppliers, that is, from the with the principles and standards of the Code of Ethics same region of the purchasing unit. and Conduct of Eletrobras Companies, the Principles The study includes actions such as the inclusion of and Norms of Conduct in Furnas relations with its contractual clauses with sustainability requirements, training As a public Company, laws and decrees define the Suppliers, (available at: https://bit.ly/2PEYhjg and of buyers, managers and contract inspectors, the application acquisitions rules that underpin our relationship with https://bit.ly/2qkypg5), as well as the Eletrobras of questionnaires and the conduct of audit visits. these suppliers, respecting the constitutional principles Companies’ Anti-Corruption Program. of isonomy, the most advantageous selection and the During the year, we identified 12 suppliers with a potential promotion of sustainable national development. The supplier is also assessed for corporate integrity from risk of incidents of slave or child labor and 235 suppliers the contracting process to its monitoring during contract with the potential for negative environmental impacts, who All contracting and acquisitions have been formalized execution. The evaluation provides that suppliers fill out were subjected to impact assessments. based on the Regulation on Bids and Contracts, which an integrity risk assessment form, which maps out their adapts the Eletrobras Companies’ contracting guidelines relationship with public agents, their conviction history In addition, of the 459 significant investment contracts to that established in Law No. 13.303 (State-Owned for fraud or corruption, and the existence of an Integrity those submitted to the approval of the Board of Executive Companies Act) and ensures governance and compliance Program. With the form data, analysis methodology is Officers in which the active result of the contracting will in supplier management. applied to identify and classify its integrity risk as low, be incorporated into the Company’s equity all included medium, high and very high. clauses referring to human rights. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 63 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION COMMUNITIES GRI 412-2; 413-2 The Eletrobras Companies Social Responsibility Policy and In addition to our internal guidelines, we comply with legal the Eletrobras Business Spokesperson Policy (available at Awareness commitments and obligations during the environmental https://bit.ly/2RUFpA6 and https://bit.ly/2AyaUpM) In 2019, we offered more than 82 thousand hours licensing process, such as Federal Decree 7,342/10 and guide our relationship with the communities surrounding of training on our policies and commitments Interministerial Ordinance 340/12, which deal with the social our operation, with society and with the press so that to human rights to 2,028 employees, which and economic registering of the population affected by dams. we can promote the generation of value for all our corresponds to 71.6% of the total staff. stakeholders. Preliminary studies are carried out to mitigate or eliminate negative impacts in the areas of influence of the projects and We are committed to society and the sustainable from the construction phase to the operation, we monitor the development of communities affected by our operations To minimize negative socioeconomic and impacts according to the guidelines of the Basic Environmental and we guide our performance in these relationships based environmental impacts and maximize positive ones, we Project and with the conditions defined by the licensing bodies. on four principles: made constant investments in programs are carried out voluntarily and in compliance with the environmental We also monitor the evolution of social and economic • Conduct business with ethics, honesty, transparency agencies’ requirements while projects for education, conditions of the relocating and the host communities, based and respect for the rule of law and legal and regulatory health and economic growth fostering are developed, on quantitative and qualitative studies at least during the frameworks, adopting anti-corruption practices, presented next. period established by the environmental licenses. stimulating the denunciation of any form or attempted act that violates the Eletrobras Companies’ compliance In 2019, we did not participate in new projects demanding regulations; population displacements. In the year, R$ 48.2 thousand • Respect human rights in all operations of Eletrobras Displacement of Populations was disbursed as compensation for the release and land GRI 102-43; G4-EU20 Companies, not tolerating any violation of these rights; regularization of the projects: • Build a reputation for excellence in corporate Environmental impact studies are done in all new projects, • TL Mascarenhas-Linhares citizenship, recognizing the impacts of actions and the also considering socioeconomic aspects of the affected • HPP Batalha power to contribute to sustainable development; and regions. Eletrobras Companies’ Environmental Policy • TL Xavantes-Pirineus • Ensure permanent dialogue with communities, guides the displacement of populations affected by • TL Bom Despacho-Ouro Preto respecting their values and interests, with a view to generation and transmission projects and establishes • TL Tijuco Preto-Itapeti improving the quality of life in its social, economic, guidelines for relationship with society and environmental • HPP Simplício cultural and environmental aspects. communication. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 64 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION Safety The plants of the Furnas generation system comply with the safety GRI G4-EU21 regulations, in accordance with the Dam Safety Law, ratified by ANEEL Resolution 696/15. EMERGENCIES All of our projects have their own Emergency Response Plans (PAE), constantly In 2019, we started the dam safety review work, in order to reassess the plans and procedures updated, which establish responsibilities, measures and actions to be taken during on the subject and obtain external opinions on dam safety. In addition, we have implemented contingency situations: natural disasters, spills, fire, information technology issues, a new Dam Safety Software (SSB) for monitoring the auscultation instrumentation data in workers’ strikes, company image crisis, among others. civil structures. Emergency brigades and employees working in areas considered to be at risk are trained to implement such plans in emergency cases. As for the transmission lines, the PAEs establishes actions to be taken in order to restore transmission lines, transformers and other equipment, in the shortest possible time, allowing for the maintenance of the electricity supply. DAM SAFETY All of our hydroelectric plants have Dams Safety Plan (PSB) that comply with the National Policy on Dams Safety (PNSB), which include general information, technical documentation of the projects, plans and procedures, records and controls, periodic safety review of dams, and Emergency Response Plans (PAEs). The PAEs are sent to the city halls and civil defense institutions of the areas where the dams are located. Our technical staff carries out periodic structures inspections, complementing them with the analysis of records of the instrumentation installed on them. The results are compiled in technical inspection reports and behavior studies, with frequencies compatible to the characteristics of each project, available for assessment of conformities by sector regulatory bodies, specifically ANEEL. UHE Marimbondo (MG/SP). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 65 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Next learn more about the main supported projects: Social investments (R$ thousand) FURNAS SOCIAL PUBLIC SELECTION NOTICE We support social, cultural and sports programs in 97 In 2019, through the Furnas Social Public Selection Notice, order to promote the well-being of society, citizenship, 490 90.4 500 we invested approximately R$ 3 million in 208 civil society respect for diversity, the dissemination of the most organizations, selected from seven states, in addition to diverse cultural manifestations, respect and care for the 600 the Federal District, which promote citizenship, education, individual and the environment while expanding the job and income generation, health and food security, future prospects for millions of Brazilians. 639 sports and leisure, infrastructure, guarantee of the children and adolescents rights, environment and culture, Projects and partner organizations selection is in communities surrounding the Company’s projects. rigorous, with respect to the principles of morality, transparency and impersonality; resources come from PROJECTS IN PARTNERSHIP the Company’s own investment or are encouraged by We renewed our partnership with institutions that fiscal renunciation. The social action strategy is also promote education, citizenship and work and income in line with our strategic management, Eletrobras generation in communities surrounding our projects, guidelines, Federal Government programs, public allocating R$ 2.8 million to projects in the next two years. policies, Sustainable Development Goals and the Among the supported projects we mention: United Nations Global Compact principles. 3,651.2 5,663.1 2019 Public Selection Notice for Eletrobras Companies In order to ensure that these resources are effectively Social Projects invested in carrying out the supported projects and Social Actions We invested R $ 400 thousand in three social projects in their beneficiaries, we monitor the projects and only line with the Eletrobras Companies Social Responsibility release the resources after compliance with the Cultural Actions Policy, with a focus on encouraging professional obligations defined in the agreements. Institutional Actions education. In 2019, we invested R$ 11.7 million Sports Actions Work and Income Opportunity Training Program in programs aimed at the social Donations In partnership with Banco da Providência, in 2019, we development of the communities in Sponsorship to Events trained 645 youngsters and adults in courses in the beauty, the regions where we work and our cooking, services, mechanics, electrician, fashion and IT employees dedicated 416.3 hours in the Volunteer Actions sectors, expanding their opportunities to enter the labor year to volunteering. Promoting Human Rights and Diversity market or entrepreneurship, contributing to decrease extreme poverty conditions. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 66 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION Vila Santa Teresa Community Center In 2019, we elaborated participatory social diagnoses and community development In 2019, for the second year, we carried out the Local Roots Project, in partnership with the action plans in the communities of Angra dos Reis (RJ), Itatiaia (RJ), Ibiraci (MG), Mogi das Terra dos Homens Brazilian Association (ABTH), which offers soccer, capoeira, social theater, Cruzes (SP) and Foz do Iguaçu (PR), establishing priority proposals and guidelines related cooking and workshops preparing for the labor market to a total of 1,421 beneficiaries of all to the themes: education, health, employment and income, social assistance, urban age groups. infrastructure, sports, leisure and culture. Ciranda Institute: Music and Citizenship FURNAS SOCIAL ENERGY PROJECT Partnership aimed at the artistic and cultural development of 160 children, adolescents and The program promotes citizenship and strengthens public policies through lectures, young people from the public schools of the communities of Água Fria and João Carro, in debates, pedagogical and recreational activities for teachers and students of the rural area of Chapada dos Guimarães (MT), using music as a citizenship tool in activities the public-school network on topics such as sustainability, citizenship, rational offered in after-school hours. use of energy and water, appreciation and respect for the individual, healthy eating , maternity and paternity in adolescence and bullying. In 2019, there were Projeto Caminhos (Paths project) approximately 9.5 thousand activities, in 8 municipalities located in the states of Rio Developed in Foz do Iguaçu (PR), it promotes citizenship and the rights of young people and de Janeiro, São Paulo and Paraná. adolescents using sport as an initial door for insertion into the Young Apprentice Program of young people living in communities in vulnerability and social risk. In 2019, around 250 young people were assisted and 45 young people were sent to the Young Apprentice Program and hired by local companies. Promoting Human Rights and Diversity LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (COMMUNITY INTEGRATION CENTERS PROJECT) CHILD AND ADOLESCENT RIGHTS With the support of the Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analysis (IBASE), In 2019, we allocated R$ 500 thousand, from tax incentives, to four Councils and Funds for the we created the project with the objective of minimizing negative externalities to local Rights of Children and Adolescents selected in the first edition of our Public Selection Notice. communities, as well as strengthening the business by building a positive relationship and reputation with the communities. We have also promoted events to discuss the topic: • In partnership with the Abrinq Foundation, we hosted the Strong Councils, Assured Rights Seminar Paths for the Implementation of Sustainable Development Goals in Cities, which brought together representatives from 65 municipalities in 12 states proactive in the Public Policy for the Protection of Children and Adolescents; and • We held the 1st Meeting on the Company’s Performance in Fighting Child Labor and Appreciating Professional Learning, to discuss the actions of organizations in strengthening human rights of children and adolescents and we were granted the Child Friendly Company seal by the Abrinq Foundation, in recognition of Furnas’ commitment Núcleos de Integração Program. to preventing and combating the exploitation of child labor. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 67 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION GENDER AND RACE EQUALITY PROGRAM SUPPORT FOR THE INCLUSION OF REFUGEES Since 2007, Furnas has been among the Brazilian companies awarded with the ProIn 2019, we promoted two editions of the panel “The Refugee and Employability in Gender and Race Equality Seal of the Presidential Secretary of Women´s Policies, in Brazil”. The first discussed the inclusion in the labor market of people who sought refuge all editions. in the country and the second on the Brazilian financial system, credit unions and individual micro entrepreneurship (MEI). This achievement reflects the various initiatives developed to promote an environment in which women and racial minorities can exercise the full potential of their personal and professional development: Sponsorships CULTURAL SPONSORSHIPS • Since 2018, we have a room for the collection and storage of breastmilk for In 2019, through the Public Selection Notice of Eletrobras Companies Cultural female employees in the Central Office and we are recognized by Ministry of Program, we sponsored 12 cultural projects, totaling R$ 3.5 million, from tax Health and the Rio de Janeiro Health Department as a company that promotes incentives. and supports breastfeeding. In 2019, we also received from the coordination of the Global Network of Human Milk Banks of the Ministry of Health the Certificate of Honor for our work in favor of breastfeeding; • We hosted a Gender and Race Equity Promotion Workshop that brought together committees from Eletrobras Companies, the National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (ANP), the Energy Research Company (EPE) and Petrobras Distribuidora, in order to prepare the toolbook “Promoting Respect for Diversity in Companies”; • We held the 11th edition of the Coffee with Women Entrepreneurs in Rio de Janeiro, promoted by Entrepreneurs Women Network, which brought inspiring stories and represented an opportunity for participants to expand their networking; and • We supported the UN Women by funding technical assistance activities related to the promotion and implementation of the Women Empowerment Principles (WEP) and the empowerment of entrepreneurs women. Espetáculo Lanterna Vermelhas Bale Nacional da China. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 68 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION SPONSORSHIP FOR EVENTS COMMUNITY VEGETABLE GARDEN During the year, the Program promoted the collection We sponsored 13 events in 2019, 11 of which through We started expanding the living spaces of the Green of 1.4 ton of electronic equipment discarded by Furnas the Public Selection Notice for Electric Sector Events Vegetable Belt Garden, at the Mogi das Cruzes employees, donated to the Cooperativa Amigos do Meio Sponsorship (Eletrobras Edital) and two by Direct Substation-SP and promoted the visit of municipal Ambiente (Coopama), and recovered eight tons of solid Choice modality. school students, who participated in lectures, workshops, waste at the Simplício Hydroelectric Plant, which are not sowing activities and food harvesting. Vegetables produced by Furnas, but ended at our reservoir brought SPORTS SPONSORSHIP harvested during activities were donated to visiting by rivers, and were donated to the Recyclable Material In 2019, the Eletrobras Companies’ Sports Sponsorship schools, encouraging the consumption of vegetables Collectors Association of Além Paraíba. Program was launched, which invested in water and while fighting waste. nautical sports, inspired by the renewable energy of In all, in 2019, the Program sent more than 1,600 liters waters, the main input of our business. We sponsored of residual vegetable oil, 90 tons of paper, 18 tons of four projects, with the allocation of R$ 600 thousand Institutional Action plastic, 52 tons of metal and 600 kg of glass to recycling from tax incentives. cooperatives. FURNAS CITIZENSHIP CENTER Since 1978 the issuance of Identity Cards, Work Cards Voluntary Action and Social Security Cards are offered to the population of Rio de Janeiro for free, through technical cooperation FURNAS VOLUNTEER PROGRAM agreements with the Transit Department of the State In 2019, our volunteers carried out a series of activities of Rio de Janeiro (DETRAN-RJ) and with the Labor and aimed at the communities surrounding the company’s Employment Regional Superintendence (SRTE-RJ). In projects, such as fundraisings and donations, sign 2019, 2,014 Identity Cards, including Social Cards, language, electrical and handicraft classes, school Descriptive Badges for people with disabilities, as well as tutoring and judo, trail signage for the visually impaired Work Cards and Social Security Cards were delivered. and lectures on sowing and collecting food. SOLIDARY WASTE SORTING PROGRAM CITIZENSHIP VILLAGE We created the Program based on a Federal Government We held the 62nd edition of the Aldeia da Cidadania decree from 2006, which determines waste sorting by the project in Angra dos Reis (RJ), providing free preventive federal public administration bodies. Besides contributing health care services, tips on the rational use of electricity to mitigate environmental impact by increasing the and dance numbers, percussion, painting workshops, waste for reuse and recycling, the Program also creates among other recreational activities. opportunities and socioeconomic development, as the waste is destined to a Commission composed by waste pickers associations and cooperatives. Coleta de lixo flutuante UHE Simplício (RJ) Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 69 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental RELATIONSHIPS AND Introduction Performance Attachments Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management SOCIAL ACTION Traditional Populations AVÁ-CANOEIRO Since 1992, we work closely to Avá-Canoeiro, in We also made available the second installment GRI 411-1 the municipalities of Minaçu and Colinas do Sul, referring to the Agreement and we transferred in Goiás, in the context of HPP Serra da Mesa to Funai, every two months, the amounts When building engagement and relationships environmental programs. Through agreements corresponding to CFURH to benefit the with our stakeholders, we pay particular attention with Funai, we are responsible for controlling the community. to vulnerable groups, such as traditional and entrance of unauthorized persons, environmental indigenous communities. So, we maintain ongoing monitoring and the prohibition of natural The second amendment to the Agreement is dialogue with indigenous communities by means of resources removal from the protected area. being analyzed, aiming at adapting the execution several permanent communication channels and schedule of the Work Plan to implement the programs to mitigate or compensate the impacts Prevention actions are carried out, as a rule, actions of the Avá-Canoeiro Support Program generated, always side by side with indigenous by indigenous monitors who undergo training, (PAAC), under Funai’s responsibility. communities involved and Funai (National Indian including adding traditional knowledge, to Foundation). enhance protection over their territory. KAINGANG For five years, we have supported the Kaingang de We are part of Eletrobras Companies’ Environment In the case of the Avá-Canoeiro Indigenous Queimadas Indigenous community through food Committee, which manages the issue through the Land, composed mainly of the elderly and donations, monitoring services, environmental Indigenous Communities Commission, created in children, we hired non-indigenous agents to monitoring and support for local festivities. In 2012, composed of specialists from each company perform monitoring services, however, with the 2019, we donated 4,200 basic-needs grocery on the theme, designed to discuss and exchange participation of the only Avá-Canoeiro male adult packages and supported traditional festivities. experiences on issues related to Indigenous People. in the team, promoting the indigenous leadership in the management of their territory. For 2020, we signed an agreement with the Moreover, we volunteered to participate in the Çarakura Institute (OSCIP) to implement the Dialogue between Companies and Indigenous Peoples In 2019, in addition to the surveillance services project “Kaingang Infrastructure, Sport and Initiative from The Natural Conservancy NGO. provided continuously, we also transferred to Funai Culture”, which will implement spaces for 17 areas acquired to replace part of the Indigenous community socialization, contributing to the In 2019, there were no cases of indigenous rights Land affected by the HPP Serra da Mesa strengthening of Kaingang ethnic identity. violation. reservoir and identified three other contiguous areas, among which Funai will elect the most appropriate from an environmental point of view to complement the recomposition. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 70 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action ANEEL INDICATORS GENERAL DIMENSION Technical data (inputs, production capacity, sales, losses) 2019 2018 2017 Number of own employees |GRI 102-8| 2,832 3,037 3,188 Number of contractors |GRI 102-8| 0 1,046 1,063 Energy generated (GWh) |GRI EU2| 66,777 62,332 64,402* Energy purchased for resale (GWh) 4,089 4,069 3,780 ATTACHMENTS Overall electrical loss (GWh) ND ND ND Electrical loss Total (%) on the energy demand |GRI EU12| 1.12% 1.07% 1.08% Electrical loss Total (%) on the energy demand |GRI EU12| 2.61 2.47% 2% Installed capacity in generation (MW) own and in partnership |GRI EU1| 11,711 12,182 11,880 Energy sold (GWh) 39,990 39,014 40,476 Regulated Contracting Environment (ACR) 27,791 28,137 31,914 08 Free Contracting Environment (ACL) 12,199 10,876 8,562 Substations (in units) |GRI EU1| – Corporate and SPE 69 75 82 Installed capacity (MVA) |GRI EU1| – Corporate and SPE 141,692 134,634 136,487 Transmission lines (in km) |GRI EU4| – Corporate and SPE 29,946 29,420 29,850 Furnas-owned (in km) |GRI EU4| – Corporate 22,070 22,025 21,928 Lines in partnership (in km) |GRI EU4|– SPE 7,876 7,395 7,922 Energy sold per installed capacity (GWh/MW* hours/years) generation 0.00039 0.00037 0.00039 Energy sold per employee (MWh/employee) 14,088 12,846 12,696 Value added/GWh Sold (BRL thousand) 248.41 138.50 145.85* *Adjusted amounts. 71 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIMENSION 2019 2018 2017 ADMINISTRATORS CA DE CF Total CA DE CF Total CA DE CF Total Number of members 7 6 3 16 7 6 3 16 5 6 3 14 Annual Fixed Remuneration (BRL thousand) 360.27 3,323.80 152.46 3,836.53 285.08 3,481.99 165,33 3,932.40 269.57 3,369.22 153,57 3,792.36 |GRI 102-35| Salary or directors fees 360.27 3,323.80 152.46 3,836.53 285.08 3,470.56 165.33 3,920.97 269.57 3,299.7 153,57 3,722.84 Other Private Pension Plan (RGF) 0 97.84 0 97.84 0 11.43 0 11.43 0 69.52 0 69.52 Variable Compensation (BRL thousand) 0 276.28 0 276.28 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 |GRI 102-35| * In 2017, 2018 and 2019, there was no allocation of resources to managers in the form of direct or indirect benefits, participation in committees, bonuses, participation in results, participation in meetings, commissions and other fixed and variable remunerations. ECONOMIC-FINANCIAL DIMENSION 2019 2018 2017* 2019 2018 2017* Demonstração do Valor Adicionado – Controladora Value Added Statement – Parent Company |GRI 201-1| (BRL (BRL (BRL (BRL (BRL (BRL |GRI 201-1| thousands) thousands) thousands) thousands) thousands) thousands) Income from Sale of Energy and Services 10,368,736 9,987,474 9,720,432 Equity Accounting -22,629 -380,383 20,701 Other Operating Income 223,008 255,764 376,842 Value Added for Distribution 9,933,773 5,403,494 5,903,321 Inputs Distribution of Value Added Cost of Energy Purchased -1,480,355 -1,290,374 -1,362,821 Labor Remuneration 1,143,603 1,107,482 1,560,590 Materials -29,125 -35,557 -33,628 Government (Taxes and Contributions) 1,396,859 1,703,388 1,444,842 Third party services -709,200 -761,946 -852,130 Financial Charges and Monetary Variation 3,616,042 2,525,891 1,060,069 Other Operating Costs -1,660,971 -1,350,892 -1,153,048 Industry Charges 561,017 469,694 415,796 Gross Value Added 6,712,093 6,804,469 6,695,647 Remuneration to Shareholders 763,284 248,277 300,000 Depreciation and Amortization 274,648 -260,592 -270,986 Participation of non-controlling shareholders (14) 25,707 ND Formation/Reversal of Provisions 455,342 -231,752 -711,711 Retained Earnings (Loss) 2,452,982 797,100 1,104,778 Net Value Added Generated 6,892,787 6,312,125 5,712,950 Total Distribution of Value Added* 9,933,773 6,877,539 5,903,321 Financial Revenue (Transfers) 3,063,615 945,797 169,670 (*) Adjusted amounts. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 72 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action SOCIAL AND INDUSTRY DIMENSION Internal social indicators Employees/employability/administrators Employees/employability/administrators a) General information 2019 2018 2017 Employees under 30 years of age (%) 2.1% 2.5% 3.4% Total number of employees |GRI 102-8| 2,832 3,037 3,188 Employees from 31 to 40 years of age (%) 22.1% 24.6% 27.2% Men 2,318 2,488 2,626 Employees from 41 to 50 years of age (%) 42.7% 37.3% 35.2% Women 514 549 562 Employees over 50 years of age (%) 33.1% 35.6% 34.3% Southeast 2,388 2,575 2,694 Number of women compared to the total number of employees (%) 18.1% 18.1% 17.6% Midwest 349 360 385 Women in management positions compared to total manage20.7% 19.0% 17.2% ment positions (%) South 89 94 102 Black employees (black and pardo) (female) compared to total 3.1% 2.9% 2.7% number of employees (%) North 6 8 7 Black employees (black and pardo) (male) compared to total 20.7% 20.8% 20.8% number of employees (%) Number of contractors (outsourced, subcontracted, selfBlack employees (black and pardo) in management positions comemployed) by type of employment, employment contract, and 0 1,046 1,063 8.7% 10.9% 11.8% pared to total management positions (%) region)|GRI 102-8| Interns compared to total number of employees (%) 6.7% 9.9% 8.7% Men 0 712 728 Employees in the apprenticeship program (%) 1.5% 2.5% 0.7% Women 0 334 335 Employees with disabilities 1921 1962 2493 Southeast 0 886 902 Midwest 0 144 143 ¹ Refers to the sum of 23 permanent employees and 169 professionals bound to the agreement signed with the Brazilian Institute of Public Administration and University Support (IBAP). South 0 14 16 ² Refers to the sum of 25 permanent employees and 171 professionals bound to the agreement signed with the Brazilian Institute of Public Administration and University Support (IBAP). North 0 2 2 ³ Refers to the sum of 26 permanent employees and 223 professionals bound to the agreement signed with the Brazilian Institute for the Rights of People with Disabilities (IBDD). Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 73 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action b) Remuneration, benefits, and career (BRL thousand)|GRI 201-1| 2019 2018 2017 d) Remuneration profile 2019 2018 2017 Remuneration Categories (average salary for the current year) BRL Gross payroll 1,143,603 1,123,124 1,380,217* Management position 25,583,14 25,644.75 25,532.33 Compulsory social charge 248,300 258,146 305,465 Position with higher education 11,919.27 11,850.14 11,083.83 Benefits Position without higher education 6,817.42 6,592.73 6,769.24 Education 2,674 3,322 4,253 e) Occupational health and safety |GRI 403-2| 2019 2018 2017 Meals 47,662 55,588 68,273 Average overtime per permanent employee per year 81.86 80 255 Company's total frequency rate in the period, for permanent Transportation 6,521 1,376 1,467 1.74 2.21 2.64 employees Health 159,312 164,150 192,035 Severity rate for the period for permanent employees 49 71 22 Real Grandeza Foundation (private pension plan) 47,401 45,034 62,263 Company's total frequency rate in the period, for non-permanent ND ND ND employees Occupational safety and medicine 8,162 8,088 11,892 Severity rate for the period for non-permanent employees ND ND ND Culture 1,487 1,484 1,960 Company's total frequency rate in the period, for the workforce ND ND ND (own + contractors) Training and professional development 12,962 16,805 18,327 Severity rate for the period for the workforce (own + contractors) ND ND ND Childcare or childcare assistance 15,153 15,358 15,719 Fatalities permanent employees 0 0 0 Other (Specify)4 89,496 93,409 250,911 Fatalities non-permanent employees 0 0 0 c) Profit sharing |GRI 201-1| 2019 2018 2017 (*) Adjusted amounts. Total investment in the Company's profit-sharing program (BRL 60,285 21,096 102,635* 4 Other benefits: insurance (installment paid by the Company), loans (only cost), recreational expenses, transport, thousand) housing and other benefits offered to employees. Amounts distributed in relation to gross payroll (%) 5.27% 1.88% 7.44%* Ratio between the highest remuneration and the lowest remuner54 24 26 ation paid by the concessionaire Ratio between the lowest compensation of the Company and the 2.03 2.28 2.29 current minimum wage |GRI 202-1| Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 74 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action f) Professional development 2019 2018 2017 g) Behavior upon termination 2019 2018 2017 Educational profile describe, in percentages, compared to total number of employees Turnover rate 6.78% 8.17% 9.63% Elementary and Middle School 1.52% 2.37% 2.38% Labor claims High School 7.13% 7.47% 8.44% Amount provisioned in the period 620,022 464,120 330,161 Technical school 31.92% 31.45% 32.69% Number of labor claims filed against the Company in the period 583 567 766 Higher education 32.06% 32.24% 31.09% Number of labor claims in the period deemed justified 79 69 129 Post-graduate (specialization, master’s, doctorate) 27.37% 26.47% 25.41% Number of labor claims in the period deemed groundless 75 85 128 Amount invested in professional development and education Total amount of compensation and monetary fines paid due to legal 12,961 16,805 18,327 364,749 40,851 32,453 (BRL thousand) decision in the period (BRL thousand) Average number of training hours per year, per employee, by job category |GRI 404-1| h) Preparing for retirement 2019 2018 2017 Management Investments in supplementary pension plans (BRL thousand) 88,354,974 96,958,563 102,995,055 Men 36.76 61.88 78.08 Number of beneficiaries of the supplementary pension program 11,232 11,484 11,227 Women 28.12 152.32 182.54 Higher education Men 72.47 61.57 69.22 Women 81.07 61.79 93.99 Without higher education Men 33.44 19.86 21.04 Women 27.61 69.52 68.15 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 75 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action External Social Indicators Community Impacts caused on health and safety 2019 2018 2017 Total number of accidents without fatalities involving the population 0 0 1 Total number of accidents with fatalities involving the population 0 0 0 Lawsuits arising from accidents involving the population General Litigation Base (BRL)1 0 0 0 Company involvement in social actions |GRI 203-1| 2019 2018 2017 Resources invested in education (BRL thousand) 1,222.1 663.8 733 Resources invested in health and sanitation (BRL thousand) 214 0 491 Resources invested in culture (BRL thousand) 44.7 0 144 Resources invested in sports (BRL thousand) 161.6 0 340 Other resources invested in social actions (BRL thousand) 3,582.8 1,543.5 3,985 Employees who do volunteer work in the community outside the Company/total number of employees (%)2 1.3% 8.8% 9.8% Number of monthly hours donated (released from normal working hours) by the Company for volunteer work by 34.69 average monthly hours 54.33 average monthly hours 65.17 average monthly hours employees Company involvement in projects for culture, sports, etc. (Rouanet Act)|GRI 203-1, G4-201-4| 2019 2018 2017 Amount of resources for projects (BRL thousand) 4,174,9 8,996 5,685 Amount of resources for the largest project (BRL thousand) 600 810 600 Annual Activity Plan School of Artistic Season Cecília Meireles Name of the largest project Copacabana Palace The Musical Visual Arts Auditorium 2016/2017 Friends Association of the School Friends Association of the Cecília Beneficiary of the largest project Sábios Projetos e Produções Ltda of Visual Arts Meireles Auditorium Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 76 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Technology and Science Research and Development (BRL THOUSAND) By research topic (Research and Development) 2019 2018 2017 Value (%) Value (%) Value (%) FA Alternative Sources of Electric Energy Generation 6,554,847.54 10.02 20,047,257.36 33.05 6,261,937.07 26.35 GT Thermoelectric Generation GB Watershed and Reservoir Management 1,880,523.42 2.87 1,481,839.69 2.44 8,544,776.23 35.96 MA Environment 1,430,379.82 2.19 540,916.76 0.89 8,239,832.34 34.68 SE Safety EF Energy Efficiency 10,540,598.34 16.11 5,907,568.03 9.74 PL Planning of Electric Energy Systems 31,597,455 48.30 OP Operation of Electric Energy Systems 714,406.92 3.01 SC Supervision, Control, and Protection of Electric Energy Systems QC Quality and Reliability of Electric Energy Services MF Measuring, Billing, and Fighting Commercial Loss Ot Other 13,414,906.75 20.51 32,687,580.61 53.88 Total 65,418,710.87 100% 60,665,162.45 100% 23,760,952.56 100% Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 77 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Environmental Dimension Environmental Indicators Recovery of degraded areas 2019 2018 2017 Isolated protected network (ecological network or green line) in urban areas (in km) NA NA NA Percentage of isolated/total protected distribution network in urban areas NA NA NA Waste generation and treatment 2019 2018 2017 Emission Annual volume of greenhouse gas emissions (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6) (tons of CO2 equivalent) |GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3| 1,573,562.4 1.835.923,1 1.889.058 Annual volume of emissions of ozone-depleting gases (tons of CFC equivalent) 1|GRI 305-6| 0.21 0.26 0.35 Effluents Total water disposal, by quality and destination |GRI 306-1| 37,806.21 64.549,8 50.714,6 Solid waste Annual volume (in tons) of solid waste generated (garbage, waste, rubble etc.) 14,575.42 9.652 4.807 Volume of waste contaminated by PCBs (Ascarel) |GRI 306-4| 0 0 0 Use of resources in the production process and the organization's management processes 2019 2018 2017 Total energy consumption by source: Power consumption per kWh sold (GJ/kWh) |GRI 302-3| 0.00055 0.00069 0.00063 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary energy source, in GJ |GRI 302-1| 22,164,913 26,951,680.1 25,415,798 Diesel 24,332.07 28,839 27,012 Stationary sources 1,597.8 1,332.8 569.37 Mobile sources 22,734.27 27,506.13 25,198 Hydroelectric Power Plants 933.18 333.05 5 Thermoelectric Power Plants 0 0 0 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 78 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Use of resources in the production process and the organization’s management processes 2019 2018 2017 Thermoelectric Power Plants (metropolitan diesel) 0 0 0 Transmission (generators in substations) 664.65 999.72 1,240 Gasoline 15,881.78 16,280.88 19,528 Stationary sources 226.1 99.8 275 Mobile sources (vessels) 11.77 40.05 31.40 Mobile sources (vehicles) 15,870.01 16,141.03 19,222 Ethanol 1,780.20 2,695.48 3,097 Mobile sources (vehicles) 1,780.20 2,695.48 3,097 Natural Gas 22,123,568.9 26,589.488.6 25,365,145 Stationary sources 148.59 0 364 Mobile sources 0 2,695.48 0 Thermoelectric Power Plants 22,123,420.3 26,586,793.1 25,364,781 Other 904.09 LPG – stationary sources 487.82 483.4 526 LPG – mobile sources 405.27 486.03 477 Two-stroke engine oil (lubricants) stationary sources 11 10 12 Two-stroke engine oil (lubricants) mobile sources (vessels) 0 0.11 0.42 Electric Energy (GJ) |GRI 302-1| 315,416.72 462,117.3 599,658 Administrative activities 53,690.02 60,009 60,982 Hydroelectric generation 160,807 152,644.32 153,224 Thermoelectric generation ND 126,212 Transmission auxiliary services in substations 100,919.7 249,463.9 259,240 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 79 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Total water consumption by source (in m3): |GRI 303-1| Supply (public network) 224,394.6 160,350.03 175,574 Ground source (well) 154,463 374,615.19 126,598 Surface abstraction (bodies of water) 66,223.8 2,781,769.11 2,786,023 Total water consumption (in m3) 2,731,990 3,316,734 3,088,195 Water consumption per employee (in m3) 955 1,092 969 Environmental education and awareness 2019 2018 2017 Environmental education within the organization Number of employees trained in environmental education programs ND 155 20 Percentage of employees trained in environmental education programs/total number of employees ND 5.10% 0.6% Number of hours of environmental training/total number of training hours ND ND ND Environmental education Community Number of elementary, middle and high schools served 60 26 31 Number of students served 2,174 1,101 4,097 Number of teachers trained 72 1,101 48 Number of technical and higher education units served 2 ND ND Number of students served ND ND ND Environmental performance indicators generation companies 2019 2018 2017 Source of hydroelectric generation Consumption of electricity by generating and auxiliary units (MWh) 44,662 40,002 42,562 Water consumption per KWh generated (Maximum flow consumption (m³/s) per kWh delivered) ND ND ND Restoration of riparian forest (Number of seedlings or planted/recovered area per year) 732 148 ha 168,3 ha Rescue of fish from turbines (kg of fish per machine shutdown) 19.2* 0* 25 * 64 fish were rescued, with an average weight of 300 grams from the suction tube of a generating unit at the Porto Colombia HPP, in February 2019. All fish were under optimum conditions and were released in the reservoir. Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 80 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Source of hydroelectric generation Repopulation of fish (Number of fingerlings) 80 1,156 44,648 Leakage of lubricant and hydraulic oils in the turbines (Tons/year or m³/year, depending on the type of oil) 0 0 0 Recovery of areas degraded resulting from the extraction of coal and its waste generated (Total recovered area (ha) per year and resources allocated in NA NA NA recovery and preservation projects) (BRL / year) Consumption of replacement water during generation (m³/MWh) NA NA ND Source of wind generation** Performance indicators Noise associated with power generation (decibels) NA 60.7 47.94 Interference in radio waves (unit of measurement or occurrences per year) ND ND ND Number of birds killed due to collision with turbine blades per year 0 0 0 ND (Not Available) NA (Not Applicable) ** In August 2018, Brasventos was transferred to Eletrobras as payment in kind. Thus, there is no wind SPE in operation. Environmental performance indicators transmission companies 2019 2018 2017 Plant suppression (hectares of area suppressed per quarter) 1.36 0 2.7583 Pruning (kg of waste generated per month) ND ND ND Oil leakage (m3) |GRI 306-3| 1.17 0.88 10.9 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 81 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action SOCIAL AUDIT 1 Calculation Basis 2019 Amount (BRL thousand) 2018 Amount (BRL thousand) * restated Net Revenue (NR) 8,668,451 8,470,683 Operating Income (OI) 3,443,124 1,668,452 Gross payroll (GP) 1,143,603 1,107,482 Amount Amount 2 Internal Social Indicators % over GP % over NR % over GP % over NR (thousand) (thousand) Meals 47,662 4.17% 0.55% 55,588 5.02% 0.66% Compulsory social charges 248,300 21.71% 2.86% 258,146 23.31% 3.05% Private pension 47,401 4.14% 0.55% 45,034 4.07% 0.53% Health 159,312 13.93% 1.84% 164,150 14.82% 1.94% Occupational health and safety 8,162 0.71% 0.09% 8,088 0.73% 0.10% Education 2,674 0.23% 0.03% 3,322 0.30% 0.04% Culture 1,487 0.13% 0.02% 1,484 0.13% 0.02% Training and professional development 12,961 1.13% 0.15% 16,805 1.52% 0.20% Childcare or childcare assistance 15,153 1.33% 0.17% 15,358 1.39% 0.18% Profit sharing 60,285 5.27% 0.70% 21,096 1.90% 0.25% Other 96,017 8.40% 1.11% 94,785 8.56% 1.12% Total Internal social indicators 699,414 61.16% 8.06% 683,856 61.75% 8.07% Amount Amount 3 External Social Indicators % over GP % over NR % over GP % over NR (thousand) (thousand) Education 17,686 0.51% 0.20% 21,342 1.28% 0.25% Culture 8,078 0.23% 0.09% 15,347 0.92% 0.18% Health and Sanitation 503 0.01% 0.01% 676 0.04% 0.01% Sports 1,665 0.05% 0.02% 3,926 0.24% 0.05% Hunger relief and food safety 7 0 0 15 0 0 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 82 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Other 11,690 0.34% 0.13% 5,661 0.34% 0.07% Total contributions to society 39,629 1.15% 0.46% 46,967 2.82% 0.55% Taxes (less payroll charges) 2,623,500 76.20% 30.26% 1,816,905 108.90% 21.45% Total External social indicators 2,663,129 77.35% 30.72% 1,863,872 111.71% 22% Amount Amount 4 Environmental Indicators % over GP % over NR % over GP % over NR (thousand) (thousand) Investments related to the company's production / operation 43,153 1.25% 0.50% 41,505 2.49% 0.49% Investments in external programs and/or projects 79,568 2.31% 0.92% 56,953 3.41% 0.67% Total investments in environment 122,721 3.56% 1.12% 98,458 5.90% 1.16% (X) does not have goals ( ) fulfills 51 to 75% (X) does not have goals ( ) fulfills 51 to 75% Regarding the establishment of “annual goals” to minimize waste, overall consumption in production/operation, and increase efficiency in the use of natural resources, the Company ( ) fulfills 0 to 50% ( ) fulfills 76 to 100% ( ) fulfills 0 to 50% ( ) fulfills 76 to 100% 5 Personnel Indicators 2019 2018 Number of employees at the end of the period 2,832 3,037 Number of hires in the period 111 15 Number of outsourced employees 0 1,046 Number of interns 191 301 Number of employees older than 45 1,832 1,502 Number of women working in the company 514 549 % leadership positions held by women 20.60% 19.05% Number of black employees working in the company 843 718 % leadership positions held by black employees 11.61% 10.95% Number of people with disability or special needs 192*** 196** 6 Relevant information on corporate citizenship 2019 Metas 2020 Ratio between the highest and lowest remuneration in the company 54 <10 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 83 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Total number of workplace accidents 21 2.67 (x) Directors and (x) Directors and The social and environmental projects developed by the company were defined by: ( ) Directors ( ) All employees ( ) Directors ( ) All employees Managers Managers ( ) Directors and ( ) Directors and Standards of health and safety in the workplace were defined by: ( ) All employees (x) All + CIPA ( ) All employees (x) All + CIPA Managers Managers Regarding freedom of association, right to collective bargaining ( ) will follow (x) encourages and ( ) will not get ( ) will follow (x) will encourage ( ) Is not involved and internal worker representation, the company: ILO standards follows the ILO involved ILO standards and follow the ILO ( ) Directors and ( ) Directors and Private pensions are for: ( ) Directors (x) All employees ( ) Directors (x) All employees Managers Managers ( ) Directors and ( ) Directors and Profit sharing is for: ( ) Directors (x) All employees ( ) Directors (x) All employees Managers Managers When selecting suppliers, the same ethical standards and social and ( ) Are not ( ) will not be ( ) will be suggested (x) are required ( ) will be suggested (x) will be required environmental responsibility adopted by the Company: considered considered (X) Organizes and ( ) will not get (x) will organize Regarding employee participation in volunteer work, the company: ( ) Is not involved ( ) supports ( ) will support encourages involved and encourage at Procon In Court Total number of consumer complaints and grievances: in the company NA in the company NA at Procon NA In Court NA NA NA at Procon In Court % grievances and complaints addressed or resolved: in the company NA in the company NA at Procon NA In Court NA NA NA Total value added for distribution (in BRL thousand): In 2019: 9,933,773 In 2018: 6,877,539 • 14.06% government • 24.77% government • 11.51% employees • 16.10% employees Value added distribution (DVA): • 7.68% shareholders • 3.98% shareholders • 42.06% third parties • 43.56% third parties • -24.69% retained • 11.59% retained Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 84 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action GRI CONTENT INDEX Disclosure Page/Direct Answer GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Page 8 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Page 8 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 8 102-4 Location of operations Brazil 102-5 Ownership and legal form Joint-stock company controlled by Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S.A. – Eletrobras. 102-6 Markets served Page 8 102-7 Scale of the organization Pages 8, 17 and 56 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Pages 56, 71 and 73 102-9 Supply chain Page 63 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Pages 8 and 63 Our risk management is guided by the precautionary principle, seeking to anticipate and 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach avoid negative impacts or prepare to act if any identified risks occurs. 102-12 External initiatives Pages 9 and 10 102-13 Membership of associations Page 40 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Page 6 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Page 22 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Page 35 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Page 23 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Page 18 102-19 Delegating authority Page 18 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 85 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Disclosure Page/Direct Answer 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Page 40 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Page 24 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Pages 18 and 56 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The chairman of the highest governance body is not an executive director. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Page 18 102-25 Conflicts of interest Page 26 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Page 35 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Page 20 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Pages 20 and 35 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Pages 18 and 22 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Page 22 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Pages 18 and 22 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Fiscal Committee and Board of Directors. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Page 22 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Page 18 102-35 Remuneration policies Pages 20 and 72 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Page 20 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Page 20 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 3.88 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 1.39 Stakeholder engagement Employees, Government agencies (Ministry of Mines and Energy, Energy Research Company, Chamber of Electric Energy Commercialization, National Electricity Agency and other bodies of the three 102-40 List of stakeholder groups government spheres, including environmental bodies), National System Operator, controlling shareholder (Eletrobras), minority shareholders, Special Purpose Entities (SPEs), suppliers, civil society, communities, customers, unions and teaching and research institutions. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 100% Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 86 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Disclosure Page/Direct Answer Stakeholders Communication and Engagement Policy with Eletrobras Companies, Management and Sustainability Reports, Environmental Impact Study Reports, Public meetings and hearings, Social Communication, Environmental Education and Social 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Responsibility Programs Reports, Internal and external communication channels (Furnas website, ombudsman, Talk to the President, HR and Compliance portals, Ethics Commission, 0800 phones and other). 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Pages 4, 62 and 64 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 4 Reporting Practices The financial statements published by Furnas include all of its subsidiaries and Special 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Purpose Entities (SPEs). 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Page 4 102-47 List of material topics Page 42 Since 2018, the total number of employees has been accounted for according to the criteria 102-48 Restatements of information adopted by Eletrobras and other companies in the group, which may cause differences in figures reported in previous reports. 102-49 Changes in reporting There were none 102-50 Reporting period Page 4 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustentabilidadeemp@furnas.com.br 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core 102-55 GRI content index Page 85 102-56 External assurance Furnas does not submit its Sustainability Reports for external assurance. Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary All material topics are relevant inside and outside the organization. 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 18, 38, 45, 48, 51, 56, 60, 61 and 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 18, 38, 45, 48, 51, 56, 60, 61 and 63 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 87 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Disclosure Page/Direct Answer Specific Content ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Pages 32, 72 and 74 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Page 46 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Page 76 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Page 76 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Page 63 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Page 23 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Page 23 There was a case of fraudulent contractual management that generated an ongoing 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken administrative improbity process. ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Pages 78 and 79 302-3 Energy intensity Page 78 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Page 45 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Page 45 Water and Effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Pages 48 and 80 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Page 48 303-3 Water withdrawal Page 48 303-4 Water discharge Page 48 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 88 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Disclosure Page/Direct Answer 303-5 Water consumption Page 48 Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 304-1 Page 51 protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Page 51 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Page 51 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the 304-4 Page 53 operations of the organization, by level of extinction risk Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Pages 47 and 78 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Pages 47 and 78 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Pages 47 and 78 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Page 47 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Page 78 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Page 47 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination Page 78 306-3 Significant spills Page 81 Weight of transported, imported, exported and treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 306-4 Page 78 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally SOCIAL DISCLOSURES Employment 401-1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and rate of employee turnover, by age group, gender and region Page 56 All benefits are offered to all direct employees, with no difference by period or type of 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees employment contract. 401-3 Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender Page 56 Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Page 61 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 89 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Disclosure Page/Direct Answer 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Pages 61 and 74 403-3 Occupational health services Page 61 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety Page 61 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Page 60 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Page 60 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Page 60 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Diversity of governance bodies and employees with percentage of individuals by gender, age group, minority or vulnerable 405-1 Page 56 groups and other indicators of diversity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Pages 56 and 60 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Page 56 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Page 63 Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor Page 63 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Page 63 Security Practices In all, 82% of the own and outsourced security staff were trained in policies and procedures 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures to respect human rights. Indigenous Rights 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Page 70 Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments There were no assessments. 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Page 64 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 90 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Disclosure Page/Direct Answer Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights 412-3 Page 63 screening Local Communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Page 64 Public Policy Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made by the organization by country and recipient/ 415-1 There were none beneficiary GRI Content Index 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Page 26 SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Organizational Profile EU1 Installed capacity (MW), broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime Pages 9, 10, 27 and 71 EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime Pages 27 and 71 EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime Pages 29 and 71 EU6 Management approach to ensure short and long-term electricity availability and reliability Pages 28 and 29 Research and Development (DMA) Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting EU8 Page 38 sustainable development Availability and Reliability Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by energy source and regulatory EU10 Page 27 regime System Efficiency EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy Pages 29 and 71 Biodiversity EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas Pages 51 Availability and Reliability EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce Pages 51 Employment EU16 Policies and requirements regarding health and safety of employees and employees of contractors and subcontractors Page 61 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 91 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action Disclosure Page/Direct Answer Local Communities EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement Page 64 Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response (DMA) Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training programs, and recovery/ EU21 Page 65 restoration plans Access EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source Page 27 SASB INDICATORS INFRASTRUCTURE ELECTRIC UTILITIES & POWER GENERATORS Greenhouse Gas Emissions & Energy Resource Planning Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and IF-EU-110a.3 Page 45 an analysis of performance against those targets Air Quality IF-EU-120.a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: NOX (excluding N2O), SOX, particulate matter (PM10), lead (Pb) and mercury (Hg) Page 45 Water Management Total water withdrawn, total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water IF-EU-140a.1 Page 49 Stress IF-EU-140a.3 Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks Page 48 Accounting Metrics IF-EU-000.A Number of residential, commercial, and industrial customers served Page 30 IF-EU-000.C Length of transmission and distribution lines Page 29 IF-EU-000.D Total electricity generated, percentage by major energy source, percentage in regulated markets Page 27 IF-EU-000.E Total wholesale electricity purchased Page 30 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 92 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action CAPITALS MAP Understand in detail how we generate value for our stakeholders, in each Capital, in the pages indicated below: INTELLECTUAL NATURAL FINANCIAL Capital Capital Capital • How we create value XX • Management XX • Financial Results XX • Strategy XX • Climate changes XX • R&D and innovation XX • Water XX • Commitment to • Biodiversity XX Sustainability XX • Employees XX MANUFACTURED HUMAN SOCIAL AND Capital Capital RELATIONSHIP Capital • Furnas XX • Employees XX • System map XX • Suppliers XX • About this report XX • Operation XX • Outlook XX • Corporate governance XX • Ethical and Integral Performance XX • Employees XX • Customers XX • Suppliers XX • Communities XX Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 93 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action SDG MAP We have incorporated into our strategic planning the priority SDGs defined by the Holding for all Eletrobras Companies, which are: 7, 8, 9, 13 and 16. We also count on a comprehensive revalidation process of the priority SDGs, involving employees and other stakeholders. Below, we refer to the pages where we present our contribution to the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, the result of the Company’s commitment that carries in its history the pioneering spirit in social action. Page 56 Page 56 Page 56 Page 56 Page 56 Page 69 Page 71 Page 71 Page 71 Page 71 Page 71 Page 08 Page 08 Page 08 Page 56 Page 11 Page 17 Page 27 Page 56 Page 35 Page 71 Page 56 Page 35 Page 71 Page 71 Page 35 Page 43 Page 43 Page 17 Page 35 Page 43 Page 56 Page 56 Page 71 Page 71 Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 94 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action CREDITS HEAD OFFICE EMPLOYEES THAT HAVE CONTRIBUTED WITH INFORMATION TO THIS REPORT Rua Real Grandeza, 219 / Botafogo Rio de Janeiro, RJ / CEP 22281-900 • Akilla Brito Santos • Fabrini Muniz Galo • Marco Antônio Fernandes da Tel.: 55 21 2528-3112 / www.furnas.com.br • Alcides Joaquim de Santana • Frailda Ferreira da Silva Costa • Alexandre Correa Moreira • Felipe de Araújo Amaral • Marco Antônio Macedo Santos PRODUCTION • Alexandre Franca Piersanti • Felipe Silva Cabral • Marcos Machado de Almeida COORDINATION • Ana Claudia Fernandes • Fernanda Menezes Fernandes • Marcos Martinelli Borges President’s office – Daniel Leguisamo Daisson Strategy Management and Corporate Sustainability Management – Paola Marconi Gesteira de Oliveira • Milena Fagundes Baptista • Ana Cristina Costa Bezerra • Fernanda Merhy Lagrotta Ferreira RESEARCH AND INFORMATION GATHERING • Ana Paula Moreno • Flávio Correia Cardoso • Monique Aguiar Norkus Alan Roberto Bernardo Sucupira • Anselmo Garcia Sobrosa • Flávio Ivan Barbier • Paola Bonow Balthazar da Alexandre Sampaio da Fonseca e Silva • André Carlos Prates Cimbleris • Florys Fabia Almeida Pereira Silveira Evandro Gomes Machado • André Millions Coutinho Tosta • Priscilla de Medeiros João Leonardo da Silva Soito • André Nogueira Ila • Gisela Moreira Mendes de Gonçalves Lisangela Gnocchi da Costa Reis • Andrea Bisaggio Oliveira • Rachel Zerbinato Bispo Maria Tereza Mayer Fernandes • Bernardo Braga Teixeira • Helena Elizabeth Kulnig de • Renato da Mota Oliveira WRITING, INTEGRATED REPORTING AND GRI CONSULTING, TRANSLATION, DESIGN • Betânia de Andrade Carvalho Bragança • Ricardo Sforza AND LAYOUT • Carlos Eduardo de Menezes • Isabella Dantas Leite • Roberto Campos de Oliveira Ricca Sustentabilidade • Carolina Galdino Ramalho • Jansen Castrillon Nunes • Robson Moraes da Silva • Cristiane Farias Camacho • Jose Henrique da Costa • Ronan Gustavo Carvalho • Claudia Regina Tenorio • José Roberto Lobo Mendes • Sandra Maria Mariano da Silva Monteiro • Juliana Laranjeira Gomes • Sandra Martins Verboonen • Demisclei Beni Gutierrez • Juliana de Mattos Longo • Sérgio Ricardo Fernandes • Denise Chiarelli Fonseca • Katia de Oliveira Veloso • Severino dos Ramos Marinho • Eduardo da Costa Faria • Katia Panno Ribeiro • Tatiana Correa Stutz • Eduardo Hatherly • Lázaro Menezes de Brito • Tatiana Guimarães Pires • Eliana Maria Granado • Leandro Lima • Túlio de Oliveira Pisaneschi • Eloa Peres Geraldo • Livia Maria Krykhtine Lira • Vera Lúcia Caamano • Erica Cruz Rosa de Oliveira • Luciana dos Santos Lulianelli • Viviane Duarte dos Santos • Erika Helena Laun Gonçalves • Luiz Fernando da Costa e • Yuri Rosenblum de Souza • Estênio Amaral e Souza Cunha • Zuleide Pontes • Ezimar Pantoja Sacramento • Marcelo Roberto Rocha • Fábio Ribeiro Pizzo • Marcia de Sena Melo Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 95 Corporate Operational Transformation Environmental Relationships and Introduction Performance ATTACHMENTS Profile Excellence And Future Vision Management Social Action PHOTO CAPTIONS AND CREDITS Page Caption Credit 50 Lonopsis paniculata Orchid Flora Survey TL Angra/Angra (RJ) Adriano Rodrigues Squirrel or Caxinguelê (Guerlinguetus ingrami) Fauna monitoring TL Angra2 UHE Furnas (MG) AC Júnior 50 Adriano Rodrigues Angra (RJ) Papagaio verdadeiro (Amazona aestiva) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Porto Chopim do brejo (Pseudoleistes guirahuro) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Porto 13 Adriano Rodrigues 51 Adriano Rodrigues Colômbia (MG/SP) Colômbia (MG/SP) 16 UHE Itumbiara (GO/MG) AC Júnior 52 Irerê (Dendrocygna viduata) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Porto Colômbia (MG/SP) Adriano Rodrigues 22 LT Foz do Iguaçu Ivaiporã (PR) Daniela Monteiro 54 Seedlings from the Nascentes de Furnas Project (MG) Furnas Collection 24 “Advanced Compliance and Risk Themes” Training Daniela Monteiro 55 Onça parda (Puma concolor) – Fauna monitoring – UHE Marimbondo (MG/SP) Renato Moreira 29 Recovery of Towers TL Furnas Itutinga (MG) Daniela Monteiro 58 SE Campinas (SP) Furnas Collection 30 UHE Peixe Angical (TO) AC Júnior 59 New Furnas Headquarters (RJ) Furnas Collection 34 SE Campinas (SP) Furnas Collection 60 Basic Concepts of the Electrical Sector” training (RJ) Tereza Travassos 35 UHE Funil (RJ) AC Júnior 61 Transmission Line Maintenance Daniela Monteiro 37 LT Furnas Itutinga (MG) Daniela Monteiro 65 UHE Marimbondo (MG/SP) José Lins 39 Inova Furnas Program Team Furnas Collection 67 Integration Centers Program Furnas Collection 41 SE Foz do Iguaçu (PR) Furnas Collection 68 11th Coffee with Women Entrepreneurs (RJ) Tereza Travassos Green tree frog (Aplastodiscus eugenioi) Wildlife monitoring TL Angra/ 44 Furnas Collection 68 Red Lantern Show China National Ballet Renato Mangolin Angra (RJ) 45 SE São José (RJ) José Lins 69 Floating Garbage Collection UHE Simplício (RJ) Furnas Collection 46 SE Viana (ES) Furnas Collection Furnas | 2019 Annual Report 96
