United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019-2020 In 2015, the Chambers Federation joined the United Nations Global Compact. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The table below shows how we are communicating on progress for the Ten Principles. For further information on the Chambers Federations sustainability principles and practices please visit http://www.chambersfederation.com/sustainability/ or https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/64881 to view our participation with the UN Global Compact. Global Compact Principles Human Rights The Chambers Federation works in collaboration with several development stakeholders that focus, in part, on both the protection Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of human rights but also to assist the Company in ensuring is does not of internationally proclaimed human rights. directly or indirectly engage in human rights violations. Due to the Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in Company’s investments into CAHRAs, this is one of the most human rights abuses. important due diligence standards the Company focuses on. A fulltime compliance officer and intern team manage this internally and audit on a regular basis. Labor Standards Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association The Company regularly inspects its upstream partners farms/mine and the effective recognition of the right to collective sites/offices and does everything possible to ensure any organized bargaining groups, typically cooperatives, that the Company invests into/works with are compliant with both local and international forced labor, Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of child labor, discrimination and collective forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child bargaining laws. This is further monitored by internal audits to ensure labor. the Company’s efforts are effective. The Company also invests into rural communities to provide women and youth empowerment Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of opportunities to further the Company’s investment focus on social discrimination in respect of employment and impact. occupation. Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to The Chambers Federation incorporates environmental protection into environmental responsibility. its supplier contracts, monitors environmental impact of its investments and actively invests in new technologies to create a ‘net Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote positive’ environmental impact from all of its projects. The Company greater environmental responsibility. finds many opportunities, specifically in the ASM community, to Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and substantially reduce, even eliminate the usage of Mercury(Hg), diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Cyanide(NaCN) and Nitric Acid(HNO3). Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its The Chambers Federation is a US company, subject to FCPA forms, including extortion and bribery. regulations. All of the Company’s accounts are restricted in use to limit the possibilities of corruption. Measurement of Outcomes For the 2019-2020 reporting period, the Chambers Federation has successfully continued to invest into the women-led organization, the Fair Congo Initiatives, now known as “I Am Origins®”, and begun expansion program for its entry into several new CAHRAs to expand its social impact model. To date, the Fair Congo Initiatives have: recycled over 10 tons of wood waste to produce office and home furniture; produced and exported the DRC’s first premium chocolate and confectionary ingredients also grown and produced entirely by women; exported the first responsible gold from a CAHRA to the US and European markets; begun producing the first woman-made jewelry in-country from responsible gold. To view our reporting on supply chain incidents please visit: http://chambersfederation.com/supply-chain-incident-reporting-step-5-oecd-ddg/ Sept 4th, 2020 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT, REAFFIRMATION To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the Chambers Federation reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. To view more detailed information on the impact of the Chambers Federations investments and initiatives please visit: http://www.chambersfederation.com Thank you Matthew Chambers, Chairman www.chambersfederation.com US Secretary of State Award for Corporate Excellence (ACE) recipient Building Inclusive, Sustainable Business in Conflict-Affected & High-Risk Areas
