UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 07/2019 12/2020 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE ASSIST DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS LTD (ADS) committed to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on 6th June 2019. I am pleased to confirm that ADS reaffirm its support of the 10 Principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. As a provider of development consultancy services to so many prominent international businesses and organisations it is enormously beneficial for us to have clear principles to unambiguously align our sustainability agenda with so many other committed organisations. Our goal has consistently been to run a good business in the right way. Adhering to the principles gives us a clear framework for our business strategy and operational processes. We passionately believe that this makes us a better business partner, employer, and adviser to our clients. Our participation in the UNGC program was promoted by adopting basic principles of supporting all the UN Sustainable Development Goals in the way we conduct our business. We felt that the 10 principles of the UNGC are aligned to our own principles of conduct. We are proud to share homogenous ideas with and be a part of an international development on the endeavour towards the better worldly professional ethical conducts. UNGC Kenya network has executed many programs of their agenda which we have always put our best effort to attend and participate in the past one year. We, ASSIST DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS LIMITED, are committed to persevere in embracing and implementing the 10 UNGC principles through our daily professional activities. Yours Sincerely, Effective Date: 18-MAY-2020 ______________________ Klaus Ehret Director Africa ASSIST DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS LIMITED 2 COMPANY PROFILE ASSIST DEVELOPMENT SOLUTIONS LIMITED (ADS), is an affiliate of ASSIST Asia and was established in Kenya in 2018 to solidify ASSIST’s development interest and better serve the African region. Based in Nairobi and led by a team of successful management professionals with over 25 years of industry experience and knowledge of Africa, ADS serve as a key local project coordination arm for ASSIST in a number of sustainable projects being executed within the continent. ADS is committed to driving sustainable developments and social impact in Africa through 3 intervention areas: • We conceptualize, implement, and help manage innovative and scalable pilot solutions through Public-Private Partnerships. • We address Communication, Visibility and Knowledge Management needs of development stakeholders for their interventions. • We provide development consulting and technical advisory services to help organizations navigate an increasingly complex regional and global trade environments and improve market access through sustainable solutions. Over the last 15 years, ASSIST has been primarily involved in providing capacity building and technical assistance at enterprise, professional and community levels across a variety of subject matter and markets. Besides our own internal projects, ASSIST has successfully implemented over 300+ projects in collaboration with bilateral and multilateral donors and organizations such as the UNICEF, UNEP, UNIDO, UNFPA, ADB, IFC, DEG, GIZ and the EU across 20 countries, and are highly familiar with the processes and expectations associated with donor-funded projects. As part of the ASSIST global network, ADS utilize both local and international experts to run various successful projects in order to maintain quality and consistency in delivery across geographical locations where we operate. Driven by passion for sustainable development that supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), our team thrives in providing solutions to complex and challenging issues through unique partnership models that connects policy makers, stakeholders, and communities in a truly sustainable manner. At present, ASSIST focuses on 4 key sectors – Private Sector Development & Engagement Partnerships; Energy and Natural Resources; Agriculture and Rural Development and Human Development 3 THE 10 PRINCIPLES AND DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. How ADS has implemented the principles of Human rights: • We have created a system encouraging employees to share their thoughts on the development of the company, to help enhance their sense of belonging and drive our business. • We started to hold weekly meetings where employees feel free to talk about their work or life problems, and we would try to help them solve these problems in a timely manner, so that they would feel more valued and become more engaged. • Ensuring all employees get to rest well to protect their health and wellbeing all employees are entitled to 21 days annul leave and 2 days of each calendar week (weekends) for rest. • Promoting gender equality very keen on achieving a 50%/50% gender balance in the workplace in support of SDG 5. • Ensuring there is a clear understanding of having mutual respect between the employer and the employee and vice versa. • Ensuring no form of discrimination happens at the workplace regardless of employee’s religion, tribe and even social background from the recruitment process, compensation and even availing of training opportunities. • Highly supporting the UN SDGs through all our projects. We only engage in projects that are in support of the SDGs otherwise we do not engage. • Doing due diligence to ensure the company does not get into a working relationship with any organisation whose activities will or might adversely impact human rights in any way. • Continuously initiating and engaging in projects that aim at improving livelihoods of different people in the community. • Committing to continue monitoring risks of human rights violations and the protection of human rights for all projects we engage ourselves in. Goals for the coming years: • Availing a nondiscriminative medical cover to all employees. • Creating a Human Rights Policy that will govern all employees and other stakeholders in protection of the human rights. 4 Measurements of outcomes: Internally, the directors ensure that all grievances are addressed fairly and in line with the UN Global Compact principles and in accordance with the laws of the countries we operate in. We have also managed to achieve a gender balance among the employees. The employees have never experienced discrimination on the grounds of their race, age, gender, marital status, religion, ethnicity or physical disability in the company. We have seen no investigation, lawsuit, punishment, or other incidents concerning human rights infringement at ADS. We have not identified any instances within the organization causing or contributing to any adverse human rights incidents. Externally, we have initiated projects that have and continue improving livelihoods of people in the bottom of the pyramid and at the same time promoting the SDGs. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. How ADS has implemented the principles of labor: • Our company is small sized and has a highly collaborative culture where employees can express any labor issues openly. • All our offer letters to our employees highlight employee rights, responsibilities, compensation, and benefits and are all written in a language that the employee clearly understands. • We ensure all employees are compensated fairly – above the minimum wage. • Ensuring we do not engage in any form of child labor – All our employees are of legal age. • Ensuring employees are selected based on their ability to do the job and that there is no distinction, exclusion or preference made on other grounds. • Ensuring free-will based employment – We do not restriction on employees’ freedom or force them to stay employed by us through menace of any penalty including sanctions, threats, violence, loss of rights of privileges, etc. We make fair and respectful employee separation arrangements. 5 • Committing to comply with all legislative requirements and aligning ourselves to best practice. Goals for the coming years: • Establishing programs to promote access to skills development training. Measurements of outcomes: We measure the number of labor related violations in accordance with Global Compact Labor principles (e.g. compulsory labor, child labor, discrimination) and are pleased to report none to date. In addition, from a diversity perspective, we have achieved a gender balance and equality in our company. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. How ADS has implemented the principles of Environment: • Continuously looking for ways to reduce our environmental footprint, from using recycled content and reducing unnecessary travel. We are actively focusing on reducing our footprint by printing less paper and communicating more electronically. • We have initiated a stair climbing campaign in our office building – this aims to encourage minimal use of elevators and encourage more use of the stairs. As the initiators of the campaign, we are leading by example, none of our staff members use the elevators and climb up eight floors. We are looking at pushing the campaign in many other buildings in the city. • We are currently working on an environment educative board game (risk land) – this aims at teaching people how to be prepared in case of different disasters as well as educate on several ways to take care of the environment we live in. Measurements of outcomes: In the past year, ADS was not involved in any environmental pollution incidents. We will continue to strictly abide by environmental protection principles, proactively echo relevant initiatives launched by the UN and the Kenyan government, and further contribute to the sustainable development of the world. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. How ADS has embraced the principle of Anti-Corruption: • Having the company and all employees committed to achieving a high standard of ethical behavior in everything we do. Ethics and Integrity are a key part of the company’s core values. Goals for the coming years: • We aim at having all our employees sign a professional code of conduct where principles of teamwork, mutual respect, collaboration are included in addition to our core focus of ethics and integrity. We are all responsible to ensure ethics and integrity in our everyday work. • We aim to develop a code of conduct that our employees will review and sign up to on a yearly basis. • We aim to create a policy requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to anticorruption principles. Measurements of outcomes: Corruption is not tolerated in our business. We are always ready to go to the extent of turning down any business opportunities if any corruption incident arises from it. The directors are always working to ensure that business deals we get involved in are transparent and in line with our professional code of conduct. So far there has been no investigation, lawsuit, ruling, fine, and other incidents related to corruption in all its forms at ADS. We will continue to comply with relevant laws and regulations and make greater anti-corruption efforts. 7 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SDGs Our Work In delivering services to our clients, we seek to create positive impact in wider, global spheres. Our continued support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals allows us to collaborate with nonprofits and community partners. We strive to empower our communities and improve livelihoods. As our business grows, we continue investing in our operations practices to reduce our environmental footprint further. We are keen on leveraging our resources and expertise to work towards a fair and just world, with environmental and social justice for all. In a deliberate move to preach the SDGs gospel, we have initiated a game-based approach to SDGs education in schools and universities. We have developed a board game with an aim of educating school-going kids, students and even parents on SDGs and at the same time supporting the Kenya’s government Big Four agenda. The aim is to reach at least 10,000 pupils in the first year and increase the number by as many as 10,000 participants each of the following years through school tournaments. In the past year, we have worked on projects aiming to provide clean and safe drinking water to the informal settlements with an objective of supporting SDG 3 (good health and well being) and SDG 6 (clean water and sanitation). With this project we are targeting to reach at least 32,000 people in the urban slum of Mathare, Nairobi, Kenya. Together with the UN Habitat, we are working on a slum upgrading project with the aim of identifying innovative and creative business models for investing in informal settlements, unlocking possibilities in the informal economy in Africa while improving lives sustainably. The project is addressing problems across all sectors experienced by people in the urban slums and supports all the SDGs. We have also partnered with two other private sector organisations and foreign co-funding agencies to empower smallholder farmers to continuously produce high quantities of safe and quality produce that will constantly offer the current farmers higher and stable incomes while attracting more farmers into the supply value chain hence improving livelihoods and creating more employment opportunities for youth and women. The target groups are: 1. 2,500 smallholder mango and avocado farmers and their families accounting for appr. 12,500 beneficiaries plus over 500 jobs generated among Youth and Women within the supply chain. 2. 40,000 coffee farmers and their families accounting for appr. 200,000 beneficiaries plus over 2,000 jobs generated among Youth and Women in the supply chain. 8
