Länsförsäkringar AB Annual Report Länsförsäkringar’s logo turned 50 in 2019. About us Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar in brief Länsförsäkringar AB is wholly owned by the regional Länsförsäkringar comprises 23 local and customer­insurance companies, together with 15 local insurowned regional insurance companies and the jointly ance companies. Through its distinct role in the Länsowned Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries. försäkringar Alliance’s value chain, Länsförsäkringar Customers are provided with a complete offering of AB contributes to increasing competitiveness and banking, insurance, pension and real-estate brokerreducing costs for joint development. In turn, this age services through the regional insurance compacreates possibilities for the regional insurance comnies. The regional insurance companies are owned panies to be successful in their respective markets. by the insurance customers. There are no external In addition to the Parent Company, Länsförsäkringar shareholders and meeting customer needs and AB, the Group consists of Länsförsäkringar Sak, Länsrequirements is always the primary task. The Länsförsäkringar Bank, Länsförsäkringar Fondliv, Länsförsäkringar Alliance has 3.9 million customers and försäkringar Liv and the subsidiaries of these compa7,200 employees. nies. Länsförsäkringar Liv is not consolidated in the Group since the company is operated according to mutual principles. 3.9 million customers 23 local regional insurance companies Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB Bank AB Fondliv Försäkrings AB Liv Försäkrings AB Supplements the regional insurOffers a broad range of banking Offers pension savings with fund Manages traditional life assurance companies’ non-life insurservices to the regional insurmanagement and guarantee ance taken out before Septemance offering with specialist ance companies’ customers management and personal-risk ber 2011 when the company was products, serves as an engine through Länsförsäkringar insurance to the regional insurclosed for new business. for new business and is respon­Hypotek, Länsförsäkringar Fondance companies’ customers. sible for joint reinsurance. förvaltning and Wasa Kredit. We make and keep a joint promise in 23 regional accents. Rating Company Agency Long-term rating Short-term rating Länsförsäkringar AB S&P Global Ratings A–/Stable – Länsförsäkringar AB Moody’s A3/Stable – Länsförsäkringar Bank S&P Global Ratings A/Stable A–1 (K–1) Länsförsäkringar Bank Moody’s A1/Stable P–1 Länsförsäkringar Hypotek1) S&P Global Ratings AAA/Stable – Länsförsäkringar Hypotek 1) Moody’s Aaa – Länsförsäkringar Sak S&P Global Ratings A/Stable – Länsförsäkringar Sak Moody’s A2/Stable – 1) Pertains to the company’s covered bonds. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 The 2019 fiscal year Earnings 2019 Figures in parentheses pertain to 2018 •• Operating profit for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group increased to SEK 3,003 M (2,351). The return on equity amounted to 10% (9). •• Operating profit for the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group rose to SEK 851 M (460). The combined ratio amounted to 95.8% (93.5). •• Operating profit for the Länsförsäkringar Bank increased to SEK 1,893 M (1,510). Net interest income rose to SEK 4,617 M (4,497). •• Operating profit for Länsförsäkringar Fondliv rose to SEK 738 M (673). Premium income increased to SEK 9,478 M (9,010). Commission and fee income increased to SEK 1,779 M (1,671). Operating profit for the Operating profit, Bank Combined ratio non-life insurance Managed assets, unit-linked insurance Länsförsäkringar AB Group SEK 3.0 bn SEK 1.9 96% 159 bn SEK bn Five-year summary 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Länsförsäkringar AB, Group1) Operating profit, SEK M 3,003 2,351 2,825 2,286 2,155 Equity per share, SEK 2,754 2,462 2,269 2,046 1,858 Total assets, SEK M 572,594 506,835 473,773 421,816 384,595 Return on equity, % 10 9 11 10 11 Own funds for the group (FRL)2) 50,220 43,870 44,172 40,602 36,9053) Solvency capital requirement for the group (FRL)2), SEK M 37,776 33,874 33,441 30,121 28,2333) Own funds for the financial conglomerate, SEK M 50,220 43,870 44,172 40,352 – Capital requirement for the financial conglomerate, SEK M 37,776 33,874 33,441 30,121 – Länsförsäkringar Sak, Group Premiums earned after ceded reinsurance, SEK M 6,211 5,891 5,623 5,342 5,074 Technical result for insurance operations, SEK M 283 402 977 435 821 Operating profit, SEK M 851 460 1,028 644 908 Solvency ratio, % (Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB) 221 228 221 260 2353) Länsförsäkringar Bank, Group Deposits from the public, SEK M 119,303 108,142 99,404 91,207 83,925 Loans to the public, SEK M 307,099 289,426 261,444 226,705 201,964 Operating profit, SEK M 1,893 1,510 1,599 1,467 1,175 Return on equity, % 9.5 8.3 10.0 10.1 8.9 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Bank Group, % 13.9 14.2 24.34) 24.84) 23.74) Tier 1 ratio, Bank Group, % 16.0 15.5 26.84) 27.54) 26.64) Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Premium income, SEK M 9,478 9,010 9,133 8,637 8,645 Operating profit, SEK M 738 673 600 512 516 Managed assets, SEK M 158,827 125,805 128,140 114,450 102,807 Solvency ratio, % 137 135 152 150 1413) Länsförsäkringar Liv (not consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB) Premium income, SEK M 1,539 1,684 1,533 1,720 1,919 Net profit for the year, SEK M 5,567 609 3,121 2,359 5,143 Collective consolidation ratio, New Trad, % 112 105 117 114 114 Collective consolidation ratio, Old Trad, % 131 124 123 125 120 Solvency ratio, % 211 200 207 195 1823) 1) Excluding Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB, which is operated in accordance with mutual principles. 2) According to Swedish Insurance Business Act (FRL), the Solvency II directive in Swedish law. 3) Opening balance on 1 January 2016 under Solvency II. 4) The risk weight floor for mortgages in Pillar II. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Contents Introduction 1 The year in brief Länsförsäkringar AB’s role is 2 Statement by the President 4 About Länsförsäkringar AB to be the best partner for the 6 Companies and offering regional insurance companies so that 8 Our business environment 10 Vision, values and targets they can realise the customer promise 12 How we create value of creating a simpler everyday life and a more secure future. A very strong Sustainability Report 14 Sustainability sense of pride is built up within the 18 Responsible offering Länsförsäkringar Alliance from the 24 Responsible business conduct Swedish Quality Index’s customer satis­ 29 Environmental and social ­responsibility faction surveys showing year after year that Länsförsäkringar has Sweden’s Financial statements 31 Board of Directors’ Report most satisfied customers. But good 42 Corporate Governance Report can always be better, so we are focusing 50 Five-year summary on even more satisfied customers! 52 Consolidated financial ­statements and notes Fredrik Bergström 106 Financial statements and notes President and CEO of Länsförsäkringar AB for the Parent Company 127 Auditor’s Report 129 Appendix to Sustainability Report Other information 144 Board of Directors and auditors 146 Corporate management 148 Definitions 149 Länsförsäkringar Liv Group’s income statement and balance sheet 150 Addresses 151 Financial calendar 2020 Länsförsäkringar AB’s 2019 Annual Report contains information about the operations conducted within the Länsförsäkringar AB Proud and pleased. But more to do. Group. Länsförsäkringar AB’s consolidated subsidiaries are: Länsförsäkringar Sak, Länsförsäkringar Bank and Länsförsäkringar Fond­liv. Länsförsäkringar Liv is operated Länsförsäkringar has topped the Swedish Quality Index for many years, according to mutual principles and is not which measures satisfaction among customers in the areas of banking, consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB. The insurance and real-estate brokerage services. Länsförsäkringar came Sustainability Report contains information first in seven categories in the 2019 survey: Retail banking, Corporate about Länsförsäkringar’s work on sustainability in its customer offering, operations banking, Real-estate brokerage, Private insurance, Corporate insurand social commitment. ance, Private pension and Car insurance. *As named. **Joint first place. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 The year in brief Länsförsäkringar’s logo turns 50 Länsförsäkringar’s history dates back more than 200 years. The first company, Länsförsäkring Kronoberg, was founded in 1801. Other regional insurance companies were founded in the ­following decades. Länsförsäk­ Best Overall Fund ringar’s square logo turned 50 House 2019 in 2019 – a logo that is one of Global fund analyst Morningstar named Länsthe most well-known symbols försäkringar Best Overall Fund House Sweden in Sweden. 2019. Länsförsäkringar is the first ever Swedish company to have received this award. Morningstar’s Morningstar’s motivation was Länsförsäkringar’s broad fund range with average values exceeding category average values every year for the past ten years, and that asset managers Länsförsäkringar are generally cautious in risk-taking. ­supports climate research Länsförsäkringar’s Research Fund conLean Agile work method tinues to support climate research and Introducing the Lean Agile work will provide financing of SEK 21 M for two method will enhance the efficiency of new climate projects between 2020 and L änsförsäkringar’s development activi2023. Research that increases expertise ties and make them more innovative, about how we need to adapt society to resulting in rapid product development climate change is an important field for and testing. This means more efficient Länsförsäkringar. The results will benefit deliveries of new services demanded customers and various players in society. by customers. 1 JANUARY 11 APRIL 4 JUNE 25 NOVEMBER–1 DECEMBER Partnership Industry leader Best banking and Sweden’s largest with Toyota in sustainability insurance service fire drill Länsförsäkringar assumed responFor the fifth time, Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar topped ServiceLänsförsäkringar arranged firesibility for brand insurance and was named Sweden’s most sustainScore 2019’s survey of how Swedish safety activities throughout vehicle­-damage guarantees for able insurance company by Sustainconsumers perceive the service ­Sweden. Households were taught ­Toyota and Lexus cars in the S ­ wedish able Brand Index – the largest conthey receive in the categories of about how to conduct a fire drill market, which proved to be a highly sumer sustainability survey of both both banking and insurance. Proof and how simple fires in the home successful partnership in 2019. corporate and private customers that customers appreciate Länscan be prevented and extinguished. in the Nordics. försäkringar’s customer focus. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 The year in brief 1 Länsförsäkringar AB The best partner for the regional insurance companies Statement by the President Länsförsäkringar AB Group reported solid earnings of SEK 3 billion for 2019. It is inspiring to be involved in creating the right conditions for the 23 regional insurance companies to develop their local customer meetings. Particularly since year after year we receive exactly the confirmation that we want – that we have Sweden’s most satisfied customers. Länsförsäkringar AB plays an important role in the success of the within seven goals were identified as most relevant and can be regional insurance companies and traditionally has a distinct role in clearly linked to our business. UN initiatives such as the Global the value chain. During the year, we worked a great deal on even more ­Compact, Principles for Responsible Investment and Principles clearly defining our role as the best partner for the regional insurfor Sustain­able Insurance continue to provide guidance in our ance companies so that they can realise their customer promise of ­day-to-day sustainability activities. creating a simpler everyday life and a more secure future. IntroducClimate risk is the sustainability topic that presents the most ing the Lean Agile work method will enhance the efficiency of develimportant ­challenge for Länsförsäkringar – a view we share with opment activities and make them more innovative, resulting in rapid many ­others according to the World Economic Forum’s 2020 Global product development and testing. Much involves how we are to help Risks Report which ranked climate and environmental risks among the regional insurance companies to best leverage the strength of the top five risks.Länsförsäkringar limits the risk related to climate the Länsförsäkringar Alliance in an increasingly digitised world. It is impact through, for example, claims prevention and engagement. this very balance between the local small scale and the shared large Länsförsäkringar’s Research Fund supports climate research and will scale that is the key to our success. provide financing of SEK 21 M for two new climate projects between 2020 and 2023. Länsförsäkringar also participates in a UN project on A year of development climate-risk scenarios. Länsförsäkringar AB has been pursuing a We successfully implemented a new core banking system in 2019 and climate­-smart vision since 2019, with the long-term aim of managing launched our Open Banking platform, which will help make services climate risks and adapting investments to the climate targets of the in the digital area even better, both now and in the future. We also Paris Agreement. created a “Bopulsen” app to help house owners to easily keep one It is a huge challenge to combat economic crime and money step ahead and prevent damages. We are actively working on innova­laundering, which are widespread problems in society with a major tion together with other insurance companies in Eurapco, an alliance bearing on the financial sector. Although Länsförsäkringar’s of eight European mutual insurance companies. This way, we can business model entails lower exposure to more high-risk segments develop new ideas while sharing costs. and our lending is limited to Sweden, we must work continuously The majority of development activities are currently founded on on further strengthening our ability to prevent and counteract IT. It is absolutely essential that everyone at Länsförsäkringar AB, ­economic crime and money laundering in all of our business across all units and at all levels, enhances their IT skills. The opera­operations. tions must be IT proficient to ensure an effective and successful journey of development. Proud, committed and highly skilled Strong earnings for 2019 employees who drive and develop the operations are vital for achievThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group reported a solid operating profit of ing our objectives. In 2019, we prepared a Group-wide skills supply SEK 3.0 billion for 2019. plan that includes shortand long-term objectives and activities. The non-life insurance operations contributed an operating profit A pilot group of employees started a course on artificial intelligence of SEK 0.9 billion, benefiting from strong net gains from financial and our first SAFe train will commence in 2020. I am very excited to items and the divestment of property holdings. The combined ratio follow the implementation of our Lean Agile work method. amounted to 95.8%. Agria’s healthy growth continued in 2019, particularly in the international business lines – Agria now operates in five Sustainability throughout the operations countries outside Sweden. Sustainability must be inherent throughout the operations in order The high inflow of new customers to the banking operations for Länsförsäkringar to simultaneously reduce its sustainability risks also continued, which led to steadily growing market shares and and contribute to the positive development of society. Länsförsäkoperating profit of SEK 1.9 billion. Deposits rose 10% and lending ringar AB worked together with the 23 regional insurance companies rose 6% with continued high credit quality. in 2019 to select the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that Operating profit for the unit-linked insurance operations we can support for sustainable development. A total of 13 targets amounted to SEK 0.7 billion. Managed assets increased 26% to 2 Statement by the President Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Our role is to be the best partner for the regional insurance companies so that they can realise the customer promise of creating a simpler everyday life and a more secure future. SEK 159 billion due to a favourable stock-market trend and positive most satisfied customers. But good can always be better, so we are net inflows of premiums and capital from existing and new customers. focusing on even more satisfied customers! From the start of 2020, Länsförsäkringar will again become an eligible The competition is intense. Backed with our strong earnings and manager for the KAP-KL and AKAP-KL occupational pensions with ­satisfied customers, Länsförsäkringar AB must continuously evolve unit-linked insurance, meaning that more than one million municipal to become an even more cost-efficient and quick-acting impleand county council employees can choose Länsförsäkringar for their menter of development, service and shared business. We look ahead occupational pension. from a position of strength – a year of continuous development to Our customers with pension capital received strong returns in meet and, ideally, surpass customer expectations in all four of our 2019. The return on all life-assurance and pension-insurance prodbusiness areas: non-life insurance, life assurance and pension ucts was high and many of our own funds performed very well – ­insurance, banking and real-estate brokerage. for example, Länsförsäkringar Fastighetsfond increased 65%. We are proud that Morningstar named us Best Overall Fund House Stockholm, March 2020 in ­Sweden during the year. Good can always be better A very strong sense of pride is built up within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance from the Swedish Quality Index’s customer satisfaction Fredrik Bergström ­surveys showing year after year that Länsförsäkringar has Sweden’s President and CEO of Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Statement by the President 3 Success lies in the balance between local and shared About Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries are commissioned by the regional insurance companies to conduct joint banking, non-life insurance, pension and life-assurance operations and strategic ­development activities and to provide service in areas that generate economies of scale and efficiency. All to create c­ onditions for the regional insurance companies to develop the offering close to their customers. Länsförsäkringar AB is wholly owned by the 23 regional insurance Mission companies, together with 15 local insurance companies. The regional Länsförsäkringar AB’s task as the partner of the regional insurance insurance companies impose demands on effective capital use and companies is to deliver business, development and service. This a balanced, market-based return on equity set according to each ensures that the regional insurance companies can offer their cussubsidiary’s operations and risk. The return on equity in 2019 was 10%. tomers the right range of products and enables private individuals, In addition to the Parent Company, Länsförsäkringar AB, the Group companies and agricultural customers in Sweden to live with a sense consists of Länsförsäkringar Sak, Länsförsäkringar Bank, Länsförsäkof security. The Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s reinsurance cover is ringar Fondliv, Länsförsäkringar Liv and the subsidiaries of these commanaged through a number of cover pool solutions and joint group panies. Länsförsäkringar Liv is not consolidated in the consolidated insurance cover by Länsförsäkringar Sak. financial statements, since the company is operated in accordance with mutual principles and the earnings accrue in their entirety to the policyholders. Owner Control 3.9 million customers/owners 23 regional insurance companies E AND SALE VIC S AD Bank Insurance Pension Real-estate brokerage SA ION IM CLA NT DJ EV E US P R TME MS N T AND CLAI Länsförsäkringar AB is a limited liability company and also the Parent Comthe regional insurance companies have the same clear purpose for their pany of a financial Group, which is individually owned in various holdings by owner­ship, are proactive and collectively hold sufficient financial capacity the 23 regional insurance companies and 15 local insurance companies, which to safeguard long-term ownership. in turn are owned by a total of 3.9 million insurance customers. The Boards of Directors of the regional insurance companies are formally responsible for Owner control logic owner control. Based on the federal organisation and the purpose of the The logic behind owner control centres mainly on the relationship between owner­ship of Länsförsäkringar AB, these companies have together created the Länsförsäkringar AB Board of Directors, Länsförsäkringar AB’s General joint forms for owner control that comply both with the requirements usually Meeting and the regional insurance companies’ owner consortium. Formal imposed on owner control and with the federal conditions. owner control takes place through the General Meeting, although the regional Owner control at Länsförsäkringar AB has clear advantages compared insurance companies’ owner consortium and their representation on Länswith the owner control of many larger financial groups. This is because all of försäkringar AB’s Board are also important components. The duties of the 4 About Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Balance between local and shared Governance of risk-taking and capital use The Länsförsäkringar Alliance has developed a balance between the Länsförsäkringar AB’s business activities are conducted to generate smalland the large-scale. Cooperation between the regional insura profit so that the company can pay returns on equity at market ance companies through Länsförsäkringar AB has emerged from a ­levels. All capital that is not required for Länsförsäkringar AB’s operdecentralised perspective, not the other way round. The local comations is returned, over time, to the owners in the form of dividends. panies decided to cooperate to achieve economies of scale and to Decisions on dividend payments are based on the Group’s capital concentrate on the most important issues: meetings with customers ­situation in relation to its combined risks Länsförsäkringar AB and developing close customer relationships. endeavours to maintain a balance between capital strength and Certain elements of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance are conducted risk-taking to justify a minimum credit rating of A. on a large-scale to generate e conomies of scale, for example, prodThe regional insurance companies are extremely well consoliuct development and IT systems. Other areas are better suited to dated and thus are highly capable of contributing capital to the Group. being conducted on a smaller scale, such as personal customer Accordingly, the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s capital strength is meetings. Success is found in balancing these elements. The basis for assessed not only based on its own situation but also includes the cooperation in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance is that as much of the capital strength of the regional insurance companies. Rating agenoperations as possible are conducted by the local companies and that cies and other stakeholders take this approach. essentially all customer contact is to take place at this level. For Länsförsäkringar, the core concept is to meet and get to know customers, and this is best achieved on a small scale. Economies of scale arise in the cooperation between the regional insurance companies that takes place through Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries. Experience shows that local decision-making authority combined with joint strength creates substantial added value for customers. Owner control of Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB ÄKRINGA Ö RS R Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB SF AL MEETI AB’ ÄN ENER NG G L s NA Länsförsäkringar Bank AB N RI ’ O L INS LänsförsäkLänsförsäkLÄNSFÖRSÄK ringar AB WN URANCE ringar AB Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB D BOAR ER C M GA ONSORTIU Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB* RA IO S B’s REG NIE PA COM * The company is operated according to mutual principles and is not consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB. General Meeting are formally governed by law and the Articles of Association. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board pursues the strategies and targets that the The duties of the consortium are governed in the regional insurance compa­owners agree on, thus implementing the owners’ assignments. The regional nies’ consortium agreement. The Chairman of the consortium is appointed by insurance companies’ mandate to Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board is decided in the regional insurance companies. the consortium and is documented in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s goverLänsförsäkringar AB’s Board is elected by the General Meeting, which nance documents. At the same time, Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board has a major comprises representatives of all shareholders. The Board is elected based on responsibility for safeguarding the capital invested in Länsförsäkringar AB a process controlled by the owners through a nomination committee by the regional insurance companies. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board decides appointed by the General Meeting. The nomination committee’s composition, on the direction and scope of the operations based on its assignment from mandate period and so forth are governed in the Articles of Association. The the owners. Chairman of the consortium is responsible for the process of renewing the nomination committee. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 About Länsförsäkringar AB 5 Joint business Companies and offering Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Sak Group Bank Group Länsförsäkringar Sak is responsible for the non-life insurance Länsförsäkringar Bank offers banking services to private indioperations, including pet, crop and personal-risk insurance, viduals, agricultural customers and small businesses. Sales and which have been assigned to Länsförsäkringar AB by the regional service take place at the branches of the regional insurance insurance companies. Its role is to complement the regional companies, online and by telephone. Deposits and certain lendinsurance companies’ offering with specialist products to meet ing operations are conducted in Länsförsäkringar Bank, while customer needs, and to start new business that can be chanmost of the lending and funding operations are conducted nelled out to the regional insurance companies. Pet-­insurance through the subsidiary Länsförsäkringar Hypotek. The subsidioperations are conducted in the subsidiary Agria Djurförsäkring. ary Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning offers mutual funds. The Länsförsäkringar Sak manages the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s subsidiary Wasa Kredit offers financing services to corporate joint reinsurance cover and internal Alliance reinsurance with a customers and private individuals – primarily leasing, renting number of pool solutions, and underwrites some internationally and hire purchase. Länsförsäkringar Bank is the fifth-largest assumed reinsurance. retail bank in Sweden. Earnings 2019 Earnings 2019 Operating profit rose to SEK 851 M (460). Of the Länsförsäkringar Operating profit increased to SEK 1,893 M (1,510). Net interest Alliance’s total premiums earned of SEK 27.9 billion, p ­ remiums income rose 3% to SEK 4,617 M (4,497). earned from Länsförsäkringar Sak accounted for SEK 6.2 billion. Combined ratio Increase in business volumes to SEK 656 billion 96% +17% What makes Länsförsäkringar AB the best partner for the regional insurance companies? Länsförsäkringar Värmland In a time of centralisacreates security and tion, our form of coopermakes everyday life in Värmland ation between 23 local compasimpler. We aim to have the best nies close to customers is customer experience in the marbecoming more and more unique. ket. We can achieve this with our Cost synergies, specialist experdedicated employees together tise, shared development and a with Länsförsäkringar AB’s expernational voice that Länsförsäktise, development activities, serringar AB delivers will ensure our vice and coordination. continued success. Ulrika Obstfelder Peterson Christian Bille President of Länsförsäkringar President of Länsförsäkringar Värmland H ­ alland 6 Companies and offering Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB Liv Försäkrings AB Länsförsäkringar offers pension savings, primarily occupational Länsförsäkringar Liv, which is closed for new business, manages pensions. Fund management, guarantee management and traditional life assurance that was taken out before it was personal­-risk insurance are offered through Länsförsäkringar closed in 2011. Länsförsäkringar Liv conducts traditional life Fond­liv. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv is a leader in the unit-linked assurance for its customers divided into four portfolios: New insurance market for individual occupational pensions, comTrad, Old Trad, New World and Insured Pension. Customers with manding a market share of 18% measured in premium income. insurance policies under Old Trad have had the opportunity Länsförsäkringar’s fund range comprises 38 of its own funds to transition their existing insurance to New Trad since 2013. and 111 external funds. ­Customers with New World and Insured Pension have also received the offer to transition to New Trad since 2018. Earnings 2019 Earnings 2019 Operating profit rose to SEK 738 M (673). Premium income Profit increased to SEK 5,567 M (609). Länsförsäkringar Liv’s increased to SEK 9,478 M (9,010). earnings are not consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB since the company is operated according to mutual principles. Managed assets Managed assets SEK 159 billion SEK 114 billion With its innovation, experWhen Länsförsäkringar tise and drive, combined AB was founded, one of with the experience and success of its assignments was to provide the 23 regional insurance compaspecialist expertise to the nies, Länsförsäkringar AB serves regional insurance companies, as an important hub that creates which it delivers at the highest opportunities for the regional level today. This is essential for insurance companies to deliver the regional insurance companies relevant offerings for customer to deliver customer experiences security. of the highest quality. Charlotte Barnekow Anders Långström President of Länsförsäkringar President of LF ­Norrbotten Stockholm Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Companies and offering 7 Drivers and trends Our business environment Drivers and trends in our business environment affect future customer requirements and thereby Länsförsäkringar’s operations, business model and development needs. This presents many challenges but Länsförsäkringar has favourable conditions to optimally meet evolving needs, primarily based on its broad ­customer base, local knowledge, a long-term approach and highly skilled employees. The customers’ needs in focus More and more customers are seeking security from a supplier that all communication based on customer data. However, data-driven they have confidence in, making the brand a key cornerstone of the business development requires carefully balancing customer privacy customer experience. To deliver products and services that meet with better services. The sharing economy that is emerging involves customer expectations, the supplier must understand customer using resources sustainably and economically. There is also a desire needs and behaviour, and base development activities and customer to remove “the middle man” and technology is enabling new consumpcontact on customer insight. Länsförsäkringar has favourable condition models. These new arising needs present new business opportu­ tions to best meet customer needs – from cradle to grave – primarily nities for banking and insurance. Länsförsäkringar must be inno­vative founded on a broad customer base, local knowledge and a unique and collaborate within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance – the customer business model that supports both local and digital customer meetexperience must always be local and close, whereas develop­ment ings. Länsförsäkringar’s starting point is always the customer, with can be carried out jointly. Länsförsäkringar’s focus on seven UN Sustainable Development Goals Länsförsäkringar con­ tinuously works to develop its sustainability agenda. 3.4 Reduce premature mortality from 8.7 Eradicate forced labour, human 10.2 Promote social, economic The UN Sustainable Develnon-communicable diseases and pro­trafficking and child labour. and political inclusion. opment Goals that the mote mental health and well-being. 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe Länsförsäkringar Alliance Promoting equality and diversity 3.6 Reduce the number of global deaths and secure working environments for all will jointly work on were in recruitment processes and the and injuries from road-traffic accidents. workers. decided in 2019. Thirteen business, through nomination 8.10 Strengthen the capacity of domestic committees in portfolio compatargets under seven goals Research into health and road-traffic financial institutions to encourage and nies and in social commitment. were identified as relevant accidents, preventive health services expand access to banking, insurance and and can be clearly linked and rehabilitation, road safety claimsfinancial services for all. to Länsförsäkringar’s prevention measures and unprotected ­business. road-users. Dialogue with suppliers on labour. Digital offerings that make financial services more available and information on the importance of equal private finances. 8 Our business environment Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Technology Climate Society Rapid technological progress brings with it Climate change – the result of higher carbon Turmoil and uncertainty in international new banking and insurance solutions and emissions – causes global warming. A warmer politics and economics have risen in recent new business opportunities. Traditional comclimate, resulting in extreme weather condiyears. Like in many countries, the pressure on petition is being continuously challenged by tions such as hurricanes, torrential rain and welfare and public resources is increasing in new and innovative companies. In addition, drought, will have major socio-economic Sweden. An ageing population is challenging technological advances can lead to disrupconsequences. the health and socialcare sector. Continued tive changes. Continuous development is Climate risk is the area of sustainability urbanisation is intensifying demographic needed to ensure lasting competitiveness. that presents the greatest challenge for challenges, particularly in rural areas. The difIntroducing the Lean Agile work method Länsförsäkringar. Climate change presents ferences in quality of life are widening due to will enhance the efficiency of Länsförsäkfinancial risks that can impact companies by social-political polarisation, meaning that vulringar’s development activities and make altering market conditions and through physnerable groups are finding it difficult to enter them more innovative, resulting in rapid ical climate change. Climate change leads to the labour market, buy a home and get a mortproduct development and testing, so as to higher costs for insurance companies. gage. The nature of crime and criminality has provide the new services demanded by cusLänsförsäkringar’s Research Fund will changed, with organised crime and digital tomers. Länsförsäkringar successfully provide SEK 21 M in financing for two new fraud on the rise. Cyberthreat is now one of implemented a new core banking system in ­climate research projects in 2020–2023. the main perceived business risks. 2019 and launched an Open Banking platLänsförsäkringar also participates in a Länsförsäkringar works both proactively form, which will help make services in the UN project on climate-risk scenarios. and reactively to manage and analyse the digital area even better. Several pilot proj­Länsförsäkringar AB has been pursuing effects of changes in society and how they ects in health and claims prevention were a climate­-smart vision since 2019, with the impact customers. Measures include financalso carried out. Developments of automalong-term aim of managing climate risks and ing independent research projects studying tion, robotisation, AI and the Internet of adapting investments to the climate targets social, economic and physical security for Things is continuing and this is where Länsof the Paris Agreement. Länsförsäkringar AB customers and society at large. Länsförsäkförsäkringar’s has a major advantage with its also published a climate report following ringar works every day to combat fraud, broad customer base and product offering. TCFD’s guidelines, available on the website. money laundering and terror financing. 12.2 Sustainable management and 13.1 Strengthen resilience and 16.5 Reduce corruption and bribery. The SDGs can only be realised use of natural resources. adaptive capacity to climate-related 16.6 Develop effective, accountable through global partnership and 12.4 Environmentally sound manage­ hazards. and transparent institutions. cooperation. ment of chemicals and all wastes. 13.3 Improve awareness-raising and Anti-money laundering and prePartnerships with the Länsförsäk12.8 Ensure people everywhere have capacity on climate change venting terror financing in the bankringar Alliance and other external information and awareness for mitigation. ing and life-assurance operations. parties, such as research institusustainable development. tions, trade organisations, county Reducing the climate impact of Länsförsäkringar’s own operations. administrative boards, the emerSetting demands for materials, Research into climate impact, diagency services and local companies. recycling and reuse for damage repairs, encouraging suppliers and logue with customers and policy­portfolio companies to report on makers on climate issues. Making sustainability. Research into conclimate-smart investments, such struction materials. as green bonds. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Our business environment 9 Vision, values and targets Vision, values and targets Länsförsäkringar Together we AB’s activities are guided by a vision and value­based planning of operations. This serves as a Vision create security and guiding principle for all operations in the Group in This vision must always opportunities order to achieve set targets. Länsförsäkringar AB be our key objective. helps to fulfil the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s The aim of all general and shared brand promise of simplifying everyday long-term work is that together we life for customers and contributing to a secure create security and opportunities for future. our customers and society in ­general. Targets Länsförsäkringar AB’s target is to be the best partner for its owners, •• Help ensure that Länsförsäkringar has the market’s most satisfied c­ ustomers. the 23 regional insurance companies, so that they can realise the •• Have profitability to enable a continued long-term approach. customer promise of simplifying everyday life for customers and •• Integrate sustainability throughout the operations. creating a more secure future. To achieve this target Länsförsäk•• Be the best employer with proud and dedicated employees. ringar AB must: Profitability for To meet customer expectations The market’s most Profitability to enable a continand needs, Länsförsäkringar ued long-term approach in the a continued longsatisfied customers must offer its customers a customer-owned regional term approach secure, total financial solution for insurance companies is needed to banking, insurance, pensions and meet future challenges, assume real-estate brokerage. social responsibility and support sustainable development. Länsförsäkringar AB must be Outcome 2019 a cost-efficient and fast implementer of development, service •• According to the Swedish Quality Index’s 2019 customer satisand business. faction surveys, Länsförsäkringar has Sweden’s most satisfied customers in banking, non-life insurance, private pensions and Outcome 2019 real-estate brokerage. •• Länsförsäkringar’s profitable growth continued for all business •• Länsförsäkringar topped the ServiceScore 2019 consumer areas in 2019. survey of service in banking and insurance. •• Based on the healthy 2019 earnings, the regional insurance •• Kantar Sifo’s 2019 reputation survey showed that Länsförsäkcompanies will pay back a total of SEK 1.9 billion in bonuses ringar has the highest reputation in the insurance industry. and discounts to their owners – the customers. •• Länsförsäkringar position as market leader in Swedish non-life •• The regional insurance companies, the Länsförsäkringar AB insurance continued, together with strong customer growth in Group and each subsidiary remained well-capitalised in 2019. banking and real-estate brokerage. Länsförsäkringar’s market shares Solvency II ratio on 31 December 2019 % % 35 Fastighetsförmedling (småhus) 300 30 Bostadsutlåning 250 25 Individuell Tjänstepension 200 20 Sakförsäkring 150 15 10 100 5 50 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Länsförsäkringar Liv 23 regional insurance companies Non-life insurance Real-estate brokerage (single-family homes) Länsförsäkringar Fondliv I ndividual occupational Retail mortgages pensions Länsförsäkringar Sak 10 Vision, values and targets Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Commitment Trust Values Openness These values form Professionalism the basis of our corporate culture and describe how we are to treat each other, our customers and our stakeholders. They inspire us in our work and help us to enhance c­ ustomer value every day. Länsförsäkringar can reduce Sustainability Proud and dedicated Best employer its sustainability risks and also throughout the employees who drive with proud and dedicontribute to the positive devel­operations and develop the operations are cated employees opment of society and create vital to achieving business objecbusiness value by incorporating tives. By focusing on diversity, sustainability throughout its operations. inclusion, skills development, health and a good work environment Länsförsäkringar can Outcome 2019 attract new and retain current employees. •• Investments in green bonds tripled to SEK 9 billion during the year, corresponding to 7% of the total capital of the portfolios. Outcome 2019 The investments are earmarked for climate­-smart projects. •• Länsförsäkringar AB’s internal attractiveness as an •• Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning launched a sustainable employer and employee loyalty are measured according fixed income fund. to an Employer Net Promoter Score (eNPS), with a score •• Exclusion criteria for tobacco and oil sand companies were of 31 for 2019. introduced and the criteria for coal companies was made •• 86% of employees are proud to work at Länsförsäkringar AB stricter. and 87% say that they enjoy going to work. •• Wasa Kredit launched an environmental financing model •• Länsförsäkringar AB scored 125 out of 180 in Nyckeltals­ ­tailored to products that reduce environmental impact. institutet’s Gender Equality Index JÄMIX. •• Länsförsäkringar was named Sweden’s most sustainable insur•• Länsförsäkringar AB scored 125 out of 159 in Nyckeltals­ ance company by Sustainable Brand Index for the fifth year. institutet’s Health Index, the highest result among financial companies. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Vision, values and targets 11 How we create value How we create value With a clear focus on giving our owners — the 23 regional insurance companies — the best conditions for developing locally, Länsförsäkringar AB creates value for both its own operations and for our stakeholders. For our stakeholders …we create value ess environment factor Busin s Customers Profits are returned to our Strengthens the regional owners, the regional insurance insurance companies’ cuscompanies, and thus to Länstomer offerings, particularly försäkringar’s customers. by leveraging economies of scale. Owners Creates oppor­ Specialist knowltunity for a broad edge, business customer development and ­offering in ­banking, non-life Vision innovation. insurance and ­pensions. Values Targets Employees Joint, large-scale ­solutions Investments in a create greater efficiency learning, diverse and and lower expenses. healthy workplace. Claims-prevention activities strengthen customers’ health and security, reduce claims costs and promote a sustainable society. Society Busin rs ess e nvironment facto 12 How we create value Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 socially, environmentally… …and financially The regional insurance companies’ bonuses and discounts to customers Customers 1.9 bn •• High service level and skills. •• Comprehensive offerings create security. •• Competitive prices and strong total return. •• Claims-prevention activities reduce claims. SEK Claims payments to customers Owners SEK 5.4 bn •• Create opportunity for regional insurance Salaries and pensions for employees SEK 2.3 bn companies to offer a broad, comprehensive customer offering in banking, insurance, pensions and real-estate brokerage. •• Shared business solutions. •• High dividend for owners. Taxes, social security contributions and bank fees SEK 1.5 bn Employees •• Attractive workplace. •• Healthy work environment. •• Strong opportunities for skills development. •• Strong career opportunities. Payments to suppliers SEK 2.8 bn Research grants Society SEK 50 M •• Core business creates social benefit and strengthens customers’ long-term financial security. •• Claims-prevention activities – a gain for the environment. •• Preventive efforts reduce illness and costs to society and employers. Sponsorship SEK 0.9 M •• Support research into social challenges, ­mental illness and animal health. •• Sponsor, for example, the Red Cross and animal­-owner organisations. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 How we create value 13 Sustainable business Sustainability Sustainability is about generating greater value for customers and, at the same time, contributing to the sustainable development of society. Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability work is based on the vision of “Together we create security and opportunities.” By integrating sustainability into the business, Länsförsäkringar AB can offer greater business value and contribute to a sustainable society. Länsförsäkringar AB can reduce its sustainability risks, increase cusresponsible savings offering, claims-prevention activities in the tomer value, contribute to the positive development of society and insurance offering, sustainability requirements on purchases, donacreate business value by taking economic, social and environmental tions to financing research into climate impact, engagement and aspects into consideration in its business development and business claims-prevention activities in long-term environmental efforts and decisions. Länsförsäkringar AB is a signatory to the principles of the social commitment. UN Global Compact and works to contribute to the UN Sustainable A climate-smart vision for Länsförsäkringar AB was drawn up Development Goals (SDGs). during the year. The long-term aim of the investment portfolios is to align their investments with the 2030 Paris Agreement and to offer Materiality analysis performed customers more climate-smart and sustainable funds. Insurance A materiality analysis was performed in 2018 to identify the most terms and conditions will also be revised and work will continue to important sustainability risks and opportunities for Länsförsäkringar focus on claims prevention. AB based on the business’s impact on the environment and society. Länsförsäkringar AB supports the Task Force on Climate-related As part of the analysis, the most important stakeholders (customers, Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and strives to apply its recommendaowners, employees, civil society organisations and asset managers) tions throughout the business. A climate report following TCFD’s were engaged to provide a better understanding of key stakeholders’ guidelines was published on the website in January 2020 (only availexpectations of Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability activities. The able in Swedish). update of the key sustainability topics determined the content of 2019 sustainability report. Increased regulation Requirements to integrate sustainability topics, the implementation Climate risk – the greatest challenge of climate scenario analyses and transparency will increase. The Climate risk is the area of sustainability that presents the greatest European Commission Action Plan for Financing Sustainable Growth, challenge for Länsförsäkringar. Climate change – the result of higher aimed at harmonising standards and assessment criteria for sustaincarbon emissions – causes global warming. A warmer climate caused ability topics and steering investments towards sustainable solutions, by extreme weather conditions, such as hurricanes, torrential rain, will impact Länsförsäkringar’s operations. Länsförsäkringar AB has flooding and drought, will have major socio-economic conseestablished a work group to coordinate implementation of the new quences. The adverse effects for insurance companies and banks rules throughout the Länsförsäkringar Alliance. are obvious. As stated in the sustainability policy, the Board of Länsförsäkringar AB has identified climate risk as the top priority. LänsförsäkMore information about Länsförsäkringar’s sustainability ringar AB strives to limit and reduce the risk of climate impact work is available on pages 129–143. Information is presented through its activities in several of the priority sustainability topics: on gover­nance, GRI, Index Sustainability Report and Global dialogues to influence companies and investments in the area of Compact Index, stakeholder dialogue, statistics and key figures. Länsförsäkringar AB has adopted a climate­-smart vision that involves the investment p ­ ort­folios aligning their investments with the Paris Agreement, and offering our customers more climate-smart sustainable funds – one step in creating security and opportunities. Christina Kusoffsky Hillesöy, Head of Sustainability at Länsförsäkringar AB 14 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Länsförsäkringar AB and the UN Sustainable Development Goals Länsförsäkringar AB works on the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in all parts of the company to make a difference and contribute to sustainable development – in the customer offering, business operations and the long-term environmental and social commitment. The Länsförsäkringar Alliance has identified SDGs 3, 8, 10, 12, 13, Länsförsäkringar AB has supplemented the SDGs shared 16 and 17 as the most relevant to the business and those where throughout the Länsförsäkringar Alliance with goals 5, 7, 9, 11 Länsförsäkringar can make a positive contribution and reduce and 15, where Länsförsäkringar AB’s operations help make its negative impact. This process was based on Länsförsäkringar a direct or partial contribution. AB’s material sustainability topics, level of engagement, identified risks and opportunities. Indirect contribution 14 n Partial co tribution 1 Life below water No poverty 8 17 Dire ct contribution Decent work and economic growth Partnerships 15 3 for the goals Life on Good health land and well-being 13 5 Climate Gender action equality 12 7 Responsible Affordable 6 consumption and production and clean energy 2 Clean water Zero hunger and sanitation 11 10 16 Sustainable cities Reduced 9 Peace, justice and communities inequalities Industry, and strong innovation and institutions infrastructure 4 Quality education The SDGs that the company works on in each area are stated in the GRI index on pages 141–143. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 15 Materiality analysis, priority sustainability topics and sustainability targets Länsförsäkringar AB has identified eight priority sustainability topics based on stakeholder dialogue and with the guidance of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The eight sustainability topics are grouped into three focus areas: responsible offering, responsible business conduct and long-term environmental and social commitment. Material sustainability topics Important issues Target description Overall Manage climate risks in the operations. Successively implement the TCFD guidelines. Responsible offering  Responsible Investments that incorporate sustainability Increase the share of investments in green bonds of managed assets in institusavings offering and climate risks generate higher returns. tional portfolios compared with 2018. Increase number of climate-smart/sustainable funds. Reduce carbon footprint in institutional portfolios. Measure carbon footprint in fixed-income portfolios in institutional portfolios. Responsible Lending that incorporates sustainability Investigate possibility of issuing green loans and green bonds. lending offering and climate risks. Offer environmental financing via Wasa Kredit. Responsible Manage climate risk in the insurance offering Actively participate in UN projects on climate scenarios and analysis tools. insurance offering through claims prevention and sustainable claims adjustment. Preventive health measures for animals and humans, and early Claims prevention efforts and health-promoting activities. action on illness. Engagement to promote mental health in society. Analysis of sustainability aspects in product documentation. Responsible business conduct Responsible employer Work on diversity, inclusion and equality, Implement skills-based recruitment that promotes diversity skills development, health, and digital and (target from 2020). physical work environment to attract and retain skilled employees. Recruitment training course that promotes diversity for managers . Business ethics A corporate culture with a high level of Annual compulsory e-course on security, sustainability and ­ambition regarding business ethics. the Code of Conduct. Responsible purchasing Sustainability requirements in the Analysis of existing suppliers (target from 2020). ­supply chain. Direct environmental impact Actions to reduce the operations’ Reduce carbon emissions from own operations. direct environmental impact. Environmental and social responsibility Long-term environmental and social commitment Research into society’s security challenges and engagement to reduce risks of natural Finance research and communicate research results. catastrophes due to climate change in society. 16 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 2019 targets Comments 2020 targets Produce first report. First report prepared. Board training started. Board training and continued development Perform scenario analyses. A climate-smart vision was prepared. of TCFD scenario analyses. Implement a climate-smart vision. 4.5% of assets under manThe outcome was higher than the target and amounted to 7%. 13% of assets under management. agement. The fund platform was expanded through the addition of one Increase. Increase. own fund and six externally managed funds. The carbon footprint declined 3% measured on 28 June 2019. Reduce compared with 2018. Reduce compared with 2019. The year-end 2019 measurement will be completed in April. The carbon footprint of government, supranational and Measure government bonds. Measure all fixed-income portfolios. municipal bonds started to be measured. Start training. Investigation started. Continue investigation. Launch of a financing model for products that reduces Start. Increase share of green financing. environ­mental impact. Actively participate. Participated in project. Actively participate. Carry out claims-prevention Claims-prevention activities and health-promoting activities Carry out claims-prevention activities activities and health-­ were carried out, and active participation in the Mindshift and health-promoting activities. promoting activities. health movement. Start analysis. Analysis started. Continue analysis. Implement. Implement. Training held for new managers. Carry out training for existing managers. Implement. 83% of employees completed the course. Implement. 10% of existing suppliers to be analysed. Reduce compared with 2018. 18% reduction compared with 2018. Reduce by 20% compared with 2019. Granted SEK 40 M in research financing through Länsförsäkringar’s Research Fund. Communicated research results Finance research and communicate Implement. through various forums, for example, the company’s podcast research results. and in seminars. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 17 Responsible offering Responsible savings offering Länsförsäkringar AB strives to create the highest possible value from managing customer savings. The aim of responsible investments in the pension and savings offering is to contribute to sustainable value creation over time. Companies with an integrated sustainability work method can help analyses of all internally managed holdings are performed. The reduce risk and identify solutions to the challenges that society objective is for all fund holdings to have a sustainability rating, with faces. Investing responsibly contributes to sustainable value creation. the majority being assigned the highest possible rating. The focus of Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning (referred to below as “the fund the institutional portfolios is to invest in sustainable and climate­company”) manages Länsförsäkringar’s own funds. Asset Managepositive solutions through green bonds, environmentally certified ment administers the life-assurance, unit-linked assurance and nonforests and properties, and sustainability-focused funds. life insurance portfolios (referred to below as the “institutional portfolios”) with the aim of contributing to the sustainable development Minimise climate risks in investments of society within the framework of asset management targets by Länsförsäkringar AB seeks to reduce investments in fossil fuels and 2030, and to the climate target of the Paris Agreement to limit the in sectors with significant greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. One reaincrease in global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. son is that GHG emissions increase climate-related risks that result in both physical and financial damage. Another reason is that moving Risks and opportunities towards a climate-smart society will lead to market and regulatory Länsförsäkringar AB’s investments have an indirect impact on peoconsequences for carbon-intensive companies. ple, society and the environment through the operations of the portThe company measures the carbon footprint of its equities folio companies. Climate change presents financial risks that can investments and, since 2019, of government, supranational and impact companies by altering market conditions and through physimunicipal bonds, and forestry holdings in the institutional portfolios. cal climate change. Conversely, there are investment opportunities Climate scenario analyses of the portfolios are performed to provide in companies that restrict climate change and apply climate-adjusta greater understanding of the climate risks in the portfolios in relament solutions. Länsförsäkringar AB pursues a climate-smart vision tion to the targets of the Paris Agreement. with the long-term aim of managing climate risks and adapting investments to the climate targets of the Paris Agreement. The results of carbon footprint and scenario analyses Work on responsible investments is based on the UN-supported are reported on the website. Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). These principles focus on incorporating sustainability into investment analyses and active Active corporate governance and engagement ownership. The objective of the integrated work method for sustainThe company pursues active corporate governance and engagement ability topics is to manage risks and identify investment opportuniitself and jointly with other investors. Corporate governance includes ties. By encouraging these companies to follow the UN Global Comcompany dialogues on sustainability topics, active participation in pact’s principles for responsible business conduct, Länsförsäkringar nomination committees and voting at general meetings. One of the AB helps reduce their negative impact and thus also contributes to aims of the nomination committees is to increase the diversity of several of the SDGs. company boards. The fund company votes at general meetings of the companies included in its own funds, and in which it has a substantial Processes for integrating sustainability holding or where it is important to vote for other reasons. Länsförsäkringar AB helps bring about a more sustainable developAsset Management and the fund company work together on ment of society and reduces its indirect impact on people, society engagement. Reactive dialogue takes place when a company is susand the environment by integrating sustainability into investment pected of contravening the principles for responsible business condecisions and corporate governance. This process comprises five duct and international conventions. The aim is to stop the company focus areas: from committing breaches and take measures to prevent similar incidents from being repeated. If engaging in a dialogue does not Investments in responsible companies achieve the desired results over time, the holdings in the company This area is based on the UN Global Compact’s principles and intermay be divested. Individual companies and selected sectors are national conventions on human rights, labour, the environment, corengaged in preventive dialogues to ensure that they are managing ruption and controversial weapons. Länsförsäkringar AB regularly and are transparent in their material sustainability risks. analyses funds and institutional portfolios in relation to applicable sustainability-related exclusion criteria and to identify companies Partnership with sustainability-focused external managers suspected of contravening the principles for responsible business The fund company’s Swedish equities and fixed-income funds are manconduct. These exclusion criteria are applied to direct investments aged internally, as are parts of the fixed-income holdings and unquoted in equities and credit bonds. holdings in Asset Management. Other investments are managed by external managers through funds and discretionary mandates. SustainPromoting sustainable investments and savings ability requirements are included in the procurement of new managers The fund company works to offer more sustainability-focused funds. and their work is graded based on various criteria. The aim is to select Since the aim is to invest in responsible companies, sustainability managers that integrate sustainability into their asset management and 18 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 corporate governance. Managers are evaluated every year to ensure Active corporate governance and engagement that they continuously improve their work on integrating sustainability Länsförsäkringar voted at 67 (60) general meetings in 2019. The perinto asset management. Managers who receive a low sustainability ratcentage of women on the boards of the companies where Länsing are placed on a watch list and engaged in a dialogue. Managers who försäkringar is a member of the nomination committee was 37% (38). do not make any improvements risk having their contracts terminated. Länsförsäkringar AB took part in several investor initiatives, for If the fund is recommended on Länsförsäkringar’s fund platform and no example, Climate Action 100, which engages with the 100 largest improvement is made, the fund is moved to the extended fund range. important GHG emitters in the world, and the Investor Mining & Tailings Safety Initiative, which seeks to engage the global mining sector. The Activities and targets in 2019 number of reactive and proactive dialogues is presented on pages 137. The Board decided on a new policy on responsible investments and corporate governance during the year. Partnership with sustainability-focused external managers Six externally managed sustainability-based funds were launched on Investments in responsible companies the fund platform in 2019. Two funds from the recommended range Exclusion criteria were introduced in 2019 for companies that manuwere put on the watch list due to their sustainability shortcomings. facture tobacco products (21 companies) and companies that use One sustainability-focused fund was moved from the extended to white phosphorus and thus are classed as being involved in controthe recommended range. The Asset Management developed a new versial weapons (two companies). Three companies were excluded credit fund with a sustainability focus together with a US fund mandue to convention violations and one company was re-included. ager. Four external funds were sold from the institutional portfolios during the year, partly due to their sustainability shortcomings. Promoting sustainable investments and savings The Länsförsäkringar Hållbar Företagsobligation was launched in Activities and targets in 2020 2019. At least 90% of the fund’s holdings are green bonds or bonds New methods for measuring and monitoring the funds’ sustainability issued by companies with high sustainability ratings. The company level will be implemented. Efforts to raise the sustainability level of already has the Länsförsäkringar FossilSmart, Länsförsäkringar the proprietary fund range will continue, including the development Global Hållbar and Nordic eco-labelled Länsförsäkringar Sverige of new fund products and outsourcing of management mandates. Aktiv funds that all invest based on various sustainability criteria. Customers will be offered several sustainable and climate-smart During the year, Asset Management further developed the implefunds. Eco-labelling more funds with the Nordic Swan label will be mentation of updated guidelines for climate-smart and sustainable investigated. management, primarily for listed equity holdings. The aim is to The aim for the institutional portfolios is for sustainable bonds reduce the carbon emissions of the portfolios and to promote investto account for 13% of the total capital and to increase the share of ments in more sustainable companies and those undergoing a cliclimate­-smart investments that support a transition to a low-carbon mate transition. Investments in green bonds tripled during the year society. The guidelines on climate-smart and sustainable asset manto SEK 9 billion at year-end. agement will be implemented for shareholdings during the year. Minimise climate risks in investments Read more about key figures for responsible savings offering TCFD’s investor recommendations were applied, for example, to on page 137. ­climate scenario analyses of portfolios in order to provide a greater understanding of the climate risks in the portfolios. Forward-looking forecasts of the carbon footprint of parts of the portfolios up until 2030 were carried out and compared with the trend in emission reductions required for a climate scenario in line with the Paris Green bonds benefit the climate Agreement’s targets. A focal point for Asset Management is investments in green A climate-smart vision was adopted in 2019 in order to manage bonds that finance, for example, the expansion of renewable investments in sectors with significant direct and indirect carbon wind and solar energy, green properties, forestry, water emissions. The aim is also to support companies that have embarked and waste management, and sustainable public transport. on a business transition and to identify holdings with positive effects These investments generate both returns and measurable climate benefits in term of avoided climate emissions and a on the climate. The objective is that, within the framework of asset reduction of actual climate emissions. Investments in green management targets, own funds and portfolios are to help limit the bonds in the institutional portfolios tripled from SEK 3 bilincrease in global warming to a maximum of 1.5 degrees Celsius. As lion to more than SEK 9 billion in 2019, corresponding to 7% part of this, the exclusion criteria were made stricter for investments of the portfolios’ total capital. in companies operating in the extraction and energy production of thermal coal and extraction of oil from oil sand, and a total of 192 companies were excluded. Transition criteria were introduced to actively promote in the first instance selected energy companies that support the Paris Agreement and that have started to change their own operations. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 19 Responsible offering Responsible lending offering For Länsförsäkringar, responsible lending involves contributing to the financial stability of society by limiting credit risk. Lending is primarily directed towards retail mortgages for private individuals, agriculture and a limited number of small businesses, and sustainability risks are included in the credit assessment. Risks and opportunities Länsförsäkringar Bank publishes a sustainability overview every year Most of Länsförsäkringar Bank’s lending takes place using property to clarify the bank’s loans to companies. The sustainability overview as collateral. Climate change will probably affect the value of certain is an industry initiative produced by Länsförsäkringar Bank, other properties. Through its lending, the bank also finances various operaSwedish banks and the Swedish Bankers’ Association. tions of small businesses and agriculture which may involve social and environmental risks, meaning that the bank has an indirect Local knowledge reduces credit risk exposure to such risks. Opportunities also exist in lending to finance Länsförsäkringar Bank’s loans are based on standardised, centrally properties and operations that meet future sustainability requireestablished credit regulations and most credit decisions are made ments. The bank’s issuance of covered bonds presents opportunities locally. In the business model between Länsförsäkringar Bank and for using green bonds to steer capital towards sustainability-related the regional insurance companies, there is a strong incentive to purposes. maintain high credit quality. The high credit quality of the loan portfolio is the result of a low risk appetite and credit regulations comLow sustainability risks in lending bined with credit scoring and advisors’ local customer and market Länsförsäkringar Bank’s loans are granted in Sweden and in SEK. The knowledge. geographic spread of lending to both retail and corporate customers The credit regulations impose strict requirements on customers’ is well-diversified. Lending to companies mainly comprises small repayment capacity and the quality of collateral. In connection with businesses that are deemed to have limited environmental and social the loan application process, the repayment capacity of borrowers risks. The wholly owned finance company Wasa Kredit offers lease is tested using “left to live on” calculations. These calculations apply and hire purchase financing to companies, and loans and credit card a significantly higher interest rate than the actual rate. Both the loan loans to private individuals. The business model for lending has relaportfolio and value of the collateral are continuously monitored and tively low sustainability risks. quality assured. The foundation of lending is the credit policy and the credit Mortgage repayments are a key tool in ensuring that households instructions, which include criteria for acceptable risk and identify have stable and secure finances. Länsförsäkringar encourages all high-risk areas in sustainability that require special consideration. customers to make repayments by presenting a recommended Strict requirements are imposed on customers’ repayment capacity repayment plan, as well as an alternative plan, at all customer meetand the quality of collateral. ings where mortgages are discussed. Even customers that do not Environmental risks and environmental responsibility for agri­ fall under the repayment requirements are encouraged to pay off culture and companies are regulated by the extensive external rules their mortgage. of a variety of supervisory authorities. Environment-related risks are addressed in the loan application process based on, for example, Funding at low credit risk licensable and non-licensable operations and a comprehensive Länsförsäkringar Bank’s main financing sources are deposits and assessment of the company’s operations. funding through covered bonds. These covered bonds have the Loan portfolio 31 December 2019 Partnership with ECPAT Länsförsäkringar Bank participates in the Swedish Financial Coalition against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children, which works together with ECPAT and the police. The children’s rights organisation ECPAT is part of a global network in 97 countries that seeks to prevent and inform about the sexual Mortgages, 78% exploitation of children. The aims of the FinanAgriculture, 10% cial Coalition are to prevent the Swedish payHire purchase, 3% ment system from being utilised for the purUnsecured loans, 3% Multi-family housing, 2.5% chase of documented child sexual abuse and Leasing, 2.5% ­ultimately stopping child sexual abuse. Other, 1% 20 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 highest credit rating from Moody’s and S&P Global Ratings, which ­indicates a low credit risk. Local branches and digital services With the 23 regional insurance companies, Länsförsäkringar’s customers have access to branches throughout Sweden. Länsförsäkringar also offers digital banking services. As well as serving customers who actively choose digital meeting places, digital banking services are offered to customers who have not previously been able to come to a branch due to long distance or disability, or who require service outside normal office hours. 67% (63) of bank customers use Länsförsäkringar’s mobile app or Internet bank. Digitisation reduces the impact on the environment since fewer paper print-outs are sent to customers. The percentage of digitally distributed customer documents was 76% (72) in 2019. Activities and targets in 2019 In 2019 Wasa Kredit launched a new financing model tailored to products that reduce environmental impact. Wasa Kredit continues to be an attractive financing partner for companies that work with energy conversion, for example, charging stations for electric and hybrid cars and solar panel and biogas facilities. The process of clarifying the guidelines on managing sustainability risks in agricultural lending was initiated in 2019 but after a materiality analysis was performed, other activities were assigned a higher priority. The work on sustainability risks in lending will be resumed at a later stage. The share of green bonds that the bank invested in increased to slightly more than SEK 2,700 M (900) at year-end 2019. Activities and targets in 2020 Investigations into the option of offering green mortgages and i­ssuing green bonds will continue in 2020. The target for Wasa Kredit in 2020 is to evolve environmental financing into “green financing”. This model will include more sustainability areas than just green financing. Environmental financing with BKtech Wasa Kredit partners with the industrial company BKtech, which is helping Swedish industry with the transition from fossil fuel to bioenergy. Wasa Kredit’s financing solutions via BKtech contributed to carbon savings in 2019 of more than 8,200 tonnes per year, corresponding to the annual emissions from more than 3,600 cars. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 21 Responsible offering Responsible insurance offering Preventing insurance claims and reducing the effects of claims incurred has a positive effect on the environment, health and society. This is a matter of security for customers and society, and forms the foundation of our work. Länsförsäkringar Sak supplements the regional insurance companies’ pay for non-life insurance. In this way, most of the reinsurance preoffering with specialist products to meet customer needs, initiates mium is retained within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance and the costs new business that can be channelled through the regional insurance for external reinsurance are thus lower and more stable, benefiting companies, and manages the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s total re­inLänsförsäkringar’s customers. surance cover. Work is conducted in three business area: Rein­surance and Special Insurance, Health and Agria Djurförsäkring (pet and crop Claims prevention – a gain for the environment insurance). Preventing a claim is a win for customers, the environment and Development and service of the regional insurance companies’ society – that is why claims prevention is central to Länsförsäkringar. existing non-life insurance business is handled by the LB Sak unit, By providing information about common types of claims and claimswhich includes claims prevention and claims adjustment. prevention measures, Länsförsäkringar can help customers to minimise the risk of claims themselves. Claims prevention leads to lower Risks and opportunities claims costs and insurance premiums. Global warming and the resulting extreme weather events, such Together with the regional insurance companies, Länsförsäkas storms, torrential rain, flooding and drought, have huge socio­ringar AB produces guidelines on claims prevention and on how to economic consequences and can lead to higher claims costs for make sustainable repairs, centring on reuse and recycling. Natural insurance companies. catastrophe, water and fire damage claims as well as motor insurUrbanisation, digitisation, migration, an ageing population, a higher ance claims have the greatest impact on the environment. Claimsrate of mental illness and lifestyle diseases are challenging the welprevention activities help reduce the impact on the environment by fare system and creating new customer requirements that are fuelreducing waste, energy use, new materials, transportation and other ling demand for new insurance products and services for private resources – for both the claim incident itself and also for restoration individuals, companies and employers. Society, companies and indiand repairs. viduals stand to gain great economic and social benefits by taking A customised claims-prevention programme is implemented for preventive measures to protect their health and taking early action different product areas in Reinsurance and Special Insurance to in the event of an injury or a risk of long-term sick leave. improve profitability for customers and prevent various claims risks. Motor insurance has a programme featuring claims statistics, analyClimate risks and natural catastrophes sis and claims-prevention material. Surveyors are trained on a conLänsförsäkringar AB and the regional insurance companies take tinuous basis and estate agents are trained to prevent seller liability ­preventive measures and exchange know-how to reduce the risk and real-estate broker claims. of natural catastrophes in society. The reinsurance business – both the business of the regional insurance companies and international Health-promotion efforts for people ­business – expose the company to extreme weather conditions Länsförsäkringar is one of Sweden’s leading players in health and and climate change. health care insurance, with the mission of creating a healthier The regional insurance companies hold a large market share of ­Sweden by contributing to a sustainable lifestyle, working life and forest insurance in Sweden. Länsförsäkringar has access to a comsociety. Mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave. prehensive claims statistics database to continuously assess the Preven­tive and early measures at the workplace are key to breaking risk of natural-damage claims in the forest. this trend. Länsförsäkringar actively participates in the public debate Länsförsäkringar Sak participates in a UN project on climate risks, on good health and a sustainable working life, and provides suppleconducted by PSI and supporting the TCFD’s recommendations, mentary security solutions to promote good health and reduce sick together with about 20 other insurance companies. The project will leave. Länsförsäkringar regularly carries out pilot projects related find new methods and approaches for modelling the impact of climate to preventive measures to increase know-how and awareness of change on the insurance industry and how to tackle it. health drivers. Insurance companies need to protect their operations from The Health Care and Bo Kvar insurance policies offer customers costs for large individual claims and natural catastrophes and often preventive health-promotion services and personal counselling, as turn to specialist reinsurance companies in the international market well as support tailored to employers for their work on the organisato insure some of their risks. The companies in the Länsförsäkringar tional and social work environment, including counselling for managAlliance can naturally share risk among themselves. The regional ers. Länsförsäkringar’s health care insurance also includes effective insurance companies pay an annual reinsurance premium to Länswork-oriented rehabilitation and treatment for addiction. försäkringar Sak, which manages the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s internal and external reinsurance. This premium is based on, for Health-promotion efforts for animals example, risk exposure to natural catastrophes, claims history and Agria operates in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, the UK and the level of retention chosen by the company. This retention can be France. Agria develops insurance products that create security for compared with the deductible that private individuals and companies animals and animal owners in close collaboration with animal-owner 22 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 organisations. Agria works regularly on claims-prevention informaThe process of reviewing the sustainability aspects of product tion and health-promotion activities for customers’ animals in its ­documentation, including insurance terms and conditions, will own digital channels and via digital vet consultations. ­continue in 2020. Agria has health profiles for breeds of dogs and cats (Agria Breed Digital services remain a focus area. The target is to retain the Profiles) that contain extensive claims statistics that are used by high number of visitors (40,000) to the Health Portal’s preventive researchers, breeders and breed clubs to improve animal health and services. sustainable breeding. Participation in the UN project on climate risks in insurance industries will continue. Activities and targets in 2019 Claims prevention – a gain for the environment Studies of the Meps construction calculation programme ended in 2019. Work started on producing an internal calculation model for Agria’s Research Fund the carbon footprint of property repairs. Agria has financed animal research for 80 years. The Guidelines for kitchen and bathroom construction were prepared aim is for research to provide a solid basis for successwith industry colleagues and Insurance Sweden. Water damage costs ful breeding, better animal health and animal keeping, the insurance industry SEK 10 billion per year according to statistics and enhance knowledge about the importance of pets from Insurance Sweden. Much of this damage could be avoided if to humans. More than SEK 10 M was awarded in 2019. More information can be found on page 138. bathrooms and kitchens were renovated correctly. Länsförsäkringar works together with trade organisations to produce standards for water leak detectors and part repairs of bathroom and developing manifold cabinets. Health-promotion efforts for people The Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions initiated a concerted focus on mental illness in 2019, with the participation of Länsförsäkringar. The aim is to start talking openly about mental illness and find new ways and methods for promoting health and UN pilot project well-being. Länsförsäkringar AB started the Mindshift health moveon climate risks ment together with a couple of regional insurance companies, regions Länsförsäkringar is the only and organisations. Swedish company to participate Preventive measures were carried out under the framework of the in an international UN project on health care insurance in the form of digital activities to raise awareness climate risks in the insurance about the importance of physical activity, life balance and a healthy industry. The project will develop diet. The use of the Health Portal and preventive services in the health methods and models for using forward­-looking climate scenarcare insurance achieved the target of 40,000 users during the year. ios to understand how climate change affects the industry. The Health-promotion efforts for animals projects supports the recomAgria achieved its target of half of the users of digital vet services not mendations of the Task Force on needing to physically visit a vet. 75% of 46,000 digital consultations Climate-related Financial Disclowere not referred for physical visits. sures (TCFD). A book entitled “Sustainable riding for sustainable horses” was ­published during the year as of the #stoppahältan project and Agria Naturbana natural riding ground. The book aims to prevent lameness and ultimately more sustainable horses in the future. UN Principles for Agria’s Research Fund aims to improve animal health. The Päls­ Sustainable Insurance (PSI) podden podcast brings research results to a wider audience. Seven Länsförsäkringar Sak is a signatory of PSI’s four (four) episodes were broadcast in 2019 with 127,452 downloads principles and strives to: (28,443). Free research seminars were also arranged to make the •• Integrate sustainability topics into decision-making. results available to a broader audience. •• Work together with customers and business partners An annual charity dog walk took place in 17 towns in six countries to raise awareness of sustainability, manage risks and in the spring. A total of 6,700 teams took part, with Agria donating develop solutions. SEK 50 per team to dog charities for each team. •• Work together with other stakeholders to promote action on sustainability. Activities and targets in 2020 •• Be transparent and report on the integration of the Work on producing an internal calculation model for the carbon principles. ­footprint of property repairs will continue. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 23 Responsible business conduct Responsible employer Commitment, trust, openness and professionalism are the foundation of our corporate culture. Skilled employees who drive and develop the operations are vital to achieving our business objectives. Attracting new and retaining existing employees is of the utmost Health and work environment importance. A focus on diversity, inclusion, skills development, Länsförsäkringar AB has applied a long-term approach to health and health and a good work environment are key factors in ensuring this. the organisational, social and physical work environment for many years. Proactive work is undertaken to create the conditions to Risks and opportunities ensure well-being and job satisfaction among employees in a healthy Technological advances demand that companies work actively on work environment that allows everyone to contribute their commitidentifying the key skills that will be needed and that skills development, good performance and efficiency in order to attain our busiment plans are in place. Not being able to attract the right skills is ness targets. a business risk. Managers are responsible for addressing employee work environMental illness and stress-related illnesses are on the rise in sociment and health issues according to the systematic work-environety. Digital technology and flexible working hours increase the risk of ment process, as well as equality, diversity and discrimination. never-ending work, which presents major risks and costs for individEmployers, managers, employees and health and safety representauals, employers and society. Taking preventive action and striking tives work together on work-environment issues. The organisational a work/life balance is important to reducing such risks. and social work environment is regularly monitored to prevent stress and unhealthy workloads in accordance with the Swedish Work Diversity, inclusion and equality Environ­ment Authority’s provisions (AFS 2015:4). Länsförsäkringar AB’s definitions of diversity and inclusion reflect Health care insurance is offered to all employees that includes the law prohibiting discrimination and everything that makes people medical consultations, counselling, preventive health services and different and unique. The importance of an inclusive culture is critical rehabilitation. Occupational health care services provide support for for benefiting from diversity and welcoming different perspectives rehabilitation, work-related ill health, as well as ergonomic advice and approaches. Different ways of thinking are a key factor for sucand regular medical check-ups. Länsförsäkringar AB’s premises, cess when it comes to learning and innovation that add value to the where the majority of employees work, have a gym and a sustainable business and strengthen competitiveness and profitability. Diversity staff restaurant. One hour of fitness activities during work hours is initiatives play an important role in broadening the recruitment pool. granted every week. Employees at other locations are offered fitness A salary survey is performed every year to ensure that no gender subsidies. discrimination exists for equal positions. Employees have the option Cooperation with trade unions takes place though regular meetof receiving supplementary salary as a complement to the state parings and dialogue. Länsförsäkringar AB follows laws and agreements ents’ allowance. that govern the operations regarding the Employment Protection The aim of the recruitment process is to ensure a more even Act, Discrimination Act, Work Environment Act and collective and ­gender distribution in working groups and managerial positions. co-determination agreements. Länsförsäkringar AB follows the rules The Qnet network develops and coaches women managers as part of collective agreements when employees leave the company or of structured equality measures. resign. All employees, except for Group management, have collective The company has a partnership with Novare Potential to help new agreements. arrivals enter the Swedish labour market and Diversity Charter to promote diversity in the business sector. Activities and targets in 2019 The equality and diversity plan describes standpoints, promotion Diversity, inclusion and equality activities, active measures and action plans. Progress is monitored A new equality and diversity plan was implemented, and all departannually. ments and business unit incorporated diversity targets or activities in their business plans. Training courses, inspirational presentations Skills development and learning and group exercises on diversity and inclusion were arranged. Länsförsäkringar AB endeavours to nurture the conditions for a Less than 1% of employees were identified as having incorrect learning culture focusing on development. Self-management, adaptsalaries in the 2019 salary survey. The deviations were adjusted in ability, self-organisation and professionalism are regarded as key consultation with trade union partners. components. An e-coaching tool in self-management, motivation, The share of working groups with a 40/60 ratio of men and unpredictability, health, efficiency and skills development is used to women was 29% (29). enhance employees’ knowledge of change management. For the eighth consecutive year, students were recruited to the Managers continuously discuss performance, skills, work environ­ Summer Graduates internal programme based on diversity. ment and health with their employees. To strengthen leadership, During the year, Länsförsäkringar AB became a certified employer training in this subject is offered as part of the in-house training by the Swedish Migration Agency, which expedites work permit operations. processing times, thus simplifying recruitment of people without 24 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 permanent residence permits. A partnership was started with Swedish for Professionals to offer Swedish lessons to English-speaking employees. Skills development and learning A Group-wide skills supply plan was produced, containing short and long-term objectives and activities. The aim of the plan is to ensure the organisation’s future skills supply and support employees in continuously developing their skills. A decision was made to introduce a framework for the Lean Agile work method in order to deliver more efficient, high-quality An attractive employer development services to the regional insurance companies. Länsförsäkringar AB’s internal attractiveness as an employer and In 2019, 4,545 (5,266) in-house training courses were organemployee loyalty are measured according to an Employer Net Promoter ised for Länsförsäkringar AB employees. Employees also Score (eNPS). The eNPS for 2019 was 31, up from 26 in 2018. 86% 87% received training in the form of skills transfers, external courses, training programmes, online courses and seminars. Health and work environment The Work Environment and Equality Committee is responsible are proud to work at Länsförsäkringar AB say that they enjoy going to work for overall monitoring of the equality and diversity plan, sick­ness absence, occupational injuries and rehabilitation, and the employee survey. Four near-accidents and 17 occupational injuries were reported during the year. These were mainly in the form of accidents on the way to or from the workplace. Active equality efforts Activity-based working started to be rolled out during the Länsförsäkringar AB participates in the Nyckeltalinstitutet’s (Institute year, enabling employees to work in the way, with the technology of Human Resource Indicators) annual Gender Equality Index JÄMIX to monitor its equality efforts. Länsförsäkringar AB had a total score of and in the place that offer the best support for performing their 125 points (124) out of 180, compared with 123 points (123) for financial work duties efficiently and sustainably. companies. Activities and targets in 2020 Jämix score A framework for the Lean Agile work method and activity-based 130 workplace will be implemented in various phases starting in 2020, which will involve a new work method for a number of employees. 125 A course on artificial intelligence will be arranged for a pilot 120 group of employees as part of the skills supply plan. Implementation of a new HR and training system will begin in 2020, which 115 will create a platform for continued skills development. Skills-based recruitment will be applied, focusing on tests to 110 measure personality, development potential and problem solving, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 so as to avoid discrimination since all candidates will be evaluated Länsförsäkringar AB Financial companies All on equal terms. A manager training course in recruitment and diversity will be arranged. Diversity and inclusion activities will continue and remain part of the business plan. Best Health Index in finance industry Länsförsäkringar AB had the highest score of all financial companies in Nyckeltalinstitutet’s Health Index, with a total of 125 points (135) out of 180. The average score was 120 points (125). Compared with other financial companies, the survey shows that Länsförsäkringar AB is advanced in terms of support structures for work environment and health activities and its efforts in preventive health care. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 25 Responsible business conduct Business ethics The banking and insurance industry is subject to stringent rules and regulatory requirements so as to ensure ­financial stability and provide protection for customers. A high level of business ethics is naturally inherent in all of LänsAnti-corruption försäkringar’s operations in order to best protect its customers. Länsförsäkringar AB takes a stand against all forms of corruption Every day, Länsförsäkringar works on preventing money laundering and improper benefits, which is stated in the Code of Conduct and and terror financing, which is vitally important for meeting regulathe policy on improper benefits. The Swedish Anti-Corruption Institory requirements, contributing to a stable financial system and for tute’s (IMM) recommendations on gifts, rewards and other benefits Länsförsäkringar to uphold its good reputation. in business are part of the policy. The overall aim of Länsförsäkringar AB’s anti-corruption work is Risks and opportunities to guide employees in avoiding giving and receiving gifts and repreMoney laundering and terror financing are international problems sentation that could arouse suspicions of promoting private interthat pose serious threats to the financial system and its institutions, ests or those of a third party. and ultimately the real economy and national safety. Confidence in The Compliance functions regularly perform a risk and vulner­ the financial system is quickly tarnished if financial institutions are ability analysis within Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries to associated with illegal assets and money laundering or used to evaluate the risk of bribery or other forms of improper influence. finance terrorism. The finance industry is subject to regulations that These analyses take into consideration each company’s operations, seek to prevent and counteract the financial system being utilised for size and organisation, market, customers, distribution channels, money laundering and terror financing. Corruption risk is a risk partners, sponsoring and purchasing. found in all companies regardless of industry and country. Whistle-blowing Anti-money laundering and terror financing To counteract and stop crime in the business, employees can conA systematic process based on, for example, in-depth knowledge tact their immediate manager or their manager’s manager if they about customers and their transactions as well as active transaction suspect any improprieties or wish to make a whistle-blowing report. monitoring reduces the risk of the life-assurance and banking ope­ The informant has the right to anonymity and will not suffer any rations being used to launder money, finance terrorism and fraud. repercussions due to the report. The report is processed by Comp­ A central function for the banking and life-assurance operations liance and may be referred to internal or external investigators monitors and checks compliance with procedures and guidelines. depending on its nature. The whistle-blowing procedure is an alterThe Länsförsäkringar Alliance has a shared system for reporting native to other reporting channels. The Code of Conduct and deviations. All employees and contractors working in the banking intranet contain information about the whistle-blowing procedure. and life-assurance operations must be familiar with the content of Two cases of whistle-blowing were reported in 2019. the governance documents and the relevant procedures for antimoney laundering and terror financing. Employees in the banking Activities and targets in 2019 and life-assurance operations undergo mandatory training on the A risk and vulnerability analysis was carried out in 2019 and the subject and receive additional training. A new risk assessment is results showed a low risk of Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries ­carried out when new products, services and distribution channels being exposed to bribery. The annual mandatory e-course on the are introduced and re-organisations are implemented. Code of Conduct, sustainability and security was updated in 2019 This work follows a structured, risk-based approach whereby risk and was completed by 83% (84) of employees. assessments are performed to analyse whether major risks of money laundering and terror financing exist. Customer risk profiles are Activities and targets in 2020 assessed based on customer knowledge data and ongoing business The annual mandatory e-course on the Code of Conduct, sustainrelationships, and unusual activities or transactions are monitored to ability and security will be reviewed in 2020. The aim is to update identify any deviations. If, after an examination, an activity or individthe course. ual transaction is suspected of involving money laundering or terror financing, it is immediately reported to the Financial Intelligence Unit of the police. It is vitally important to Länsförsäkringar AB that issued sanctions are followed. Sanctions that apply as Swedish law comprise the sanctions decided by the EU and/or UN and entail restrictions on freedom of action for a state, group or private individuals. This means that Länsförsäkringar AB is not to maintain a business relationship with the sanctioned parties and is to ensure, through internal guidelines and systems, that payments do not contravene applicable sanctions. 26 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Responsible business conduct Responsible purchasing The choice of suppliers is based not only on quality and competitiveness in the products and services, but also on suppliers’ compliance with sustainability principles. Purchases are mainly from service suppliers. The task of the purThe policy also includes general and IT-specific security guidelines chasing function is to create the best possible business value in close and guidelines for managing conflicts of interest. The Code of Conduct partnership with the operations through professional supplier relais used for both potential and existing suppliers. On 31 December, tionships. This takes place by conducting business-critical procure74% (73) of the 100 largest suppliers had signed the Code of Conduct. ment processes and supporting the operations through processes for simplified purchasing and offering active support across the Activities and targets in 2019 entire lifecycle. On-site audits took place at three large IT suppliers in India during the year to follow up their sustainability activities. The focus of Risks and opportunities these audits was labour, diversity, environmental impact and secuLänsförsäkringar AB primarily makes purchases from service providrity. No major discrepancies were discovered and only a few minor ers in the areas of IT and telecommunications, consultancy services, areas of improvement were identified. health and medical care, marketing and communication, and finanThe focus for the year was on introducing sustainability requirecial services, banking and investments. Based on responsible proments in the procurement process, and a self-assessment form was curement, Länsförsäkringar AB can positively influence suppliers in prepared to help in this. This form serves as a fundamental risk terms of work conditions, healthy competition and a better environassessment of sustainability aspects. ment. Environmental and social risks related to country, industry and company are assessed in procurement processes and meetings with Activities and targets in 2020 suppliers. By not considering sustainability in procurement, purThe Code of Conduct for Suppliers will be revised in 2020. The focus chases could indirectly result in sustainability risks in the supply will be on enhancing the efficiency of supplier audits and the aim is chain. The largest sustainability risk is deemed to be in the area of for 10% of existing suppliers to be audited. work conditions. T he Code of Conduct for Suppliers is available in English and Purchases mainly from service suppliers Swedish at lansforsakringar.se/code-of-conduct-suppliers. Purchases are mainly made from suppliers in Sweden. IT purchases are made from suppliers operating in Sweden, but also other ­countries, such as India. 100 suppliers account for 77% of the total Purchases in 2019, % purchasing volume, which allows for efficient delivery, sustainability and business follow-ups of suppliers. IT and telecommunications, 43% Consultancy services, 24% Code of Conduct part of purchasing agreements Health and medical care, 11% The Code of Conduct for Suppliers has been included in purchasing Marketing and communication, 6% agreements with new suppliers since 2016. The Code is based on the Finance, banking and investments, 3% ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and defines requirements Claims-related services, 1% regarding human rights, labour, environment and business ethics. Other, 12% Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 27 Responsible business conduct Direct environmental impact Efforts are continuously made to reduce the impact on the environment from the company’s operations, concentrating on business travel, energy efficiency in offices and sustainable purchasing. The direct environmental impact of the operations is relatively limActivities were carried out to reduce carbon emissions, including travited and primarily comprises business travel, heating and electricity elling by rail rather than car or air where possible and holding online in office premises, and paper print-outs. meetings, video and telephone conferences instead of travelling. Länsförsäkringar AB’s offices are environmentally classified as Carbon emissions in 2019 amounted to 812,017 kg, meaning an energy efficient. Renewable electricity and district heating are used 18% reduction compared with 2018. A specification of emissions is in these properties. Work methods are continuously reviewed to provided on page 136. Air travel was the largest source of carbon bring about more energy-efficient electricity consumption and heatemissions. ing. Continuous efforts are made to enhance efficiency in order to Double climate compensation for Länsförsäkringar AB’s 2018 reduce the negative environmental impact of the office operations in emissions was paid in 2019 via South Pole. Emissions for 2019 will be several areas as regards materials, recycling and waste. climate compensated. The guidelines for business travel recommend that digital meetings be used in the first instance, and rail rather than air travel. BusiActivities and targets in 2020 ness travel involving journeys of less than 3.25 hours must always be All departments and business units have established activities to made by rail and eco-friendly taxis are to be used. reduce the company’s direct environmental impact. Examples The volume of paper-based communication to customers can be include increasing digital communication, reducing travel and setting reduced by increasing digital services, thus reducing the environenvironmental requirements for purchases. Activities to reduce purmental impact while making information more accessible. chases of plastic, primarily in the staff restaurant, and reduce food The Länsförsäkringar Alliance partners with a company that waste will continue. ­recycles and reuses the computers used in the operations. The target for 2020 is to reduce direct emissions from the ­company’s own operations by 20% compared with 2019. Activities and targets in 2019 Work will commence on rebuilding the ventilation system for Länsförsäkringar AB’s offices were BREEAM certified during the year, more efficient energy use. achieving a rating of Very Good. The installation of LED lighting and energy controls to reduce electricity consumption continued. Sustainability Day for employees 99% of computers were re-used in 2019 through sale for re-use. A day of presentations and talks on sustainable savings, insurance, Only 1% was destroyed and recycled due to its condition or because biodiversity, climate issues and sustainable food was arranged in the the content could not be re-used. autumn. Employees declared their own climate promises and shared Several information campaigns and surveys about food waste in suggestions on how the business can be more sustainable. 250 kg of the staff restaurant were conducted during the year. Purchases of clothes were collected for the Red Cross. 660 litres of litter was colsingle-use plastics decreased by about 70% in 2019. lected from local nature areas. Climate compensation also benefits society Länsförsäkringar AB climate compensates via South Pole to a tree-planting project aimed at restoring the local ecosystem in northern India where soil erosion, a growing number of landslides and drought have affected 500 million people. The project follows the international Gold Standard. 28 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Environmental and social responsibility Long-term environmental and social commitment Every year, Länsförsäkringar finances independent research projects studying social, economic and physical security for customers and society at large. The research results are made public and are used widely in society. Since the 1970s, Länsförsäkringar AB and the regional insurance companies have awarded annual grants to Länsförsäkringar’s Research Fund to identify and study current and future security Testing highlights new risks challenges for society. By making the research results available in It is common for water pipes to be built into the walls of a home the public domain, Länsförsäkringar contributes to knowledgeand a manifold cabinet is used for all manifolds to reduce the based development of security in society. The research focuses on risk of damage. This safety measure is based on the cabinet five areas: Secure homes, tomorrow’s society, road safety, climate remaining completely waterproof. Together with RISE Research change and mutual business models. 11 research projects and Institutes of Sweden, Länsförsäkringar’s Research Fund commissioned testing of the manifold cabinets from the four largest tests were being carried out at the end of 2019 and are presented manufacturers. The results showed that the manifold cabinets on page 138. risk leaking despite following the installation instructions to the letter. Based on these tests, Länsförsäkringar is collaborating Risks and opportunities with the Säker Vatten trade organisation and VVS-fabrikanterUrbanisation, digitisation and the sharing economy are giving rise nas Råd (the Swedish association for manufacturers of heating, to both risks and opportunities in our growing society. Climate plumbing and sanitation products) to improve cabinet designs. adaptation is an important research area where new expertise is needed to understand the changes taking place. Other priorities include research into home security and road safety. A key issue in road safety is to reduce the risk of accidents involving cyclists in cities, and understanding how new vehicles such as electric scooters are making road traffic more complex. Research focusing on security The Research Fund issues calls for proposals to invite researchers at Swedish universities, colleges and independent research institutions to apply for grants. These grants are awarded to projects New climate-related research at a qualified scientific level that are highly relevant to Länsförsäkringar. The Research Fund also finances other scientific tests and projects feasibility studies that aim to highlight and reduce risks and to Länsförsäkringar’s Research Fund will provide SEK 21 M in advance the development of sustainable and beneficial products. ­financing for two new projects in 2020–2023. Improved climate adjustments to residential areas Useful research results Linköping University will carry out research to strengthen The results of this research are used in Länsförsäkringar’s own property owners’ ability to climate-adjust existing buildings. business development and in discussions with customers and The property owners themselves bear the primary responsibil­various stakeholders in society. An important part of the task of ity for climate adjustments but there is a lack of good support to help these owners manage climate risks. More precise vulLänsförsäkringar’s Research Fund is to communicate research nerability analyses, proposals on specific countermeasures results broadly throughout society and for more parties to make and better cooperation between housing, municipal and insuruse of the results. Experience shows that the results are used by ance companies are needed to ensure secure homes in the several different organisations in society, such as the Swedish wake of climate change. Transport Administration, police, municipalities and county administrative boards. Financial effects of climate policy One channel for spreading the results is the regular panel talk The University of Gothenburg plans to study how the finance markets and financial organisations act and react to the c­ limate forum called “Framåtblick” which takes place in various locations threat. The transition to a fossil-free society will set major across the country. The forum serves as a bridge between demands for the financial sector, particularly because massive research and practice by spreading know-how locally to investments are needed to advance towards a more fossil-free strengthen the regions. The forum is a partnership between the society. There is the risk here that if the transition moves too regional insurance companies and the Research Fund, and the quickly, major fossil assets could become stranded and extenlocal community is invited to participate. sive bankruptcies could then threaten the stability of the financial system. The project will also investigate the motives driving private investors to make sustainable investments. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Sustainability 29 Sustainability awards Länsförsäkringar was very proud to receive a number of awards and high sustainability rankings during the year, which confirm that the work performed is appreciated by customers and future employees. Most sustainable company in the financial sector The Swedish public ranked Länsförsäkringar as the most sustainable company SVENSK in 2019 in the Finance cateHÅLLBARHETSRANKING gory of the Swedish ­Sustainability Ranking, Sweden’s largest sustainability customer survey. The survey is carried out by researchers at Stockholm Business School. Länsförsäkringar is an attractive employer Länsförsäkringar as an employer won several awards during the year. Länsförsäkringar •• First place as the most attractive insurance company and in industry leader 20th place of companies with a deep social commitment in on sustainability Universum’s Company and Career Barometer. Länsförsäkringar •• Top 100 companies in the Young Professional Attraction was named Sweden’s most Index carried out by Academic Work and Kantar Sifo. sustainable insurance com•• 13th place in Randstad Employer Brand Research’s list of pany by Sustainable Brand Index – the largest attractiveness of Sweden’s 150 largest private companies. ­consumer sustainability survey in the Nordics. 30 Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Länsförsäkringar AB (publ), Corporate Registration Number 556549-7020, hereby submit the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for the 2019 fiscal year. Ownership and Group structure Business service and Länsförsäkringar’s joint development acti­vities Länsförsäkringar AB is wholly owned by the 23 regional insurance for non-life insurance are conducted in the LB Sak unit. The Strategy companies and 15 local insurance companies. and Change Management unit is responsible for pursuing and creatLänsförsäkringar AB is the Parent Company of Länsförsäkringar ing the conditions for Länsförsäkringar AB’s change agenda to meet Bank AB (referred to below as Länsförsäkringar Bank) and its subsidthe requirements from the regional insurance companies and their iaries, Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB (referred to below as customers. The accounting, capital planning and Group controller Länsförsäkringar Sak) and its subsidiaries and Länsförsäkringar Fond­ functions are part of the Economy and Finance unit. The Asset Manliv Försäkrings AB (referred to below as Länsförsäkringar Fond­liv). agement unit manages the Parent Company’s and insurance operaLänsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB (referred to below as Länstions’ investment portfolios. The Customer and Channel Support försäkringar Liv) is wholly owned by Länsförsäkringar AB but is not unit is responsible for ensuring that the regional insurance compaconsolidated in the consolidated financial statements since the comnies have the prerequisites for delivering high-quality digital and pany is operated in accordance with mutual principles and its surplus physical customer meetings. The IT unit is responsible for the accrues to the policyholders. IT operations conducted within the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and the IT operations that Länsförsäkringar AB outsources to external Focus of operations suppliers. Länsförsäkringar AB has three primary tasks: to conduct business activities in banking, non-life insurance and pensions; to provide Significant events during the year business service to the regional insurance companies in areas in Länsförsäkringar assumed responsibility for brand insurance and which economies of scale and efficiency arise, and to conduct Länsvehicle-damage guarantees for Toyota and Lexus cars in the Swedish försäkringar’s joint strategic development activities. market from 1 January 2019. Technological advances are rapid and The business activities are carried out in the Non-life Insurance, the motor insurance market will see new needs for insurance soluBanking and Life Assurance business units, whose task is to conduct tions. With Toyota as a partner, Länsförsäkringar is even better posibusiness and assume responsibility for direct product-related suptioned to understand these new needs and thus can continue to offer port for the regional insurance companies. Financial governance is relevant insurance solutions. This partnership was highly successful primarily based on the owners’ requirements for effective capital use in 2019, contributing to robust growth in motor insurance. Most of and a balanced and market-based return on equity according to each brand insurance is reinsured in the regional insurance companies, subsidiary’s operations and risk. meaning that the premium volume on a net basis is relatively unchanged for Länsförsäkringar Sak. Länsförsäkringar AB Group structure, 31 December 2019 Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar Bank AB Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB Länsförsäkringar F ondliv Försäkrings AB Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Liv LänsförsäkringarFondförvaltning AB LF Sak GrupplivFörsäkrings AB* Fastighets AB försäkrings AB Länsförsäkringar LänsförsäkringarHypotek AB FörsäkringsKomplement AB aktiebolaget Agria Fastighets KB WasaKredit AB Denmark branch Automobilpalatset Finland branch * The company is operated in accordance with mutual principles France branch and is not consolidated. Norway branch UK branch Agria Pet Insurance Ltd Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors’ Report 31 A new core banking system was very successfully implemented As digitisation increases so do opportunities for packaging the right in April. The system replacement marked a key milestone for Länsproducts and services for customers – understanding the försäkringar’s banking operations and the new modern system plat­customer’s situation and lifestyle choices and offering solutions that form will help make services in the digital area even better, both now cater to these needs are, therefore, essential for winning customer and in the future. trust and loyalty. For this reason, Länsförsäkringar is pursuing its On 1 May 2019, Jakob Carlsson became the President of Länsactivities towards achieving the target of being the industry leader försäkringar Liv. in digital services. Länsförsäkringar’s Open Banking platform was launched in June High household indebtedness has led to many people not having with the aim of building new, innovative services that make everyday sufficient insurance cover. The need for personal-risk insurance in life easier and create security and added value for customers. the form of benefits in the event of illness, accident or unemployIn 2019, Länsförsäkringar AB continued to work according to a ment is thus expected to continue to increase. Länsförsäkringar is long-term business plan aimed at defining how Länsförsäkringar AB well-positioned for growth given the market’s need for employment can become even better at helping each regional insurance company security solutions and the company’s satisfied health care insurance to best leverage the strength of the entire Länsförsäkringar Alliance customers and large market share in commercial insurance. Personin an increasingly digitised world. Introducing the Lean Agile work al-risk insurance is expected to remain affected by high sick leave method will enhance the efficiency of Länsförsäkringar’s developfigures. Mental illness remains the most common cause of sick leave. ment activities and make them more innovative, resulting in rapid Preventive and early measures at the workplace are the keys to product development and testing. This means more efficient ­succeeding in turning around this trend. ­deliveries of new services demanded by customers. The macroeconomic conditions are of great importance to conLänsförsäkringar AB worked together with the 23 regional insurtinued developments in the banking and insurance industry, as are ance companies in 2019 to select the UN Sustainable Development politicians’ efforts to protect consumers and increase stability in the Goals (SDGs) that Länsförsäkringar can support for sustainable financial system. The pursuit of transparency and stability entails development. Seven of these SDGs and 13 targets were identified continued pressure on regulating the sector, which in turn imposes as most relevant and can be clearly linked to our business. demands on Länsförsäkringar to rapidly adapt its operations and convert regulatory requirements into business advantages and even Events after year-end more satisfied customers. On 1 February 2020, Mathias Collén became the President of LänsSustainability is a fundamental element of future developments, försäkringar Fondliv. and has played a part in Länsförsäkringar’s operations since the very The COVID-19 outbreak has now been classified as a pandemic. beginning when the first regional insurance company was founded As per 9 March 2020, developments in the financial markets have had more than 200 years ago. Länsförsäkringar’s products and services a moderately negative impact on the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s must not only strengthen the business but must also contribute to capital situation. There is considerable uncertainty, but Länsförsäkthe sustainable development of society. ringar AB is monitoring developments and is continuously adjusting its operations using contingency and business continuity plans. All Earnings and financial position growth forecasts are currently highly uncertain, but most forecastGroup earnings ers are assuming global growth of 2–2.5% in 2020. Operating profit for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group increased to SEK 3,003 M (2,351). The return on equity amounted to 10% (9). Expectations regarding future development The Länsförsäkringar Sak Group’s operating profit rose to SEK Rapid technological advances are creating new conditions, while at 851 M (460), benefiting from strong net gains from financial items the same time significant changes and innovation are needed to and divestments of property holdings. Premiums earned after ceded leverage the opportunities that are emerging. Expertise, the technireinsurance increased 5% to SEK 6,211 M (5,891). The combined ratio cal environment and the organisation must be adapted to support amounted to 95.8% (93.5). rapid developments so as to meet customers’ evolving needs. The Bank Group’s operating profit increased to SEK 1,893 M Customers demand relevance, flexibility and availability. (1,510), primarily driven by higher net interest income and strong ­Accordingly, developments are best driven forward with a high underlying net commission. Operating profit in 2018 was impacted by level of customer involvement. items affecting comparability mainly related to replacing the bank’s 32 Board of Directors’ Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 core banking system. Net interest income rose 3% to SEK 4,617 M December 2019 the consolidated situation only includes own funds (4,497), mainly attributable to higher volumes. issued externally by Länsförsäkringar Bank in the portion of capital Operating profit for Länsförsäkringar Fondliv rose to SEK 738 M required to cover the capital requirements of Länsförsäkringar Bank, (673), mainly driven by the favourable stock market trend and posiand not, as previously, also including its subsidiaries’ capital requiretive net flows of premiums and capital from existing and new cusments. Eligible Tier 1 capital on 31 December 2019 amounted to SEK tomers. Managed assets increased 26% in 2019 to SEK 159 billion 743.4 M (1,754.5**) and eligible Tier 2 capital to SEK 768.1 M (2,143.2**). (126) on 31 December 2019. A dialogue is currently being maintained with the Swedish Financial The Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s investment return attributable Supervisory Authority to discuss possible options going forward. to the insurance operations’ and Parent Company’s assets amounted The Board of Länsförsäkringar AB proposes that the General to 8.3% (2.5). Properties, which totalled 9% of the investment assets Meeting resolve to pay a dividend of SEK 698 M to the owners – the at the end of the year, yielded the highest return contributing 3.7 per23 regional insurance companies, together with the 15 local insurcentage points (3.9). This was mainly driven by positive changes in the ance companies. market value of property holdings. In November 2019, Länsförsäk*  The Länsförsäkringar Bank Group consolidated with Länsförsäkringar AB. ringar AB and Länsförsäkringar Sak divested property holdings to The comparative period pertains to 30 September 2019. **  Humlegården Fastigheter AB, a property company that is part of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance. Equities also performed strongly during The capital situation of the Group and its insurance subsidiaries the year, contributing 3.1 percentage points (-0.8). In the fixed-­ according to Solvency II is described in greater detail in the Länsincome portfolio, which contributed a total of 1.1 percentage points försäkringar AB Group’s Solvency and Financial Condition Report. An (-0.2) to investment return, mainly US credits had the most positive updated report on the capital situation on 31 December 2019 will be contribution. Alternative investments contributed 0.4 of a percentpublished on Länsförsäkringar’s website in May 2020. age point, mainly driven by the positive trend in forest holdings. Parent Company earnings The Group’s capital situation Profit after financial items for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s ParThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s equity increased SEK 4,039 M in ent Company amounted to SEK 871 M (1,328). Profit was positively 2019 to SEK 30,907 M. SEK 1,000 M of this increase comprised the impacted by dividends and Group contributions of SEK 660 M from issue of Additional Tier 1 Capital loan (AT1) in Länsförsäkringar Bank. Länsförsäkringar Sak (SEK 460 M from Länsförsäkringar Sak and SEK The Länsförsäkringar AB Group is a financial conglomerate. The 850 M from Länsförsäkringar Fondliv), and divestments of property Group’s companies are encompassed by group solvency regulations holdings. Net sales increased to SEK 3,577 M (3,235). in accordance with legislation on financial conglomerates, legislation on insurance operations and legislation on banking operations. Proposed appropriation of profit At 31 December 2019, surplus capital for the Länsförsäkringar AB According to the statement of financial position for Länsförsäkringar Group under the rules on financial conglomerates was SEK 12.4 bilAB, non-restricted equity totalling SEK 14,438,948,733 is at the dislion, up SEK 2.4 billion during the year. Own funds amounted to SEK posal of the Annual General Meeting. 50.2 billion and the capital requirement to SEK 37.8 billion. The capital situation under the rules on insurance operations commensurated The Parent Company’s non-restricted equity comprises SEK with the capital situation under the rules on financial conglomerates Share premium reserve 5,470,917,955 on 31 December 2019. Fair value reserve -504,205,135 The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio for consolidated situation* Retained earnings 8,606,414,586 (the group encompassed by the group rules for banking operations) Net profit for the year 865,821,327 was 15.4% on 31 December 2019, down 0.3 of a percentage point for Non-restricted equity, 31 December 2019 14,438,948,733 the year. Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital in the consolidated situation were impacted by an interpretation on qualifying own funds published by the EuroThe Board of Directors proposes that SEK 67 per share of the unappropriated ­earnings in the Parent Company be paid to the shareholders 698,446,994 pean Banking Authority (EBA) in November 2019. The EBA’s interpretaTo be carried forward 13,740,501,739 tion clarified the application of the limitation rules on inclusion of own 14,438,948,733 funds for banks in a consolidated situation. This means that as per 31 The dividend is calculated on 10,424,582 shares. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors’ Report 33 Non-life insurance Non-life insurance business operation The Non-life insurance business unit is responsible for the non-life insurance operations, which have been assigned to Länsförsäkringar AB by the regional insurance companies. Its role is to complement the regional insurance companies’ offering Agria with specialist products to meet customer needs, to start new busiAgria’s technical result amounted to SEK 86 M (224). The portfolio ness that can be channelled through the regional insurance compagrew strongly both in Sweden and in the international business. The nies and to manage the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s total reinsurance change in earnings was primarily due to higher claims costs. Intense cover. hailstorms in southern Sweden in June contributed to a higher level Non-life insurance is divided into the following three business of claims in crop insurance. Agria’s largest business line in terms of areas: Agria (pet insurance), Health and also Reinsurance and Special volume – Swedish pet insurance – reported weaker earnings due to Insurance, and business activities are conducted in Länsförsäkringar higher claims costs. This was a combination of both a higher claims Sak and its subsidiaries. Länsförsäkringar Sak underwrites health frequency and higher veterinary care costs. Earnings also included a care, accident and health and commercial special insurance and negative non-recurring effect after adjustment of capitalised acquiinternational reinsurance, and manages the Länsförsäkringar Allisition costs and claims adjustment reserves in the UK branch. ance’s overall reinsurance cover. Länsförsäkringar Sak also conducts Premiums earned after ceded reinsurance increased 8% to SEK annuities operations. Länsförsäkringar Sak’s subsidiary Länsförsäk3,788 M (3,496). Volumes increased in all business lines, with the largringar Grupplivförsäkringsaktiebolag underwrites group life assurest growth in the international operations. ance and occupational group life assurance. The subsidiary Agria has a strong concept with the clear strategy of growing Försäkringsaktiebolaget Agria is specialised in pet and crop insurinternationally. The six countries served by Agria all have different ance. This specialisation involves a streamlined focus on and involvechallenges, but many similarities as well, and this is where value of ment with animals and their owners. Agria’s international operations economies of scale, greater risk diversification and access to interare conducted in branches in Denmark, Finland, France, Norway and national know-how strengthen the business. Agria is the market­the UK and in an administration company in the UK, Agria Pet Insurleader in the pet insurance segment in Sweden, Norway and ance Ltd. Asset management is handled within Länsförsäkringar AB ­Denmark. Agria’s insurance for Swedish pets reported strong growth on assignment from Länsförsäkringar Sak. in mainly cat insurance, but also in insurance for small animals. The number of horse insurance policies in Sweden is the highest for ten Earnings and financial position years and the operations in Norway, Denmark and the UK continued Operating profit for the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group rose to SEK 851 to grow strongly. M (460), benefiting from strong investment income mainly driven by The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020. The EU and UK agreed on property and equities holdings. Operating profit was also impacted a transition period in 2020 during which EU rules will continue to by a capital gain on the divestment of property holdings. Premiums apply in the UK. There is still great uncertainty about the permanent earned after ceded reinsurance rose 5% to SEK 6,211 M (5,891). Of the withdrawal agreement that is to be negotiated. Agria is closely folnon-life insurance operations’ three business areas (Agria, Health lowing developments and taking the necessary actions regarding this and Reinsurance and Special Insurance), growth was highest in Agria transition, focusing on ensuring that the impact on the company’s where the premium volume increased in all business lines, with the customers is as little as possible. highest growth in the international business lines. One of Agria’s priority areas is the development of digital chanThe technical result declined to SEK 283 M (402) and the comnels to enhance the customer experience of meeting Agria and to bined ratio amounted to 95.8% (93.5). Claims payments after ceded develop targets sales and more efficient operations. For the second reinsurance amounted to SEK 4,553 M (4,196) and the claims ratio consecutive year, Agria had a high level of customer satisfaction, as increased to 73.3% (71.2). The expense ratio was 22.5% (22.3). measured by the Swedish Quality Index. The UK operations also have The change in technical result was mainly due to higher claims a high share of satisfied customers and customer satisfaction is costs in parts of Agria’s business and international reinsurance, and increasing in Norway. Customers who used their insurance to make to claims that were charged to the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s intera claim remained the most satisfied. nal reinsurance, for which Länsförsäkringar Sak contributes a 15% share of assumed reinsurance. Health The Länsförsäkringar Sak Group’s investment return rose to 8.4% The technical result for the Health business area amounted to SEK (3.8). Properties, which at the end of the year totalled 16% of invest137 M (96). Earnings for accident insurance improved as a result of ment assets, yielded the highest return, driven by positive changes in premium adjustments and a review of conditions. Earnings for group market value, contributing 5.1 percentage points (4.9) to investment life assurance and health insurance also improved. Earnings for return. The fixed-income portfolio, which has a short duration, conhealth care insurance were weaker as a result of last year’s earnings tributed 1.3 percentage points (-0.1), with primarily US credits makincluded positive run-off gains. ing the largest contribution. Equities performed strongly during the Premiums earned amounted to SEK 1,401 M (1,395). Growth was year, contributing 1.9 percentage points (-0.5). primarily high in group life assurance. The former full-service offering in health care insurance was expanded during the year and now comprises three components: health care insurance, health care insurance Basic and preventive 34 Board of Directors’ Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Non-life insurance and rehab insurance. The portfolio premium in health care insurance Capital situation rose during the year. Sales of the Bo Kvar product, which comprises Länsförsäkringar AB and its insurance subsidiaries have had permisan important part of Länsförsäkringar Bank’s offering, performed sion from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority since May strongly and the portfolio premium has grown steadily. This policy 2016 to calculate the capital requirement for insurance operations provides financial protection in the event of death, illness or unemusing a partial internal model. Capital requirements for most market ployment and is an important component in providing financial securisks and non-life insurance risks in Länsförsäkringar Sak are calcurity to customers. Loan protection was expanded during the year to lated using an internal model, whereas other types of risk are calcualso include Wasa Kredit’s borrowers who have loans for cars and lated by applying the standard formula. Länsförsäkringar Sak’s capivacation homes. tal situation is expressed and measured in accordance with Solvency Work on data-driven marketing is continuously developed and II as a ratio of own funds in relation to risk-based capital requiredigital sales performed positively in 2019. Länsförsäkringar believes ments. Länsförsäkringar Sak’s solvency ratio, calculated using the that it should be easy to find the right insurance cover that matches partial internal model, on 31 December 2019 amounted to 221% (228). customer needs, to make use of the policy and to receive service via Länsförsäkringar Sak’s own funds declined SEK 107 M during the digital channels. year to SEK 3,479 M. Own funds were strengthened by the high Regular customer satisfaction surveys of calls to the Customer ­earnings during the year, but were negatively impacted at year-end Service Centre and claims adjustment departments have been carby Group contributions and proposed dividends to the Parent ried out since the autumn of 2015 and the outcomes have remained ­Company totalling SEK 1,340 M, which led to a net decline in own at high levels. funds. The capital requirement amounted to SEK 1,572 M, in line with the ­preceding year. Reinsurance and Special Insurance Länsförsäkringar Sak supplements the regional insurance compaMarket nies’ offering to corporate customers through the Reinsurance and The non-life insurance market is mature and premium income Special Insurance business area, which manages the Group’s internal increased by slightly more than 4% in 2019 according to statistics and external reinsurance, underwrites a diverse portfolio in assumed from Insurance ­Sweden. international reinsurance and offers specialised liability, cargo, The pet-insurance market remains driven by an increasing nummotor, property and credit insurance solutions. This business area is ber of animal owners becoming aware of the importance of reliable competitive in all segments. Customer satisfaction, measured by pet insurance, which is influenced by, for example, the greater emoCustomer NPS, improved in 2019, confirming that the focus on custional value of animals for their owners and developments in the vettomer care and claims prevention is valued by customers. erinarian industry with new technology, new treatment methods and The technical result for Reinsurance and Special Insurance access to veterinary care. amounted to SEK 57 M (84). Internationally assumed reinsurance The market for accident and health insurance increased by just reported negative earnings following higher claims costs from bad over 5% in 2019. Länsförsäkringar’s market share was unchanged at weather in Japan among others. Earnings for the Länsförsäkringar just under 20%. Factors impacting the market for personal-risk Alliance’s internal reinsurance, to which Länsförsäkringar Sak coninsurance are the continuing concern that social insurance in tributes a 15% share of assumed reinsurance, were impacted by ­Sweden will be insufficient and greater household debt. Personal­increased claims costs, mainly caused by a higher number of larger risk insurance provides an important supplement for increasing fire-damage claims and storm Alfrida that impacted parts of eastern financial security in the event of illness, accident, unemployment and Sweden in January. Earnings for liability insurance improved due to death. Company owners also want to ensure that neither they nor lower claims costs. their employees go on long periods of sick leave and health care A number of new agreements resulted in growth in the portfolio insurance can thus provide greater security and keep a business’s premium for cargo insurance in terms of both premium volume and employees healthier. number of policies. The fringe-benefit tax on health care insurance paid by employers Länsförsäkringar Sak lost two high-profile cases in the Supreme that was introduced on 1 July 2018 had less of a negative impact Court during the year. The first case involved the dispute of whether than expected. the company Connecta had become liable for customers’ damages Competition remains fierce in cargo insurance and the share of under the Swedish Insurance Mediation Act or had become liable for business that is managed by insurance brokers in portfolio and group damages on the basis of investment fraud without any element of tenders is continuing to grow. The premium volume in the Swedish insurance brokerage. The second case involved the dispute of market shrank slightly. In liability insurance, the trend of an increaswhether the liability insurance for insurance brokers taken out by the ing number of players showing interest in the small and medium­company EWMG also covered financial advisory services. sized businesses segment continued. Länsförsäkringar’s new partnership with Toyota and Lexus in The total reinsurance capacity in the international reinsurance brand insurance and vehicle-damage guarantees started in January market remained large, resulting in pressed premiums, but the trend 2019. This business line performed strongly during the year, contribof falling premiums in recent years broke in connection with renewuting to a considerable growth in gross premium volumes in motor als in 2019. insurance. Most of brand insurance is reinsured in the regional insurance companies, meaning that the premium volume on a net basis is relatively unchanged for Länsförsäkringar Sak. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors’ Report 35 Bank Bank business operation The Bank Group consists of the Parent Company Länsförsäkringar Bank, and the wholly owned subsidiaries Länsförsäkringar Hypotek, Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning and Wasa Kredit. Länsförsäkringar Bank is the fifth largest retail bank in Sweden with business volumes of SEK 656 billion. The banking operations are conducted only in Sweden and business ance companies for credit-impaired loan receivables is withheld in volumes are continuing to grow in all product segments. The strategy accordance with the settlement model for credit losses related to is to offer banking services to the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s custhe regional insurance companies’ commitments for generated busitomers, which is based on Länsförsäkringar’s strong brand and local ness. Including the withheld remuneration to the regional insurance presence through the customer-owned regional insurance compacompanies, the loss allowance for credit-impaired loan receivables nies. The banking operations have a large potential customer base totalled SEK 374 M (275). The reserve ratio for credit-impaired loan with the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s 3.9 million customers. The main receivables, including withheld remuneration to the regional insurtarget groups are the 3.2 million retail customers, of whom 2.4 million ance companies, amounted to 40.2% (37.0). are home-insurance customers. Other target groups are agricultural customers and small businesses. Business volumes According to the 2019 Swedish Quality Index customer satis­ Business volumes increased 17% to SEK 656 billion (561). Lending faction survey, Länsförsäkringar Bank is the player on the banking rose 6% to SEK 307 billion (289) with continued high credit q­ uality. market with the most satisfied retail customers, an accolade that Lending in Länsförsäkringar Hypotek rose 9% to SEK 240 billion (221). Länsförsäkringar Bank has won 14 times in the past 16 years. LänsDeposits rose 10% to SEK 119 billion (108). The fund ­volume increased försäkringar Bank is also the player with the most satisfied corporate 40% to SEK 230 billion (164). customers and one of the leading players in terms of customer satisfaction for retail mortgage customers, according to the 2019 Swedish Customers Quality Index. The high customer satisfaction is confirmation of The number of customers with Länsförsäkringar as their primary Länsförsäkringar’s clear customer focus and high quality. bank increased 9% to 553,000 (507,000) and the average number of products per customer was five. Some 91% of those customers who Earnings have the bank as their primary bank are also existing LänsförsäkThe Länsförsäkringar Bank Group’s operating profit increased 25% to ringar insurance customers. The number of bank cards rose 9% SEK 1,893 M (1,510), primarily driven by higher net interest income to 783,000 (722,000). and strong underlying net commission. Operating profit in 2018 was impacted by non-recurring costs mainly related to replacing the Deposits and savings bank’s core banking system. Deposits from the public rose 10% to SEK 119 billion (108). Deposits Net interest income rose 3% to SEK 4,617 M (4,497), mainly attribfrom businesses amounted to SEK 13 billion (12). The number of utable to higher volumes. Return on equity amounted to 9.5% (8.3). deposit accounts increased 8%. On 31 December 2019, the market Net gains from financial items amounted to SEK 15 M (14). The share for household deposits amounted to 5.1% (4.9) according to strong trend in underlying net commission, excluding remuneration Statistics Sweden. Fund volumes increased 40% to SEK 230 billion to the regional insurance companies, continued, increasing to SEK (164) attributable to increased inflows in the fund business and 977 M (807). Net commission amounted to SEK –636 M (–773). changes in value. The fund business performed well and 90% of the funds managed under Länsförsäkringar’s own brand performed Expenses ­better than their benchmark index in 2019. Operating expenses amounted to SEK 1,926 M (2,178). Operating expenses in the preceding year included non-recurring items for Loans replacing the bank’s core banking system. All loans are granted in Sweden, in SEK and have a well-diversified The cost/income ratio before credit losses amounted to geographic distribution. Loans to the public rose 6% to SEK 307 0.48 (0.58). ­billion (289) and maintained a high level of credit quality. Lending in Länsförsäkringar Hypotek rose 9% to SEK 240 billion (221). The perCredit losses centage of retail mortgages in relation to the total loan portfolio was Credit losses in the Bank Group remained low and were almost 78%. The weighted average loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of the mortgage exclusively attributable to Wasa Kredit. Credit losses amounted to portfolio amounted to 61% (61). On 31 December 2019, the m ­ arket SEK 207 M (95), net, corresponding to a credit loss level of 0.06% share of retail mortgages had strengthened to 7.0% (6.7) according to (0.04). The increase in credit losses in Wasa Kredit was a combined Statistics Sweden. effect of growing volumes and the impact of IFRS 9 Financial Agricultural lending increased 5% to SEK 30 billion (28). Agri­ ­Instruments. cultural lending primarily comprises first-lien mortgages to family­Credit-impaired loan receivables (stage 3) before provisions owned agricultural operations, and the average commitment was low amounted to SEK 932 M (742), corresponding to a share of credit-­ at SEK 2.3 M (2.3). First-lien mortgages for agricultural properties impaired loan receivables of 0.20% (0.17). The loss allowance for increased to SEK 29 billion (27), corresponding to 96% (95) of agri­ credit-impaired loan receivables was SEK 322 M (242). The reserve cultural lending. Lending in Wasa Kredit increased 7% to SEK 24 bilratio for credit-impaired loan receivables amounted to 34.6% (32.6). lion (23). In addition, SEK 52 M (33) of the remuneration to the regional insur36 Board of Directors’ Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Bank Funding Capital adequacy, consolidated situation The Bank Group has a low refinancing risk and the maturity profile is In accordance with the capital adequacy rules, the consolidated well diversified. Debt securities in issue increased to a nominal SEK ­situation includes the Bank Group and the parent mixed financial 221 billion (204), of which covered bonds amounted to SEK 182 billion holding company ­Länsförsäkringar AB. (164), senior long-term funding to SEK 37 billion (40) and short-term funding to SEK 1.5 billion (0.3). The average remaining term for the Capital ratio long-term funding was 3.3 years (3.5) on 31 December 2019. Consolidated situation, SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Covered bonds were issued during the year at a volume of a nomiIRB Approach 38,640 35,482 nal SEK 34 billion (40). Repurchases of covered bonds amounted to a nominal SEK 8 billion (14) and matured covered bonds to a nominal retail exposures 29,951 27,985 SEK 8 billion (9). Länsförsäkringar Bank issued senior unsecured exposures to corporates 8,689 7,496 bonds of a nominal SEK 6 billion (11) during the year, while maturities Standardised Approach 19,566 19,154 amounted to a nominal SEK 7 billion (6). Operational risks 13,543 12,306 Länsförsäkringar Bank issued its inaugural senior non-preferred Additional requirements according to Article bond in September through a five-year bond with a nominal amount 48,619 45,019 458 CRR of SEK 2.5 billion. This issue is the first step in meeting the Swedish Total REA 121,827 113,283 National Debt Office’s minimum requirement for own funds and Common Equity Tier 1 capital 18,740 17,749 ­eligible liabilities (MREL) by the end of 2021. The total volume of the Tier 1 capital 19,484 18,677 outstanding senior non-preferred bond was SEK 3.0 billion on 31 December 2019. Total capital 20,252 20,712 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, % 15.4 15.7 Liquidity Tier 1 ratio, % 16.0 16.5 On 31 December 2019, the liquidity reserve totalled SEK 60.5 billion Total capital ratio, % 16.6 18.3 (54.4). The liquidity reserve is invested in securities with very high credit quality that are eligible for transactions with the Riksbank and, where appropriate, with the ECB. By utilising the liquidity reserve, contractual undertakings can be met for more than two years without needing to secure new funding in the capital market. The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) for the consolidated situation on 31 December 2019 amounted to 295% (305). The Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) for the consolidated situation on 31 December 2019 was 131%* (130). * The calculation is based on the application of the regulatory requirements according to the upcoming update of the Capital Requirements Regulation. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors’ Report 37 Life assurance and pension insurance Life-assurance and pension insurance business operations Länsförsäkringar offers pension savings, primarily occupational pensions. Fund management, guarantee management and personal-risk insurance are offered through Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. No new policies are underwritten in Länsförsäkringar Liv, but the company manages traditional life assurance that was taken out before September 2011. Länsförsäkringar Liv is operated according to mutual principles and is not consolidated in Länsförsäkringar AB. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Occupational pensions – the largest market Earnings and financial position The occupational pension market is the largest sub-market, comOperating profit for Länsförsäkringar Fondliv rose to SEK 738 M prising 67% (69) of the total life-assurance market measured in pre(673). Net flow of premiums and capital from existing and new cusmium income. The market grew 5% over the last year, as it did in the tomers amounted to SEK 2,134 M (2,444). Managed assets increased previous year, and amounted to SEK 211 billion. Länsförsäkringar 26% in 2019 to SEK 159 billion (126) on 31 December 2019. This Fondliv holds a market share of 4.6%, making the company the increase was mainly due to a favourable stock-market trend and eighth largest. positive net flows of premiums and capital. Total premium income rose to SEK 9,478 M (9,010), of which capiIndividual occupational pensions with unit-linked insurance tal transferred to the company was SEK 1,510 M (1,304). Premium Far from all workplaces have collective agreements and thus income after ceded reinsurance for insurance risk declined to SEK employees need to obtain a different occupational pension. This is 204 M (234). Commission and fee income increased to SEK 1,779 M the case for many small businesses, for example, in industries that (1,671) due to growing managed assets in 2019. do not traditionally have a strong link with trade unions. LänsförsäkOperating expenses rose to SEK 1,141 M (1,106), primarily due to ringar Fondliv is the leading unit-linked insurance company in this higher distribution and administration expenses. The increased area. Premium income in this sub-market amounted to SEK 39 billion administration expenses were largely due to higher IT costs for in 2019, up 4% compared with 2018. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s development. ­market share was 17.7%. Capital situation Transfer market Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s capital situation is expressed and meaMobility in the total transfer market increased again and a total of sured in accordance with Solvency II as a ratio of own funds in relaSEK 42 billion was transferred compared with SEK 36 billion last year. tion to the risk-based capital requirement. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s Länsförsäkringar Fondliv reported a negative net transfer of SEK solvency ratio on 31 December 2019 was 137% (135). Own funds were -1,449 M (–1,004) for the year. Capital transferred to the company strengthened by a positive value growth trend, but fell due to a increased 16% during the year, while capital transferred from the planned dividend for 2019. company rose 29%, which is the reason for the deterioration in the net transfer amount. Market and business volumes Länsförsäkringar strives to offer comprehensible pensions that are Unit-linked insurance considered to be secure and personal. The offering is mainly directed The performance of the financial markets was generally favourable in to small and medium-sized businesses and is distributed via the 2019, although some uncertainty did appear. It was a strong year for regional insurance companies and independent insurance brokers. risk-exposed assets with global stock markets rising sharply. The largest portion of Länsförsäkringar’s new life-assurance sales is This trend was also reflected in Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s fund for pension solutions for companies that do not have collective range. Of a total of 149 funds, all but one reported positive returns in agreements. 2019, with 41% of funds generating a return of more than 30% and The individual occupational pension market for unit-linked insur29% of funds had a return of between 20% and 30%. Funds targeting ance is Länsförsäkringar’s main market. The sub-market accounted equities in properties, the US, Europe and small companies were the for 73.5% of Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s total premium income. Precategories that reported the strongest performance. Länsförsäkringmium income via pension selection centres accounted for 7.4%, priar’s Fastighetsfond had the best performance in 2019, increasing 65%. vate insurance for 4.8%, endowment insurance for 7.5% and other A high-quality, attractive fund range that generates favourable occupational pensions for 6.8%. returns on customers’ pension capital is a central part of the LänsLänsförsäkringar Fondliv’s premium income for guarantee manförsäkringar offering. The fund range comprises both funds under agement amounted to SEK 641 M (654). Capital transferred strengthLänsförsäkringar’s own brand and external funds. All funds are careened premium income by SEK 136 M (119). fully analysed and assessed based on criteria including management organisation, return and sustainability. At the end of 2019, 100% of all The life-assurance market fund companies in the fund range had signed the UN Principles for Premium income in the total life-assurance market amounted to Responsible Investment (PRI). Länsförsäkringar Fondliv works conSEK 316 billion in 2019, up 7% compared with 2018. Länsförsäkringar tinuously on improving the range and offering a greater choice for Fond­liv’s market share of the total life-assurance market is 4%. customers. 23 new funds were launched in 2019, of which seven were sustainability-based funds. 38 Board of Directors’ Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Life assurance and pension insurance The fund range enjoys a high sustainability ranking, for example changes impacting earnings by matching assets and liabilities in the annual analyses of the major insurance brokers. Länsförsäkagainst each other. In addition to falling market interest rate, disringar was one of the first companies in the industry to introduce counting of the liability for terms of more than ten years was negasupplementary criteria for identifying and promoting companies in tively affected by the 0.15 of a percentage point reduction of the the climate transition and can thus promote companies that support ­Ultimate Forward Rate (UFR) to 3.90%. Technical provisions declined the climate targets of the Paris Agreement. SEK 0.7 billion (3.4) during the year. Operating expenses totalled SEK 430 M (412). Guarantee Management Investment income was positive for all management forms and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv offers guarantee management, which is a totalled SEK 9.9 billion (–0.5). New World contributed SEK 1.6 billion, form of pensions savings for customers who want a guarantee in which did not impact earnings and instead accrued directly to the their savings and who need to know the lowest level of their future policyholders. payments. The guarantee principle is that Länsförsäkringar guarantees a portion of the customer’s paid-in insurance capital with the Capital situation possibility of additional returns. A number of changes were made to Länsförsäkringar Liv’s capital situation is expressed and measured in this savings form in 2019 to enhance the competitiveness of the accordance with Solvency II as a ratio of own funds in relation to the offering and to create the conditions for generating secure and longrisk-based capital requirement. Länsförsäkringar Liv’s solvency ratio term returns on pension customers’ savings. On 31 December 2019, on 31 December 2019 was 211% (200). The improvement in the sol50% of the investments comprised interest-bearing investments, vency ratio was mainly due to own funds strengthening during the 36% equities and 14% alternative investments. year as a result of positive investment income. Managed assets amounted to SEK 3.9 billion (3.2). Collective consolidation is calculated as the ratio between The return for guarantee management was strong and was total capital and insurance capital. Collective consolidation on among the market’s best products at 15.6% (–4.0). 31 December 2019 amounted to 112% (105) in New Trad and 131% (124) in Old Trad. Traditional life assurance in Länsförsäkringar Liv Länsförsäkringar Liv, which is closed for new business, conducts traNew Trad ditional life assurance for its customers divided into four portfolios: Managed assets in New Trad amounted to SEK 25 billion (22). New New Trad, Old Trad, New World and Insured Pension. Total managed Trad is a management form that customers with existing traditional assets amounted to SEK 114 billion (109) on 31 December 2019. insurance can choose to transition to. Transitions involve lower fees and a lower guaranteed rate. A lower guaranteed rate means that Earnings and financial position Länsförsäkringar Liv can invest the capital in assets that have higher Profit for Länsförsäkringar Liv increased to SEK 5,567 M (609), mainly expected returns, which over time increases the possibility of a due to the healthy investment income that benefited from strong higher bonus. capital markets in 2019. Investment income was boosted mainly by Investments as at 31 December 2019 comprised 54% interest­high returns on equities, alternative investments and properties. bearing investments, 33% equities, 7% alternative investments and The return on alternative investments was mainly the result of 6% properties. The share of interest-bearing investments was lowsales of forest holdings. In connection with the restructuring of ered by 5 percentage points in 2019, while the share of alternative Bergvik Skog AB, Länsförsäkringar Liv sold a large portion of its forinvestments and properties was raised. est holdings to Stora Enso, and to 17 regional insurance companies Investment return amounted to 14.9% (–0.6). The average return and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. This sale took place on market-based has been 6.3% per year since the start in 2013. conditions and realised a gain of SEK 870 M. The bonus rate on 31 December 2019 was 4% (5). The bonus rate In addition to healthy investment income, positive operating was lowered from 5% to 3% on 1 January 2019. The bonus rate was profit and transitions to New Trad, through lower technical proviraised to 4% on 1 November 2019. In connection with this, an extra sions, contributed to the high earnings in 2019. bonus of 4% was allotted. The average bonus rate has been 7.2 per Earnings were negatively impacted by Swedish long-term market year since the start in 2013. interest rates falling about 30 basis points in 2019, which resulted in a lower discount rate for the liability during the year. Changes in marOld Trad ket interest rates affect Länsförsäkringar Liv’s earnings since future Managed assets in Old Trad amounted to SEK 78 billion (77). The curcommitments are discounted with the market interest rate. Howrent low interest-rate environment presents major challenges for ever, the company can largely protect itself from interest-rate traditional life assurance since in many cases the expected return is Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors’ Report 39 Life assurance and pension insurance lower than the guaranteed rate of the insurance policies. The primary Investments in New World can vary within defined intervals, with the aim of risk-taking in the Old Trad investment portfolio is to ensure percentage of equities comprising 60–80% and the remainder comthat the guaranteed commitments can also be realised in the event prising interest-bearing investments. The percentage of equities on of a negative market trend. At the same time, balanced risk-taking is 31 December 2019 was 70%. applied to facilitate a reasonable return on customers’ savings. The investment return amounted to 17.6% (–7.8). Investments on 31 December 2019 comprised 84% interest-­ bearing investments, 5% equities, 6% properties and 5% alternative Insured Pension investments. Managed assets in Insured Pension amounted to SEK 1.2 billion (1.0). Investment return amounted to 6.9% (0.9). This savings form comprises a bond portion and a derivative portion. The bonus rate on 31 December 2019 was 3% (3). The size of these two portions depends on the time remaining until retirement and thus the return for Insured Pension is individual. New World Insured Pension customers have been invited to transfer to New Trad Managed assets in New World amounted to SEK 10 billion (10). New since 2018. This offer was well received and a total of more than World is a traditional insurance policy whereby customers benefit SEK 840 M in customer capital has been transferred to New Trad. from changes in value in the equities market, while at the same time are guaranteed to recoup over time at least the premiums paid, after deductions for expenses and yield tax. 40 Board of Directors’ Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Other information Risks and uncertainty factors of the operations Länsförsäkringar AB and its insurance subsidiaries have permission The Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s banking and insurance operations from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to calculate the give rise to various types of risks, with the most prominent risks capital requirement for insurance operations using a partial internal comprising credit risk in the Bank Group and insurance and market model. Capital requirements for most market risks, non-life insurrisks in the non-life and unit-linked insurance companies. Alongside ance risks and health-insurance risks are calculated using an interthese risks, the focus on cyber risks and climate risks has been intennal model, whereas other types of risk are calculated by applying the sified over time, and the emergence of new types of risk, emerging standard formula. Länsförsäkringar Bank also has approval from the risks, is continuously monitored. Financial Supervisory Authority to use the Internal Ratings Based Credit risk in the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group is primarily Approach (IRB Approach) for credit risk measurement for affected by the economic situation in Sweden since all loans are ­calculating the capital requirement. granted locally. The Bank Group is also exposed to liquidity risk and A more detailed description of the risks, and how they are mana certain level of market risk. Credit losses remain low and the refiaged, is presented in Group note 2 Risk and capital management. nancing of business activities is highly satisfactory. A settlement model for credit losses has been applied since 2014 related to the Employees regional insurance companies’ commitments for generated business. Commitment, trust, openness and professionalism are the foundaThe model entails that the regional insurance companies cover 80% tion of Länsförsäkringar’s corporate culture. Skilled employees who of the provision requirement on the date when an impairment is idendrive and develop the operations are vital to achieving business tified, by off-setting this against a buffer of accrued commission. objectives. Attracting new and retaining existing employees is of the Market risks primarily arise in Länsförsäkringar Fondliv on the greatest importance. A focus on diversity, inclusion, skills developbasis of indirect exposure to market risk, since future income in the ment, health and a good work environment are key factors in ensurunit-linked insurance operations is dependent on trends in the finaning this. A more detailed description of how the Länsförsäkringar AB cial market. However, the direct market risk in unit-linked insurance Group works as a responsible employer can be found on pages 24–25 is borne by the policyholders. The risks in the investment assets and 135–136. managed by the Group’s companies for own account are held at a low level and reduced further in 2019 by divesting properties. Sustainability Life-assurance risks primarily comprise cancellation risk in LänsThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s sustainability activities are based försäkringar Fondliv, meaning the risk of lower future fee income due on the vision of “Together we create security and opportunities”. to customers moving their insurance to paid-up policies or transferThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group can reduce its sustainability risks, ring them to another insurance company. increase customer value and also contribute to the positive developNon-life insurance risks arise on the basis of business in Länsment of society and create business value by taking economic, social försäkringar Sak, which conducts highly diverse business operations and environmental aspects into consideration in its business develranging from cargo insurance and reinsurance to pet insurance in the opment and business decisions. Länsförsäkringar is a signatory to subsidiary Agria. The risks taken in non-life insurance are reinsured. the principles of the UN Global Compact and works to contribute to The Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB’s risks are primarily the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Länsförsäkringar attributable to the company’s investments in liquidity and the busiAB Group’s statutory Sustainability Report in accordance with Chapness-support operations conducted on behalf of the subsidiaries ter 6, Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act can be found on and the regional insurance companies. the pages listed in the Index ÅRL Sustainability Report on page 139. Cyber risks arise in the use and transfer of digital data in the operations. Climate risks arising from climate change can directly or The results of the year’s operations and the financial position of the indirectly increase other risks, for example, by increasing insurance Länsförsäkringar AB Group and the Parent Company at 31 December claims, financial losses or damage to the brand. 2019 are presented in the following financial statements with accompanying notes for the Group and Parent Company. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors’ Report 41 Corporate Governance Report Introduction into business activities in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and Länsförsäkringar AB is wholly owned by the 23 customer-owned according to which Länsförsäkringar AB organises, governs and regional insurance companies, together with 15 local insurance com­controls the operations, taking into account applicable internal and panies. The Länsförsäkringar AB Group comprises the Parent Comexternal regulatory frameworks. The foundations of the corporate pany Länsförsäkringar AB with a number of directly and indirectly governance system are: owned subsidiaries. The business operations of the Länsförsäkringar •• the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s strategies AB Group are those deemed by the Länsförsäkringar Alliance as best •• the task from the owners suited to be run jointly. Most of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s devel•• Länsförsäkringar AB’s long-term direction opment and service activities are coordinated with Länsförsäkringar •• the principles approved by Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board for AB, with shared priorities. ­governing the Länsförsäkringar AB Group Länsförsäkringar AB is a public limited liability company. Länsförsäkringar AB complies with the applicable parts of the Swedish The Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s strategies comprise a number of Corporate Governance Code (the Code). The main reasons for the strategy documents that describe such issues as the Alliance’s core deviations are the limitations under the rules for financial companies, values and outline the direction and prerequisites for both the indithe federal structure of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance and that Länsvidual regional insurance companies and for the cooperation försäkringar AB is not a listed company. Deviations from the provibetween the companies and Länsförsäkringar AB. sions of the Code and explanations for such deviations are presented The assignment from the owners comprises the regional insurin the Deviations from the Code section. ance companies’ request for a coherent delivery of the activities According to the Code, good corporate governance is assurance within Länsförsäkringar AB and the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s joint that companies are managed in a manner that optimises efficiency strategies, as determined by Länsförsäkringar AB’s shareholder confor their shareholders. However, good corporate governance is also sortium. Länsförsäkringar AB’s long-term direction is determined by significant for other company stakeholders, such as customers, the Board of Länsförsäkringar AB by adopting a long-term plan and bond investors and supervisory authorities. within the framework of the annual business planning process in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial and Capital ManageDescription of the corporate governance system ment and Control. The Länsförsäkringar AB Group has a corporate governance system The Board of Länsförsäkringar AB has decided on five principles that aims to ensure healthy and responsible control of the Group, for the governance of the Länsförsäkringar AB Group to achieve risk management and a high level of internal control in the operaintegrated and efficient control of the Group. The principles are tions. Because both insurance and banking operations are conas follows: ducted in the Group, the Länsförsäkringar AB Group is a financial •• Governance of the Group is to be based on the Board of conglomerate and the Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB is a ­Länsförsäkringar AB. mixed financial holding company. In this capacity, Länsförsäkringar •• Governance is to be based on the market, risk and profitability. AB is encompassed by the group rules for banking and insurance as •• The organisation of the Group is to be efficient. well as the rules on special supervision of financial conglomerates. •• The operations of Länsförsäkringar AB are to be conducted as if This means that Länsförsäkringar AB together with the Länsförsäkthey were licensable, where appropriate. ringar Bank Group comprises a “consolidated situation.” Länsförsäk•• Internal rules are to be established within the framework ringar Bank is responsible for parts of the consolidated situation of governance. from a supervisory and reporting perspective. However, this has no effect on the control and supervisory responsibility that LänsförsäkThe risk-based performance management represents the basis of ringar AB has in its capacity as Parent Company towards the subsidcorporate governance. The foundation of the business is risk-taking iaries of the Group and, accordingly, Länsförsäkringar AB’s goverand the governance of the Group is to be based on risk. The risknance of the Group. The corporate governance system is based performance management is to ensure healthy and efficient continuously adapted to changes in these regulations. governance of the Group’s risks. As a result, risk-based performance The corporate governance system is regulated in the Group’s management entails that the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s operajoint Group instructions, which comprise the basic governance doctions are to be governed and conducted based on conscientious uments pertaining to organisation, governance and monitoring in the risk-taking but without ever compromising the Länsförsäkringar AB Länsförsäkringar AB Group. Group’s long-term profitability and viability. Risk awareness is to Länsförsäkringar AB’s corporate governance model can be ­permeate the organisational structure and governance of the Länsdescribed as the framework upon which the Länsförsäkringar Alliförsäkringar AB Group. Risk-based performance management ance’s strategies and Länsförsäkringar AB’s task from the shareholdincludes the internal-control system and the systems for such ers, long-term direction and governance principles are converted ­matters as regulatory compliance and risk management. 42 Corporate Governance Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Based on these starting points for the corporate governance system Managing conflicts of interest and risk-based performance management, the corporate goverAll of the companies in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group have internal nance system comprises the following components: rules regarding the identification and management of conflicts of •• Organisation interest. •• Internal regulatory framework •• Internal-control system, including: Fit and proper requirements – Regulatory-compliance system All employees and Board members of the Group’s companies must – Risk-management system be suitable for the duties that they are intended to perform in terms of knowledge and experience (fit), good repute and integrity (proper). A suitable and surveyable organisational structure and decision A suitability assessment is carried out as part of the employment process, and a clear distribution of responsibility and work process and prior to election of Board members at General Meetings. assignments Assessments of whether Board members, senior executives and indiThe basis of corporate governance is the operational organisational viduals in other central functions are suitable (“fit and proper”) take structure established by the Board, with an appropriate and transplace following adopted governance documents. parent organisation a clear distribution of responsibility and duties between the various company bodies, and the so-called lines of Internal regulatory framework defence, and a clear decision and reporting procedure (refer to In order to be surveyable and easily available, the Länsförsäkringar Internal-control system below). Some of the areas to be guaranteed AB Group’s internal regulatory framework is to be simple and clear. within the framework of the organisation are: economies of scale via The aim is to limit the number of internal regulatory documents as far Group-wide functions and outsourced operations, continuity manas possible. The internal regulatory framework in the Länsförsäkagement and business contingency plans, efficient systems for ringar AB Group comprises the following governance documents: reporting and transferring information, information security, man•• Policy – communicates a position of principle agement of conflicts of interest and ensuring that Board members •• Guidelines – overall regulatory framework and employees are suited to their tasks. •• Instructions – detailed rules in a specific area The corporate governance model thus comprises a description of the organisation, the decision process, how responsibilities are disThe governance documents can either be joint or company specific, tributed, the working methods of the Board and the management, that is to say they apply either to all companies within the Länsand the responsibilities of central senior executives and functions. försäkringar AB Group or to only one of the companies. The joint governance documents are adopted by the Länsförsäkringar AB Board Group-wide functions and outsourced operations or decided by the President/CEO. The joint governance documents The distribution of work in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group is a key are also to be approved by and incorporated in the other companies tool for achieving economies of scale in terms of both finance and in the organisation. The company-specific governance documents expertise. It is also a method of implementing effective and proactive are adopted by either the Board of each company or by the President governance within the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. The operational of the subsidiaries. organisation, with the business activities conducted in the business units and Group-wide functions in the Parent Company, was estabInternal-control system lished based on this approach. Outsourcing operations to external Internal control is part of the governance of the Länsförsäkringar AB parties is also a key tool for achieving economies of scale in terms of Group. Internal control aims to ensure that the organisation is effiboth finance and expertise. Outsourcing takes place in both Länscient and fit for its purpose, that operations are conducted in accorförsäkringar AB and in the subsidiaries. For this reason, the Board of dance with decided strategies in order to achieve established tarLänsförsäkringar AB has established a Group-wide policy for outgets, that financial statements and reporting are reliable, that sourcing operations that stipulates the overall principles for interinformation systems are managed and operated efficiently and that nally and externally outsourced operations. there is a strong ability to identity, measure, monitor and manage risks and proper regulatory compliance. Risk and capital control and Continuity management and business contingency plans capital planning are a part of the internal control. The internal control The Länsförsäkringar AB Group has continuity management aimed at process encompasses all parts of the organisation, including outensuring that important information is protected and that the operasourced operations, and must be an integral part of the operations. tions can be maintained in the event of an interruption or major operInternal control is based on a system with a strong culture of risk and ational disturbance. Group-wide and company-specific business regulation, with three lines of defence. The first line of defence is the contingency plans have been prepared for this purpose. operations. The first line of defence includes responsibility for the operation’s risks and it is the responsibility of the operations to Efficient systems for reporting and transferring information ensure that control processes for monitoring are in place, impleThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group has efficient information and reportmented and reported. To support the internal-control process, a ing systems for ensuring that both external and internal information Compliance function and a Risk Control function have been estaband operational reporting, for example, are reliable, correct, comlished and form the second line of defence. Compliance is responsiplete and published at the correct time. ble for independent monitoring and control to ensure that the operations are conducted in full regulatory compliance. Risk Management Information security is responsible for independent risk control and ensuring that the The Länsförsäkringar AB Group has IT systems and procedures for operations are conducted with a high level of risk control. Internal ensuring the confidentiality and accessibility of important information. Audit, the third line of defence, comprises the Board’s support for quality assurance and evaluation of the organisation’s risk management, governance and internal control. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Corporate Governance Report 43 Regulatory-compliance system votes unless the Swedish Companies Act prescribes another specific Länsförsäkringar AB Group has a system for regulatory compliance voting majority. Decisions are made at the Annual General Meeting aimed at ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and other rules, pertaining to: the Annual Report, the election of members of the monitoring and effective implementation of new and amended reguBoard and auditors, remuneration of Board members and auditors lations, that the Boards and employees are trained and that the and other important matters to be addressed in accordance with Group is continuously able to identify, measure, control, manage and laws or the Articles of Association. The remuneration proposal for report risks regarding compliance with external and internal regulaBoard members is specified for the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, tions. The system helps minimise risks and aids the Group’s operaother Board members and fees for committee work. tions in attaining a higher degree of certainty. The 2019 Annual General Meeting approved the principles The first-line regulatory-compliance functions are the legal funcfor remuneration and other terms of employment for corporate tions and the regulatory support functions in the subsidiaries. Läns­management. försäkringar AB Group’s Legal Affairs unit has the overall responsi­ bility for managing legal issues within the Länsförsäkringar AB Group, Nomination Committee such as uniform interpretations and application of regulations, and is The General Meeting of Länsförsäkringar AB appoints a nomination also responsible for matters related to corporate governance. committee, which is charged with the duty of presenting proposals The subsidiaries’ regulatory-support functions are to provide for members of the Board of Directors and auditors of Länsförsäkregulatory support for the specific operations, which includes proringar AB and its subsidiaries and certain other companies, and fees viding support and advice to the company and assuming responsi­ and other remuneration of these members and auditors. The nominability for regulatory compliance by, for example, ensuring implemention committee follows an instruction adopted by the Annual General tation of regulations in the subsidiaries. Meeting of Länsförsäkringar AB. The nomination committee is Compliance is responsible for the second-line of regulatory work responsible for assessing whether proposed Board members are fit (for further details, refer also to the section on Control functions and proper. New Board members are recruited in accordance with below). the nomination committee’s instructions and established proceA special Regulatory Group has been established with the task of dures and processes. The nomination committee is to assess ensuring that regulatory changes and new rules are identified at an whether the Board is appropriately composed, with respect to the early stage so as to perform impact assessments and decide on company’s operations, stage of development and other circumaction. The Regulatory Group includes the Head of Legal Affairs at stances, so that the overall competencies and experience necessary Länsförsäkringar AB, the heads of the legal departments at Länsfor the company are in place, characterised by diversity in terms of, försäkringar AB, a representative for the CFO Group, CRO Group and for example, age, gender and ethnic origin, and educational and prothe Head of Compliance. The Regulatory Group regularly reports on fessional background that promotes independent opinions and critinew and changed regulations to corporate management, commitcal questioning within the Board. See also the section Fit and proper tees and the Board. assessment of the Board of Directors and President/CEO below. Risk-management system Nomination Committee prior to 2020 Annual General Meeting The purpose of the risk-management system is to ensure that LänsThe nomination committee has comprised Otto Ramel as Chairman försäkringar AB is continuously able to identify, measure, monitor, (Länsförsäkringar Skåne), Henrietta Hansson (Länsförsäkringar manage and report risks and the dependencies between various Jönköping), Anna-Greta Lundh (Länsförsäkringar Södermanland), risks. The system is an integral part of Länsförsäkringar AB’s organiGöran Trobro (Länsförsäkringar Göinge Kristianstad) and Mats sational structure and decision process and is designed with approÅstrand (Länsförsäkringar Gävleborg) since the 2019 Annual General priate consideration for established organisational and decision Meeting. Henrietta Hansson stepped down from the nomination ­processes. committee during the year. Prior to 2020 Annual General Meeting, The risk-management system contains the strategies, processes the nomination committee will: and reporting procedures that are necessary for continuously identi•• Study the evaluation of the Board’s work. fying, measuring, monitoring, managing and reporting risks. The •• Listen to the Board Chairman’s, Board members’ and President’s risk-management system addresses the risks that the company is, views on operations, the Board’s work and requirements in relation or could be, exposed to and their mutual dependencies. to knowledge and experience. An overview of the corporate governance structure in Läns•• Review and discuss requirements for knowledge and experience försäkringar AB is illustrated in the figure on page 45. with respect to the needs of the operations and regulatory requirements. Shareholders and General Meeting •• Evaluate the independence of candidates. The shareholders exercise their influence at the General Meeting, •• Nominate Board members, including the Chairman of the Board which is the company’s highest decision-making body. A General and, in certain cases, a Deputy Chairman. Meeting is normally held once a year, known as the Annual General •• Perform fit and proper assessments of Board members. Meeting. No shareholder is entitled to own more than 9.8% of the •• Propose fees and other remuneration of Board members, auditors capital or votes in the company. and other bodies. Shareholders’ power of decision The nomination committee’s proposals are presented in the notice to At General Meetings, no one may vote using their own or anyone convene the Annual General Meeting. The nomination committee else’s shares for more than 99/1,000 votes represented at the Meetpresents and motivates its proposals at the Annual General Meeting, ing. Motions are passed at General Meetings by a simple majority of and provides an account of how its work was conducted. 44 Corporate Governance Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 External auditors Association, is to comprise between eight and twelve Board memThe Annual General Meeting appoints the external auditors. Nominabers elected by the General Meeting, with or without deputies. In tions are made to the nomination committee. In accordance with the accordance with the Articles of Association, Board members are Articles of Association, Länsförsäkringar AB is to have between one elected for a mandate period of two years by the Annual General and three auditors and between zero and two deputy auditors. The Meeting. In addition, members and deputies appointed by the tradeauditors are appointed for a mandate period of not more than four union organisations are members of the Board. The President and years. At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, KPMG AB was appointed CEO is not a member of the Board. The company has no time limit for audit firm with Mårten Asplund as auditor in charge for the period up the length of time a member may sit on the Board and no upper age to the 2022 Annual General Meeting. limit for Board members. The Chairman and Deputy Chairman of the The auditors examine Länsförsäkringar AB’s Annual Report, CorBoard are appointed by the Annual General Meeting. The President, porate Governance Report, the administration of the Board and the Board Secretary, Head of Legal Affairs and Director of Corporate President/CEO and the Sustainability Report. At the Annual General Communications participate in Board meetings except for matters in Meeting, the auditor presents the auditor’s report and describes the which there may be a conflict of interest or when it would otherwise audit process. The auditor presented the audit results and observabe inappropriate for them to attend. Employees reporting on partictions to the Board once in 2019. The auditors also participate in meetular issues attend meetings when they make their presentations. ings of the Audit Committee. The Board currently comprises 12 regular members and two deputies. Nine of the members were elected by the Annual General MeetBoard of Directors ing. Three members and two deputies were appointed by the trade The Board of Directors of Länsförsäkringar AB are appointed by the unions. A presentation of the Board members can be found on pages Annual General Meeting and, in accordance with the Articles of 144–145. Länsförsäkringar AB’s governance structure Shareholders and External auditors Nomination Committee General Meeting Board of Directors Internal Audit Audit Risk and Remuneration Committee Capital Committee Committee Compliance President/CEO and IT unit corporate management Risk Management Asset Management unit Capital Committee Non-life Insurance Sustainability Committee business unit Legal Affairs unit Bank business unit Economy and Finance unit Life Assurance business unit Strategy and Change Management Traditional Life Assurance unit LB Stöd LB Sak unit Elects/appoints Coordination office Customer and Channel Informs/ Support unit reports to HR Communication and Sustainability Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Corporate Governance Report 45 Board responsibilities and allocation of duties meets the company’s auditors at least once per year (refer also to the The Board is responsible for the organisation and administration of Audit Committee section below). the company and decisions on issues of material significance and of The dates of Board meetings are established at the first scheduled an overall nature relating to the company’s operations. The Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting for the next 18-month appoints, dismisses and evaluates the President, adopts an appropriperiod. A notice of each meeting, including a preliminary agenda, is ate operational organisation for Länsförsäkringar AB and the Länssent out 14 days prior to the meeting. Documentation for the meeting försäkringar AB Group as well as the goals and strategies of the is normally distributed about one week prior to the meeting. All docuoperations, and ensures that efficient systems are in place for interments and presentation slides are saved electronically. nal control and risk management. The Board held 14 meetings in 2019, three of which per capsulam. Every year, the Board adopts a formal work plan. The formal work In 2019, the Board devoted particular attention to such issues as cerplan includes regulations on the duties and responsibilities of the tain organisational matters, regulatory matters, risk and capital Board and its Chairman, the number of Board meetings, procedures issues, the economic situation in the business environment and its for operational and financial reporting as well as procedures for effects on the operations and IT, IT security and digitisation. During Board meetings, notices of meetings, presentation of material, delethe year, the Board underwent several training courses in operational gation of work duties within the Board, conflicts of interest and disand regulatory issues. qualification. The number of Board meetings and members’ attendance at The Board is to continuously remain informed about the perforthese meetings are presented in the table on page 47. mance of the company to be able to continuously assess the company’s financial situation and position. Evaluation of the Board’s work Through its formal work plan and a reporting manual, the Board Every year, the Board Chairman initiates an evaluation of the has established that financial reporting is to take place regularly at Board’s work. A summary of the findings was presented to the Board meetings. The Board also regularly manages and evaluates the Board for discussion. company’s and the Group’s risk development and risk management. During the year, the Board regularly reviews the earnings and sales Audit Committee trends, investment income, financial position, risk trends etc., in relaThe Audit Committee is responsible for preparing the Board’s work in tion to the business plan and forecasts. The Board receives reports the following areas: from Compliance, Risk Management and Internal Audit at least four •• Monitoring the company’s financial reporting. times per year. The Board continuously monitors current matters •• Regarding the financial reporting, monitoring the effectiveness with authorities. of the company’s internal control, internal audit and risk ­management Chairman •• Remaining informed of the audit of the Annual Report and According to the formal work plan, the Chairman is to lead the ­consolidated financial statements. Board’s work and ensure that the Board fulfils its duties. The Chair•• Examining and monitoring auditors’ impartiality and independence man shall also ensure that the Board meets as required, is provided and, in this respect, particularly noting whether the auditors prowith the opportunity to participate in meetings and receives satisvide the company with any other services than auditing services. factory information and documentation for decision-making, and •• Assisting in the preparation of proposals to the Annual General applies an appropriate working methodology. On the basis of ongoMeeting’s motions on election of auditors. ing contact with the President, the Chairman shall also keep informed of significant events and developments within the company In addition, the Audit Committee is responsible for preparing the between Board meetings, and shall support the President in his work. Board’s work on monitoring the effectiveness of the company’s: •• corporate governance system, which includes internal governance Work of the Board and control. In its formal work plan, the Board has established a standard for its •• internal control of the operational risks. agenda, annually recurring items of business and a standard for information and decision-making material. In an internal Group At the statutory Board meeting immediately following the 2019 directive, the Board has established the company’s and the Group’s Annual General Meeting, Maria Engholm (Chairman), Bengt-Erik operational organisation and clarified the distribution of work duties Jansson, Mikael Sundquist and Maria Wallin Wållberg were appointed between the various units and executives in the company and the members of the Audit Committee. Group. In addition to the internal Group directive, the Board estabThe number of Audit Committee meetings and members’ attenlishes its formal work plan, directive for the President and a large dance at these meetings are presented in the table on page 47. number of governance documents for the operations at least once a year, regardless of whether any amendments are required. Risk and Capital Committee The Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee, a The Risk and Capital Committee is to support the Board in risk and Risk and Capital Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The capital issues and serve as a forum for analysing and holding duties of the Committees are determined by the Board in its formal in-depth discussions on Länsförsäkringar AB’s and the Länsförsäkwork plan or in separate formal work plans for each committee. None ringar AB Group’s risk-taking and capital requirements. Prior to of the Committees has any general decision-making mandate. Each Board meetings, the Committee is to discuss and address issues Committee must regularly report on its activities to the Board. relating to the following: The Board conducts annual strategic seminars and annual evalu•• Risk policy and capital policy. ations of the President’s work and terms of employment. The Board •• The Group’s internal models and validation. 46 Corporate Governance Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 •• Internal risk and capital planning for the Länsförsäkringar AB försäkringar AB, as a general rule, also serves as the Chairman of the Group. Board of each subsidiary. •• Risk capital distributed internally to subsidiaries and targets for The Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s operations are organised into risk-adjusted returns and evaluations of earnings. three business units: Non-life Insurance, Banking and Life Assur•• Follow-up of risk trends and potential deviations from risk limits. ance; a Traditional Life Assurance unit; a unit to support the regional insurance companies’ non-life insurance business, LB Sak; the six At the statutory Board meeting immediately following the 2019 Group-wide units: Asset Management, Economy & Finance, CusAnnual General Meeting, Caesar Åfors (Chairman), Susanne Bäsk, tomer and Channel Support, IT, Legal Affairs, Strategy and Change Hans Ljungkvist and Jonas Rosman were appointed members of the Management; and the control functions: Internal Audit, Compliance Risk and Capital Committee. and Risk Control. The latter is part of the Risk Management unit. To The number of Risk and Capital Committee meetings and memensure the coordination of the operations in each business unit, the bers’ attendance at these meetings are presented in the table on head of the business unit is also the President of the unit’s Parent page 47. Company. Furthermore, the heads of each business unit, as a general rule, also serve as the Chairmen of the Boards of the directly owned Remuneration Committee subsidiaries. The Remuneration Committee prepares issues on remuneration of Länsförsäkringar AB’s corporate management comprises the corporate management, remuneration of employees with overall Presidents and heads of the business units and heads of the Groupresponsibility for any of the company’s control functions, and prewide units Economy & Finance, LB Sak, Customer and Channel Suppares decisions for measures to monitor application of the remunerport, IT, Legal Affairs, Strategy and Change Management. Corporate ation policy. management comprises the management team for the entire LänsAt the statutory Board meeting immediately following the 2019 försäkringar AB Group. Corporate management discusses and Annual General Meeting, Caesar Åfors (Chairman), Maria Engholm decides on issues concerning the Group’s units and the Compliance and Jonas Rosman were appointed members of the Remuneration and Risk Management functions. Committee. Corporate management is presented on pages 146–147. The number of Remuneration Committee meetings and members’ attendance at these meetings are presented in the table on page 47. Control functions Internal Audit CEO/ President and corporate management Internal Audit is an independent review function that supports the Fredrik Bergström has been the President and CEO of LänsförsäkBoard in the evaluation of the corporate governance system, includringar AB since September 2018. Fredrik Bergström was born in 1970 ing the organisation’s risk management, governance and controls. and has served as the President of Länsförsäkringar Stockholm and Based on its reviews and advice, Internal Audit evaluates and previously held senior positions at companies including SBAB. To ensures that the operations’ overall internal governance and control ensure that the operations of each subsidiary comply with the overall systems are pursued effectively, that the overall reporting to the objective for Länsförsäkringar AB, the President and CEO of LänsBoard provides a correct and comprehensive view of the operations, Meetings and attendance The table below shows the number of meetings held in each body in 2019, and the attendance by each Board member: Board of Directors Audit Committee Risk and Capital Committee Remuneration Committee Total number of meetings 14 6 5 5 Maria Engholm 14 6 – 5 Susanne Bäsk 14 – 5 – Tomas Hansson, deputy 0 – – – Bengt-Erik Jansson 14 6 – – Susanne Lindberg 11 – – – Göran Lindell 14 – – – Linnéa Niklasson 12 – – – Hans Ljungkvist1) 8 – 4 – Jonas Rosman 13 – 5 5 Anna Sandqvist 11 – – – Mirek Swartz, deputy 0 – – – Mikael Sundquist 14 6 – – Maria Wallin Wållberg2) 14 4 – – Christer Villard3) 2 – – – Caesar Åfors4) 14 2 5 5 1) Board member from AGM on 17 May 2019. Member of the Risk and Capital Committee since 17 May 2019. 2) Member of the Audit Committee since 17 May 2019. 3) Board member until AGM on 17 May 2019. 4) Member of the Audit Committee until 17 May 2019. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Corporate Governance Report 47 that the operations are conducted in accordance with applicable and proper assessment, the company is to adopt measures to ensure internal and external regulations, and that there is compliance with that the person in question either meets the fit and proper criteria or the Board’s decisions. Internal Audit reports to the Länsförsäkringar is replaced. AB Group’s Board of Directors and to the Boards of each subsidiary The assessment is that all Board members and the President fully but is organisationally affiliated under the Chairman of the Audit satisfy the fit and proper criteria. Committee. Deviations from the Code Compliance Länsförsäkringar AB complies with the Code, where applicable. The Compliance is an independent control function responsible for monmain reasons for the deviations are the limitations under the rules for itoring and controlling that operations are conducted in full regulafinancial companies, the federal structure of the Länsförsäkringar tory compliance. The task of the function is to monitor and control Alliance and that Länsförsäkringar AB is not a listed company. The regulatory compliance in the licensable operations, and identify and major deviations from the provisions of the Code and explanations report on risks that may arise as a result of non-compliance with for such deviations are presented below. regulatory requirements. Compliance is also to provide support and advice to operations, to ensure that operations are informed about Notice new and amended regulations and to take part in the implementation Deviation regarding the notice and publication of information about of training. Compliance risks and recommendations for action are and prior to an Annual General Meeting. These deviations from the regularly reported to the President and the Board of Länsförsäkprovisions of the Code are due to the fact that the company is not a ringar AB and its licensable subsidiaries, and to the Group’s Audit listed company and has only a limited number of shareholders. Committee. Nomination Committee Risk Control A deviation from the provisions of the Code regards the indepenRisk Management is responsible for independent risk control and dence of a majority of the members of the nomination committee in provides support for the President, management and operating units relation to the company. Another deviation from the provisions of the in fulfilling their responsibility to conduct operations with a high level Code is the publication of information about and from the Nominaof risk control. The function reports regularly to the Board and Presition Committee on the company’s website. These deviations are due dent of each company and to the Risk and Capital Committee. Risk to the fact that the company is not a listed company and has only a Management is also responsible for the independent risk control of limited number of shareholders. the operations of the Asset Management unit. Risk Management reports this work to the President and the Board of Länsförsäkringar Composition of Board AB. The Bank business unit has a separate risk control function that A deviation from the provisions of the Code exists regarding indeis under the President of the Bank business unit. Reporting is pendence of a majority of the Board members elected by the Annual addressed to the respective Board and President of the business General Meeting in relation to the company, corporate management unit. The Head of Risk Management is appointed by the President and and that not less than two Board members must be independent in CEO of Länsförsäkringar AB. Risk Management reports regularly to relation to the company’s large shareholders. According to the both the Board and the President. instruction for the nomination committee, the Board of Directors is to be appropriately composed, with respect to the company’s operaFit and proper assessment of Board and CEO/ President tions, stage of development and other circumstances, and characA suitability (“fit and proper”) assessment is conducted in conjuncterised by diversity and breadth in terms of the members competention with the appointment of Board members and the President. cies, experience and background. It has been decided that these An assessment is also conducted annually, and when necessary, requirements can be fulfilled within the framework of the Länsto ensure that the individuals in the above-mentioned positions are, försäkringar Alliance. at any given time, suitable for their assignments. The fit and proper assessment is conducted following established guidelines and with Mandate period for Board members regard to the person’s qualifications, knowledge and experience as The mandate period for Board members is two years. The company well as good repute and integrity. deviates from the Code’s provision of a maximum mandate period of Board members are assessed on the basis of inter alia material one year due to the supremacy of the Annual General Meeting to disreceived from the person to whom the fit and proper assessment miss and appoint a Board member irrespective of their term. A manpertains. Based on the company’s operations, stage of development date period of more than one year contributes to ensuring continuity and other circumstances, the assessment also considers relevant and establishing competence within the Board. education and experience, as well as professional experience in senior positions. In addition to the qualifications, knowledge and Composition of Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee experience of individual members, the Board is assessed in its A deviation from the provisions of the Code regards the indepenentirety to ensure that it possesses the competence required for dence of a majority of the members of the Committees in relation to leading and managing the company. the company and corporate management due to the federal strucA person not considered suitable according to an assessment ture, governance and working methods of the Länsförsäkringar will not be appointed or employed. If an already appointed person is ­Alliance. Refer also to the comments above on the deviation from considered no longer suitable for his or her duties according to a fit the Code’s provision on composition of the Board. 48 Corporate Governance Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Internal control over financial reporting The Board’s responsibility is to ensure that efficient systems are in place to monitor and control the company’s operations and financial position. Internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) is a framework for providing ­reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting to management and Board. The ICFR is performed in an annual cycle as shown in the diagram below. 2. Validate the design of key controls 3. Plan activities for monitoring and audits ICFR includes company-wide controls, process and IT controls. The purpose of these A general plan for the quarterly self-assessdifferent types of key controls is to manage ments of the control procedure for the operathe risk of material misstatement in the tions is prepared. The plan sets out when this financial reporting. The control structure is will take place and the controls that will be based on the processes of the business and Q4 assessed. The plan also establishes the conis validated every year, together with the trols that are to be tested for operational effiresponsible control and process owners, to ciency during the year. The plan is communiensure the appropriateness of the controls cated to internal and external audit. for managing the risks identified. 2. 3. Validate the design Plan activities for of key controls ­monitoring and audits Q3 Q1 ICFR is an 1. Perform risk assessments integrated part and define limitations/ 1. 4. Monitor and evaluate Perform risk of the daily 4. controls scope business Monitor a­ ssessments and ­operations and evaluate define limitations/ Monitoring includes, for example, Risk assessments are performed controls scope quarterly self-assessment of the comannually at both Group and legal unit level to identify the risk of material 5. pleted controls. The monitoring promisstatement in financial reporting. Report residual cess can identify weaknesses in the The risk assessment provides the risk. ICFR framework, implement compenbasis for determining the legal entities sating controls and introduce and processes that are to be covered Quarterly Ongoing improvement measures. The objective by the ICFR framework. The concluis for the Group to reach a monitored sions from this work are compiled in a level, which entails that standardised report that describes the risk assesscontrols for managing the risks identiment and boundaries for the coming 5. Report residual risk fied have been implemented with year and is presented to the Audit compliance monitored and the results Committee. reported to management and the The results of the self-assessments are comBoard. piled, aggregated and analysed to determine the risk of material misstatement in financial reporting. These are summarised in a report to the CFO and the Audit Committee. The report describes the residual risk after the controls have been performed together with any compensating controls or other measures adopted to reduce risk in the financial reporting. In addition to the above, Internal Audit also performs an independent review of selected ICFR risks and controls, in accordance with the plan adopted by the Audit Committee. The results of Internal Audit’s review, and recommendations, are reported regularly to the Audit Committee. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Corporate Governance Report 49 Five-year summary Länsförsäkringar AB Group. Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise stated. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 GROUP Operating profit 3,003 2,351 2,825 2,286 2,155 Net profit for the year 2,957 2,190 2,250 1,845 1,765 Return on equity, %1) 10 9 11 10 11 Total assets, SEK billion 573 507 474 422 385 Number of shares, 000s 10,425 10,425 10,425 10,425 10,425 Equity per share, SEK 2,754 2,462 2,269 2,046 1,858 Solvency capital Equity 30,907 26,867 24,857 22,529 20,538 Tier 1 capital issued –2,200 –1,200 –1,200 –1,200 –1,173 Subordinated debt 2,595 2,593 2,596 2,595 2,300 Deferred tax 753 1,313 1,486 1,320 1,109 Total solvency capital 32,056 29,573 27,740 25,244 22,774 Solvency margin, %2) 488 479 467 452 428 Own funds for the group (FRL)3) 50,220 43,870 44,172 40,602 36,905 Solvency capital requirement for the group (FRL)3) 37,776 33,874 33,441 30,121 28,233 Own funds for the financial conglomerate4) 50,220 43,870 44,172 40,352 – Capital requirement for the financial conglomerate4) 37,776 33,874 33,441 30,121 – Own funds for the financial conglomerate5) – – – – 21,548 Necessary capital requirement for the financial conglomerate – – – – 15,897 Average number of employees 2,125 1,972 1,915 1,786 1,676 INSURANCE OPERATIONS6) Non-life insurance operations Premiums earned (after ceded reinsurance) 5,928 5,623 5,353 5,090 4,836 Investment income transferred from financial operations 22 23 26 15 44 Claims payments (after ceded reinsurance)7) –3,966 –3,666 –3,272 –3,336 –2,776 Technical result for non-life insurance operations8) 218 344 916 390 808 Premium income, non-life insurance Premium income before ceded reinsurance 7,852 7,302 7,124 6,753 6,534 Premium income after ceded reinsurance 6,108 5,703 5,498 5,195 4,959 Life-assurance operations Premium income after ceded reinsurance 495 510 477 432 383 Fees pertaining to financial agreements 794 755 724 659 649 Investment income, net 512 –133 121 144 –21 Claims payments (after ceded reinsurance) –254 –271 –266 –267 –262 Technical result, life-assurance operations 802 734 700 541 540 Operating profit for insurance operations9) 1,670 1,130 1,628 1,194 1,424 Key figures Cost ratio10) 30 29 27 27 27 Expense ratio11) 23 23 21 21 21 Claims ratio12) 74 72 67 71 63 Combined ratio 97 94 88 93 84 Management cost ratio, life-assurance operations13) 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.9 1.0 Direct yield, %14) 9.6 1.1 –0.2 1.4 0.7 Total return, %15) 10.1 1.5 4.3 4.2 3.9 Financial position Investment assets, SEK billion16) 14 14 14 14 12 Unit-linked insurance assets for which the policyholder bears the risk, SEK billion 155 122 125 112 100 Technical provisions (after ceded reinsurance), SEK billion 9 9 8 8 8 Own funds for the insurance group17) – – – – 9,436 Solvency margin for the insurance group17) – – – – 6,072 50 Five-year summary Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Five-year summary, cont. Länsförsäkringar AB Group 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 BANKING OPERATIONS Net interest income 4,617 4,497 3,996 3,464 2,994 Operating profit 1,893 1,510 1,599 1,467 1,175 Net profit for the year 1,440 1,182 1,237 1,137 911 Return on equity, %18) 9.5 8.3 10.0 10.1 8.9 Total assets, SEK billion 381 350 315 276 251 Equity 18,479 16,106 14,328 13,182 12,057 Cost/income ratio before credit losses19) 0.48 0.58 0.49 0.48 0.57 Investment margin, %20) 1.21 1.30 1.32 1.28 1.22 Core Tier 1 ratio, Bank Group 13.9 14.2 24.324) 24.824) 23.724) Tier 1 ratio, Bank Group, %21) 16.0 15.5 26.824) 27.524) 26.624) Capital adequacy ratio, Bank Group, % 22) 18.5 18.2 32.1 24) 33.4 24) 32.024) Core Tier 1 ratio, consolidated situation, % 15.4 15.7 23.324) 21.224) 21.424) Tier 1 ratio, consolidated situation, %21) 16.0 16.5 24.824) 23.224) 23.724) Capital adequacy ratio, consolidated situation, %22) 16.6 18.3 28.124) 27.624) 28.224) Credit losses in relation to loans, % 23) 0.06 0.04 0.02 0.02 25) 0.0025) 1) Operating profit and revaluations of owner-occupied property less standard tax at 21.4% (22.0) in relation to average equity, adjusted for items in equity recognised in other comprehensive income excluding revaluations of owner-occupied property, and adjusted for Additional Tier 1 Capital loans. 2) Solvency capital as a percentage of premium income after ceded reinsurance. 3) The group under the insurance-operation rules comprises the Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB, all of the insurance companies in the Group, Länsförsäkringar Bank AB, Wasa Kredit AB, ­Länsförsäkringar Hypotek AB and Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning AB. Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB is also included in the group, despite the company not being consolidated in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. As stated in the EU Solvency II Directive, the calculations are made in accordance with the consolidation method, but with Länsförsäkringar Liv included in accordance with the deduction and aggregation method as permitted by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Information for 2015 refers to the opening balance on 1 January 2016 under Solvency II. 4) The financial conglomerate comprises the same companies as the group according to the insurance-operation rules, see footnote 3). The calculations for the financial conglomerate are made using the same methods as for the group in accordance with the insurance-operation rules. Unlike the group under the insurance-operation rules, the transferability of profits for the financial conglomerate is to also be tested in other regulated companies than the group’s insurance companies. 5) Effective 2014, an EU Regulation (342/2014) applies to methods of calculation for solvency testing. This means that special consideration is to be made of whether there is any practical or legal impediment to transferring the profits in a company. Given this, the companies of the Bank Group have been included by company in the calculations in order to support consideration of the transferability of profits per company. The capital requirement is affected since the transition rules under Basel I are taken into account for each company individually instead of for the Bank Group as a whole. 6) The earnings, financial position and key figures of the insurance operations are recognised in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies and FFFS 2015:12, the regulation of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 7) Excluding claims adjustment costs. 8) The Länsförsäkringar Sak Group’s technical result amounted to SEK 283 M (402) in 2019. The Länsförsäkringar Sak Group includes Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv Försäkrings AB, which is recognised in the life-assurance operations. The technical result for Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv Försäkrings AB amounted to SEK 64 M (58) in 2019. 9) Operating profit for the insurance operations includes the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s investment income and other non-technical income and expenses. 10) Operating expenses and claims adjustment costs as a percentage of premiums earned after ceded reinsurance. Pertains only to non-life insurance. 11) Operating expenses as a percentage of premiums earned after ceded reinsurance. Pertains only to non-life insurance. Excluding claims adjustment costs in accordance with the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 12) Claims payments as a percentage of premiums earned after ceded reinsurance. Pertains only to non-life insurance. Includes claims adjustment costs in accordance with the regulation of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 13) Operating expenses and claims adjustment costs in relation to the average value of investment assets, investment assets for which the policyholder bears the investment risk and cash and cash equivalents. 14) Direct yield refers to the total of rental income from properties, interest income, interest expense, dividends on shares and participations, administration costs for asset management and ­operating expenses for properties in relation to the average value of the investment assets during the year. 15) Total return is calculated as the sum of all direct yields and changes in the value of the investment portfolio in relation to the average value of the investment assets during the year. 16) Investment assets comprise owner-occupied property, shares and participations in associated companies, investment property, loans to Group companies, shares and participations, bonds and other interest-bearing securities, derivatives (assets and liabilities), cash and cash equivalents, and interest-bearing liabilities. 17) The insurance group comprises the Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB and all insurance companies in the Group. The insurance group also includes Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB, despite the Länsförsäkringar Liv Group is not consolidated in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. According to the Swedish Insurance Business Act (2010:2043), in the wording 1 January 2016. 18) Operating profit plus less standard tax at 21.4% (22.0) in relation to average equity adjusted for changes in value of financial assets recognised in equity and for Additional Tier 1 Capital loan. 19) Total expenses before credit losses in relation to total income. 20) Net interest income in relation to average total assets. 21) Tier 1 capital at year-end in relation to the closing risk-weighted amount. 22) Closing own funds as a percentage of the closing risk-weighted amount. 23) Net credit losses in relation to the carrying amount of loans to the public and to credit institutions. 24) The risk weight floor for mortgages in Pillar II. 25) Includes the dissolution of reserves. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Five-year summary 51 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement 53 Note 27 Shares and participations 92 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 53 Note 28 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 92 Consolidated statement of financial position 54 Note 29 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 92 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity 55 Note 30 Fair value adjustment of interest-rate-risk hedged items in ­portfolio hedge 93 Consolidated statement of cash flows 56 Note 31 Other receivables 93 Note 1 Accounting policies 57 Note 32 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 93 Note 2 Risk and capital management 66 Note 33 Cash and cash equivalents 93 Note 3 Earnings per operating segment 81 Note 34 Equity 94 Note 4 Premiums after ceded reinsurance 82 Note 35 Subordinated liabilities 95 Note 5 Interest income 82 Note 36 Technical provisions 95 Note 6 Interest expense 82 Note 37 Unit-linked insurance liabilities, policyholder bears the risk 96 Note 7 Investment income, net 83 Note 38 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 96 Note 8 Commission income 83 Note 39 Other provisions 97 Note 9 Other operating income 83 Note 40 Debt securities in issue 97 Note 10 Claims payments 84 Note 41 Deposits from the public 97 Note 11 Commission expense 84 Note 42 Due to credit institutions 97 Note 12 Employees, staff costs and remuneration to senior executives 85 Note 43 Other liabilities 97 Note 13 Fees and remuneration to auditors 86 Note 44 Accrued expenses and deferred income 97 Note 14 Other administration expenses 86 Note 45 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 98 Note 15 Credit losses 86 Note 46 Anticipated recovery and settlement periods for assets Note 16 Tax 87 and liabilities 99 Note 17 Earnings per share 87 Note 47 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 100 Note 18 Goodwill 87 Note 48 Fair value valuation techniques 102 Note 19 Other intangible assets 88 Note 49 Information about offsetting 103 Note 20 Property and equipment 89 Note 50 Disclosures on related parties 103 Note 21 Owner-occupied property 89 Note 51 Group companies 104 Note 22 Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag (publ) 89 Note 52 Supplementary information to statement of cash flows 104 Note 23 Shares and participations in associated companies 90 Note 53 Events after balance-sheet date 105 Note 24 Loans to the public 90 Note 54 Information regarding the Parent Company 105 Note 25 Unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk 92 Note 55 Financial effect of change in the accounting policy from IAS 17 Note 26 Financial leasing 92 Leases to IFRS 16 Leases 105 52 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated income statement SEK M Note 2019 2018 Premiums before ceded reinsurance 7,968 7,690 Reinsurers’ portion of premiums –1,573 –1,590 Premiums after ceded reinsurance 4 6,396 6,100 Interest income 5 5,986 5,229 Interest expense 6 –1,363 –729 Net interest income 4,624 4,500 Change in unit-linked insurance assets policyholder bears the risk 30,453 –4,539 Dividends in investment assets for which the policyholder bears the risk 13 8 Investment income, net 7 1,006 –26 Commission income 8 3,250 2,937 Other operating income 9 2,407 2,346 Total operating income 48,150 11,327 Claims payments before ceded reinsurance –4,069 –4,769 Reinsurers’ portion of claims payments –128 854 Claims payments after ceded reinsurance 10 –4,197 –3,915 Change in life-assurance reserve –8 –9 Change in unit-linked insurance liabilities policyholder bears the risk –30,985 4,668 Commission expense 11 –3,161 –3,216 Staff costs 12 –2,476 –2,228 Other administration expenses 13, 14 –4,112 –4,182 Credit losses 15 –207 –95 Total expenses –45,146 –8,976 Operating profit 3,003 2,351 Tax 16 –46 –162 Net profit for the year 2,957 2,190 Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 17 284 210 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net profit for the year 2,957 2,190 Other comprehensive income 34 Items that may subsequently be transferred to profit or loss Translation differences for the year from foreign operations 31 4 Cash-flow hedges –22 –58 of which change in value for the period 5,341 3,489 of which reclassification to profit or loss –5,364 –3,547 Change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 2 –50 of which change in value for the period 6 –44 of which reclassification of realised securities to profit or loss –4 –6 Tax attributable to items that may subsequently be transferred to profit or loss 3 24 Total 14 –80 Items that cannot be transferred to profit or loss Revaluation of owner-occupied property 148 393 Change in fair value of equity instruments measured at fair value 25 –10 Tax attributable to items that cannot be reversed to profit or loss –36 –74 Total 138 309 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax 151 229 Comprehensive income for the year 3,109 2,418 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 53 Consolidated statement of financial position SEK M Note 2019-12-31 2018-12-31 ASSETS Goodwill 18 558 542 Other intangible assets 19 4,309 4,200 Deferred tax assets 38 128 122 Property and equipment 20 344 69 Owner-occupied property 21 1,161 3,232 Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB 22 8 8 Shares and participations in associated companies 23 62 54 Reinsurers’ portion of technical provisions 36 9,504 10,553 Loans to the public 24, 26 307,099 289,426 Unit-linked insurance assets for which the policyholder bears the risk 25 154,563 122,340 Shares and participations 27 4,634 2,700 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 28 52,618 43,950 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 29 9,934 10,847 Derivatives 2, 49 8,290 6,090 Change in value of hedge portfolios 30 5 125 Other receivables 31 5,393, 4,523 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 32 2,321 1,977 Cash and cash equivalents 33 11,661 6,075 Total assets 572,594 506,835 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 34 Share capital 1,042 1,042 Other capital contributed 10,272 10,272 Additional Tier 1 instrument 2,200 1,200 Reserves –573 697 Retained earnings, including net profit for the year 17,965 13,656 Total equity 30,907 26,867 Subordinated liabilities 35 2,595 2,593 Technical provisions 36 18,860 19,465 Unit-linked insurance liabilities policyholder bears the risk 37 155,950 123,135 Deferred tax liabilities 38 882 1,435 Other provisions 39 125 119 Debt securities in issue 40 226,661 210,304 Deposits from the public 41 118,305 106,854 Due to credit institutions 42 6,565 5,992 Derivatives 2, 49 511 787 Change in value of hedge portfolios 30 1,241 1,058 Other liabilities 43 5,524 3,638 Accrued expenses and deferred income 44 4,468 4,587 Total equity and liabilities 572,594 506,835 For information about pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see note 45 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities. 54 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Retained Additional earnings, Other capiTier 1 including Share tal contribinstruTranslation Revaluation Fair value Hedging net profit of Total SEK M capital uted ments reserve reserve reserve reserve the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2018 after adjustment for change in accounting policy 1,042 10,272 1,200 –65 985 –347 –106 11,787 24,770 Comprehensive income for the year Net profit for the year – – – – – – – 2,190 2,190 Other comprehensive income – – – 4 319 –49 –45 – 229 Comprehensive income for the year – – – 4 319 –49 –45 2,190 2,418 Dividends paid – – – – – – – –300 –300 Realised gain from sale of shares – – – – – – – 13 13 Tier 1 capital issued – – – – – – – –34 –34 Closing equity, 31 December 2018 1,042 10,272 1,200 –61 1,304 –397 –151 13,656 26,867 Opening balance, 1 January 2019 after adjustment for change in accounting policy 1,042 10,272 1,200 –61 1,304 –397 –151 13,656 26,867 Comprehensive income for the year Net profit for the year – – – – – – – 2,957 2,957 Other comprehensive income – – – 31 117 22 –19 0 151 Comprehensive income for the year – – – 31 117 22 –19 2,958 3,109 Dividends paid – – – – –1,421 – – 1,421 – Realised gain from sale of shares – – – – – – – – – Tier 1 capital issued – – 1,000 – – – – –69 931 Closing equity, 31 December 2019 1,042 10,272 2,200 –30 – –374 –170 17,966 30,907 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 55 Consolidated statement of cash flows SEK M Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating profit 3,003 2,351 Adjustment for non-cash items 52 1,936 3,269 Tax paid –658 –542 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 4,282 5,079 Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in shares and participations, bonds and other interest-bearing securities and derivatives –10,830 –2,864 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables –18,596 –28,695 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities 12,315 11,201 Cash flow from operating activities –12,829 –20,358 Investing activities Change in shares and participations in associated companies 3 3 Purchase of intangible assets –483 –595 Purchase of property and equipment –16 –34 Investment in property and equipment – –37 Divestment of property and equipment 6 8 Divestment of subsidiaries (incl. owner-occupied property) 3,385 – Cash flow from investing activities 2,895 –655 Financing activities Change in debt securities in issue 14,682 21,142 Amortization of lease liability –104 – Distributions in Tier 1 Capital instruments 931 –34 Dividends paid – –300 Cash flow from financing activities 15,508 21,142 Net cash flow for the year 5,574 4,875 Cash and cash equivalents, 1 January 6,075 1,196 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 11 4 Cash and cash equivalents, 31 December 11,661 6,075 56 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Amounts are stated in SEK M unless specified otherwise. Note 1 Accounting policies One of the main areas in which important assessments are to be made is the identification of a significant increase in credit risk. Such an assessment of is performed at the end of every reporting period and determines the numCompliance with standards and legislation ber of loans transferred from stage 1 to stage 2. An increase in loans in stage 2 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to entails an increase in the estimated reserves for credit losses (“loss allowInternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the Internaances”), while a reduction in loans in stage 2 would have the opposite effect. tional Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretations of these Important assessments are also carried out when considering forstandards issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations ward-looking information and in the choice of macroeconomic scenarios for Committee (IFRIC) as adopted by the EU. In addition, the Swedish Annual calculating expected credit losses. Expected credit losses are to be estimated Accounts Act for Insurance Companies (1995:1560) and the Swedish Financial in a manner that reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is Supervisory Authority’s regulation and general guideline FFFS 2015:12 and its determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes. The estimate is to amendments were applied. Furthermore, the Swedish Financial Reporting include information about past events, current conditions and forecasts of Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups future economic conditions. The forward-looking information used to estiwere applied as were the Board’s statements. mate expected credit losses is based on the Group’s internal macroeconomic The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group forecasts. These macroeconomic forecasts take into account both internal except for the cases described under the Parent Company’s note 1 Accountand external information and correspond to the forward-looking information ing policies. used for other purposes, such as forecasts and financial planning. At least three potential macroeconomic scenarios are considered when calculating Conditions relating to the preparation of the Parent Company’s and expected credit losses: a base scenario, a more positive scenario and a more consolidated financial statements negative scenario. A deterioration in the forecast macro variables in each The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), which is scenario or an increase in the probability of a negative scenario would generalso the presentation currency of the Parent Company and the Group. ally entail an increase in the estimated loss allowance. An improvement in the Accordingly, the financial statements are presented in SEK, rounded to the forecast macro variables or an increase in the probability of a positive scenearest million, unless otherwise stated. nario would instead have the opposite effect on the estimated loss allowance. Assets and liabilities are recognised at cost, with the exception of owner­The loss allowance that would arise in the event of a negative and a positive occupied property and the Group’s holding of financial instruments that are scenario, assigned a probability of 100%, is presented in note 15 Credit losses. either measured at fair value or at amortised cost. The accounting policies for When calculating the life-assurance reserve, assumptions are made the Group stated below have been applied to all periods presented in the conregarding the discount rate, mortality, morbidity and expenses. When calcusolidated financial statements, unless otherwise stated. lating technical provisions, an actuarial estimate of anticipated additional The statement of financial position has been presented based on liquidity. costs for claims incurred and expenses for claims that may be incurred during the remaining term of the insurance policy is made. Judgements and estimates There is some uncertainty in the estimates for the depreciation period for The preparation of accounts in accordance with IFRS requires that managedeferred acquisition costs for unit-linked insurance contracts. The assumpment make judgements and estimates, and make assumptions that affect the tion for the depreciation period is based on statistics relating to the terms of application of the accounting policies and the carrying amounts of the the insurance contracts. income, expenses, assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and provisions presented in the accounts. These judgements and estimates are based on hisAmended accounting policies applied from 1 January 2019 toric experiences and the best information available on the balance-sheet The Group applies the accounting policies below from 1 January 2019. date. The actual outcome may deviate from these judgements and estimates. The estimates and judgements are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates IFRS 16 Leases are recognised in the period in which the change is made if the change only IFRS 16 Leases has replaced IAS 17 Leases and primarily entails changes to affects that period, or in the period in which the change is made and future accounting of operating leases under which the Group is the lessee and that in periods if the change affects both current and future periods. accordance with IAS 17 were recognised as a lease expense in profit or loss. IFRS 16 entails changes to accounting by lessees since all leases (with certain Significant judgements applied to the Group’s accounting policies exemptions) are to be recognised in the statement of financial position as folLänsförsäkringar AB’s holding in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag lows: the obligation to make future fixed lease payments as a lease liability and (publ) (referred to below as “Länsförsäkringar Liv”) is not classified as a holdthe right to use an underlying asset as a right-of-use asset. The accounting of ing in a subsidiary in accordance with the definition in IFRS 10 Consolidated leases by lessors essentially corresponds to previously applicable policies. Financial Statements and thus is not consolidated. The company is wholly owned by the Länsförsäkringar AB. The life-assurance operations, which are Assessment of leases conducted according to mutual principles through Länsförsäkringar Liv and When a contract is signed, the Group assesses whether it includes a lease. whose earnings accrue in their entirety to the policyholders, are not recogA contract is, or contains, a lease if it conveys the right for the Group to connised in accordance with the purchase method since Länsförsäkringar AB trol the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for considdoes not have control of the company, is not entitled to variable returns and eration. The Group has decided to identify the lease components in the cannot influence returns. Instead, Länsförsäkringar Liv is recognised and Group’s lease contracts and does not include non-lease components in its ­valued as unlisted shares. calculation of the lease liability. Significant sources of estimation uncertainty Application of exemption rules Estimation uncertainty arises in the valuation of expected credit losses since There are exemptions for short-term leases and leases for which the underlysuch valuations are based on complex models and assessments. The estimate ing asset has a low value. The Group has decided not to recognise leases in the of expected credit losses is primarily based on models, but an individual statement of financial position for which the underlying asset has a low value assessment is performed for cases in which significant information is availaor has a lease term (including periods covered by an option to extend the ble that is not incorporated in these models. lease if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option) of 12 months Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 57 or less or that will end within 12 months from the date of initial application of Note 2 Risk and capital management provides disclosures on the uncertainty 1 January 2019. caused by the IBOR reform. Reclassification of leases New IFRSs and interpretations that have not yet been applied The Group recognises its leases in the statement of financial position as a The new or revised standards and interpretations, as adopted by the IASB, right-of-use asset and a lease liability. Right-of-use assets are classified as the described below come into effect for fiscal years beginning on or after 1 Jancorresponding underlying asset that would have been presented if it had been uary 2020 and have not been applied in advance when preparing these finanowned. Leases pertaining to rent for premises are classified as owner-occucial statements. Other than those stated below, no other new or revised IFRSs pied property and leases that pertain to other forms of equipment, IT servers and interpretations that had been adopted by the IASB on the closing date and cars are classified as property and equipment. The Group’s lease liabilities but that have not yet come into effect, are deemed to have any material effect are recognised in the statement of financial position as other liabilities. on the financial statements. Effect of transition to IFRS 16 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts The Group has applied the modified retrospective approach, which entails IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts was published on 18 May 2017 and will replace that comparative information is provided in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. The new standard has not yet been adopted by IFRIC 4. The transition to IFRS 16 entails that the Group has recognised new the EU but is proposed to come into effect for fiscal years beginning on or assets and liabilities for its operating leases as the lessee for primarily rent for after 1 January 2022. The standard will eliminate contradictions and weakpremises and various forms of equipment, cars and servers. On transition, the nesses in the existing method by providing a principle-based set of rules for Group recognised the present value, discounted at the Group’s incremental recognising insurance contracts. IFRS 17 will also impose expanded discloborrowing rate, of the lease payments outstanding as lease liabilities in the sure requirements to increase comparability between different companies. amount of SEK 179 M. Right-of-use assets were recognised on transition at an During the year, the IASB issued proposed amendments to IFRS 17 and an amount corresponding to the lease liabilities (after adjustment for prepaid exposure draft published for consultation feedback. The IASB intends to issue lease payments recognised on 31 December 2018). No adjustment to equity in an updated IFRS 17 in mid-2020. the opening balance for 2019 has arisen. The effect of the transition to IFRS 16 The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority is currently investigating the on the consolidated statement of financial position is presented in its entirety implementation of IFRS 17 for Swedish insurance companies. There is curin note 55 Financial effect of change in accounting policy from IAS 17 Leases rently great uncertainty regarding how much of IFRS 17 will be implemented to IFRS 16 Leases. The expenses for the Group’s leases have changed since the in Swedish regulations. The Financial Supervisory Authority is also considerGroup recognises depreciation for right-of-use assets and interest expenses ing introducing an extended implementation period for legal entities and the for lease liabilities. The Group previously recognised operating lease expenses consolidated financial statements of unlisted insurance companies. on a straight-line basis over the lease term and recognised assets (prepaid The Authority announced on 19 December that a rules review project will lease payments) and liabilities (accrued lease payments) only to the extent be initiated in 2020 aimed at eliminating the requirement that unlisted insurthat a difference existed between the actual lease payments and the ance companies and occupational pension companies are to apply full IFRS in expenses ­recognised. their consolidated financial statements. The amendments are scheduled to come into effect on 1 January 2021. IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Länsförsäkringar AB is carrying out a project in the Group to analyse the The company applies IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments from potential effects on the financial statements of IFRS 17 and the elimination of 1 January 2019. IFRIC 23 clarifies how IAS 12 is to be applied if there are the requirement for full IFRS in the consolidated financial statements. uncertainties about how tax legislation is to be applied to a certain trans­ action or under certain circumstances. The interpretation did not entail any Description of significant accounting policies impact on the company’s financial statements. Consolidation principles Subsidiaries Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7) The consolidated financial statements encompass the Parent Company and The Group has decided to apply in advance the Interest Rate Benchmark the companies in which the Parent Company has a controlling influence. All of Reform (Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7) (IBOR reform), issued in Septemthe following criteria must be fulfilled in order for a controlling influence in a ber 2019. In accordance with the transition rules, the amendments were company to exist and thus for consolidation to be relevant. The company has applied retrospectively to hedging relationships that existed at the beginning power over the investee, the company is exposed to or has rights to variable of the reporting period or identified thereafter and for amounts accumulated returns from its involvement, and the company has the ability to use its power in the cash flow hedge reserve. over the investee to affect the amount of the investor’s returns. The amendments provide temporary relief from applying specific hedge accounting requirements for hedging relationships directly affected by the Associated companies IBOR reform. The relief also means that the IBOR reform will not generally Associated companies are companies in which the Group has a significant, mean that hedge accounting needs to be discontinued. In brief, the transition but not a controlling, influence over operational and financial control, usually relief entails the following: through holdings of participations of between 20-50% of the number of votes. •• when the Group takes into account the “highly probable” requirement for Participations in associated companies are recognised in the consolidated cash flow hedges, it assumes that IBORs in hedging instruments and hedge financial statements in accordance with the equity method from the date on items will not change as a result of the IBOR reform; which the significant influence was obtained. Dividends received from associ•• the Group will not recycle amounts in the cash flow hedge reserve to profit ated companies reduce the carrying amount of the investment. or loss as a result of the uncertainty that may exist in the cash flows after the IBOR reform is expected to have a direct effect; Operating segments •• in a prospective assessment of whether the hedge is expected to be highly The Group’s division of operating segments corresponds to the structure of effective, the Group has assumed that the applicable IBOR will not change the internal reports that the company’s chief operating decision maker uses as a result of the IBOR reform; to monitor the operations and allocate resources between operating seg•• the Group will not discontinue the hedge accounting during the period of ments. The Group identified Group management as the company’s chief operIBOR-related uncertainty solely because the retrospective effectiveness ating decision maker. Accordingly, for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group, the falls outside the required 80–125% range; and reports on the earnings of the various segments of the operations that are •• the Group’s hedged risk component in fair value hedges does not need to be received by Group management form the basis of segment reporting. This separately identifiable on an ongoing basis, and instead the risk component means that the accounting policies in the operating segments may deviate only needs to be identifiable at the inception of the hedging relationship. from the policies applied in the consolidated financial statements. The follow58 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 ing accounting policies applied in the operating segments differ from those in Reversal of impairment losses the consolidated financial statements. Changes in the fair value of owner-ocReversal of impairment losses on property and equipment and intangible cupied property in segments in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group are recogassets and participations in associated companies nised in operating profit instead of in other comprehensive income. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Other impairment losses are Pricing between the Group’s segments is based on market conditions for reversed when there is no longer any indication of impairment and a change the operating segments of Non-life Insurance, Unit-linked Insurance, Bankhas occurred in the assumptions that formed the basis for calculating the ing and Parent Company. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Group management estabrecoverable amount. A reversal is made only to the extent that the asset’s carlishes the service level pertaining to intra-Group transactions involving goods rying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been recand services. Decisions about prices to be applied to the forthcoming year are ognised, less depreciation/amortisation, if no impairment had been applied. made during the annual business planning process. Impairment of property and equipment and intangible assets is recogPricing for service activities within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance is based nised as Other administration expenses. Impairment of investments in assoon direct and indirect costs. Overall, pricing is intended to distribute costs ciated companies is recognised as Investment income, net. fairly within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance based on consumption. Joint development projects and joint service are financed collectively and invoiced based Commission income and other operating income on an established distribution key. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Group management Income from contracts with customers is recognised in profit or loss when arranges the service levels and costs for the sale of goods and services to the following criteria has been fulfilled: intra-Group companies jointly with a service committee comprising repre1. The contract with the customer has been identified sentatives from the regional insurance companies. Based on these discus2. The performance obligations in the contract have been identified sions, the Board of Länsförsäkringar AB makes decisions on external pricing. 3. The transaction price has been determined 4. The transaction price has been allocated to the performance obligations Foreign currency 5. Income is recognised as the performance obligations are satisfied Transactions in foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate on the The Group applies the exemption entailing that disclosures on outstanding transaction date. performance obligations attributable to contracts with a term of less than Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated by applyone year are not provided. ing the exchange rates on the balance-sheet date. Exchange-rate differences arising due to translations in the statement of financial position in foreign Payment mediation commission and card business currency are recognised in profit or loss as investment income, net. The Group’s obligations for payment mediation partly comprise making it possible for customers to make secure and convenient payments and partly Translation of the financial statements of foreign operations involve participating in the payments systems required for carrying out the The Group has small foreign operations in the form of branches in Denmark, payments. Income for payment mediation is settled in advance in the form of Finland, Norway and France, one subsidiary and one branch in the UK, and one annual fees and continuously with the transactions being performed. The fees associated company in Switzerland. Assets and liabilities in branches, associreceived in advance are recognised on settlement as a contract liability and ated companies and subsidiaries are translated to SEK at the exchange rate income is subsequently recognised straight-line over the period during which on the balance-sheet date. Income and expenses are translated to the the obligation is satisfied. Continuous income is recognised after the transacGroup’s presentation currency at an average exchange rate comprising an tions have been completed and is settled either immediately or following a approximation of the exchange rate applicable on the date of the transaction. slight delay. Translation differences arising in the translation of branches’, associated companies’ and subsidiaries’ currencies are recognised in the Group in other Lending commission comprehensive income as a translation reserve. Lending commission primarily refers to additional services (land registration certificates and mortgage deeds) that customers can choose when arranging Impairment their loans. Income is recognised when the customer receives the service. The carrying amounts of the Group’s assets are regularly tested to determine Arrangement fees are recognised as interest income according to the effecwhether there are any indications of impairment. tive interest method. Lending commission also includes notification and reminder fees for Impairment tests for property and equipment and intangible assets and which the Group’s obligation is to notify/remind the customer. These fees are ­participations in subsidiaries and associated companies recognised as income when the notification or reminder is sent to the cusIf there is an indication of an impairment requirement, the recoverable tomer. Penalty interest is recognised as interest income. amount of the asset is calculated. The recoverable amounts of goodwill and intangible assets are calculated annually, regardless of whether there is any Securities commission indication of an impairment requirement. If it is not possible to determine the The Bank Group’s securities commission is largely attributable to income in significantly independent cash flows for an individual asset, the assets are to Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning. A small portion is attributable to Länsbe grouped when testing for impairment at the lowest value where it is possiförsäkringar Bank. Commission is based on the following obligations: ble to identify the significantly independent cash flows, known as a cash-genThe Bank Group receives a management fee from the funds that the suberating unit. A cash-generating unit is the smallest group of assets that gensidiary Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning has undertaken to manage. This erates cash inflows that are independent of the cash inflows from other management fee is based on the current assets in the funds. Income for this assets or groups of assets. fee is recognised monthly since the obligations is deemed to be satisfied and An impairment loss is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or settled in the following month. a cash-generating unit exceeds the higher of the fair value minus selling The bank receives a fixed brokerage fee from the customer for each secuexpenses and the value in use. The value in use is calculated as expected rities transaction. When the transaction has been completed, the obligation is future cash flows discounted by the market-based yield requirements for the deemed to be satisfied and the fee is recognised as income. asset/cash-generating unit. Impairment is recognised in profit or loss. The Länsförsäkringar Bank and Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning receive impairment of assets attributable to a cash-generating unit is initially distribremuneration from the trading venues in which they operate. The obligation is uted to goodwill. Proportional impairment losses on the other assets included to distribute and invest in the funds traded on these trading venues. Income is in the unit are subsequently recognised. based on the current managed assets that were distributed and invested in the trading venue’s funds. Income is recognised every month. Income for the current quarter is settled in the first month of the subsequent quarter. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 59 Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning receives remuneration when the compacellations reduce the premium income as soon as the amount is known. Addiny’s funds invest in other funds. This remuneration is based on the current tional premiums are included at the amounts at which they are expected to be managed assets and the obligation is satisfied when the investment in made in received. Premiums for insurance periods commencing after the end of the the fund. Income is recognised every month and the current quarter’s income fiscal year are also recognised as premium income, if according to contract is settled in the first month of the subsequent quarter. they fall due for payment during the fiscal year. Premium income is recognised excluding tax and other public fees charged to the insurance premium. Rebating of commissions The insurance component in the life-assurance operations is classified in Rebating of commissions is received from fund companies that Länsförsäkthe financial agreements as insurance contracts. Premium income is recogringar Fondliv has partnership agreements with in order to offer mutual funds nised on a cash basis, meaning that the premiums paid are recognised as to customers. This remuneration comprises commission for distributing the income when they are received regardless of whether these wholly or partly funds and is calculated every day on the brokered portfolio per fund. refer to a later fiscal year. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s obligation is to broker and distribute funds. The obligation is deemed to be satisfied when the funds have been brokered. Premiums earned Rebating of commissions is variable. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv believes Premiums earned are recognised as the portion of premium income attributthat it is not possible to reliably determine future rebating of commissions able to the accounting period. The portion of premium income from insurance due to such uncertainty factors as the amount of future capital since some contracts pertaining to periods after the balance-sheet date is recognised as funds have transfer options and future market trends. Income is recognised Technical provisions in the statement of financial position. Provision for when Länsförsäkringar Fondliv receives the rebate and not when the transacunearned premiums is usually calculated by strictly allocating premium tions is brokered. income based on the term of the underlying insurance contract. Reinsurers’ portion of premium income is also allocated and the portion attributable to Fees pertaining to financial agreements – unit-linked insurance the period after the balance-sheet date is recognised as a receivable, ReinLänsförsäkringar Fondliv’s obligation is to continuously over time provide and surers’ portion of technical provisions. manage the range of mutual funds that the customer can save in. Fees from financial agreements comprise a variable and a fixed annual fee. The variable Interest income and interest expense fee is a percentage of the customer’s insurance capital. The fee is calculated Interest income and interest expense presented in profit or loss comprise every day based on the closing amount and the fixed fee is charged monthly. interest in the Bank Group calculated according to the effective interest The fees are recognised as income in line with Länsförsäkringar Fondliv method on financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost, and Försäkrings AB providing the management services to the customer. interest from financial assets classified as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. The effective interest rate includes fees that are Commission expense deemed to be an integrated part of the effective interest rate for a financial Remuneration to the regional insurance companies instrument (usually fees that are received as compensation for risk). The effecLänsförsäkringar Bank pays regular commission to the regional insurance tive interest rate corresponds to the rate used to discount contractual future companies. The regional insurance companies receive remuneration for their cash flows to the carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. Interest on work with Länsförsäkringar Bank’s customer-related issues in each of the derivatives that hedge interest-rate and foreign-currency risk is recognised regional insurance companies’ geographic areas. No customer acquisition as interest income if the derivative hedges an asset and as interest expense if costs are capitalised since they are deemed to comprises continuous remuthe derivative hedges a liability. Interest compensation for early redemption of neration to the regional insurance companies and thus do not satisfy the fixed-rate lending and deposits is recognised in Investment income, net. requirements for capitalisation of customer acquisition costs For assets in stage 3, the interest income is calculated and recognised based on the net carrying amount, meaning after deductions for expected Deferred acquisition costs credit losses. For assets in stage 1 and 2, the interest income is calculated and Acquisition costs that have a clear connection to underwriting insurance recognised based on the gross carrying amount. See also the section on contracts and financial agreements are recognised as deferred acquisition expected credit losses below. costs in the statement of financial position and are depreciated over their Negative interest on assets is recognised as a decrease in interest income. useful lives. A condition for capitalisation is that the acquisition costs are Negative interest on liabilities is recognised as a decrease in interest expense. attributable to a certain insurance contract, or homogeneous groups of contracts that can be followed up, and are deemed to generate a margin that covInvestment income, net ers at least the acquisition costs capitalised. These acquisition costs pertain The following items are recognised under Investment income, net: gains/ to such costs as commission and expenses for sales that are directly related losses from investing activities in the Parent Company and insurance compato acquisitions or renewals of insurance contracts. Acquisition costs in Länsnies, the Bank Group’s net gains/losses from financial items and effect of försäkringar Fondliv are depreciated straight line over seven years. The interest-rate revaluations on annuities in insurance operations. assumption for the depreciation period is based on statistics relating to the Realised gains or losses are calculated as the difference between the purterms of the insurance contracts. The asset is impairment tested every year. chase consideration received and the cost of the asset. Unrealised gains or In the non-life insurance operations, the capitalised cost is allocated in a losses comprise changes for the year in the difference between cost and fair manner corresponding to the allocation of unearned premiums. The depre­ value. In the event of a sale, the accumulated unrealised change in value is ciation period does not exceed 12 months. reversed as a realised gain or loss, except for shares and participations that we have decided to measure at fair value through other comprehensive income. Premiums In the insurance operations, provision for claims outstanding is disPremium income counted on annuities; the effect of interest-rate revaluations on annuities is Premium income in the non-life insurance operations is recognised as the total recognised as Investment income, net. gross premium for direct insurance and assumed reinsurance that has fallen due for payment or can be credited to the company for insurance contracts Claims payments for which the insurance period commenced prior to the end of the fiscal year. The expenses for claims incurred for the period, both those reported to the Gross premium is the contractual premium for the entire insurance period company and those not reported, are recognised as claims payments. Total after deductions for standard customer discounts. Renewal premiums for claims payments include claims paid during the period and changes in provicontracts with renewal before the end of the fiscal year but that are not consions for claims outstanding and reinsurers’ portion of provision for claims firmed by the policyholder and premiums for recently signed insurance conoutstanding. Claims recoveries are recognised as a reduction of claims costs. tracts for which the insurance period begins before the end of the fiscal year are included at the amounts at which they are expected to be received. Can60 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Remuneration of employees taken into account in consolidated goodwill. The valuation of deferred tax is Current remuneration based on how the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are expected to be Current remuneration of employees is calculated without discount and recrealised or settled. Deferred tax is calculated with application of the tax rates ognised as an expense when the related services are received. The anticipated and tax rules established or decided in practice on the balance-sheet date. cost of commission is recognised when there is a legal or informal duty to Deferred tax assets on deductible temporary differences and tax loss make such payments as a result of services received from employees and the carry­forwards are only recognised to the extent that it is likely that it will be obligation can be reliably calculated. possible to utilise these. The value of the deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer considered likely that they can be utilised. Remuneration after termination of employment Pension plans Yield tax The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans, Yield tax is a tax paid by Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB on behalf some of which have assets in separate foundations. These plans are financed of the policyholders. Tax objects comprise the market value of the net assets through payments from the respective Group company. The Group is genermanaged on behalf of the policyholders at the start of the fiscal year. The yield ally covered by the FTP plan, which does not depend on any payments from tax attributable to the period is recognised in the consolidated statement of employees. income under change in provision for life assurance for which the policyholder bears the risk. Defined-contribution pension plans The company pays fixed contributions to a separate legal entity and does not Intangible assets have a legal or informal obligation to pay additional contributions. The compaGoodwill ny’s payments of defined-contribution plans are recognised as expenses durGoodwill represents the difference between the cost of the acquisition of ing the period in which the employee performed the services to which the operations and the net of the fair value of acquired identifiable assets, contributions refer. assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities. The largest pension plan of which the company’s employees are part is the FTP plan, a multi-employer pension plan. The plan is a defined-benefit plan for Other intangible assets employees born in 1971 or earlier and a defined-contribution plan for employOther intangible assets comprise proprietary and acquired intangible assets ees born in 1972 or after. The defined-benefit portion is insured through the with determinable useful lives. These assets are recognised at cost less accuInsurance Industry’s Pension Fund (FPK). This pension plan entails that a mulated amortisation and impairment. Amortisation is commenced when the company, as a rule, recognises its proportional share of the defined-benefit asset becomes available for use. pension commitment and of the plan assets and expenses associated with the The Group’s proprietary intangible assets are recognised only if the pension commitment. Disclosures are also to be presented in the accounts expenses for the asset can be reliably calculated, it is technically and comaccording to the requirements for defined-benefit pension plans. mercially usable and sufficient resources exist to complete development and The FPK is currently unable to provide the necessary information, which is thereafter use or sell the intangible asset. why the pension plan above is recognised as a defined-contribution plan. Nor The carrying amount of proprietary intangible assets includes all directly is any information available on surpluses and deficits in the plan or whether attributable expenses. Other development expenses are recognised as an these would then affect the annual contributions to the plan in future years. expense when they arise. All pension plans in the Group’s branches are defined-contribution and The amortisation period is determined based on the expected useful life, follow either collective agreements or, if there are no collective agreements, commencing when the asset becomes available for use. Amortisation takes the recommended premium levels in the labour market. place through profit or loss according to the straight-line method. Impairment requirements are tested annually as described in the section on ImpairCredit losses ment above. Credit losses comprise expected credit losses, confirmed credit losses, Additional expenses for capitalised intangible assets are recognised as recoveries of credit losses previously recognised as confirmed and reversals an asset in the statement of financial position only when these expenses of expected credit losses no longer required. Confirmed credit losses could increase the future financial economic benefits of the specific asset to which refer to the entire receivable or parts of it when there is no realistic possibility they pertain. of recovery. A confirmed credit loss is recognised as a write-off of the gross carrying amount and an add-back of the portion of the allowance for Property and equipment expected credit losses that pertains to a written-off loan or portions of a loan. Equipment Recoveries comprise payments of loans that were previously recognised as Equipment is recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumuconfirmed credit losses. Expected credit losses are reversed when no impairlated impairment. Depreciation takes place according to the straight-line ment requirement is deemed to exist. method over the asset’s expected useful life, commencing when the asset becomes available for use. Depreciation and scrapping and divestments are Taxes recognised in profit or loss. The useful life for computer equipment is estiIncome tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised mated to be three years and five years for office equipment and cars. The in profit or loss, except when the underlying transaction is recognised in depreciation method and the residual values and useful lives of the assets are other comprehensive income or against equity with the related tax effect re-tested every year-end. ­recognised in other comprehensive income or equity. Additional income tax Impairment requirements are tested annually according to the principles arising on dividends is recognised at the same time as when the dividend is described in the section on Impairment above. recognised as a liability. Owner-occupied property Current tax Owner-occupied property that does not refer to right-of-use assets is recogCurrent tax is tax that is to be paid or received in the current year, with the nised according to the revaluation technique. application of the tax rates that are decided or decided in practice on the Land and buildings owned by the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and that are ­balance-sheet date. This also includes adjustments of current tax attributable used for administrative purposes are recognised at their revalued amounts, to prior years. which comprises the fair value on prior revaluation dates less accumulated depreciation and adjustments due to revaluations on the date of revaluation. Deferred tax Fair value is based on the prevailing prices in an active market for similar Deferred tax is calculated based on temporary differences between carrying properties in the same location and of the same standard, supplemented by amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Temporary differences are not a cash-flow statement. The valuation is performed twice a year by an external Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 61 independent appraiser on 30 June and 31 December. Increases in value are est-bearing securities with an agreement for resale at a predetermined price), recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated after tax in the the securities are not recognised in the statement of financial position. The revaluation reserve in equity. If the increase comprises a reversal of a previpayment received is recognised instead in Loans to the public. ously recognised decrease in value of the same asset, the increase is recognised as a reduced cost in profit or loss. If revaluation results in a reduction in Classification and measurement the carrying amount, the reduction is recognised through profit or loss. HowFinancial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value upon initial recogniever, the reduction is recognised in other comprehensive income to the tion in the statement of financial position. Subsequent measurement and recextent that a revaluation reserve is attributable to the asset. ognition take place depending on the measurement category to which the Owner-occupied property comprises a number of components with varifinancial instrument belongs. ous useful lives. The main division is land and buildings. The land component is not depreciated since its useful life is deemed to be unlimited. The useful lives The Group’s financial assets comprise: of these components are deemed to vary between ten and 100 years. The fol•• Debt instruments lowing main groups of components have been identified and form the basis of •• Derivative instruments the depreciation of buildings. •• Equity instruments Frame 100 years Debt instruments Roof, façade, windows 50 years The business model used to manage a debt instrument and its contractual Frame supplementation 40 years cash flow characteristics determines the classification of a debt instrument. A requirement for a financial asset to be measured at amortised cost or Fixtures and fittings 40 years fair value through other comprehensive income is that the contractual cash Exterior surface 20 years flows solely comprise outstanding payment of the principal and interest on Permanent equipment, service facilities the principal. Debt instruments that do not meet the requirement are measetc., in buildings 10 years ured at fair value through profit or loss regardless of the business model to which the asset is attributable. All debt instruments held in the Group meet The depreciation methods used and the residual values and useful lives of the theses cash flow characteristics. The Group regularly checks that cash flows assets are re-tested every year-end. for the debt instruments measured at amortised cost and fair value through An additional expense is to be added to the cost if the expense pertains to other comprehensive income meet the requirements. the replacement of identified components, or parts thereof, in which case such expenses are capitalised. The expense is also added to the cost in the Amortised cost case of the creation of a new component. The Group manages loans and receivables in a business model whose objecCarrying amounts of replaced components, or parts of components, that tive is to realise the assets’ cash flows by receiving contractual cash flows have not been depreciated are discarded and expensed in conjunction with that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount the replacement. Repairs are continuously expensed. outstanding. These assets are therefore measured at amortised cost. Amortised costs refers to the discounted present value of all future payments Financial assets and liabilities attributable to the instrument with the discount rate comprising the effective Recognition and derecognition in the statement of financial position interest rate of the asset on the acquisition date. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the statement of financial position when the company becomes party to the agreement in accordance Fair value through other comprehensive income with the conditions of the instrument. A financial asset is derecognised from The Group manages its holdings of treasury bills and other eligible bills and the statement of financial position when the rights in the contract are realised, bonds and other interest-bearing securities in the Bank Group in a business expire or – when the assets are transferred – the company no longer has any model whose objective is to realise the assets’ cash flows by both receiving significant risks or benefits from the assets and loses control of the assets. contractual cash flows and through sales. These assets are therefore measA financial liability is derecognised from the statement of financial position ured at fair value through other comprehensive income. This recognition when the obligation in the contract is met or extinguished in another manner. means that the assets are continuously measured at fair value through other Business transactions in the monetary, bond and equities markets are comprehensive income with the accumulated unrealised changes in values recognised in the statement of financial position on the transaction date, recognised in the fair value reserve. Interest income is recognised in net interwhich is the time when the significant risks and rights are transferred est income in profit or loss. If an asset in this category is sold, the previous between the parties. Deposits and lending transactions are recognised on unrealised gain/loss is reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit the settlement date. or loss and is recognised on the row net gains/losses from financial items. Loan receivables are recognised in the statement of financial position when the loan amount is paid to the borrower. Loan commitments are recogFair value through profit or loss nised as a commitment, see note 45 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities. The Group manages its holdings of mutual funds classified as shares and participations and bonds and other interest-bearing securities in the investment Offsetting financial assets and liabilities operations of the Parent Company and insurance companies in a business Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised in the statement of model that entails measurement at fair value through profit or loss since the financial position on a net basis only when there is a legally enforceable right assets are managed and evaluated based on the fair values of the assets, and to offset the carrying amounts and an intent to settle them with a net amount since the fair value comprises the basis for the internal monitoring and or to simultaneously realise the asset and settle the liability. The legally reporting to senior executives. enforceable right should not be contingent on a future event and must be The cost of debt instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss legally binding for the company and the counterparty in the normal course of comprises the fair value of the assets without additions for transaction costs. business, and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy. This recognition means that the assets are continuously measured at fair value through profit or loss with the accumulated unrealised changes in valRecognition of repurchase transactions ues recognised in retained earnings. Changes in fair value of these assets are In genuine repurchase transactions (a sale of interest-bearing securities with recognised in profit or loss as Investment income, net. If an asset in this catean agreement for repurchase at a predetermined price), the asset continues gory is sold, the previous unrealised gain/loss is recognised in profit or loss as to be recognised in the statement of financial position and payment received Unrealised gains or losses in investment assets, while the realised gain/loss is recognised as Due to credit institutions. Sold securities are recognised as from the sale of debt instruments is recognised in profit or loss as Investment pledged assets. For a reversed repurchase transaction (a purchase of interincome, net. 62 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Derivative instruments income if the hedged item is an asset or portfolio of assets, or as interest Derivative instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss expense if the hedged item is a liability or portfolio of liabilities. unless they are subject to the rules on hedge accounting. Derivatives with positive values are recognised as assets in the statement of financial position Expected credit losses and derivatives with negative values are recognised as liabilities. Reserves for expected credit losses (“loss allowance”) are recognised for financial assets measured at amortised cost and debt instruments measured Equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income, issued financial guaranAn equity instrument is every form of agreement that entails a residual right tees and loan commitments. The initial loss allowance is calculated and recto a company’s assets after deductions for all its liabilities. All holdings of ognised on initial recognition and is subsequently continuously adjusted over equity instruments that comprise holdings of a more strategic nature and the lifetime of the financial asset. Initial recognition is defined in the Group as that are not held for the purpose of generating investment income are measthe time of origination of the financial instrument, meaning when the original ured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Gains/losses on the loan terms were set. In the calculation of loss allowance under IFRS 9, the sale of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehenGroup takes into consideration several different future scenarios, including sive income are recognised as a transfer in equity from the fair value reserve macro factors. to retained earnings and thus do not impact profit or loss. Model and definitions Financial liabilities The expected loss impairment model is based on dividing the financial assets The Group measures all financial liabilities that are not derivatives at into three different stages. ­amortised cost. •• Stage 1 comprises assets for which the credit risk has not increased ­signi­ficantly since initial recognition. Derivatives used in hedge accounting •• Stage 2 comprises assets for which the credit risk has increased signifiThe Group’s derivatives, which comprise interest-rate and cross-currency cantly since initial recognition, but the asset is not credit-impaired. swaps and purchased interest caps, have been acquired in their entirety to The Group’s method for assessing whether there has been a significant hedge the risks of interest and exchange-rate exposure arising during the increase in credit risk for loans to the public, and issued financial guarantees course of operations. All derivatives are measured at fair value in the stateand loan commitments, is to compare probability of default (PD) on the ment of financial position. Changes in value are recognised depending on reporting date in question with PD from the initial reporting date. In addition, whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and the type of a credit risk is deemed to have increased significantly for assets that are more hedging relationship that the derivative is included in. The Group applies both than 30 days past due. cash flow hedges and fair value hedges. To meet the demands of hedge The Group’s method for assessing whether there has been a significant accounting in accordance with IAS 39, an unequivocal connection with the increase in credit risk for loans to credit institutions, and debt instruments hedged item is required. In addition, it is required that the hedge effectively measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, is to compare protects the hedged item, that hedge documentation has been prepared and PD based on an external rating on the reporting date in question with PD that the effectiveness can be measured reliably. Hedge accounting can only based on an external rating on the initial reporting date. be applied if the hedging relationship can be expected to be highly effective. When there is no longer any significant increase in credit risk since the In the event that the conditions for hedge accounting are no longer met, the ­initial reporting date, the financial asset is transferred back to stage 1. derivative instrument is measured at fair value together with the change in •• Stage 3 comprises credit-impaired assets or assets that were credit-imvalue through profit or loss. Hedging relationships are evaluated monthly. paired on initial recognition. The definition of credit-impaired is consistent Each identified hedging relationship is expected to be effective over the entire with the Group’s regulatory definition of default. A counterparty is considlifetime of the relationship. Effectiveness is tested by applying a forward­ered to be in default if a payment is more than 60 days past due. A counterlooking (prospective) assessment and a retrospective evaluation. Ineffectiveparty is also considered to be in default if there are other reasons to expect ness is recognised in profit or loss. that the counterparty cannot meet its undertakings. Assets that were credit-impaired on the initial reporting date are recognised in stage 3 for Cash flow hedges their entire term without being transferred to stage 1 or stage 2. The aim of cash flow hedges is to protect the Group from variations in future cash flows attributable to recognised assets and liabilities due to changed Estimating and recognising the loss allowance for stage 1 corresponds to the market factors. Interest and cross-currency interest rate swaps that are 12-month expected credit losses. For stages 2 and 3, estimating and recognishedging instruments in cash flow hedging are measured at fair value. The ing the loss allowance corresponds to the full lifetime expected credit losses. change in value is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumuThe estimates of expected credit losses for loans to the public, and issued lated in equity to the extent that the change in the value of the swap is effecfinancial guarantees and loan commitments, are based on existing internal tive and corresponds to future cash flows attributable to the hedged item. ratings-based models and take into account forward-looking information. Changes in value recognised in equity impact profit or loss at the same time The loss allowance is achieved by estimating the expected credit loss for the as the hedged item impacts profit or loss. assets’ contractual cash flows. The present value of the expected credit loss is calculated for every date in each cash flow by multiplying the remaining Fair value hedges exposure with the probability of default (PD) and the loss given default (LGD). Fair value hedges entail hedging the risk of changes in fair value of a financial For stage 1, the loss allowance is estimated as the present value of the asset or a financial liability. When applying fair value hedges, the hedged item 12-month ECL, while the credit loss for stages 2 and 3 is estimated as the is measured at fair value regarding its hedged risk. The changes in value that present value of the full lifetime expected credit losses. All estimates of the arise are recognised in profit or loss and are offset by the changes in value loss allowance including estimates of exposure, PD and LGD take into arising on the derivative (the hedging instrument). account forward-looking information and are based on a weighting of at least Länsförsäkringar Bank applies the fair value hedge method to specific three different possible macroeconomic scenarios. A number of statistical portfolios of funding, deposits and loans bearing fixed interest rates. Länsmacro models have been developed to determine how each macroeconomic försäkringar Bank also applies the fair value hedge method to assets in the scenario will affect the expected future exposure, PD and LGD. The estimates liquidity portfolio that are classified in the measurement category of fair value of expected credit losses for cash and cash equivalents, and debt instruments through other comprehensive income. The change in the value of the derivameasured at fair value through other comprehensive income, start from PD tive is recognised in profit or loss together with the change in the value of the based on the external rating and LGD based on the regulatory amounts under hedged item in Investment income, net. Unrealised changes in the value of the capital adequacy rules, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR). This is because hedging instruments are also recognised in the item Investment income, net. these items are not encompassed by existing, internal ratings-based models. Interest coupons, both unrealised and realised, are recognised as interest Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 63 For accounts receivable, the Group uses the simplified method, which entails •• amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guaranthat a loss allowance is always measured at an amount corresponding to the tees; and lease payments that will be paid for extension options that it is full lifetime of the expected credit losses. reasonably certain will be exercised are also included in the measurement of the liability. Recognition of expected credit losses Only the Bank Group’s share of expected and confirmed credit losses are recThe lease liability is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payognised. The regional insurance companies’ share of expected and confirmed ments from a change in an index or a rate, amounts expected to be payable credit losses is settled against a buffer of accrued commission. A condition under expected residual-value guarantees, or if the Group changes its for the regional insurance companies to receive full payment of the distribuassessment of whether it will exercise an option to purchase the underlying tion remuneration is that the loans generated by each company for the Bank asset or to extend or terminate the lease in advance. The Group is exposed to Group (excluding Wasa Kredit AB) are of high quality. If this is not the case, up any future increases in the variable lease payments that depend on an index to 80% of any credit losses is off-set against the accrued commission. This or a rate that are not included in the lease liability until they come into effect. settlement account is kept separate and is taken into consideration when the When adjustments of lease payments that depend on an index or a rate come provisions are established. into effect, the lease liability is remeasured and adjusted against the right-ofThe reserve for financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised use asset. as a reduction of the recognised gross carrying amount of the asset. To calculate the lease liability, lease payments are discounted by the interFor financial guarantees and loan commitments, the reserve is recognised as est rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be readily determined, which is a provision. normally the case for the Group’s leases, the lessee’s incremental borrowing The reserve for debt instruments measured at fair value through other rate is to be used, which is the that rate that an individual lessee would have to comprehensive income is recognised as the fair value reserve in equity and pay to borrow over a similar term, with a similar security, the funds necessary does not impact the carrying amount of the asset. Derecognition reduces the to obtain the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. recognised gross amount of the financial asset. Loss allowance and derecognition of confirmed credit losses are preMeasurement of right-of-use assets sented in profit or loss as credit losses. The right-of-use asset is measured at cost and recognised at an amount corresponding to what the lease liability was originally measured at after adjustConfirmed losses ments for prepaid lease payments and initial direct costs, and costs for Confirmed credit losses are those losses whose amount is finally established restoring the asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of through acceptance of a composition proposal, through other claim remisthe lease. sions or through bankruptcy and after all of the collateral has been realised Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis in subsequent and where the assessment is that the possibility of receiving additional payperiods over the shorter of the useful life and the term from the commencements is very small. The receivable is then derecognised from the statement ment date. If it is reasonably certain that the Group will exercise a purchase of financial position and recognised as a confirmed loss in profit or loss on option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the useful life of the underthis date. lying asset. Modified loans Application of exemption rules Modified loans are defined as loans for which the contractual terms have been The Group has decided not to recognise leases in the statement of financial changed and the change in terms impacts the time and/or the amount of the position for which the underlying asset has a low value or has a lease term contractual cash flows of the receivable. Modified loans are derecognised (including periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the Group is from the statement of financial position if the terms of an existing contract reasonably certain to exercise that option) of 12 months or less. The Group have materially changed. A new loan with the new contractual terms is then recognises lease payments for leases subject to exemption rules as a lease recognised in the statement of financial position. Gains or losses arising on a expense straight-line over the term. modification are calculated as the difference between the present value of the outstanding cash flows calculated under the changed terms and disReclassification of leases counted by the original effective interest rate and the discounted present The Group recognises its leases in the statement of financial position as a value of the outstanding original cash flows. The corresponding principles are right-of-use asset and a lease liability. Right-of-use assets are classified as applied to the recognition of modifications of the Group’s financial liabilities. the corresponding underlying asset that would have been presented if they had been owned, either as tangible assets or as owner-occupied property. Leases Reporting as lessee Recognition of sale and leaseback transactions The Group recognises all leases (with certain exemptions) in the statement of When the Group assumes an asset from another company and then leases financial position as follows: the obligation to make future fixed lease paythe asset back from the purchaser/lessor, the Group as seller/lessee recogments as a lease liability, and the right to use an underlying asset as a rightnises the transfer agreement and the lease as a sale and leaseback transacof-use asset. When a contract is signed, the Group assesses whether it tion. The sale of the asset is recognised when the performance obligations in includes a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if it conveys the right for the transfer agreement has been satisfied. If the transfer of an asset meets the Group to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in the requirements for recognition as a sale, the asset is recognised at the porexchange for consideration. The Group has decided to only identify the lease tion of the previous carrying amount retained by the Group as the seller/lescomponents in the Group’s leases and does not include non-lease composee. As seller/lessee, the Group thus only recognises a gain or loss attributanents in its calculation of the lease liability. ble to the rights transferred to the purchaser/lessor. Measurement of lease liabilities Reporting as lessor The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest The lessor classifies leases in the consolidated financial statements as either method, which is why lease payments are divided between repayment of the finance or operating leases. A finance leases exist if the financial risks and lease liability and interest expense. Lease liabilities are recognised as the rewards of ownership have substantially been transferred to the lessee. All present value of the remaining lease payments in the statement of financial other leases are operating leases. position and include the following lease payments: The Bank Group’s assets that are leased under finance leases are recog•• fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments); nised as loans to the public since the risks associated with ownership are •• variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured transferred to the lessee. Initially, an amount corresponding to the present using the index or rates on the commencement date; value of all minimum lease payments to be paid by the lessee is recognised 64 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 and any guaranteed residual value accrues to the lessor. Payments received ance. Receivables from and liabilities to reinsurers are valued in the same from these leases are recognised in part as repayment of lease receivables manner as the amounts linked to the reinsurance contract and in accordance and in part as interest income. with the conditions of each reinsurance contract. Liabilities in reinsurance primarily comprise settlements against regional insurance companies and Leases according to IAS 17 premiums to be paid for reinsurance contracts. The Group’s accounting policies according to IAS 17 Leases for the lessor’s The reinsurers’ portion of technical provisions corresponds to the reinsuraccounting essentially correspond to the current accounting policies. Lease ers’ liability for technical provisions in accordance with signed contracts. If payments for leases where the Group is lessee and that have previously been the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount of the asset, the deemed to be operating leases are recognised as a lease expense straightasset is impaired to the recoverable amount and the impairment loss is line over the term. expensed in profit or loss. Issued equity instruments Technical provisions Instruments in which the Group does not have a contractual obligation to Technical provisions consist of Unearned premiums, Unexpired risks, Life-­ make payment are recognised as equity instruments. Payment to holders of assurance reserves and Claims outstanding. these instruments is recognised in equity. Accordingly, issued shares and Changes in technical provisions for the period are recognised in profit or Tier 1 instruments are recognised as equity instruments in the statement of loss. Changes attributable to the translation of the provisions to the exchange financial position. rate on the balance-sheet date are recognised as exchange-rate gains or exchange-rate losses in Investment income, net. The insurance companies in Insurance contracts the Group perform a liability adequacy test of their technical provisions to Insurance contracts are contracts in which the insurance company underensure that the carrying amount of the provisions is sufficiently high in regard takes a significant insurance risk for the policyholder by agreeing to compento expected future cash flows. sate the policyholder if a predetermined, insured event were to occur. Insurance contracts are divided into insurance contracts or non-insurance conUnearned premiums tracts according to insurance risk. Insurance products without significant Provision for unearned premiums is intended to cover the expected claims insurance risk are to be classified as non-insurance contracts. A review of all and operating expenses during the remaining term of insurance contracts. contracts in the insurance companies was performed focusing on the insurThe calculation includes an estimate of the expected costs for claims that ance risk in these contracts and the financial impact of an insurance event on may occur during the remaining term of the insurance policies and the adminthe financial statements. The financial impact must be significant to be conistration costs during the period. sidered an insurance contract. The Group’s non-life insurance companies Normally, the provision is strictly proportional to time, referred to as a pro have classified all insurance contracts as with contracts containing insurance rata temporis calculation. risk. Some insurance contracts of minor financial impact were identified for The cost estimate is based on experience, but consideration is also given which the risk is not transferred to another party. Since these are of marginal to both the observed and forecast trend in relevant costs. value, all contracts have been classified according to the concept of materiality as insurance contracts. Unexpired risks The unit-linked insurance operations have insurance contracts with sigUnexpired risks refers to the risk that the payment requirements of the insurnificant insurance risk and contracts with limited insurance risk. The insurance contracts and the costs will not be covered by unearned premiums and ance component of the financial agreements and pure risk insurance are expected premiums after the end of the fiscal year. If the premium level of classified as insurance contracts. insurance contracts already entered into is deemed to be insufficient, a provision is made for unexpired risks. Financial agreements Insurance contracts that contain limited insurance risk are classified as Claims outstanding financial agreements in Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB. In the The provision for claims outstanding in the unit-linked insurance operations reporting, these contracts are divided into a financial component and an comprises provision for annuities and disability annuities, established claims insurance component. This method is known as unbundling. To provide more and non-established claims. The provision for annuities and disability annuirelevant information, the financial component and the insurance component ties corresponds to the discounted capital value of commitments in accordare recognised separately for all contracts, both those classified as insurance ance with the insurance contract. The provision for established claims correcontracts and those classified as financial agreements. sponds to the discounted, expected capital value of future expenses due to Premiums for the financial component are recognised as a deposit in the the incurred health claim. This includes reported and approved claims that insurance operations through the statement of financial position. Correhave not yet been paid, future operating expenses as well as the fixed-income spondingly, payments of claims payments for insurance contracts with limoperations. The discount rate is determined based on current market interest ited risk are recognised as withdrawals from the insurance operations in the rates in accordance with satisfactory practice. statement of financial position. The fees paid by customers are recognised as The provision for non-established claims pertains to claims that have not income and the costs for insurance risk are recognised as expenses. The variyet been reported but which have been made using statistical methods based ous types of fees charged to customers for the management of financial on previous experience for the respective products. For disability annuities at agreements are recognised as income in line with providing the management fixed amounts, the nominal interest-rate assumption was determined based services to the policyholders. The provision of services is evenly distributed on the yield curve used for the life-assurance reserves. Similarly, a real yield over the term of the contracts. curve was applied to index-linked disability annuities. In the non-life insurance operations, these provisions should cover anticiReinsurance pated costs for claims for which final settlement has not been completed, Contracts signed between the Group’s insurance companies and reinsurers including claims that have occurred but have not yet been reported to the through which the company is compensated for losses on contracts issued by company. The provision includes anticipated future cost increases plus all the company and that meet the classification requirements for insurance expenses for claims adjustment and is based on statistical methods for most contracts as stated above are classified as ceded reinsurance. Assumed reinclaims. An individual assessment is made in the case of major claims and surance is classified in the same manner when the company assumes risks claims involving complex liability conditions. With the exception of annuities, from other companies’ insurance contracts. the provision for claims outstanding is not discounted. The provision for For ceded reinsurance, the benefits to which the company is entitled annuities is estimated in line with customary life-assurance methods and disunder the reinsurance contract are recognised as the reinsurers’ portion of counted to market interest rates. The effect of interest-rate revaluations is technical provisions and deposits with companies that have ceded reinsurrecognised as a financial expense or income. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 65 For motor third-party liability insurance, provisions are made for claims Other provisions adjustment costs according to the unit cost principle. Provisions for claims A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the adjustment costs for other insurance classes are made proportionally against Group has an existing legal or informal obligation as a result of a past event the provision for claims incurred. and it is probable that an outflow of financial resources will be required to setThe provision for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) encompasses tle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where costs for claims that have been incurred but are unknown to the company. The the effect of when a payment is made is significant, provisions are calculated amount is an estimate based on historical experience and claims outcomes. by discounting the expected future cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that Changes in claims outstanding for the period are recognised in profit or reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where loss. Changes attributable to the translation of the provisions to the exchange appropriate, the risks related to the liability. rate on the balance-sheet date are recognised as exchange-rate gains or exchange-rate losses under Investment income, net. Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible commitment origLife-assurance reserve inating from past events and whose existence is confirmed only by one or The life-assurance reserve, pertaining to contracted benefits for guarantee more uncertain future events, or when there is a commitment that is not recmanagement in the unit-linked insurance operations, corresponds to the ognised as a liability or provision because it is probable that an outflow of anticipated capital value of the company’s guaranteed commitments. The resources will be required, or cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. life-assurance reserve is calculated per insurance policy in accordance with Contingent liabilities are measured at the amount corresponding to the best standard actuarial principles based on assumptions regarding interest rates, estimate of the amount required to settle the commitment on the balmortality, cancellations, expenses and yield tax. The discount rate is based on ance-sheet date. The measurement accounts for the expected future date of market rates on the measurement date and any future transaction is meassettlement. ured with consideration for the interest rate that corresponds to the duration of the transaction in relation to the calculation date. Mortality assumptions Loan commitments are based on statistical data representing the target group for which LänsA loan commitment can be a unilateral commitment by a company to issue a försäkringar Fondliv offers insurance solutions. The statistical data is based on loan with predetermined terms and conditions in which borrowers can Länsförsäkringar’s insurance portfolio, but generally available information has choose whether they want to accept the loan or not, or a loan agreement in been taken into account for comparison with observations in Länsförsäkringwhich both the company and the borrower are subject to terms and condiar’s portfolio. Cancellation assumptions are based on the historical outcome tions for a loan that begins at a certain point in the future. in Länsförsäkringar. Yield tax will be removed from current tax legislation. Loan commitments are not recognised in the statement of financial position. Issued irrevocable loan commitments are valid for three months and are Provisions for which the policyholder bears the risk recognised as a commitment under the note entitled Pledged assets and conFinancial liabilities in the unit-linked insurance operations whereby the liabiltingent liabilities. ity has a direct link to the value of a financial asset for which the company does not have any risk in the change in value of the fair value of the asset. Financial guarantees ­Provisions for life assurance for which the policyholder bears the investment Guarantee agreements issued by the Group mainly comprise leasing and risk correspond to the redemption value of the fund units held on the policycredit guarantees. These entail a commitment to compensate the holder holders’ behalf. when the holder incurs a loss due to a specific debtor not making due payThe unit-linked insurance operations have chosen to attribute unit-linked ments to the holder in accordance with applicable contractual terms. insurance commitments to the measurement category of Financial liabilities Financial guarantee agreements are initially measured at fair value, which measured at fair value through profit or loss. This means that the provision normally means the amount that the company received as compensation for matches the linked assets measured at fair value. the guarantee issued. In the subsequent measurement, the liability for the financial guarantee is recognised at the higher of the allocated premium, and the amount representing the expected cost of settling the commitment incurred by the guarantee. Note 2 Risk and capital management Conducting insurance and banking operations involves risk-taking. Knowlmanage, report and have control over the risks to which the companies are, or edge about risks is a core area of expertise in the banking and insurance could be expected to become, exposed to, and the interdependence of these industries. The ultimate owners of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance are also its risks. Based on this Group-wide risk-management system, each subsidiary customers and, accordingly, efforts to govern, manage and control risks as has prepared more detailed rules for managing company-specific risks. well as management of the Group’s capital are of immediate importance to Coordinated risk control within the Group ensures that the risk-management customers and provide clear customer value. system is consistently implemented in all of the companies in the Group and The Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s operations include non-life insurance, means that the targets for the operations can be achieved with a higher life assurance and pension insurance and banking activities. The traditional degree of certainty. life-assurance operations are found in a wholly owned subsidiary, LänsförsäkThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s risk strategy is an integrated component ringar Liv Försäkrings AB (referred to below as “Länsförsäkringar Liv”), which of operational governance that, given the business strategy, aims to control is operated according to mutual principles. The company is not consolidated risk-taking. The overall risk strategy is that the operations are to be conin the consolidated financial statements and thus the company’s risks are not ducted following a conscious risk-taking approach. The Länsförsäkringar AB included in the description provided in this note. For more information, see Group’s mission is to conduct profitable business in non-life insurance, life Länsförsäkringar Liv’s Annual Report. assurance, unit-linked insurance and banking, which means that insurance risk, credit risk and market risk are consciously assumed as part of carrying RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT out the business strategy. Liquidity risk is limited by robust handling of liquidThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group has established a shared risk-management ity flows in the operations. The counterparty risks that arise from conducting system, defined as the strategies, processes, procedures, internal rules, limthe business activities are kept at a low level by selecting counterparties with its, controls and reporting procedures needed to ensure that the companies high credit ratings. Concentration risks are kept at a low level by limiting in the Group are able to continuously identify, measure, monitor, govern, exposure to individual counterparties, types of investment, etc. and by the 66 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Group conducting well-diversified operations encompassing non-life insurmonitoring of individual risks in the operating activities takes place within the ance, life assurance, health insurance and banking. Climate risks are limited frameworks established by the Board in governance documents and are broby taking proactive measures regarding the climate impact of the company’s ken down into more detailed regulations regarding authorisation to take risks own operations and climate risks in the management of the Group’s investand obligations to monitor risk. Control activities are performed regularly ment assets. Operational risks are managed such that the customer confiand incidents are continuously reported and monitored. dence and that of other stakeholders in Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiA complete report of all risks in the company’s operations is submitted aries remains high. The estimated risk level and the organisation’s expertise in every quarter to, where appropriate, the Risk and Capital Committee, Audit managing specific risks are taken into consideration in decisions on, for Committee and Board. example, the products that the company offers, the customer groups to which sales are directed, the instruments that the company’s assets are Risk-management organisation invested in and how the operations are otherwise conducted. The risk-management system is a integrated part of the Länsförsäkringar AB Prospective analyses in the form of own risk and solvency assessments Group’s organisational structure and decision-making processes. In addition (ORSA), recovery plans and internal capital and internal liquidity adequacy to risk management in the operations, it also encompasses the independent assessment processes are performed every year. Ongoing activities include risk-management function. handling known risks and identifying new risks. Internal models are used in The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that an effective the first instance to quantitatively measure risks. Länsförsäkringar AB has risk-management system is in place and adopting frameworks for the Länsdeveloped a partial internal model to measure risk and has received approval försäkringar AB Group’s risk-management system in the Group’s risk policy. from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to use the model to calcuThe risk policy defines the risks to which the Group’s operations are exposed late capital requirements under the Swedish Insurance Business Act for and how these risks are identified, measured, monitored, governed, managed Länsförsäkringar AB and its insurance subsidiaries. The internal model measand reported. The Board expresses its risk appetite in the risk policy by statures risk as Value at Risk at a 99.5% confidence level over a 1-year time horiing the risk levels and focus that can be accepted to achieve strategic targets. zon, based on historical simulation. The model is used to manage and calcuThe Board also states in the risk policy the strategies that are to be applied for late capital requirements for all risks corresponding to the standard formula significant types of risk. Furthermore, the Board adopts an annual permissible in Chapter 8 of the Insurance Business Act, of which market risk excluding level of capitalisation following recommendations from the Chief Risk Officer concentration risk, premium risk, reserve risk and, to a certain extent, Group (CRO Group). catastrophe risk are modelled internally. Risks not encompassed by the The President is responsible for incorporating the governance documents model, such as business risk and liquidity risk, are monitored following interadopted by the Board into the operations. The CRO Group is responsible for nally established policies. Länsförsäkringar Bank has developed an internal the design of the risk-management system and coordination within the Länsratings-based model for measuring credit risk and has received approval försäkringar AB Group, while each manager in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group from the Financial Supervisory Authority to use the model to calculate capital is responsible for the risks in their own operations. All employees also have an requirements in accordance with the Swedish Special Supervision of Credit individual responsibility for working towards a healthy risk culture by complyInstitutions and Investment Firms Act. ing with internal rules on the Group’s risk-management system. The regulatory capital requirements are also supplemented with other risk The risk management function has the operational responsibility for the measures and stress tests. Operational risk and business risk are mainly independent risk control, which includes identifying, measuring, monitoring assessed on a qualitative basis. Qualitative risk measurement makes use of an and reporting risks in the company’s and the Group’s operations. The function overall assessment of the risk’s potential consequences for the operations controls the risk management in the operations to ensure that they are conand the probability or frequency of the risk occurring. The management and ducted with satisfactory risk management and risk control, and reports the Figure 1. Classification of risk in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group including Länsförsäkringar Liv Emerging risks Group risks Total risk Climate risk Concentration risk Insurance risk Credit risk Market risk Liquidity risk Operational risk Business risk Non-life Credit risk in Structural Product and Interest-rate risk Strategic risk insurance risk lending liquidity risk process risk Life-assurance Issuer risk Currency risk Financing risk Personnel risk Reputation risk risk Health-insurance Counterparty Credit-spread Rollover risk Security risk Conduct risk risk risk risk Intraday liquidity Catastrophe risk Settlement risk Equities risk Legal risks risk Creditworthiness Property risk Compliance risk risk Commodities risk IT risk Infrastructure Model risk risk Option risk Pension risk Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 67 results of its controls directly to the President, management and, where Figure 2. Länsförsäkringar AB Group regulatory capital requirements per risk type appropriate, the Risk and Capital Committee, Audit Committee and the including diversification on 31 December 2019. (Figures in parentheses pertain to 2018.) Board. This function is affiliated to Länsförsäkringar AB in the organisation and is independent from the operations that are controlled. The CRO Group reports directly to the President. Länsförsäkringar Bank has a separate Risk Management function, where the head of the function, CRO Bank, reports to Life-assurance risk, 11% (10) the President. Health-insurance risk, 1% (1) The Actuarial function helps ensure the efficient operation of the Non-life insurance risk, 1% (1) risk-management system, for example, by ensuring that data for calculating Market risk, 26% (27) capital requirements for insurance risks correctly reflects the operations. Counterparty risk (insurance), 0% (0) Operational risk, 3% (4) The Compliance function identifies and reports on risks that may arise as a Credit risk (bank), 36% (38) result of non-compliance with regulations. Buffer Länsförsäkringar Bank, 21% (19) Risk profile Länsförsäkringar AB’s risk profile is dominated by the banking operations’ Länsförsäkringar AB applies a joint risk division and definitions of risks to credit risk from lending and the market risk in the unit-linked insurance operwhich the operations are exposed. An outline is provided in figure 1. ations. The unit-linked insurance operations also bring a certain level of The following section describes the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s total risks life-assurance risk, while the non-life insurance risk deriving from the non-life and how they are controlled and managed. Information is provided on the size insurance operations is moderate after applying reinsurance. Operational of the exposure for specific risks. The disclosures in this note refer to the Länsrisk is inherent in all type of operations and specific group risks are also found försäkringar AB Group. The Parent Company has a separate note on risk and in the Group’s risk profile since Länsförsäkringar AB comprises a group that risk management found under the Parent Company’s financial statements. also includes both banking and insurance operations. Climate risk is a relatively new type of risk that has been added to the risk profile and the emerInsurance risk gence of new types of risk, emerging risks, is continuously monitored. Insurance risk (underwriting risk) refers to the risk of loss or negative change The following factors characterise the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s in the value of underwriting liabilities due to incorrect tariffs and provisions ­current risk-taking: assumptions. The Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s insurance risk includes non•• The operations are conducted in Sweden, except for Agria, which has pet life insurance risk, life-assurance and health-insurance risks that arise in insurance business in the Nordic countries, UK and France. All 23 regional insurance subsidiaries. insurance companies broker the Group’s products, which thereby creates a •• Non-life insurance risk refers to the risk of losses arising due to claims geographic distribution throughout Sweden. The operations primarily focus costs being higher than expected. on private individuals and small and medium-sized businesses, directly or •• Life-assurance risk refers to the risk of losses in connection with the insurmediated by the regional insurance companies, and have few major comance of a specific person’s life and health. mitments entailing risk with large companies. •• Health-insurance risk refers to the risk of losses arising due to the insured’s •• In the unit-linked insurance operations, the policyholders primarily bear disability and morbidity being higher than assumed. the market risks, but since the trend in insurance capital is governed by the •• Catastrophe risk refers to the risk of losses arising due to natural disasters, company’s earnings, the company is also exposed to market risk. The risks epidemics or disasters caused by human activities leading to very large inherent in the investment assets managed by the Group’s companies for claims payments. own account are kept at a low level and were reduced further in 2019 by divesting a large property holding in Stockholm. Risk exposure •• Loans in the banking operations primarily pertain to households and to a The Group’s non-life insurance risk arises in the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group. smaller extent to agriculture and businesses. Low loan-to-value ratios, Premium risk is the largest risk in non-life insurance risk, followed by reserve combined with a well-diversified geographic spread and local presence, are risk. Catastrophe risk comprises minor exposure since the low retention of the core pillars in ensuring that the loan portfolio maintains high credit qualthe reinsurance cover limits catastrophe exposure. ity. The regional insurance companies cover 80% of the provision requireThe exposure to life-assurance risks primarily derives from the operations ment in the Bank Group (excluding Wasa Kredit) on the date when an impairin Länsförsäkringar Fondliv and to a lesser extent from group life assurance in ment is identified, by means of an off-set against accrued distribution remLänsförsäkringar Gruppliv and annuities in Länsförsäkringar Sak. Länsförsäkumeration. See note 15 Credit losses for more information. ringar Fondliv’s product range has two different management forms: fund •• If unit-linked life assurance customers buy back or transfer their insurance management that entails that customers decide the investment orientation policies to other companies, the long-term profitability of the unit-linked and risk level themselves; and guarantee management which is traditional life assurance operations will be negatively affected. management whereby the company is responsible for the investment orienta•• The non-life insurance operations are well-diversified, including pet insurtion and a portion of the customer’s savings are guaranteed. Unit-linked ance, health care, accident and health insurance, some commercial insurinsurance operations comprise 96% of total managed assets. ance and international reinsurance. The risks taken in non-life insurance The dominating life-assurance risk derives from the unit-linked insurance are reinsured and extensive reinsurance operations are conducted on operations and the risk of customers choosing to transfer their insurance behalf of the Länsförsäkringar Alliance. capital. The ongoing legislative process on the conditions for transfers of •• Climate risk represents a financial risk in the form of potential impact on insurance policies could result in a higher level of transfers in the unit-linked the insurance business, lending and investments for the Länsförsäkringar insurance market and thus have a material impact on the capital requirement AB Group. Länsförsäkringar AB works on climate risk based on both the for this life-assurance risk. Increased mobility in the labour market could impact of the operations on the climate and the climate’s impact on the entail an increase in the number of occupational pensions with paid-up polioperations. cies, where premium payments cease. The Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s exposure to health-insurance risk The risk profile for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group excluding Länsförsäkringar derives from health care insurance and group health and group accident Liv, measured as a capital requirement in accordance with the Insurance insurance in Länsförsäkringar Sak, and from health and premium exemption Business Act and the Swedish Special Supervision of Financial Conglomerand accident and invalidity benefit insurance in Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. ates Act are presented in figure 2. The capital requirement is calculated using The Group has low exposure to catastrophe risk for own account. The the internal model: Group manages common reinsurance cover for the Länsförsäkringar Alliance with respect to storms and natural disasters where Länsförsäkringar Sak 68 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 assumes a certain level of risk for own account. The other operational area companies broker the company’s products. As a result, Länsförsäkringar Fonwhere Länsförsäkringar Sak, for own account, is exposed to a certain level of dliv’s individual concentrations of life-assurance and health-insurance risk catastrophe risk is in the internationally assumed reinsurance. are considered to be limited. Risk concentrations Risk management and risk-reduction techniques The Länsförsäkringar AB Group conducts diversified operations in non-life, Reinsurance agreements with both internal reinsurers within the Länsförsäklife assurance and health insurance. The market for Länsförsäkringar AB’s ringar Alliance and external reinsurers are used to cover the companies in the insurance subsidiaries is primarily Sweden, but Agria has branches and conevent of insurance claims. Länsförsäkringar AB’s subsidiary Länsförsäkringar ducts sales in the Nordic region, France and UK. Sak manages the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s joint reinsurance cover and The Länsförsäkringar Sak Group conducts well-diversified business, internal Alliance reinsurance via a number of pool solutions. The system including pet insurance, health care, accident and health insurance, some ensures a stable solution at low cost by distributing risk within the Länscommercial insurance and international reinsurance. The business is divided försäkringar Alliance and procuring external cover for large claims. Reinsurinto 25 reporting classes that make the operations highly diverse with few or ance cover as regards retention and level of protection is adapted based on minor elements of risk concentration inherent in non-life insurance risk. The each subsidiary’s reinsurance needs. The Länsförsäkringar Alliance has subsidiary Agria’s business comprises insurance for pets (dogs, cats and shared catastrophe reinsurance cover for accident and life assurance. Länsother pets), horses, farm animals and crop insurance. Operations are conförsäkringar Sak has reinsurance for risk and disaster claims. Agria’s reinsurducted in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Norway, France and the UK. Operations ance cover comprises an important tool in providing protection from large in the Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv subsidiary are concentrated to purely death individual claim incidents and high total claims costs in the more volatile busibenefit insurance that, with well-differentiated groups of policyholders, repnesses in the company. Morbidity and mortality risks in Länsförsäkringar Fonresents all of society. Länsförsäkringar Sak’s main risk concentration in insurdliv are reinsured. The efficiency of reinsurance cover is monitored by the ance risk comprises assumed reinsurance from individual regional insurance Actuarial function and reported to the Board every year. Other factors that companies. Länsförsäkringar Sak assumes reinsurance from these individual affect risks are the product composition including diversification, structure companies in a number of pools and subsequently immediately retrocedes of insurance terms and conditions, underwriting limits, risk selection rules the risk back to the regional insurance companies. Examples of claims that and risk inspections. are reinsured through pool arrangements are property damage, accidents and motor insurance. Risk sensitivity Länsförsäkringar Fondliv conducts unit-linked insurance operations and Table 1 shows the sensitivity in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s profit before offers various forms of pension savings and risk insurance that can be taken tax and equity to a number of actuarial assumptions. Table 2 shows the Länsout together with savings insurance. Länsförsäkringar Fondliv primarily tarförsäkringar Sak Group’s estimated claims costs before and after reinsurgets private individuals and small and medium-sized businesses. A geographic ance per claim year and table 3 shows the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group’s estidistribution throughout Sweden is created since all 23 regional insurance mated claims cost after ceded reinsurance. Table 1. Sensitivity analysis, insurance risk 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on SEK M profit before tax equity profit before tax equity Länsförsäkringar Fondliv 10% increase in operating expenses –58 –58 –51 –51 Länsförsäkringar Fondliv 10% lower mortality per year –6 –6 –5 –5 Länsförsäkringar Fondliv 10% momentary external transfer –158 –158 –129 –129 Länsförsäkringar Fondliv 10% increase in morbidity –56 –56 –49 –49 Länsförsäkringar Fondliv 10% lower income –184 –184 –173 –173 Länsförsäkringar Sak Group 10% lower premium level –640 –503 –598 –467 Länsförsäkringar Sak Group 10% increased claims frequency/average claim –455 –358 –420 –328 Länsförsäkringar Sak Group 1% higher annual claims inflation –153 –120 –164 –128 Länsförsäkringar Sak Group 10% higher mortality per year –11 –9 –11 –8 Table 2. Estimated claims costs before and after reinsurance for the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group, per claim year SEK M 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total At end of claim year 3,703 4,239 3,812 3,868 4,098 4,799 5,121 – One year later 3,653 4,137 3,645 3,625 4,006 4,483 – – Two years later 3,689 4,055 3,609 3,529 3,900 – – – Three years later 3,628 3,988 3,620 3,462 – – – – Four years later 3,556 4,005 3,573 – – – – – Five years later 3,550 3,775 – – – – – – Six years later 3,526 – – – – – – – Estimated claims costs 3,526 3,775 3,573 3,462 3,900 4,483 5,121 – Accumulated claims payments 3,162 3,135 3,112 2,978 3,307 3,672 3,397 – Provision for claims payments 364 640 461 484 594 812 1,724 5,079 Provision for claims payments, older year classes – – – – – – – 4,772 Provision for claims payments for assumed reinsurance, gross – – – – – – – 917 Total provision for claims payments, gross – – – – – – – 10,768 Annuity reserve, gross – – – – – – – 1,564 Claims adjustment reserve, gross – – – – – – – 186 Provision for claims outstanding, gross – – – – – – – 12,519 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 69 Table 3. Estimated claims costs after ceded reinsurance for the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group, per claim year SEK M 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total At end of claim year 2,444 2,631 2,837 3,100 3,254 3,590 3,830 – One year later 2,312 2,458 2,666 2,837 3,198 3,468 – – Two years later 2,341 2,559 2,631 2,843 3,177 – – – Three years later 2,353 2,477 2,650 2,815 – – – – Four years later 2,311 2,481 2,652 – – – – – Five years later 2,309 2,476 – – – – – – Six years later 2,308 – – – – – – – Estimated claims costs 2,308 2,476 2,652 2,815 3,177 3,468 3,830 – Accumulated claims payments 2,253 2,378 2,564 2,704 3,022 3,214 3,034 – Provision for claims payments 55 98 88 112 155 254 795 1,557 Provision for claims payments, older year classes – – – – – – – 796 Provision for claims payments for assumed reinsurance, gross – – – – – – – 625 Total provision for claims payments after ceded ­reinsurance – – – – – – – 2,978 Annuity reserve – — – – – – – 236 Claims adjustment reserve – – – – – – – 186 Provision for claims outstanding after ceded reinsurance – – – – – – – 3,401 For a more detailed description of premium and reserve risk, mortality risk, local regional insurance companies. In turn, this imposes demands on ensurlongevity risk, disability and morbidity risk, expenses risk, cancellation risk ing adequate expertise and following clear, structured and documented proand catastrophe risk, refer to the annual reports of the subsidiaries. cesses that take into account prudence, risk diversification and the situation in the financial markets. Market risk Investments are made only in assets that can be fairly valued and whose Market risk pertains to the risk of loss arising that is directly or indirectly risks can be identified, measured, managed, monitored and reported. Investcaused by changes in the level or volatility in the market price of assets, liabiliment assets that are not traded on a regulated market, that contain a signifities and financial instruments, including losses caused by shortcomings in the cant element of model valuation or that show a lack of liquidity or transparmatching between assets and liabilities. ency are kept at prudent levels. The main asset classes are interest-bearing securities, equities, alternative investments, property and a large portion of Risk exposure the holdings are owned indirectly via funds. Market risk arises in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group due to investment deciThe main risk-reduction technique applied to the management of assets is sions made concerning management of the insurance companies’ and the diversification. The companies’ investments are spread over several classes Parent Company’s investment assets. Market risk also arises in the Länsof assets and segment in these classes, leading to exposure to various risk försäkringar Bank Group’s operations to a certain extent in the form of differfactors that react in different ways to fluctuations in the financial markets. ences in fixed-interest periods between assets and liabilities, although such This means that as a whole the portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuamarket risks comprise a small portion of the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s tions than its portfolio components. total market risks. Insurance contracts in Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s guarantee manageMarket risks in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s investment assets for ment form extend over long periods and provisions are thus less sensitive to own account are moderately high and derive from Länsförsäkringar Sak’s and interest-rate fluctuations. The degree of matching between assets and comthe Parent Company’s investments in mainly bonds and equities funds. Länsmitments together with forecasts of the insurance operations’ performance försäkringar Fondliv is also exposed to market risk form the fund units that are therefore taken into account and assets are invested with respect to the the company holds to facilitate customer fund trading in the trading book, nature and term of the commitments. and there is also a sensitivity to market risk since earnings in the unit-linked The Länsförsäkringar Bank Group has established a limit for the highest insurance operations and in Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning’s operations permissible interest-rate risk, which is relatively low compared with the norare sensitive to trends in fund values that are largely affected by the performal total interest-rate risk in the entire Group. Firstly, fixed-interest periods mance of equity indexes. Market risk is also inherent in insurance liabilities by are matched and secondly interest-rate derivatives are used. provisions being discounted by the market interest rate. However, in the following, only the market risk that occurs through direct exposures in the Use of derivative instruments Group’s assets and liabilities is quantified. This risk is recognised in the ConDerivative instruments are utilised in the management of investment assets solidated statement of financial position for the Group above, with accompain order to reduce risks or enhance management efficiency. Each new type of nying notes. derivative instrument undergoes an approval process before it can be used in management. In connection with this, assurances are made that there is Risk concentrations understanding of the characteristics of the instruments in the relevant parts The dominating portion of the Group’s market risk is found in the insurance of the organisation, that valuations, risk measurement and follow-ups are satsubsidiaries’ investment assets. Market risks can also be found to a lesser isfactory and that risks are adequately identified. extent in the Parent Company’s investment assets and in the LänsförsäkrinFixed-income futures and interest-rate swaps are used in management to gar Bank Group. The main asset classes in portfolio management are interreduce interest-rate risk. Using these instruments helps to enhance the effiest-bearing securities, equities, property and alternative investments. During ciency of portfolio management by reducing the interest-rate sensitivity the year, the Group divested the property holding that previously comprised a without selling the underlying bonds, and thus any coupons and excess risk concentration, and concentration risk in market risk is otherwise deemed returns can be kept. The effect of these derivative strategies is continuously to be low in relation to other market risks. monitored by measuring the interest-rate duration and interest-rate sensiHowever, from time to time, there may be individual investments that may tivity of the portfolio. comprise a certain concentration of market risk. Management uses equity index forward contracts when it needs to temporarily reduce equities risk. In this way, the portfolio is protected from sharp Risk management and risk-reduction techniques price drops in the equities market without needing to sell the underlying equiInsurance assets are invested in the best interests of the policyholders and ties and equities fund holdings, which improves the efficiency of the portfolio the management of the companies’ own assets is conducted in the best intermanagement. The effect of this risk-reducing strategy is measured by equiests of the owners, meaning ultimately the interests of the customers of the ties allocation (including derivatives) being reconciled on a daily basis. 70 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Management makes regular use of derivative instruments to reduce currency •• Interest reset date risk in the portfolio. This means that established limits on currency exposure •• The swap swaps the hedged item’s currency flows to the Group’s functional can be considered without having to refrain from investing in desirable assets currency. that have a different currency risk than SEK. Currency exposure (total and to individual currencies) is monitored on a daily basis. If the terms correspond, an economic relationship is expected to exist between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Hedge accounting The nominal amount of the hypothetical derivative and the hedging instruIn the Group, the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group applies hedge accounting. ment are to be the same (a hedge ratio of 1:1) The hedge ratio corresponds to A description of the content of the Bank Group’s hedge accounting is prothe actual risk management. The derivative counterparties all have a high vided below. The Bank Group’s hedge accounting is presented in tables 19 credit rating (normally AA) and, as long as this does not change, the credit risk and 20 at the end of this note. is not deemed to dominate the change in the value. Risks and hedging instruments Sources of ineffectiveness The risks hedged and for which hedge accounting is applied are: The ineffectiveness arising in a hedging relationship is recognised in profit or •• Interest-rate risk, excluding credit-spread risk loss. Sources of ineffectiveness in the Group’s hedging relationships are •• Currency risk described below. •• Fair value hedges of interest-rate risk: The variable leg of the swap does not The hedged items are hedged in their entirety for the above risk components. have a counterpart in the hedged item. The Bank Group’s derivatives, which comprise interest and cross-cur•• Cash flow hedging of currency risk: Ineffectiveness arises if the terms of rency interest rate swaps, have been acquired in their entirety to hedge the the hypothetical derivative deviate from the hedging instrument at the risks of interest and exchange-rate exposure arising during the course of same time as the change in the value of the hedging instrument exceeds the operations. Interest-rate swaps are used to swap fixed interest in SEK to varichange in the value of the hypothetical derivative. able interest in SEK. Cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to swap foreign currencies to SEK and fixed foreign interest to variable interest in SEK. IBOR and Interest Rate Benchmark Reform After the financial crisis, global supervisory authorities have focused on Fair value hedges of interest-rate risk interbank offered rates (IBORs) and an international trend is that IBORs are The Bank Group applies the fair value hedge method to specific portfolios of being replaced by or supplemented with alternative risk-free rates (RFRs) to funding, deposits and loans bearing fixed interest rates. The Bank Group also improve the function of the financial market. Currently, there is uncertainty applies the fair value hedge method to assets in the liquidity portfolio that are about the timing and exact nature of these changes. The insurance operations recognised in the category of Fair value through other comprehensive have Euribor, Stibor and USD Libor as reference rates in contracts for interincome. The following terms have been identified as critical in a fair value est-bearing securities with viable interest rates and interest-rate derivatives. hedge of interest-rate risk: The banking operations’ primary exposure to IBORs currently comprises con•• Nominal amount tracts that refer to Stibor and Euribor. There are also relationships with •• Currency CHF-Libor, USD Libor, GBP Libor and Nibor. The exposures to international •• Maturity date IBORs refer to the banking operations’ funding and liquidity reserve and asso•• Coupon rate of interest ciated derivative hedging contracts. Länsförsäkringar expects that it may be necessary to review systems and If the terms correspond, an economic relationship is deemed to exist processes in order to manage the changes to contracts including IBORs, between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, meaning that the including any tax and accounting consequences. Länsförsäkringar will conhedging instrument and the hedged item have values that normally develop in tinue to work together with its industry colleagues to ensure an orderly tranopposite directions as a result of changes in the benchmark rate risk. Effecsition to alternative risk-free rates and to minimise risks that may arise on tiveness is assessed by comparing the change in value of the swap’s fixed legs transition. Länsförsäkringar Bank is a Stibor panel bank on the Stibor commitwith the change in value of the hedged item. tee that manages Stibor developments. The process of adapting Stibor to the For hedging relationships to which portfolio hedging is applied, each portEU Benchmark Regulation is based on the expectation that Stibor will confolio and the hedging instruments that hedge the portfolio are divided into tinue to exist. The bank also participated in the Swedish Bankers’ Association time brackets. The volume in the hedged item (the portfolio) and the volume in working group tasked with proposing a new alternative reference rate. The the hedging instrument are compared in each time bracket. current idea is that an new alternative reference rate is to exist in parallel with If the current volume of the hedged item is less than the volume of the Stibor. Regarding developments internationally, the Group has no significant hedging instrument, the difference is removed from the hedging relationship. exposure to any of the rates that will disappear in the near future and more If the current volume of the hedged item exceeds the volume of the hedging long-term developments are being monitored. It currently appears that Euriinstrument, the surplus portion is not included in the hedging relationship and bor will continue to exist. thus is not remeasured. Hedging relationships are reconciled monthly. The IASB is currently working on amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 9 due to For hedging relationships whereby a one-to-one hedge is applied, the volthe accounting consequences that may arise at the time of the changes in ume in the hedged item always corresponds to the volume in the hedging contracts with an IBOR. The Group is continuing to monitor the status of the instrument. The hedge ratio (the ratio in a nominal amount between the IASB’s work and will assess the effects for the Group when further informahedged item and the hedging instrument) is 1:1 and corresponds to the actual tion is available. risk management. The derivative counterparties all have a high credit rating (normally AA) Table 4. Exposure to IBORs in the Group’s hedge accounting on 31 December 2019 and, as long as this does not change, the credit risk is not deemed to dominate Total nomithe change in the value of the hedging instrument. Nominal amount per IBOR nal amount SEK M Stibor Euribor CHF Libor Cash flow hedging of currency risk Cash flow hedge The Bank Group applies cash flow hedges for hedging currency risk in the Currency risk Bank Group’s debt securities issued in foreign currency. The following terms Cross-currency interest rate swaps – 47,010 4,834 51,843 have been identified as critical in a cash flow hedge of currency risk: Fair value hedge •• Nominal amount Interest-rate risk •• Maturity date Interest-rate swaps 282,798 54,526 4,834 342,157 •• Benchmark interest rate Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 71 Risk sensitivity Table 5. Sensitivity analysis, market risks 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Impact on Impact on Impact on Impact on SEK M profit before tax equity profit before tax equity Interest-rate risk assets and liabilities net1) 100 bp higher nominal market interest rates –90 –82 –172 –167 Credit-spread risk2 100 bp increased credit spread –242 –242 –212 –212 Equities risk 10% lower share prices including hedge funds –448 –463 –251 –270 Property risk 10% lower property prices – – – –323 Currency risk3) 10% strengthening of SEK –152 –152 –155 –155 1) Interest-rate risk refers to both cash-flow risk and price risk. Bond holdings are stressed including accrued interest. 2) Credit-spread risk in the Group’s insurance companies and Länsförsäkringar AB Parent Company. For credit risk exposure in the Bank Group, refer to table 9. 3) Currency risk is presented including indirect exposure via a look-through approach of funds. Interest-rate risk Impact on earnings The interest-bearing asset portfolio includes interest-rate risk from covered before tax, SEK M1 bonds, government bonds, corporate bonds, fixed-income funds and derivaCurrency 2019 2018 tive instruments. Interest-rate risk is also inherent in insurance liabilities by PLN 1 0 provisions being discounted by the market interest rate. The interest-rate risk TWD –2 –2 presented in table 5 does not include any assumptions regarding the effects USD –91 –30 of future changes in reference interest rates. ZAR –1 –3 Other currencies –1 –5 Credit-spread risk Total –152 –155 The Group has exposure to credit-spread risk in Swedish mortgage bonds, 1) The table presents the earnings impact including indirect exposure via a look-through green bonds of primarily investment grade quality, and based on its holdings in approach of funds. mainly global and US investment grade funds and public and private loan funds. Tables 7 and 10 show that vast majority of the Group’s interest-bearing Credit risk in the Parent Company and insurance subsidiaries holding have an AAA rating. Credit risk pertains to the risk of losses arising due to counterparties being unable to fulfil their undertakings and of any collateral provided not covering Equities risk the receivable. The Parent Company and insurance subsidiaries are exposed The Group’s primary equities exposure is to Swedish, European and US equito credit risk from ceded reinsurance, counterparties in financial derivatives ties but also Japanese equities and equities in emerging markets. Länsförsäkand from bank balances and issuers of securities. ringar Fondliv’s exposure regarding directly owned assets derives from the guarantee management form and fund units in the trading book. Since about Risk exposure 80% of the unit-linked insurance capital is exposed to equities risk, LänsThe Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s exposure to credit risk primarily arises försäkringar Fondliv is also exposed to equities risk in future earnings. through holdings of bonds in the investment portfolios that, in the same way as for credit-spread risk, are mainly attributable to holdings in Swedish mortProperty risk gage bonds, green bonds of primarily investment grade quality and, to a cerThe Group is exposed to property risk mainly through Länsförsäkringar Sak tain extent, global and US investment grade funds as well as public and priand Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s units in Humlegården Fastigheter AB. vate loan funds with mainly high yield ratings. The insurance subsidiaries are also exposed to credit risk from reinsurers. Currency risk The insurance subsidiaries take out reinsurance to avoid assuming greater The Group faces currency exposure from insurance liabilities and investment individual liability than that stated in the insurance guidelines and reinsurance assets as well as from the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group’s funding in other policy of each subsidiary. Reinsured risks instead become the responsibility of currencies. Currency risk is managed using currency and cross-currency the reinsurers. However, there is the risk that the reinsurer is unable to fulfil interest rate swaps. its obligations, which in such a case revert to become a liability for the company to meet. Option risk In addition, counterparty risk arises through the use of financial derivatives in Option risk refers to the risk of losses arising due to opportunities to change the the insurance subsidiaries’ investment portfolios. Derivatives are purchased level and timing of cash flows. Option risk is included as part of other market risks. to enhance the efficiency of the portfolio management in the investment portfolio and to protect the balance sheet against, for example, interest-rate Table 6. Impact on earnings in Länsförsäkringar AB Group on 31 December 2019 of SEK risk, equities risk and currency risk and entail that the counterparty understrengthening 10% against foreign currencies. takes, through derivative contracts, to compensate for negative results arisImpact on earnings ing from changes in, for example, market interest rates, share prices or before tax, SEK M1 exchange rates. As a result, a receivable from the counterparty may arise in Currency 2019 2018 the event of market changes. Counterparty risk pertains to the risk of losses BRL –2 –1 arising due to counterparties being unable to fulfil their undertakings and that BSD 2 0 part of the receivable can thus not be paid. CHF –6 –1 Länsförsäkringar AB’s and the insurance subsidiaries’ holdings of bonds CNY 1 –3 and other interest-bearing securities and financial derivatives per credit DKK –7 –11 quality step are presented in table 7. EUR –19 –18 GBP –20 –56 HKD –4 –5 INR –1 –3 JPY 2 0 KRW –1 –4 MXN –1 –1 NOK –4 –13 72 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Table 7. Parent Company’s and insurance subsidiaries’ interest-bearing securities per company’s receivables. Credit risk in the lending operations pertains only to credit quality step the Bank Group. Bonds and other interest-bearing securities1) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 The lending operations of the Bank Group are conducted only with borAAA – Swedish Government 30 1 rowers in Sweden and mainly comprise mortgages, loans to agricultural cusAAA – other 9,057 5,546 tomers, hire purchase and leasing operations. The vast majority of the Bank AA 112 100 Group’s loan portfolio comprises loans for residential properties in the form A 264 353 of single-family homes and tenant-owned apartments. First-lien mortgages BBB 434 665 with loan-to-value ratios up to 75% of the market value at the time the mortBB or lower 467 560 gage is granted account for the largest percentage of retail mortgages. Low No rating available 535 409 loan-to-value ratios, combined with a well-diversified geographic spread and Total 10,900 7,634 local presence, are the core pillars in ensuring that the loan portfolio mainDerivatives tains high credit quality. AA 3 0 The banking operations carry out balanced and consistent lending, with A 2 23 advanced system support. The maximum lending levels for various types of BB 1 0 loans and limits for the local regional insurance companies’ lending are stipuTotal 6 23 lated in the guidelines of the bank’s Board of Directors. The banking opera1) Market value including accrued interest. tions impose strict requirements in terms of customer selection, customers’ repayment capacity and the quality of collateral. On 31 December, the Group had no pledged assets for bonds, derivatives or The Bank Group calculates all retail exposures in accordance with the repurchase agreements and had not pledged any securities. advanced Internal Ratings-based Approach (IRB), which corresponds to predominant proportion of the Bank Group’s loan portfolio. This means that a Risk management and risk-reduction techniques considerable portion of its credit risk exposure is calculated using a method The credit risk that arises through counterparties in financial derivatives is that aims to identify and classify risk for each individual counterparty. The primarily reduced by diversifying the counterparties that the company used Länsförsäkringar Bank Group’s credit risk exposure is shown in table 9. for trading in financial derivatives, and is managed by applying limits to derivative exposures per counterparty and by signing standardised collateral Table 9. Bank Group’s credit risk exposure agreements with all counterparties for OTC derivatives. The size of the perCredit risk exposure, SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 mitted exposure depends on the credit rating of the counterparty. Credit risk exposure for items recognised in the statement Credit risk from counterparties in ceded reinsurance is limited in the first of financial position instance by selecting counterparties with high credit ratings and by applying Cash and balances with central banks 9,831 22 limits for maximum exposure to each counterparty. Treasury bills and other eligible bills, etc. 9,934 10,847 Loans to credit institutions 408 4,486 Risk sensitivity of which collateral in repurchase agreements – – Table 8 presents the exposure of the Parent Company and insurance subsidiLoans to the public 307,668 289,851 aries to credit risk from counterparties in financial derivatives and ceded of which collateral in properties and tenant-owned apartments 278,454 257,773 reinsurance both excluding and including collateral received. Exposure to Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 42,673 36,790 credit risk in other receivables is not deemed to be material since the past Derivative instruments 8,224 6,056 history of these receivables shows a low incidence of default receivables and Other assets 559 561 no losses have been confirmed. The method for calculating expected credit Credit risk exposure for contingent liabilities and other losses is described in note 1 Accounting policies. ­commitments Guarantees 28 35 Table 8. Parent Company and insurance subsidiaries’ counterparty risk to derivatives Loan commitments and other credit commitments 21,846 20,842 and reinsurance with respect to collateral received Total 401,171 369,490 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Collateral Table 10. Credit risk exposure in the Bank Group by external risk classification Cash and Gross carrying amount, Maximum cash SEK M credit risk equivaNet Net Derivatives exposure lents Securities Other e­ xposure e­ xposure 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 AA 16 13 – – 3 – Treasury bills and other eligible bills A 22 21 – – 2 23 AAA-AA 9,934 10,847 BBB or Total 9,934 10,847 lower 1 – – – 1 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Total 39 33 – – 6 23 AAA-AA 42,673 36,790 ReinsurTotal 42,673 36,790 ance Loans to credit institutions Regional AAA-AA 131 4,131 insurance A 277 355 companies 5,593 – – – 5,593 6,253 Not risk classified – 0 AA 310 – – – 310 376 Total 408 4,486 A 459 – – – 459 279 Derivatives BBB or lower 91 – – – 91 45 AAA-AA 2,443 1,627 Total 6,453 – – – 6,453 6,953 A 4,884 3,896 BBB-BB 64 – Credit risks in the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group Not risk classified 834 533 Credit risk is defined as the risk of losses arising due to a counterparty not Total 8,224 6,055 being able to fulfil its commitments to entities in the consolidated situation and the risk that the counterparty’s collateral provided will not cover the Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 73 Table 11. Credit risk exposure in the Bank Group by internal risk classification 31 Dec 2019 SEK M Not credit-impaired Credit-impaired Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Loans to the public Gross carrying amount Gross carrying amount Gross carrying amount Gross carrying amount Internal rating 1-3 177,126 5 14 177,145 Internal rating 4-6 112,372 185 17 112,574 Internal rating 7-9 6,365 5,451 41 11,858 Internal rating 10-11 112 1,491 16 1,618 Defaulted – – 784 784 Not risk classified 2,895 734 59 3,689 Total 298,869 7,867 932 307,668 Credit risk exposure by internal risk classification Loan commitments and other credit commitments Credit risk exposure Credit risk exposure Credit risk exposure Credit risk exposure Internal rating 1-3 9,775 0 0 9,775 Internal rating 4-6 7,427 15 – 7,442 Internal rating 7-9 856 168 0 1,025 Internal rating 10-11 8 22 0 30 Defaulted – – 3 3 Not risk classified 3,476 95 0 3,572 Total 21,542 301 3 21,846 Credit risk exposure by internal risk classification 31 Dec 2018 SEK M Not credit-impaired Credit-impaired Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Loans to the public Gross carrying amount Gross carrying amount Gross carrying amount Gross carrying amount Internal rating 1-3 170,841 5 26 170,871 Internal rating 4-6 98,636 282 29 98,947 Internal rating 7-9 5,510 4,972 20 10,502 Internal rating 10-11 84 1,341 27 1,452 Defaulted – – 595 595 Not risk classified 6,756 683 45 7,484 Total 281,827 7,283 742 289,851 Loan commitments and other credit commitments Credit risk exposure Credit risk exposure Credit risk exposure Credit risk exposure Internal rating 1-3 9,468 2 0 9,470 Internal rating 4-6 7,096 28 0 7,125 Internal rating 7-9 829 199 – 1,028 Internal rating 10-11 14 17 0 32 Defaulted – – 7 7 Not risk classified 3,090 90 0 3,180 Total 20,497 337 8 20,842 The Bank Group’s credit portfolio largely comprises mortgages to private Figure 4 presents the Group’s credit exposure according to risk class. The individuals and in other respects primarily comprises other loans to private results show a distribution of exposure, with 78% (79) found in the lowest individuals and agricultural customers. Concentration risk primarily comgrades 1–4. prises the lending segment and geographic distribution. Most exposures are relatively small, with a well-diversified geographic spread, meaning that the Figure 4. Credit exposure by risk class Bank Group does not have any significant exposure to concentration risk. Figure 3. Bank Group loans by segment Mortgages, 78% Agricultural loans, 10% Unsecured loans, 3% Leasing, 3% Hire purchase, 3% Multi-family housing, 2% Industrial properties, 0% Other, 0% In addition to the above credit exposure, SEK 4,279 M (7,484) is included in loans to the public which are not graded under the IRB Approach, and which include a time-limited exemption that pertains to exposure in Wasa Kredit. 74 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 The average loan commitment for each borrower is low and the relationTable 14. Sensitivity analysis of loss allowance in a 100% weight negative and positive ship between the loan portfolio and the underlying assets expressed as the scenario weighted average loan-to-value (LTV) ratio was 60% (61). Change compared Recognised probaLoss allowance with probabilibility-weighted loss according to sensitivty-weighted loss Credit losses and non-performing loan receivables allowance, SEK M Scenario ity analysis, SEK M allowance, % A non-performing loan receivable has a non-performing payment that is more 591 Positive scenario 500 –16% than nine days overdue and that is not classified as credit-impaired. Table 13 Negative scenario 798 35% below shows non-performing receivables by the number of days overdue. Counterparty risk Table 12. Bank Group’s credit-impaired loan receivables by collateral Counterparty risk in derivative transactions and repurchase agreements is SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 managed by the company having a number of swap counterparties, all with Residential properties, including tenant-owned aparthigh ratings and with whom collateral agreements have been signed. Each ments 168 135 counterparty is also assigned a maximum exposure amount. Table 15 shows Commercial immovable property 243 207 the Bank Group’s counterparty risk with respect to collateral received. Other physical collateral 134 105 Guarantees 8 4 Table 15. Credit risk exposure for derivatives regarding collateral received and other Unsecured loans 378 290 forms of credit enhancement Total credit-impaired loan receivables 932 742 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Collateral Table 13. Bank Group’s non-performing loan receivables that are not credit-impaired Cash and SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Maximum cash Receivables overdue by 1–30 days 36 126 credit risk equivaNet expoNet expoReceivables overdue by 31–60 days 458 348 SEK M exposure lents Securities Other sure sure Receivables overdue by 61–90 days 77 69 AAA-AA 2,443 980 – – 1,159 1,061 Total 571 543 A 4,884 4,445 – – 213 12 BBB-BB 64 65 – – – – A condition for full payment of the regional insurance companies’ distribution Not risk classified 834 932 – – – – remuneration by the Bank Group is that the loans generated by each company Total 8,224 6,421 – – 1,371 1,074 for the Bank Group (excluding Wasa Kredit) are of high quality. If this is not the case, up to 80% of any credit losses is off-set against the accrued commission. The Bank Group’s derivatives, which comprise interest and cross-currency This model for settlement of credit losses is kept separate and is taken into interest rate swaps, have been acquired in their entirety to hedge the risks of consideration by Länsförsäkringar Bank when the provisions are established. interest and exchange-rate exposure arising during the course of operations. Interest-rate swaps are used to swap fixed interest in SEK to variable interest Sensitivity in calculation of loss allowances in SEK. Cross-currency interest rate swaps are used to swap foreign currenThe assessment of what constitutes a significant increase in credit risk is an cies to SEK and fixed foreign interest to variable interest in SEK. important factor in calculating the loss allowance. The Bank Group’s assessment is based on the PD change compared with the initial reporting date. The Liquidity risk including financing risk criteria includes a relative threshold of 200% combined with an absolute Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that payment commitments cannot be threshold of 100 basis points and an independent absolute threshold of 500 ­fulfilled due to insufficient cash funds. basis points. In addition, a credit risk is deemed to have increased significantly for assets that are more than 30 days past due. If the relative threshold Risk exposure had been set at 150% instead, the loss allowance would have increased by For the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s companies, the lack of liquidity could 1.5%. If the relative threshold had been set at 250% instead, the loss allowlead to the companies not being able to fulfil their commitments to customers ance would have declined by 1.6%. The sensitivity analysis includes loss allowand stakeholders or that these commitments can only be fulfilled by raising ance for loans to the public, commitments and guarantees. funding at significantly higher costs than usual or by divesting assets below Expected credit losses are to be estimated in a manner that reflects an their market value. The Länsförsäkringar Bank Group’s cash flow is characterunbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a ised by small flows where the customers are primarily retail customers range of possible outcomes. The estimate is to include information about past together with well-known, larger flows in the financing activities. The Bank events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. The Group’s management of liquidity risk is based on highly diversified funding forward-looking information used to estimate expected credit losses is based regarding investor base, instruments, currencies and maturities, and a satison the Group’s internal macroeconomic forecasts. These macroeconomic factory liquidity reserve comprising securities with very high liquidity and forecasts take into account both internal and external information and correcredit quality, and deposits with the Riksbank and the Swedish National Debt spond to the forward-looking information used for other purposes, such as Office. The business activities of the insurance companies are based on preforecasts and financial planning. Three potential macroeconomic scenarios miums being paid in advance and being managed until insurance compensaare considered when calculating expected credit losses: a base scenario that tion is to be paid out. The liquidity risk in the insurance subsidiaries is closely is currently weighted at 60%, and a more positive scenario and a more negarelated to the investment assets in the companies’ investment portfolios, tive scenario that are both weighted at 20%. A deterioration in the forecast including liquidity requirements for signed derivative agreements. macro variables in each scenario or an increase in the probability of a negative scenario would generally entail an increase in the estimated loss allowance. Risk management and risk-reduction techniques An improvement in the forecast macro variables or an increase in the probaManagement of liquidity risk is based on management taking place in each subbility of a positive scenario would instead have the opposite effect on the estisidiary and in the Parent Company, rather than at group level. The nature of the mated loss allowance. Table 14 below shows the loss allowances that would operations differs between the banking and insurance operations and there have been recognised on 31 December 2019 if a positive or a negative macroeare legal restrictions on for the scope of internal loans. The subsidiaries also conomic scenario assigned a probability of 100% had been used. The sensitivclear rules regarding how assets are to be deposited to ensure that they are ity analysis includes loss allowance for loans to the public, commitments and readily available to the company and can thus be realised as needed. In pracguarantees. tice, liquidity risk is primarily an issue for the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 75 Länsförsäkringar Sak’s liquidity risks are low since premiums are received in majority of which are eligible for transactions with the Riksbank and, where advance and large individual claims and payouts outside normal cash flows appropriate, with the ECB or the Federal Reserve. All in all, this means that the are known well in advance of when they fall due. reserve can be quickly converted to cash and cash equivalents. On 31 DecemLänsförsäkringar Fondliv’s liquidity is relatively stable, since fund units are ber 2019, the liquidity reserve amounted to SEK 60.4 billion (54.3) and 48% (49) divested in line with payments being made to policyholders. The company’s of the reserve comprised Swedish covered bonds. liquidity was primarily affected by fund changes and costs for sale. Liquidity The Länsförsäkringar Bank Group’s funding takes place in a manner that risk is managed by continuously adjusting the need for cash and surplus creates a sound maturity profile and avoids maturity concentrations. The liquidity based on established liquidity forecasts for the payment of securities refinancing activities are based on broad diversification in terms of a variety transactions and claims payments and, where necessary, other inward and of investors and markets. Diversification is achieved, for example, through outward payments, such as premiums and operating expenses. The majority proactive work on creating long-term investor relations. Funding takes place of the funds in the trading book are liquid in the short term and purchases on primarily with covered bonds, primarily in SEK, EUR, CHF and NOK, since the behalf of the insured are not performed until payment has been received for majority of the Bank Group’s assets comprise Swedish mortgages. The Bank the sales transaction. Group endeavours to regularly launch issuances in these markets to create The Länsförsäkringar Bank Group conducts active liquidity risk managelong-term confidence in the international capital markets. ment to ensure that the Group’s commitments can be fulfilled under both The Parent Company’s liquidity is mainly affected by dividends and Group normal and stressed market conditions. The aim is to attain a favourable contributions from subsidiaries, any requirements for contributions to be spread of financing sources. Liquidity is continuously planned and a satisfacmade to subsidiaries and dividends to owners. To meet liquidity requirements, tory liquidity reserve ensures that sufficient liquidity is always available. The the Parent Company’s maintained cash and cash equivalents, which at yearliquidity reserve is invested in securities with very high credit quality, the vast end amounted to SEK 221 M (209). Table 16. Maturity analysis for financial assets and liabilities and insurance undertakings The table shows the actual cash flows that will occur in each period, based on the remaining contractual maturities. The amounts presented in maturities are undiscounted cash flows. 2019 2018 3 months–1 3 months–1 SEK M <3 months year 1–5 years >5 years Total <3 months year 1–5 years >5 years Total Assets Loans to the public 4,027 10,167 35,934 256,971 307,099 7,575 9,320 31,681 240,851 289,426 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities1) 1,542 12,955 32,158 923 47,579 1,539 7,352 31,357 676 40,924 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 3,783 1,356 4,006 300 9,445 5,500 – 4,749 – 10,249 Other assets 1,570 790 2,631 6,649 11,640 5,305 669 2,218 7,375 15,567 Liabilities Subordinated liabilities – – – 2,600 2,600 – – – 2,600 2,600 Technical provisions2) 1,684 3,415 4,916 8,844 18,860 1,468 2,935 3,756 8,151 16,309 Debt securities in issue 3,812 27,077 153,819 37,757 222,465 1,874 14,478 156,515 33,759 206,626 Deposits from the public 116,360 1,435 510 0 118,305 105,009 2,695 438 – 108,142 Lease liabilities 63 185 871 434 1,552 – – – – – Due to credit institutions 6,565 – – – 6,565 5,993 – – – 5,993 Other liabilities 1,298 3 8 – 1,309 268 – – – 268 Total cash flows, net –118,860 –6,847 –85,395 215,209 4,107 –94,693 –2,768 –90,704 204,392 16,227 Loans approved but not disbursed 21,807 – – – 21,807 20,839 – – – 20,839 Derivatives, in and outflows, net 123 1,710 6,496 926 9,255 207 1,224 5,708 1,043 8,182 Total cash flows for financial assets and liabilities and insurance undertakings –96,930 –5,137 –78,899 216,135 35,169 –73,648 –1,544 –84,995 205,435 45,248 1) Bonds and other interest-bearing securities in the statement of financial position include fixed-income funds. These have no contractual maturities and have been excluded from the table. 2) Technical provisions are recognised gross, before ceded reinsurance. Table 16 shows the actual cash flows that will occur in each period, based on Risk management and risk-reduction techniques the remaining contractual maturities. The amounts presented in maturities Work on operational risk is based on Group-wide methods that encompass are undiscounted cash flows. business-critical processes and key controls as well as reported incidents and the operations’ self-assessment of operational risk. All employees are Operational risk responsible for actively managing operational risk within their individual operOperational risk refers to the risk of losses arising due to inadequate or failed ations. The department that takes the risk owns the risk, which means that the internal processes, human error, erroneous systems or external events and daily management of operational risk primarily takes place in the business includes legal and compliance risk. operations. Risks are minimised by proactive preventive measures and awareness of operational risk in every decision-making situation. Risk exposure The process of managing and controlling operational risk includes identiOperational risk comprises a central part of the Group’s risk profile. The dayfying, measuring, monitoring, managing and reporting. Business-critical proto-day operations include a variety of process risks and the subsidiaries’ cesses and risks have been analysed and documented. Controls of process products and services may be associated with different types of product risks are performed every quarter and reported to each company Board. risks. Security risks, for example, external crime and internal fraud cannot be Operational risk analyses are performed annually. Operational risks are idencompletely avoided and as digitisation increases greater focus has been tified, the potential consequences evaluated and probability of the risk occurdirected to cyber risks and IT risks. Compliance risks are continuously in ring assessed. Action plans are prepared for material risks, which are followed focus, particularly risks associated with money laundering and terror financup every quarter at management level. ing, mainly in the banking operations but also in the insurance operations, The Länsförsäkringar AB Group has a shared framework for identifying, which requires active management. measure and documenting risks in the decision-making process for decisions that could be expected to have a material impact on profitability, risk profile, 76 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 organisation or brand. The purpose is to ensure efficient decision-making other companies in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group as well as the entire Länsthrough proactive and appropriate management of the risks so as to thereby försäkringar Alliance. achieve established targets with a higher degree of certainty, to ensure comExposure to group risks arises by the Group conducting both insurance pliance with applicable laws and regulations and to create customer value. and banking operations that are subject to different regulations. SimultaneFurthermore, the organisation applies a special process for the approval of ously operating under rules for financial conglomerates, capital adequacy new investment assets that aims to highlight and manage potential risks prior rules for banks (CRR/CRDIV) and regulations for insurance companies (Solto investments in a new class of asset, type of instrument or fund. vency II) leads to higher costs and could affect the Länsförsäkringar AB The Group’s continuity management involves preparing business continGroup’s competitiveness in relation to its competitors that do not have the gency, continuity and restoration plans to manage incidents before, during same group structure. and after a crisis has occurred. The overall goal for security work is to protect Climate risk could directly or indirectly increase other risks, such as the organisation’s assets from all types of threats – internal or external, inteninsurance, market or brand risks. Global warming and the resulting extreme tional or unintentional. Security activities are conducted in accordance with weather events, such as storms, torrential rain, flooding and drought, could the information security standards SS-ISO/IEC 27001:2014 and 27002:2014 increase insurance claims. In addition to such physical risks, adjustments to and the normative standard in business continuity management SS-ISO/IEC climate change can also entail risks, such as changes in regulations and 22301. higher carbon tax or changed behaviours in the markets that lead to stranded The companies in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group may, from time to time, assets. Länsförsäkringar AB invests in companies all over the world, through outsource parts of the operations to external contractors, for example, to its own management and via externally managed funds and mandates. There enhance the efficiency of operations. In order to maintain a high level of conis a market risk and a business risk for Länsförsäkringar AB that these compatrol, the companies’ guidelines address issues including the procurement nies are associated with violations of human rights, corruption and environskills of the companies, suitability assessment, impact analysis and business mental conventions. contingency plans. New risks, emerging risks, can arise over time due to changes in the external business environment or internal circumstances. This could be a brand Risk sensitivity new behaviour pattern that presents a new risk or a risk that changes its The Group and subsidiaries regularly carry out exercises to ensure that every nature and thus should be managed in a new way, but could also be a risk that company is highly capable of managing crisis situations. Exercises and testing has previously been deemed to be immaterial that has become material. comprise both manual response procedures and automated IT support. Examples could be the emergence of new economies, technological advances Desktop and technological testing of applications and administration objects and social-political changes, etc. are carried out annually. Large-scale crisis management exercises are conGiven that the Länsförsäkringar AB Group conducts well-diversified operducted at least every three years. Desktop and technological testing of appliations in non-life insurance, traditional life assurance, unit-linked insurance cations and administration objects were performed during the year according and banking operations with a geographic spread throughout Sweden, conto plan. The result of the tests showed that the companies can improve cercentration risk, except for investment assets, is deemed to be low. tain processes and procedures but have a sound overall ability and business contingency plans to manage crises that arise. Risk management and risk-reduction techniques Business risks are managed at Board and management level through analyses Other material risks and decisions prior to making strategic choices on the direction of the operaIn addition to the risks described above, the Länsförsäkringar AB Group is tions. Business risk analyses are carried out in the annual business planning also exposed to business risks, emerging risks, climate risks and group risks. process, but can also be performed in the interim if required due to changes •• Business risk pertains to the risk of lower earnings, higher expenses or loss in the external environment or in connection with business decisions. The of confidence from customers or other stakeholders. specific business risks that are deemed to be the most important at any given •• Emerging risks refers to new or changed behaviour patterns, situations or time are continuously monitored at management level. trends that may have a material impact on the company’s financial situaGroup risks are identified and managed as part of the continuous tion, market position or brand in a negative direction within the company’s risk-management activities and in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s annual business planning horizon. Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) and in the Group’s recovery plan. •• Climate risk refers to the risks that the consequences of climate change Continuous monitoring of regulatory developments and efficient processes may have on the company’s business activities. Climate risks can materialfor identifying, measuring and reporting risks are key tools for keeping group ise either through physical risks, such as more cases of extreme weather risks at a low level. and gradually rising sea levels, or through transition risks, such as regulaIn 2019, Länsförsäkringar AB adopted a climate-smart vision according to tory, political and market changes related to the transition to a low-carbon which the company works actively on reducing its impact on the climate and society. climate risks in its operations. Climate risks are continuously evaluated and •• Group risk refers to the risks associated with the complexity of conducting considered in significant cases in decision-making documentation for manboth banking operations and life-assurance and non-life insurance operaagement and the Board. Länsförsäkringar AB supports the Task Force on Clitions in the same group. mate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which are recommendations on •• Concentration risk refers to the risk of a single exposure, homogeneous the reporting of climate-related risks and opportunities that are expected to group of exposures or a specific market event resulting in widespread be developed into a standard for climate reporting in the future. Länsförsäklosses even if the operations were to be well-diversified. Concentration risk ringar Sak AB has also signed the Principles of Sustainable Insurance (PSI) may derive from concentrations of both assets and liabilities as well as and together with about 20 other underwriters around the world is participatsources of income and suppliers, including suppliers of outsourced ing in a pilot project on climate risks arranged by the United Nations Environ­services. ment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI). Emerging risks are identified and managed as part of the continuous Risk exposure risk-management activities, in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s annual Own The Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s exposure to business risks follows the busiRisk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) and in the internal capital and liquidity ness strategies decided where the business planning process and results adequacy assessment process (ICAAP and ILAAP) for the consolidated situafrom business risk analyses comprise important instruments in managing tion. The materiality of the risk determines whether action is to be taken and challenges associated with harmonising the subsidiaries’ strategies and the nature of the risk governs the appropriate course of action. objectives with each other at Group level. Due to the strong brand connection between the companies in the Group, diminished confidence in one of the CAPITAL MANAGEMENT companies could entail a reputation risk that damages the brand and thus It is of central importance that the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and its separate licensable legal entities have a sufficient amount of capital in relation to Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 77 the level of the Group’s risks, regulatory capital requirements and stakeholder Capital situation under group solvency rules expectations. The Länsförsäkringar AB Group and its units are subject to regulatory requirements for the minimum permitted amount of capital in accordance Targets and guidelines with rules for banks, rules for insurance companies and rules for financial The business activities of the companies consolidated in the Länsförsäkringar conglomerates. As the holding company for operations in both the banking AB Group are conducted for profit-making purposes to enable Länsförsäksector and the insurance sector – known as a mixed financial holding comringar AB to pay returns through value growth and dividends to the owners. pany – Länsförsäkringar AB is, along with its licensable subsidiaries, encomAll capital that is not required for operations that the Group is commissioned passed by the abovementioned rules on minimum permitted capital in groups. to conduct by the regional insurance companies is to be paid as a dividend The capital requirement rules for financial conglomerates and the rules on over time, on the condition that a credit rating of A for the Group’s credcapital requirements for groups in the insurance sector are based on a joint it-rated units can be justified. approach that can be said to be adapted to a financial group with both banking Länsförsäkringar Liv is a subsidiary that is operated according to mutual and insurance operations. Both of these sets of rules entail that combined principles and is not consolidated in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. For this own funds in the group are to cover the total of the capital requirement for the reason, specific considerations apply to capital management for this combanking operations and the capital requirement for the insurance operations. pany and are described in Länsförsäkringar Liv’s annual report. All companies in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group, including Länsförsäkringar Quantitative capital targets are set at both Group level and for each subLiv, are included in the group defined by these regulations. sidiary Group and legal entity. These capital targets are decided every year by The rules of capital requirements for groups in the banking sector primareach Board and, for subsidiaries directly under Länsförsäkringar AB, the ily entails that the value of shares in companies in the insurance sector are to Board of Länsförsäkringar AB. For the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and its be deducted from own funds and the remaining net amount is to cover the insurance companies, these capital targets are expressed so that the solcapital requirements for the banking operations. These rules can be said to vency ratio is to be at a certain level but with a tolerance down to a limit for disregard the surplus capital found in the group’s insurance companies. The acceptable capitalisation. This limit clearly exceeds the regulatory requiregroup formed under the rules for groups in the banking sector thus includes ment. The solvency ratio refers to own funds divided by the solvency capital Länsförsäkringar Bank and its subsidiaries together with the Parent Company requirement, as defined in the Insurance Business Act. At the LänsförsäkrinLänsförsäkringar AB, but does not include the insurance companies in the gar AB Group level, the capital target is set based on the contributions to own Länsförsäkringar AB Group. funds and capital requirements made by the operations in Länsförsäkringar Bank and its subsidiaries. Capital targets are also set for the group of compaCapital situation under rules on financial conglomerates and rules nies encompassed by the group rules for banking operations, meaning Länson groups in insurance sector försäkringar AB and the companies in the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group (the Under the rules for financial conglomerates, the insurance sector is consid“Consolidated Situation”). ered to be the largest sector in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. A measure is The Länsförsäkringar AB Group applies Guidelines for Financial and Capicalculated using information on total assets and capital requirements that tal Management and Control that apply to all the Group’s companies. shows that the insurance sector is larger than the banking sector by a small margin, which is important to, for example, the calculation of the capital Process requirements at group level for the Parent Company’s operations. The bankThe Group’s capital planning is conducted annually and is integrated into the ing operations have grown faster than the Group’s insurance operations in business planning. These plans include the current year and three years in the recent years. If this trend were to continue, the banking sector will be the future, and are prepared during the autumn. The process analyses the level of largest sector in 2020 or 2021. the capital requirement and the access to capital based on sales and profitaOwn funds and capital requirements are calculated for both financial conbility forecasts. glomerates and for groups in the insurance sector by using the rules of each The purpose of the Group’s capital planning is to ensure that own funds are sector (banking and insurance). sufficient for bearing the risks associated with realising the business plan in In calculating capital requirements, an aggregate capital requirement is every subsidiary and at Group level. The analysis is based on the business plan calculated for the parts of the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s insurance operaactivities and its base scenario, but also includes a demanding but realistic tions that are consolidated, meaning the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group’s comnegative scenario and stress tests. The capital situation of the entire Länspanies, Länsförsäkringar Fondliv and Länsförsäkringar AB. The total capital försäkringar AB Group can be highlighted by performing analyses of shared requirement for the companies in the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group is added. scenarios and stress tests. In addition, unit-specific stress tests are perThe capital requirement for Länsförsäkringar Liv is also added. Länsförsäkrinformed in the Group’s insurance companies and in the banking operations to gar Liv, which is operated according to mutual principles, is included in the provide supplementary data on the capital situation of each subsidiary. The calculations in accordance with the deduction and aggregation method, with analysis is to be performed in such a manner that the Board and management the consent of the Financial Supervisory Authority. Länsförsäkringar Liv’s of each subsidiary – and for the Group, the Board of the Parent Company – gain surplus capital is not included in the surplus capital at group level; only the greater joint understanding of issues relating to capital structure, capital amount of the company’s own funds that corresponds to its capital requirerequirement and business contingency to reduce risks and acquire new capital. ment is included in the calculation of own funds on a consolidated basis. Capital planning results in, for example, forecasts for the income stateThe rules on own funds in financial conglomerates and on groups in the ment and balance sheets at Group and subsidiary level, and the capital situainsurance sector state that an assessment is to be made as to whether there tion in relation to regulatory requirements. Capital is allocated internally is any practical or legal impediment to transferring the surplus capital in one within the Group based on plans for the business activities and forecasts for unit to another unit within the same group. If such an impediment exists, a risk-based capital requirements. The process also creates a plan for dividends deduction is to be made from the group own funds so that the surplus capital and contributions within the Group, and a plan for capital transactions cannot be transferred. For groups in the insurance sector, this assessment is between the Parent Company and its owners and issues of capital instrulimited to encompassing only the transferability from the group’s insurance ments to external investors. companies. The result of the calculations according to the rules on financial After the capital planning has been documented and adopted by each conglomerates and rules on groups in the insurance sector are presented in subsidiary Board for its company, and the Parent Company’s Board for the table 17. Group, the plans are regularly monitored throughout the year in quarterly reports. The plans are continuously updated during the fiscal year as required. 78 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Table 17. Financial conglomerate and Group under the insurance rules: Solvency ­situation on 31 December 2019 SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Own funds before deductions for non-transferable surplus capital 50,220 43,990 of which own funds included from Länsförsäkringar Liv 13,243 11,742 Deductions, non-transferable surplus capital1) – –120 Own funds, group according to insurance rules 50,220 43,870 Deductions, non-transferable surplus capital2) – – Own funds, financial conglomerate 50,220 43,870 Capital requirement 37,776 33,874 of which capital requirement Länsförsäkringar Liv 13,243 11,742 Surplus capital, group according to insurance rules 12,444 9,996 Surplus capital, financial conglomerate 12,444 9,996 1) in other insurance subsidiaries than Länsförsäkringar Liv. 2) in other companies than insurance subsidiaries. Deductions for non-transferable surplus capital in 2018 refer to the existence of relatively large contingency reserves in Länsförsäkringar Sak and Agria that at the time prevented all of the surplus capital in the companies from qualifying as transferable. Surplus capital compared with regulatory requirements under the rules on financial conglomerates, and according to the group rules in the insurance sector, increased during the year. This was primarily due to earnings for the operations and the issue of Tier 1 instruments totalling higher amounts that the increase in capital requirements due to a growing business and dividends to shareholders. Capital situation under bank group rules The outcome of the capital situation for the Consolidated Situation is ­presented in table 18. Table 18. Capital adequacy, Consolidated Situation on 31 December 2019 SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 18,740 17,749 Tier 1 capital 19,484 18,667 Own funds (total capital) 20,252 20,712 Risk Exposure Amount 121,827 113,283 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, % 15.4 15.7 Tier 1 ratio, % 16.0 16.5 Capital adequacy ratio, % 16.6 18.3 Total capital requirement1) 17,801 16,387 Surplus of total capital 2,451 4,325 1) Minimum capital requirement, Pillar II requirement and buffer requirement. The surplus of Common Equity Tier 1 capital in the Consolidated Situation changed to a slight extent in 2019. The surplus of total capital declined during the year as a result of the inclusion of Tier 1 instruments and Tier 2 instruments at a significantly lower extent on 31 December 2019 compared with previously. This was the result of an interpretation on qualifying own funds published by the European Banking Authority (EBA) in November 2019. The EBA’s interpretation clarified the application of the limitation rules on own funds for banks qualifying for inclusion in a consolidated situation. This means that as per 31 December 2019 the Consolidated Situation only includes own funds issued externally by Länsförsäkringar Bank in the portion of capital required to cover the capital requirements of Länsförsäkringar Bank, and not, as previously, also including its subsidiaries’ capital requirements. Eligible Tier 1 capital on 31 December 2019 amounted to SEK 743 M (1,754 on 30 September) and eligible Tier 2 capital to SEK 768 M (2,143 on 30 September). A dialogue is currently being maintained with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to discuss possible options going forward. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 79 Table 19. Hedge accounting in the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group Derivatives Assets Liabilities Hedge accounting Nominal Carrying Carrying Change in value Accumulated changes SEK M amount amount amount for the year in value 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 2019 2018 31 Dec 2019 2018-12-31 Fair value hedges Interest-rate contracts Hedged items2) Treasury bills and other eligible bills – – 5,263 5,766 – – –3 11 12 10 Bonds and other interest-bearing ­securities – – 33,855 31,712 – – –59 –106 132 190 Debt securities in issue – – – – – – – – – – Hedging instruments Interest-rate swaps 37,819 32,740 52 17 125 151 63 99 – – Ineffectiveness1) – – – – – – 1 3 – – Currency contracts Hedged items2) Treasury bills and other eligible bills – – 888 440 – – 16 0 26 12 Bonds and other interest-bearing ­securities – – 2,249 1,745 – – 4 –16 1,088 85 Debt securities in issue – – – 50,998 47,088 –434 –208 1,278 –646 Hedging instruments Cross-currency interest rate swaps 52,963 48,450 1,566 1,098 164 137 430 226 – – Ineffectiveness1) – – – – – – 16 2 – – Portfolio of fair value hedges Interest-rate contracts Hedged items Loans to the public – – 105,555 72,049 – – –278 –123 –152 125 Deposits and funding from the public – – – – 500 5,880 0 2 –1 0 Debt securities in issue – – – – 137,482 143,884 –10 153 1,090 –959 Hedging instruments Interest-rate swaps 251,375 204,867 1,830 1,534 353 277 289 –36 – – Ineffectiveness1) – – – – – – 3 –3 – – Cash flow hedges5) Currency contracts Hedged items3) – – – – – – –25 –15 – – Hedging instruments Cross-currency interest rate swaps4) 51,843 50,919 5,059 3,649 81 437 25 15 – – Ineffectiveness1) – – – – – – Total hedged item – – 147,810 111,711 188,980 196,851 – – 3,473 –1,182 Total hedging instruments 394,000 336,976 8,507 6,298 722 1,003 – – – – Total ineffectiveness – – – – – – 20 2 – – 1) The ineffectiveness of all hedging relationships is recognised in the line item “Net gains/losses from financial items” in profit or loss. 2) For terminated fair value hedges and cash flow hedges, no accumulated changes in value remain in the balance sheet. 3) The change in value of the hedged item pertains to a perfectly effective hypothetical hedging instrument. Such an instrument is used to determine the effective portion of the hedging instrument, which is recognised in other comprehensive income, and the ineffective portion, which is recognised in the line item “Net gains/losses from financial items” in profit or loss. 4) Of changes in value for the year, SEK 0 M pertains to amounts reclassified to profit or loss. Amounts reclassified to profit or loss for terminated hedging relationships amounted to SEK 0 M. 5) Amounts recognised in the hedging reserve are presented in the “Statement of changes in equity.” Amounts pertaining to cash flow hedges recognised through other comprehensive income are presented in the “Statement of comprehensive income.” Hedging instruments with positive fair values are recognised in the balance sheet as The fixed-interest periods of the hedging instrument are presented in the section Credit assets on the line item “derivatives” and hedging instruments with negative fair values losses and non-performing loan receivables. The maturity dates of the instruments are are recognised in the balance sheet as liabilities on the line item “derivatives.” presented in the section Liquidity and financing strategy. The average fixed interest on outstanding derivatives on 31 December 2019 was The Statement of comprehensive income presents the changes in value of hedging 0.5% (0.6). instruments in cash flow hedges for the period and the amount that has been reclassified from equity to profit or loss. Table 20. Länsförsäkringar Bank Group – Maturity profile for nominal amounts in hedging instruments 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Remaining contractual term Remaining contractual term SEK M < 1 year 1–5 years > 5 years < 1 year 1–5 years > 5 years Currency risk Nominal amount 4,375 32,535 11,928 1,628 26,171 17,543 80 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 3 Earnings per operating segment Non-life Unit-linked Parent Eliminations and 2019 ­insurance insurance Bank ­company adjustments Total Premiums after ceded reinsurance 6,211 204 – – –18 6,396 Net interest income – – 4,617 – 6 4,624 Change in unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk – 30,453 ,– – – 30,453 Dividends in unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk – 13 – – – 13 Investment income, net 22 76 20 1,248 –360 1,006 Commission income 24 1,765 1,457 – 4 3,250 Other operating income 314 147 26 3,576 –1,656 2,407 Total operating income 6,571 32,658 6,121 4,824 –2,024 48,150 Claims payments after ceded reinsurance –4,553 –85 – – 442 –4,197 Change in life assurance provision – – – – –8 –8 Change in unit-linked insurance liabilities, policyholder bears the risk – –30,985 – – – –30,985 Commission expense –343 –739 –2,094 – 15 –3,161 Staff costs –553 –210 –640 –1,091 18 –2,476 Other administration expenses –838 99 –1,286 –2,862 776 –4,112 Credit losses – – –207 – – –207 Total expenses –6,288 –31,920 –4,227 –3,953 1,242 –45,146 Technical result 283 738 – – –1,021 – Non-technical income/expenses 569 0 – – –569 – Operating profit 851 738 1,893 871 –1,351 3,003 Tax – – – – – –46 Net profit for the year – – – – – 2,957 Income distribution External income 6,421 32,184 6,617 2,602 327 48,150 Internal income 150 475 –496 2,222 –2,350 – Total operating income 6,571 32,658 6,121 4,824 –2,024 48,150 Non-life Unit-linked Parent Eliminations and 2018 ­insurance insurance Bank ­company adjustments Total Premiums after ceded reinsurance 5,891 234 – – –25 6,100 Net interest income – – 4,497 – 3 4,500 Change in unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk – –4,539 – – – –4,539 Dividends in unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk – 8 – – – 8 Investment income, net 23 –140 43 1,498 –1,450 –26 Commission income 25 1,658 1,253 – 2 2,937 Other operating income 408 236 16 3,233 –1,546 2,346 Total operating income 6,347 –2,544 5,809 4,731 –3,016 11,327 Claims payments after ceded reinsurance –4,196 –109 – – 389 –3,915 Change in life assurance provision – – – – –9 –9 Change in unit-linked insurance liabilities, policyholder bears the risk – 4,668 – – – 4,668 Commission expense –507 –697 –2,026 – 14 –3,216 Staff costs –539 –181 –588 –977 58 –2,228 Other administration expenses –703 –461 –1,590 –2,425 998 –4,182 Credit losses – – –95 – – –95 Total expenses –5,945 3,220 –4,299 –3,403 1,451 –8,976 Technical result 402 676 – – –1,078 – Non-technical income/expenses 59 –3 – – –56 – Operating profit 460 673 1,510 1,328 –1,621 2,351 Tax – – – – – –162 Net profit for the year Income distribution External income 6,167 –2,979 6,254 1,792 93 11,327 Internal income 180 435 –445 2,939 –3,109 – Total operating income 6,347 –2,544 5,809 4,731 –3,016 11,327 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 81 Note 3 Earnings per operating segment, cont. The distribution into operating segments matches how the Group is organised and is Note 5 Interest income monitored by Group management. The technical result is presented for Non-life Insurance and Unit-linked Life Assurance since the result is followed up by Group management. 2019 2018 Income is primarily attributable to Sweden, with a small portion from Denmark, Loans to credit institutions –101) –161) ­Finland, France, Norway and the UK. Loans to the public 6,197 5,673 The Non-life Insurance operating segment pertains to non-life and group life Interest-bearing securities 1301) 1571) ­assurance; group life assurance comprises a minor portion only. The Länsförsäkringar Derivatives –330 –585 Alliance’s internal and external reinsurance are also included. The Non-life Insurance Other interest income 0 0 operating segment comprises non-life insurance with income from external customers Total interest income 5,986 5,229 totalling SEK 6,130 M (5,901) and group life assurance with income from external customers totalling SEK 291 M (266). Average interest rate on loans to the public during the year, % 2.1 2.1 The Unit-linked Life Assurance operating segment pertains to life assurance with links to mutual funds. The Unit-linked Life Assurance operating segment comprises life Of which negative interest on Loans to credit institutions of SEK -17 M (-26) and Interest-­ 1)  assurance linked to mutual funds with income from external customers totalling SEK bearing securities of SEK -63 M (-74). 32,184 M (-2,979). The Banking operating segment pertains to deposits and lending operations. For the Interest income calculated according to the effective intrest method amounted to SEK Banking operating segment, the product offering to external customers is in line with 5,986 M (5,229). the legal structure within the Länsförsäkringar Bank Group. Income from external customers pertains to bank products totalling SEK 2,183 M (2,524), for mortgage products totalling SEK 1,906 M (1,419), for leasing and installment totalling SEK 1,308 M (1,300) and Note 6 Interest expense for fund products totalling SEK 1,220 M (1,101). The Parent Company operating segment pertains to service, IT and development 2019 2018 for the Länsförsäkringar Alliance, administration of mutual funds and costs for shared Due to credit institutions 261) 411) functions. Deposits and borrowing from the public –1251) –1131) Depreciation of property and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets in NonInterest-bearing securities –2,1812) –2,0922) Life Insurance is included in Other administration expenses. Amortisation pertaining to Subordinated liabilities –53 –50 acquired intangible assets under Unit-linked Life Assurance is included in eliminations Derivatives 1,181 1,728 and adjustments of administration expenses. Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is included in other administration Other interest expense –210 –243 expenses and amounted to SEK -2 M (-381). Impairment is distributed between the Total interest expense –1,363 –729 ­operating segments as follows: Non-life Insurance SEK (-11) M, Bank SEK (-309) M and Average interest rate on deposits from the public during the Parent Company SEK -2 (-61) M. the year, % 0.1 0.1 Investment income transferred from financial operations to insurance operations is Of which negative interest on Liabilities to credit institutions of SEK -30 M (-41). 1)  recognised Investment income, net in the Non-life Insurance operating segment. 2) Of which interest expense attributable to senior non-preferred debt amounted to SEK–7 M(–). Note 4 Premiums after ceded reinsurance 2019 2018 Non-life insurance Premium income, direct insurance, Sweden 5,797 5,237 Premium income, direct insurance, other EEA 10 9 Premium income, received reinsurance 2,010 2,015 Change in provision for unearned premiums –377 –113 Total premiums earned before ceded reinsurance 7,441 7,148 Premiums for ceded reinsurance –1,744 –1,599 Reinsurers’ portion of change in provision for unearned premiums and unexpired risks 198 33 Total reinsurers’ portion of premiums earned –1,547 –1,566 Total premiums earned after ceded reinsurance 5,894 5,582 Life assurance Premium income, group insurance, direct life assurance in Sweden 527 541 Total premium income before ceded reinsurance 527 541 Premiums for ceded reinsurance –26 –23 Total premiums after ceded reinsurance 502 518 Total premiums after ceded reinsurance 6,396 6,100 82 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 7 Investment income, net Note 8 Commission income 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income 371) 461) Payment mediation commission 119 94 Dividends 17 39 Lending commission 245 245 Realised profit, net Inlåningsprovisioner 8 13 Interest compensation 31 29 Securities commission 1,294 1,063 Shares and participations 83 1 Card operations 272 248 Interest-bearing securities –38 –89 Fees pertaining to financial agreements unit-linked ­insurance 794 755 Derivatives 143 77 Returprovisioner 476 461 Change in claims annuities reserve –4 –6 Other commission 33 51 Other financial assets –20 – Commission and profit shares in ceded reinsurance 8 7 Total realised profit, net 195 11 Total commission income 3,250 2,937 Unrealised profit, net Total commission income primarily refers to income from contracts with customers in Shares and participations 796 88 the unit-linked insurance and banking segment. Rebating of commissions includes fund Interest-bearing securities 678 –376 discounts of SEK –20 M (–18). Commission and profit shares in ceded reinsurance comDerivatives –623 282 prise income attributable to insurance contracts in the non-life insurance segment. Total unrealised profit, net 851 –6 Exchange-rate gains/losses, net –10 –32 Interest expense –52 –73 Note 9 Other operating income Participations in associated companies 7 7 Asset management expenses –38 –17 2019 2018 Investment income, net 1,006 –26 Service income, regional insurance companies 1,761 1,532 Investment income, net, by valuation category Other service income 414 506 Financial assets measured at fair value through Other income 232 308 profit or loss 1,043 –45 Total other operating income 2,407 2,346 Financial assets measured at amortised cost 29 22 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost –47 –31 Other operating income primarily refers to income from contracts with customers. Financial assets measured at fair value through However, SEK 91 M (77) comprises income attributable to insurance contracts in the unitother ­comprehensive income 6 8 linked insurance segment. SEK 87 M (87) comprises rental income in the Parent Company Hedge accounting at fair value operating segment. Hedge accounting at fair value 20 2 The gain from the sale of owner-occupied property is included in Othe income 2019. Non-financial items included in investment income, net Translation, non-life annuity reserve –6 –2 Value-preserving interest rates claims annuities reserve –4 –6 Dividends from group and associated companies 4 3 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment shares and participations –13 0 Other non-financial items –26 22 Total investment income, net 1,006 –26 Of which negative interest on Cash and Bank of SEK -4 M (-6) and also Interest-bearing 1)  ­securities of SEK -5 M (-5). Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 83 Note 10 Claims payments 2019 2018 Before ceded Ceded­ After ceded Before ceded Ceded­ After ceded ­reinsurance reinsurance ­reinsurance ­reinsurance reinsurance ­reinsurance Non-life insurance Claims paid –5,128 1,118 –4,010 –4,480 815 –3,665 Claims annuities paid –49 – –49 –40 – –40 Change in provision for claims incurred and reported 22 –86 –64 61 –26 35 Change in provision for claims incurred but not reported 1,341 –1,184 156 –35 39 4 Total –3,813 –153 –3,966 –4,494 828 –3,666 Life assurance Claims paid –215 7 –207 –211 8 –203 Change in provision for claims outstanding –41 18 –24 –64 18 –46 Total –256 25 –231 –275 26 –249 Total non-life insurance and life assurance –4,069 –128 –4,197 –4,769 854 –3,915 Note 11 Commission expense 2019 2018 Payment mediation commission –132 –129 Management costs –86 –90 Securities commission –97 –78 Card operations –150 –135 Remuneration to the regional insurance companies –2,379 –2,294 Commission, direct insurance –175 –343 Commission, assumed reinsurance –92 –100 Other commission –48 –47 Total commission expense –3,161 –3,216 84 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 12 Employees, staff costs and remuneration to senior executives Average number of employees 2019 2018 Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses Sweden Other employees 2019 2018 Men 836 789 Salaries and remuneration 1,419 1,294 Women 1,096 1,000 of which variable remuneration – 2 Total Sweden 1,932 1,789 Social security expenses 822 741 Denmark of which pension costs 311 285 Men 1 1 Total 2,242 2,035 Women 16 15 Total Denmark 17 16 Board of Directors and senior executives, 34 (30) 2019 2018 Salaries and remuneration 52 70 Finland of which variable remuneration – – Men 1 1 Social security expenses 39 52 Women 8 8 of which pension costs 18 23 Total Finland 9 9 Total 91 122 France Men 2 2 Total salaries, other remuneration and social security Women 4 4 expenses 2019 2018 Total France 6 6 Salaries and remuneration 1,472 1,364 Norway of which variable remuneration – 2 Men 9 11 Social security expenses 862 794 Women 39 30 of which pension costs 329 308 Total Norway 48 41 Total 2,333 2,157 UK Länsförsäkringar Bank has about 1,400 individuals who are also employed at LänsförsäkMen 40 35 ringar Bank and the regional insurance companies. The regional insurance companies Women 73 76 pay the entire remuneration of their respective employees. Total UK 113 111 Total number of employees Men 889 839 Women 1,236 1,133 Total 2,125 1,972 Remuneration of senior executives ation and other terms of employment for corporate management and employees with Remuneration of the President and other senior executives comprises basic salary and overall responsibility for one of the company’s control functions. other benefits. Pension benefits and other benefits paid to the President and other senior executives are included as part of total remuneration. For remuneration of specific Composition and mandate of Remuneration Committee senior executives, refer to note 6 Employees, staff costs and remuneration of senior The composition and duties of the Remuneration Committee are regulated in the Board’s executives in the Parent Company. formal work plan. Severance pay Policies for remuneration of corporate management A mutual period of notice of six months applies for the President and other senior execuSenior executives in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group are to have market-based employtives. If termination of employment is issued by the company, severance pay correspondment terms and conditions. The total remuneration must be on par with the industry. The ing to 12 monthly salaries will be paid, in addition to the period of notice. Alternatively, a structure and level of remuneration should correspond to the company’s values, meanmutual period of notice of three or six months is applied for other senior executives, and if ing that it should be reasonable, moderate and well-balanced, and also contribute to termination of employment is issued by the company, severance pay corresponding to 12 good ethics and organisational culture, characterised by openness and transparency. or 18 monthly salaries will be paid in addition to the period of notice. Fixed remuneration Pensions Fixed remuneration is paid according to the general policy above. The retirement age for the President is 65 years. The pension is a defined-contribution plan and the pension premium is to amount to 35% of the monthly salary. The retirement Pensions age for one Executive Vice President is 60 years. Pension from the age of 65 is subject to The pension solution for senior executives shall be premium-based with a premium the terms of the pension agreements between the Swedish Insurance Employers’ Asso­provision of 35% of the monthly salary. ciation (FAO), the Swedish Union of Insurance Employees (FTF) and the Swedish Confederation of Professional Associations (SACO). Other benefits The retirement age for other senior executives is 62 or 65 years. If the retirement age In addition to the above benefits, personal are offered a company car in accordance with is 65, the pension is a defined-contribution plan and the pension premium is to amount to applicable conditions, individual health insurance and other benefits offered to all 35% of the monthly salary. If the retirement age is 62, the pensions between 62 or 65 and employees. 65 are defined-contribution pensions and are expected to be paid at approximately 70% of the pensionable salary. Pension from the age of 65 is subject to the terms of the pension agreements between the Swedish Insurance Employers’ Association (FAO), the Swedish Union of Insurance Employees (FTF) and the Swedish Confederation of Professional Associations (SACO). Preparation and decision-making process applied in relation to the issue of remuneration of corporate management A Remuneration Policy for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group regulates the preparation and decision-making process for remuneration of corporate management. The remuneration Committee prepares important remuneration decisions and decisions on measures for following up the application of the Remuneration Policy. The Board decides on remunerLänsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 85 Note 12 Employees, staff costs and remuneration to senior executives, cont. Note 15 Credit losses Loans to the Board of Directors, Presidents/Executive Vice Presidents and other senior executives 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 SEK M 2019 2018 Board members 63 65 Change in loss allowance for loan receivables President and Executive Vice President 20 8 Stage 1 (not credit-impaired) –24 6 Other senior executives 45 94 Stage 2 (not credit-impaired) –39 –23 Total loans to the Board of Directors, Presidents/­ Executive Vice Presidents and other senior executives 128 167 Stage 3 (credit-impaired) –80 –53 Total change in loss allowance for loan receivables –143 –70 Loans granted comprise personnel loans and other loans. Personnel loans are maximised Expense for confirmed credit losses –146 –119 at SEK 500.000 and carry loan terms comparable to what applies to other employees in Payment received for prior confirmed credit losses 91 84 the Group. The interest rate for employees is the repo rate less 0.5 percentage points, Net expense for the period for credit losses for loan receivables –199 –105 but can never be lower than 0.5%. The interest benefit is calculated in accordance with the Swedish Tax Agency’s rules and is included in the amount for other benefits as above. Change in loss allowance for commitments –6 2 The terms and conditions of other loans are market-based. Net expense for other credit losses –2 9 Net expense of the modification result 0 0 Number of women among senior executives, % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Net expense for credit losses –207 –95 Board members 43 45 Other senior executives 51 49 A condition for full payment of the regional insurance companies’ distribution remuneration by Länsförsäkringar Bank is that the loans generated by each company for Länsförsäkringar Bank are of high quality. If this is not the case, up to 80% of any credit losses are off-set against the accrued commission. This settlement account is kept separate and is taken into consideration by Länsförsäkringar Bank when the provisions are estabNote 13 Fees and remuneration to auditors lished. In 2019, total credit losses amounted to SEK -85 M (-75), of which the Bank Group’s 2019 2018 recognised credit losses amounted to SEK -82 M (-95) and the remainder of SEK 4 M (19) was offset against remuneration to the regional insurance companies. KPMG AB – Audit assignments –14 –13 Loss allowance – Audit operations in addition to the audit assignment –4 –2 SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 – Tax consulting 0 –1 Financial assets measured at amortised cost – Other assignments –2 –1 Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 Total fees and cost reimbursements to auditors –20 –17 Loans to credit institutions 0 0 Audit assignment pertains to a review of the Annual Report and accounting, as well as Loans to the public 569 425 the Board’s and President’s administration. Audit activities other than audit assignment Other assets 0 0 pertain to various types of quality-assurance services, such as reviews of the adminisFinancial assets measured at fair value through other tration, Articles of Associations, regulations or agreements that result in reports and comprehensive income certificates. Other assignments pertain to activities that are not included in the Treasury bills and other eligible bills 0 0 above-mentioned items, for example, legal consultations alongside audit activities and Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1 1 that are not attributable to tax consultancy services. Provisions Commitments 22 17 Guarantees 0 0 Total loss allowance 592 443 Note 14 Other administration expenses All exposures are in stage 1 except for loans to the public and commitments which have 2019 2018 exposure in all three stages. For more information about the change in loss allowance for Other administration expenses loans to the public and commitments, refer to notes 24 and 45. Costs for premises –95 –107 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment –382 –708 IT costs –2,148 –1,832 Consultant costs –557 –509 Marketing –290 –285 Telephone and postage –129 –92 Other administration expenses –510 –649 Total other administration expenses –4,112 –4,182 Operating leases Leases in which the Group is the lessee Non-cancellable lease payments amount to 31 Dec 2018 Within 1 year 70 Between 1 and 5 years 112 Later than 5 years 1 Total 182 86 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 16 Tax Note 18 Goodwill 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax Cost Tax expenses for the period –376 –403 Opening cost, 1 January 5421) 5381) Adjustment of tax expense pertaining to prior years –253 6 Exchange-rate differences 17 3 Total current tax –629 –397 Closing cost, 31 December 558 542 Deferred tax 1) Accumulated impairments amounts to SEK –179 M (–179). Deferred tax pertaining to temporary differences 572 227 Deferred tax pertaining to capitalised tax value in loss 2019 2018 ­carryforwards 11 8 Agria Pet Insurance Ltd 187 170 Total deferred tax 583 235 Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB 372 372 Total recognised tax expense –46 –162 Closing cost, 31 December 558 542 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Profit before tax 3,003 2,351 Assumptions for testing of value 2019 2018 Tax in accordance with applicable tax rate for Long-term growth, % 2 2 Parent ­Company –643 –517 Discount rate, % 5.5 5.1 Effect of other tax rates for foreign companies –1 8 Tax on non-deductible costs –172 –427 Goodwill testing is based on the value in use or the fair value less selling expenses. Tax on non-taxable income 595 512 Goodwill for Agria is based on the value in use of future cash flows from the operaTax attributable to earlier years –253 6 tions based on expected profit less capital requirements. The profit forecast for 20192021 has been taken from the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) that is deemed Tax attributable to changed tax rates –8 18 to be reasonable in relation to outcome. The profit forecast for the next ten years (2022Resolution of deferred tax 4361) 239 2031) is based on the operations in the UK developing towards more normalised profitaRecognised effective tax on profit for the year –46 –162 bility and the achievement of growth by 2031. Normalised profitability is estimated at the Applicable tax rate, % 21.4 22.0 combined ratio of 95% and the long-term/perpetual growth is assumed to be 2%. Cash Effective tax rate, % 2 7 flows for the measurement are based on a cash-generating unit for Agria’s entire operations in the UK. The combined ratio in the sensitivity analysis has been increased by 2 perTax attributable to other comprehensive income centage points every year (after the forecast period) and 2% growth in premiums earned Cash-flow hedges 4 13 has been assumed from 2021, resulting in a SEK 417 M decrease. The carrying amount of Available-for-sale financial assets –5 11 the margin amounts to a total of slightly more than SEK 161 M. Revaluation of owner-occupied property –32 –74 For Länsförsäkringar Fondliv, a market value is calculated based on future cash flows Total tax attributable to other comprehensive income –33 –50 attributable to the remaining term of the existing unit-linked insurance portfolio. The risk-free yield curve defined by EIOPA is used as the return assumption and for dis1) Deferred tax was reversed in connection with the divestment of holdings for business counting future cash flows. The present value of expected future gains is calculated purposes. Including owner-occupied property. based on discounted costs and income. The cash-flow calculation is based on a number of assumptions, such as cancellation, life expectancy, fee levels, rebating of commissions The tax rate will change to 20.6% in 2021. and expenses, which are continuously adjusted. The assumptions regarding expenses and policy holder behaviour are based on historically observed outcomes and income assumptions are based on contracted levels on the measurement date. Note 17 Earnings per share 2019 2018 Net profit/loss attributable to Parent Company’s ­shareholders, SEK M 2,957 2,190 Number of shares with a quotient value of SEK 100 10,424,582 10,424,582 Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 284 210 Earnings per share has been calculated as net profit for the year attributable to the ­Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the average number of shares. No previous or future dilution exists since potential ordinary shares did not occur in reported periods nor were in existence on the balance-sheet date. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 87 Note 19 Other intangible assets Capitalised expenditure for development and acquired intangible assets Internally developed Acquired Acquired customerCapitalised expenses IT systems IT systems based assets Total Cost Opening cost, 1 January 2018 3,042 283 4,197 7,523 Acquisitions 542 3 50 595 Divestments/disposals –2 –22 – –23 Reclassification 28 – – 28 Exchange-rate differences 1 – – 1 Closing cost, 31 December 2018 3,611 264 4,247 8,123 Opening cost, 1 January 2019 3,611 264 4,247 8,123 Acquisitions 484 – – 484 Divestments/disposals –90 –5 0 –95 Reclassification 146 –174 – –28 Exchange-rate differences 4 – – 4 Closing cost, 31 December 2019 4,155 86 4,247 8,488 Amortisation Opening accumulated amortisation, 1 January 2018 –1,139 –137 –1,499 –2,774 Amortisation –153 –22 –142 –317 Divestments/disposals 2 22 – 23 Reclassification –28 – – –28 Exchange-rate differences 0 – – 0 Closing accumulated amortisation, 31 December 2018 –1,318 –137 –1,641 –3,097 Opening accumulated amortisation, 1 January 2019 –1,318 –137 –1,641 –3,097 Amortisation –231 –1 –143 –375 Divestments/disposals 80 –25 –22 33 Reclassification –63 90 – 28 Exchange-rate differences –2 – – –2 Closing accumulated amortisation, 31 December 2019/ –1,536 –72 –1,806 –3,414 Impairment Opening accumulated impairment, 1 January 2018 –400 –45 – –445 Impairment –319 –62 – –381 Closing accumulated impairment, 31 December 2018 –719 –107 – –826 Opening accumulated impairment, 1 January 2019 –719 –107 – –826 Impairment –2 – – –2 Divestments/disposals 20 42 – 62 Reclassification –54 54 – – Closing accumulated impairment, 31 December 2019 –755 –11 – –766 Carrying amount, 31 December 2018 1,574 20 2,606 4,200 2019 1,864 2,845 2,441 4,309 The periods of amortisation for internally developed and acquired IT systems are determined based on a useful life that varies between 3 and 15 years. Acquired customer-based assets are depreciated over a period of 8 or 25 years. Straight-line depreciation is applied consistently and all amortisation and impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss as Other administration expenses. 88 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 20 Property and equipment Note 21 Owner-occupied property 2019 2018 After Before After Before Cost ­revaluation ­revaluation ­revaluation ­revaluation 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2018 Opening cost, 1 January 219 210 Cost, reclassified – – 4,219 3,780 Reclassification 163 – Accumulated amortisation – – –986 –884 Acquisitions 18 33 Carrying amount – – 3,232 2,897 Divestments/disposals –96 –24 Fair value – – 3,232 Exchange-rate differences 3 0 Closing cost, 31 December 306 219 Revalued depreciated cost 2019 2018 Depreciation Opening balance, 1 January 3,232 2,887 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January –164 –166 Capitalised improvements 3 37 Reclassification –131 – Depreciation for the year according to plan before Depreciation –31 –16 ­revaluation –63 –84 Divestments/disposals 90 18 Revaluation of owner-occupied property 148 393 Exchange-rate differences –1 0 Divestment of owner-occupied property –3,320 – Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December –237 –164 Closing balance, 31 December 0 3,232 Right-of-use assets (excluding owner-occupied property) 262 – Right-of-use assets (facilities) 1,161 0 Inventories, market items 12 14 Carrying amount, 31 December 1,161 3,232 Carrying amount, 31 December 344 69 Historical cost reduced by depreciation according to plan – 1,608 Revaluation effect against revaluation reserve – 307 The Group as lessee Property and equipment comprises both owned and leased assets that do not meet the definition of owner-occupied property. The Group’s rents for premises are recognised as Assumption on valuation at fair value 2019 2018 owner-occupied property in the statement of financial position. The Group is the lessee Current rental income/market rent, SEK M – 155/171 of underlying assets in the form of leases for premises, vehicles, IT hardware and other Computed interest in discounting, % – 6.3 types of equipment. Direct yield requirement, % – 4.3 Right-of-use assets 2019 Premises Vehicles IT hardware Equipment Total The Group applies the revaluation technique to the Group’s owner-occupied properties. Depreciation for the period –27 –7 –50 –7 –93 The properties were valued externally by appraiser CBRE Sweden AB on 30 June and 31 December. Fair value was calculated by applying the location-price method, based on Carrying amount, 31 December 1,161 7 249 7 1,423 reported purchases of comparable properties and an income approach. The income Right-of-use assets arose during the year at an initial carrying amount of SEK 179 M. approach is based on a ten-year calculation of the present value of future cash flows in the form of operating net, which has been successively adjusted to market. A residual Lease liabilities value was added, which was calculated by performing a constant capitalisation of an The Group’s lease liabilities are recognised under other liabilities in the statement of estimated market-adjusted operating net in year 11. The Group has no borrowing costs financial position and are presented in the Group’s note 43 Other liabilities. Future lease for owner-occupied property. For information on fair value valuation techniques, refer to payments paid by the Group over the remaining contracted term are presented in the note 48. maturity analysis for disclosures to the Group’s liquidity risk in note 2 Risk and capital For disclosures on right-of-use assets and earnings-related disclosures, refer to management. note 20 Property and equipment. Amounts recognised in statement of comprehensive income 2019 Interest expense for lease liabilities –4 Variable fees not included in calculation of lease liability –11 Costs for low-value leases (excluding short-term leases of low-value assets) –3 Amounts recognised in cash-flow statement 2019 Total cash outflow for leases –118 Note 22 Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag (publ) Corporate Carrying Carrying ­Registration Registered Number of Share of amount amount Number office shares equity % Equity Earnings 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag (publ) 516401-6627 Stockholm 8,000 100 27,974 5,567 8 8 Länsförsäkringar AB owns 100% of the shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkringsaktieholders, are not recognised in accordance with the purchase method since Länsförsäkbolag (publ) (Länsförsäkringar Liv) but this company is not consolidated. The holding in ringar AB does not have control of the company, is not entitled to variable returns and Länsförsäkringar Liv is not classified as a holding in a subsidiary in accordance with the cannot influence returns. Länsförsäkringar Liv is recognised and valued as unquoted definition in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and thus is not consolidated. shares in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The life-assurance operations, which are conducted according to mutual principles through Länsförsäkringar Liv and whose earnings accrue in their entirety to the policyLänsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 89 Note 23 Shares and participations in associated companies 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Carrying amount at beginning of the year 54 48 Profit shares in the associated company 7 7 Other changes in the associated company’s equity 0 –1 Acquistion of shares in associated companies 1 – Total shares and participations in associated companies 62 54 Corporate RegisRegistered Number Share of Carrying amount Carrying amount tration Number office of shares equity % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 CAB Group AB 556131-2223 Örebro 1,582 28.8 49 42 European Alliance Partners Company AG CH-0203026423-1 Zurich, Switzerland 9,248 12.5 12 10 FörsäkringsGirot Sverige AB 556482-4471 Solna 5,000,000 25.0 – – Länsförsäkringsbolagens Fastighets HB Humlegården 916604-6459 Stockholm 188,722 29.1 0 0 Svenska Andelshästar AB 556536-9633 Uppsala 450 45.0 1 2 Total 62 54 The amounts presented above refer only to the Group’s participating interests in associinterest of less than 20%. The reason is because Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB ated companies. The shares and participations are unlisted. All associated companies (publ) is represented in the company’s Board and, thereby, has the right (but not a duty) apply the calender year as the fiscal year. The share of profit in all associated companies to participate in all decisions made in the company, including strategic issues and issues is included in the Non-life insurance and in the Unit-linked insurance operating segregarding guidelines, budget, business plans and similar matters. Furthermore, a large ments. Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB (publ) is considered to have a significant amount of information is exchanged with the company. influence in the European Alliance Partners Company AG despite owning a participating Note 24 Loans to the public Loan receivables are geographically attributable in their entirety to Sweden. SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Public sector 161 4,182 Corporate sector 19,620 18,855 Retail sector 287,887 266,814 Other 0 0 Loan to the public before reserves 307,668 289,851 Reserves -569 –425 Loans to the public 307,099 289,426 Fixed-interest period Remaining term of not more than 3 months 194,600 220,879 Remaining term of more than 3 months but not more than 1 year 18,398 15,607 Remaining term of more than 1 year but not more than 5 years 91,635 51,024 Remaining term of more than 5 years 2,466 1,916 Loans to the public 307,099 289,426 Remaining term is defined as the remaining fixed-income period if the loan has periodically restricted conditions. 90 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 24 Loans to the public, cont. Avstämning av redovisat bruttovärde och förlustreserv Not credit-impaired Credit-impaired Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Gross carryLoss Gross carryLoss Gross carryLoss Gross carryLoss SEK M ing amount ­allowance ing amount ­allowance ing amount ­allowance ing amount ­allowance Opening balance 1 Jan 2018 254,458 -73 6,514 -94 740 -189 261,712 -356 New loans1) 77,307 –61 48 –1 38 –2 77,392 –64 Changes: Change in loss allowance model or method – 3 – 3 – –0 – 6 Repayment1) –47,020 34 –1,546 30 –191 32 –48,757 96 Change in risk parameters – –69 – –41 – –47 – –158 Other1) –252 1 –57 2 –10 2 –318 5 Transfer between stages: Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 –5,133 48 5,133 –79 – – – –30 Transfer from stage 2 to stage 1 2,609 –3 –2,609 6 – – – 3 Transfer to stage 3 –209 53 –266 57 475 –166 – –56 Transfer from stage 3 66 0 67 –0.3 –133 5 – 5 Write-off – – – – –176 122 –176 122 Closing balance 31 Dec 2018 281,827 –67 7,283 –116 742 –242 289,851 –425 Opening balance 1 Jan 2019 281,827 –67 7,283 –116 742 –242 289,851 –425 New loans 76,919 –67 51 –1 16 –1 76,987 –68 Changes: Change in loss allowance model or method – – – – – –0 – –0 Repayment –56,336 32 –2,020 38 –217 42 –58,574 112 Change in risk parameters – –104 – –70 – –70 – –244 Other –368 1 –58 3 –10 3 –436 6 Transfer between stages: Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 –5,431 54 5,431 –95 – – – –41 Transfer from stage 2 to stage 1 2,528 –5 –2,528 10 – – – 6 Transfer to stage 3 –288 64 –328 76 616 –203 – –63 Transfer from stage 3 18.1 – 35 –1 –53 4 – 4 Write-off – – – – –161 146 –161 146 Closing balance 31 Dec 2019 298,869 –91 7,867 –156 932 –322 307,670 –569 1) Comparative figures have been adjusted since revolving short-term credits are now recognised net in the line item other adjustments. Credit-­ The recognised loss allowance increased SEK 143 M during the year. The increase was Not credit-impaired impaired primarily attributable to the subsidiary Wasa Kredit AB. Portfolio growth and a decline in Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total credit risk parameters increased the loss allowance. Some of the reasons for the decline Loans to the public before loss in the credit risk parameters were the higher number of late payers and updates to macallowances 2018 281,827 7,283 742 289,851 roeconomic forecasts used for calculating the loss allowance. The decline in credit risk parameters was also driven by migration of credits to stage 2 and to stage 3, which conCredit reserve requirement –85 –139 –275 –499 tributed to the increase for the year. Withheld renumeration to the The contractual amounts outstanding for financial assets that were written off during regional insurance companies 18 23 33 74 the period and that are still encompassed by compliance measured amount to SEK 188 M Recognized loss allowance –67 –116 –242 –425 on 31 December 2019. Loans to the public 2018 281,760 7,167 500 289,426 Loans to the public before loss Modified loan receivables in loans to the public, SEK M 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 allowance 2019 298,869 7,867 932 307,668 Loan receivables modified during the period that were in Credit reserve requirement –112 –185 –374 –672 stages 2 and 3 when they were modified Withheld renumeration to the Amortised cost before modification 159 1871) regional insurance companies 22 30 52 10 Modification gain/loss 0 –0 Recognized loss allowance –91 –156 –322 –569 Gross carrying amount for loan receivables that have been Loans to the public 2019 298,778 7,711 610 307,099 modified since initial recognition and on the modification date were in stage 2 or 3 and that were transferred to stage A condition for full payment of the regional insurance companies’ distribution remunera1 during the period 51 76 tion by the Bank Group is that the loans generated by each regional insurance company 1) Comparative figures have been adjusted. for the Bank Group (excluding Wasa Kredit AB) are of high quality. If this is not the case, up to 80% of any credit losses are off-set against the accrued remuneration to the regional insurance companies. This model for settlement of credit losses is kept separate and is taken into consideration when the provisions are established. On 31 December 2019, the total credit reserve requirement for loan receivables amounted to SEK 672 M of which the Bank Group’s recognised loss allowance for loan receivables accounted for SEK 569 M and the remainder of SEK 103 M was settled against the remuneration to the regional insurance companies. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 91 Note 25 Unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk Note 28 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Carrying amounts 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Equity funds 140,029 108,651 Swedish government 30 1 Fixed-income funds 14,534 13,689 Swedish mortgage institutions 36,438 31,687 Total unit-linked insurance assets 154,563 122,340 Other Swedish issuers 7,502 5,831 Amortised cost 106,030 101,226 Foreign states 1,522 1,282 Other issuers 7,126 5,149 Total bonds and other interest-bearing securities 52,618 43,950 Fair value 52,618 43,950 Note 26 Financial leasing Amortised cost 51,916 43,209 Nominal value 49,785 40,226 Financial lease agreements specified by maturity structure where the Group is the lessor. Up to 1–5 More than Listed securities 52,263 43,701 31 Dec 2019 1 year years 5 years Total Unlisted securities 355 249 Present value of future minimum Carrying amounts of the securities compared lease fees 25,591 4,226 853 30,670 with their nominal amounts Unearned financial income1) 537 742 102 1,382 Total fixed income funds 1,642 2,243 Gross investment 26,129 4,968 955 32,052 Total surplus 1,203 1,480 Total deficit –12 –1 Up to 1–5 More than 31 Dec 2018 1 year years 5 years Total For loss allowance, see note 15 Credit losses. Present value of future minimum lease fees 2,501 4,196 746 7,443 Unearned financial income1) 499 678 77 1,254 Gross investment 2,999 4,874 823 8,697 Note 29 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 1) Attributable to present value calculation. Carrying amount 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 2019 2018 Swedish government 9,467 10,794 Provision for impaired loans pertaining to minimum Finnish government 190 53 lease fees 182 126 German government 278 – Variable portion of leasing fees included in net profit Total treasury bills and other eligible bills 9,934 10,847 for the year 7 7 Fair value 9,934 10,847 Minimum lease fees are payments, excluding variable fees, service charges and taxes that Amortised cost 9,821 10,746 are made by the lessee to the lessor over the leasing period, with additions for any Nominal value 9,445 10,256 amount that is guaranteed by the lessee or a related party to the lessee. Variable fees comprise the portion of leasing fees that are not fixed and that are For loss allowance, see note 15 Credit losses. ­calculated based on factors other than only the passage of time. Financial leasing is included in loans to the public. Note 27 Shares and participations Carrying amount 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Listed shares and participations 2,802 1,554 Unlisted shares and participations 1,832 1,146 Total shares and participations 4,634 2,700 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Fair value 4,634 2,700 Cost 2,991 1,875 92 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Fair value adjustment of interest-rate-risk hedged items Note 32 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note 30 in portfolio hedge 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 2019 2018 Accrued interest and rental income 42 47 Assets Deferred acquisition costs 1,568 1,390 Carrying amount, 1 January 125 248 Other accrued income 300 260 Changes during the year pertaining to lending –125 –123 Other prepaid expenses 411 280 Changes during the year pertaining to borrowing 3 – Total prepaid expenses and accrued income 2,321 1,977 Changes during the year pertaining to deposits 1 – Carrying amount, 31 December 5 125 Opening balance Deferred acquisition costs 1 January 1,390 1,299 Capitalised acquisition costs 1,010 914 Liabilities Depreciation –804 –703 Carrying amount, 1 January 1,058 1,200 Impairment –28 –120 Changes during the year pertaining to lending 0 –2 Closing balance Deferred acquisition costs 31 December 1,568 1,390 Changes during the year pertaining to funding 30 –140 Changes during the year pertaining to borrowing 153 – Carrying amount, 31 December 1,241 1,058 Note 33 Cash and cash equivalents 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Note 31 Other receivables Cash and balances with central banks 9,831 22 Balances with other banks 1,830 6,053 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Total cash and cash equivalents 11,661 6,075 Receivables pertaining to direct insurance 2,154 1,864 Accounts receivable 324 399 For loss allowance, see note 15 Credit losses. Receivables pertaining to reinsurance 751 584 Deposits with companies that have ceded reinsurance 83 85 Other receivables 2,080 1,591 Total other receivables 5,393 4,523 Accounts receivable related to contracts with customers amounted to SEK 33 M (165) in the Parent Company and SEK 2 M (2) in Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. Accounts receivable pertaining to leases amounted to SEK 226 M (223). Other receivables related to contracts with customers amounted to SEK 8 M (18) in the Parent Company, SEK 4 M (27) in the Länsförsäkringar Sak Group and SEK 635 M (577) in Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. In its calculation of loss allowance for other financial assets, the Group uses the simplified method that is described in more detail in note 1 Accounting policies. For loss allowance, see note 15 Credit losses. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 93 Note 34 Equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity including Share capital Restricted reserves ­comprehensive income for the year Total equity Effect of change in accounting policy 1) – – –87 –87 Opening equity, 1 January 2018 after adjustment for change in accounting policy 1,042 6,554 17,174 24,770 Net profit for the year – – 2,190 2,190 Change in translation reserve – 4 – 4 Change in revaluation reserve – – 393 393 Change in fair value reserve – – –60 –60 Change in hedging reserve – – –58 –58 Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income – – –50 –50 Total other comprehensive income – 4 225 229 Comprehensive income for the year – 4 2,414 2,418 Dividends paid – – –300 –300 Tier 1 capital issued – – –34 –34 Transfer between restricted and non-restricted equity – –13 13 – Realised gain from sale of shares – – 13 13 Closing equity, 31 December 2018 1,042 6,545 19,280 26,867 Opening equity, 1 January 2019 after adjustment for change in accounting policy 1,042 6,545 19,280 26,867 Net profit for the year – – 2,957 2,957 Change in translation reserve – 21 10 31 Change in revaluation reserve – – 148 148 Change in fair value reserve – – 28 28 Change in hedging reserve – – –22 –22 Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income – – –33 –33 Total other comprehensive income 0 21 131 151 Comprehensive income for the year 0 21 3,088 3,109 Tier 1 capital issued – 1,000 –69 931 Transfer between restricted and non-restricted equity – 9 –9 – Closing equity, 31 December 2019 1,042 7,575 22,289 30,907 1) Effect due to change in accounting policy from IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement to IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments. The quotient value per share is SEK 100. All shares are ordinary shares. Of the shares Translation reserve issued on 31 December 2019, 1,532,678 were Series A shares (carrying ten votes each), The translation reserve includes all exchange-rate differences arising on the translation 8,885,949 were Series B shares and 5,955 were Series C shares (carrying one vote each). of the financial statements from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in a different currency to the currency in which the consolidated financial Specification of the capital item Reserves in the statement of financial position statements are presented. The Parent Company and Group present their financial stateChanges in these reserves are included in comprehensive income for the year. ments in Swedish kronor (SEK). 2019 2018 Revaluation reserve Translation reserve The revaluation reserve includes changes in value attributable to owner-occupied ­property and a provision for defined-benefit pensions. Opening translation reserve, 1 January –61 –65 Translation differences for the year 31 4 Fair value reserve Closing translation reserve, 31 December –30 –61 The fair value reserve comprises the accumulated net change in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income until the asset is derecognised Revaluation reserve from the statement of financial position. Opening revaluation reserve, 1 January 1,304 985 Hedging reserve Revaluation of owner-occupied property 148 393 The hedging reserve comprises hedges of variable interest rates against fixed interest Revaluation of defined-benefit pension plans –1,421 – rates pertaining to the Parent Company’s debt securities in issue and hedges of Tax attributable to revaluation for the year –32 –74 exchange rate risks in future cash flows pertaining to the Bank Group’s debt securities Closing revaluation reserve, 31 December 0 1,304 in issue in foreign currency. Fair value reserve Other capital contributed Refers to equity that has been provided by the owners. The item includes surpluses Opening fair value reserve, 1 January –397 133 paid in conjunction with issues. Effect of change in accounting policy – –480 Change for the year in fair value of available-for-sale Restricted reserves ­financial assets 28 –60 Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distribution. The statement of Tax attributable to change for the year –5 11 changes in equity for the Group includes some restricted reserves in other contributed equity and the remainder in retained earnings. Closing fair value reserve, 31 December –374 –397 Retained earnings, including net profit for the year Hedging reserve Retained earnings, including net profit for the year, includes profit in the Parent Opening hedging reserve, 1 January –151 –106 ­Company, subsidiaries and associated companies. Change for the year in cash-flow hedges –22 –58 Dividends Tax attributable to change for the year 4 13 A dividend of SEK 698 M is proposed for 2019. All capital that is not required for LänsClosing hedging reserve, 31 December –170 –151 försäkringar AB’s operations is returned over time to the shareholders in the form of ­dividends. A prerequisite for the payment of dividends is that a credit rating of A can be justified for the Group’s credit-rated companies. 94 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 35 Subordinated liabilities 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 The subordinated loans listed and can be redeemed on 26 April 2021 and 1 March 2023 at the earliest. These loans fall due on 26 April 2026 and 1 March 2028. Interest on the variaSubordinated debts with three-month floating interest rates 1,697 1,696 ble loans was 2.3% and 1.3% on 31 December 2019. The interest rate on fixed loans is 2.7% and 1.8%. Subordinated debts with a fixed interest rate 898 897 Total subordinated liabilities 2,595 2,593 Note 36 Technical provisions 2019 2018 Reinsurers’ Reinsurers’ Gross ­portion Net Gross ­portion Net Unearned premiums Opening balance, 1 January 2,315 124 2,191 2,171 91 2,080 Provisions during the period 342 162 180 113 33 81 Exchange-rate changes 57 1 56 31 –0 31 Closing balance, 31 December 2,715 288 2,427 2,315 124 2,191 of which non-life insurance 2,715 288 2,427 2,315 124 2,191 Unexpired risk Opening balance, 1 January 1 – 1 1 – 1 Provisions during the period 35 35 –1 –1 – –1 Closing balance, 31 December 35 35 – 1 – 1 of which non-life insurance Life-assurance provision Opening balance, 1 January 2,846 – 2,846 2,508 – 2,508 Provisions during the period 8 – 8 9 – 9 Deposits 473 – 473 452 – 452 Payments –105 – –105 –94 – –94 Difference between premiums paid and provisions for new operation –97 – –97 –42 – –42 Costs withdrawn –17 – –17 –18 – –18 Change in provision due to change in interest-rate assumption 2 – 2 17 – 17 Change due to changed cost assumption –49 – –49 9 – 9 Change due to amended transfer assumption 22 – 22 5 – 5 Other changes 8 – 8 –1 – –1 Closing balance, 31 December 3,091 – 3,091 2,846 – 2,846 of which life assurance 3,091 – 3,091 2,846 – 2,846 Claims outstanding Claims incurred and reported 4,910 4,481 429 4,800 4,491 309 Claims incurred but not reported 7,624 5,948 1,676 7,545 5,893 1,652 Claims annuities 1,546 – 1,546 1,665 – 1,665 Claims adjustment costs 223 – 223 212 – 212 Total opening balance, 1 January 14,303 10,429 3,874 14,222 10,384 3,838 Provisions for the period –1,314 –1,253 –61 40 31 8 Interest-rate translation of provision for claim annuities 10 – 10 8 – 8 Transferred insurance portfolio –17 – –17 – – – Exchange-rate changes 36 5 31 33 13 19 Closing balance, 31 December 13,018 9,181 3,837 14,303 10,429 3,874 of which non-life insurance 12,550 9,117 3,433 13,884 10,382 3,501 of which life assurance 469 64 404 419 47 373 Specification of closing balance claims outstanding Claims incurred and reported 4,985 4,411 574 4,910 4,481 429 Claims incurred but not reported 6,247 4,770 1,476 7,624 5,948 1,676 Claims annuities 1,564 – 1,564 1,546 – 1,546 Claims adjustment costs 223 – 223 223 – 223 Total closing balance, 31 December 13,018 9,181 3,837 14,303 10,429 3,874 Carrying amount at year-end 18,860 9,504 9,356 19,465 10,553 8,912 of which non-life insurance 15,300 9,440 5,860 16,200 10,506 5,693 of which life assurance 3,560 64 3,496 3,265 47 3,218 Run-off profit/loss, non-life insurance 1,852 –1,558 294 572 –334 238 The discount rate curve defined by the EIOPA is used to calculate annuities, the life-assurance reserve and disability annuities. This curve has been produced to correspond to a riskfree interest rate term structure and is based on market data for Swedish swap rates. A macroeconomic assumption of a long-term interest rate of 3.90% is also included. Other nonlife insurance is not discounted. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 95 Note 37 Unit-linked insurance liabilities, policyholder bears the risk Unit-linked insurance commitments 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Opening balance 122,693 124,969 Payments 8,821 8,339 Migrations, repurchases and cancellations –3,432 –2,802 Paid remuneration –2,766 –2,463 Costs withdrawn –773 –733 Change in value 30,487 –4,514 Yield tax –110 –114 Other changes 8 11 Closed balance, unit-linked insurance commitments 154,927 122,693 Conditional bonus 1,023 442 Total 155,950 123,135 Note 38 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are attributable to the following: Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Net 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Intangible assets –42 –55 – 9 –42 –46 Property – 1 – 401 – 403 Financial assets 0 1 – – 0 1 Receivables –6 –5 – – –6 –5 Other assets – – 1 1 1 1 Liabilities –53 –50 0 0 –53 –50 Loss carryforwards –27 –16 – – –27 –16 Untaxed reserves – – 881 1,025 881 1,025 Deferred tax asset (–) /deferred tax liability (+) –128 –124 882 1,437 753 1,313 Offset – 2 – – – – Net deferred tax asset (–) /deferred tax liability (+) –128 –122 882 1,435 753 1,313 The Group has no temporary differences with tax effects in Group or associated c­ ompanies. Deferred tax assets have been recognised for tax loss carryforwards. It is anticipated that the loss will be utilised within one year. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and loss carryforwards Recognised in Amount at Currency Recognised in other compreAmount at 2019 1 January translation profit or loss hensive income 31 December Intangible assets –46 – 4 – –42 Property 403 – –434 32 – Financial assets 1 – –1 0 0 Receivables –5 – 0 – –6 Other assets 1 – 0 – 1 Liabilities –50 0 0 –4 –53 Loss carryforwards –16 – –11 – –27 Untaxed reserves 1,025 – –140 –4 881 Deferred tax assets (–) /deferred tax liabilities (+) 1,313 0 –583 24 753 Recognised in Amount at Currency Recognised in other compreAmount at 2018 1 January translation profit or loss hensive income 31 December Intangible assets 7 – –53 – –46 Property 339 – –11 74 403 Financial assets 180 – –179 – 1 Receivables –5 – 0 – –5 Other assets 1 0 0 – 1 Liabilities –34 – –3 –13 –50 Loss carryforwards –8 – –8 – –16 Untaxed reserves 1,007 – 18 – 1,025 Deferred tax assets (–) /deferred tax liabilities (+) 1,486 0 –235 61 1,313 96 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 39 Other provisions Note 41 Deposits from the public 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Provision for pensions being paid 51 47 Deposits from insurance companies 2,865 2,155 Other provisions 74 72 Deposits from households 101,528 92,221 Total other provisions 125 119 Deposits from other Swedish public 13,912 12,478 Total deposits from the public 118,305 106,854 Defined-benefit pension plans There are a number of minor plans that almost only encompass employees who have already reached retirement age. These plans cover old-age pensions and in some cases also survivor’s pension. The pension amounts are paid in relation to the final salary level Note 42 Due to credit institutions when the employee retires and in the vast majority of cases are life annuities. In the event that upward adjustment of the pension has been agreed, the Group follows the norms 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 applied by the Insurance Industry’s Pension Fund (FPK). Swedish banks 6,332 5,817 Defined-contribution pension plans Other Swedish credit institutions 233 175 Defined-contribution pension plans are plans according to which the company pays fixed Total liabilities due to credit institutions 6,565 5,992 contributions to a separate legal entity and does not have a legal or informal obligation to pay additional contributions. The Group’s payments to defined-contribution plans are Payable on demand 43 43 recognised as expenses during the period in which the employee performed the services to which the contributions refer. Primarily, contributions to the Insurance Industry’s Genuine repurchase transactions amounted to SEK M –(159). Pension Fund (FPK) are recognised here. This plan encompasses all employees except for a few individuals who have individual solutions. The pension agreement for the insurance industry, the FTP plan, through insurance with the Insurance Industry’s Pension Fund (FPK) is a multi-employer defined-benefit Note 43 Other liabilities pension plan. According to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the main rule under this pension plan entails that a company recognises its proportional share of the defined-benefit pen31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 sion commitment and the plan assets and expenses associated with the pension comLiabilities pertaining to direct insurance 681 821 mitment. Disclosures are also presented in the accounts pursuant to the requirements for defined-benefit pension plan. FPK is unable to provide necessary information which Due to Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB 19 13 is why the pension plans above are recognised as defined-contribution plans in accordLiabilities, assumed reinsurance 449 159 ance of IAS 19. Nor is any information available on future surpluses and deficits in the Liabilities, reinsurance 331 460 plan or whether these surpluses and deficits would then affect the contributions for the Accounts payable 221 296 plan in future years. Tax liabilities 290 171 FTP plan contributions for 2020 are expected to total SEK 125 M. Deposits from reinsurers 69 59 Lease liabilities 1,461 – 2019 2018 Other liabilities 2,004 1,659 Expenses for defined-contribution plans 291 272 Total other liabilities 5,524 3,638 Note 40 Debt securities in issue Note 44 Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Commercial papers 1,451 324 Accrued interest expense 1,083 1,146 Bond loans1) 225,167 209,927 Other accrued expenses 2,232 2,052 Cashier’s cheques issued 42 53 Prepaid rent 247 242 Total debt securities in issue 226,661 210,304 Other deferred income 906 1,148 1) Covered bonds in the Group amount to SEK 188,501 M (171,195). Total accrued expenses and deferred income 4,468 4,587 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 97 Note 45 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Länsförsäkringar AB and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv have signed a service agreement with Länsförsäkringar Liv due to Länsförsäkringar Liv’s run-off. Länsförsäkringar AB and Pledged assets Länsförsäkringar Fondliv undertake to deliver services at a predetermined price per year. Total registered investment assets on behalf The remuneration levels in the agreement reflect these companies’ plans to gradually of policyholders 171,374 132,094 reduce the costs for the services rendered. The agreement includes a renegotiation Pledged securities in the Riksbank 2,549 2,597 clause that entails that the parties can review the remuneration level every 36 months if Pledged securities in Euroclear 2,090 1,966 the circumstances have significantly changed. The agreement resulted in a decline of Loan receivables, covered bonds 230,388 211,412 about 2 percentage points (2) in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s solvency ratio, primarLoan receivables, substitute collaterals 10,040 9,500 ily as a result of the agreement’s effect on Länsförsäkringar Fondliv’s assumption Collateral paid due to repurchase agreement – 159 regarding operating-expense cash flow. Securities collateral paid, derivatives 2,076 1,542 Other collateral for securities 15 20 Chattel mortgages, associated companies 0 0 Total pledged assets 418,532 359,289 Contingent liabilities Guarantees 462 2451) Total contingent liabilities 462 245 Other commitments Loans approved but not disbursed 17,369 16,559 Unutilised portion of overdraft facilities 2,624 2,563 Remaining amount to invest in investment assets – 207 Unutilised portion of credit card facilities 1,853 1,719 Total other commitments 21,846 21,048 1) Comparative figures have been adjusted. Reconciliation of reported gross carrying amount and loss allowance for commitments Not credit-impaired Credit impaired Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Credit risk Loss Credit risk Loss Credit risk Loss Credit risk Loss SEK M exposure ­allowance exposure ­allowance exposure ­allowance exposure ­allowance Opening balance, 1 Jan 2018 21,657 -12 299 -6 24 -0 21,979 -18 New loan commitments and increase in existing loan commitments 62,291 –2 76 –3 30 –1 62,397 –18 Changes: Change in loss allowance model or method – 0 – 0 – – – 0 Net change in existing loan commitments and credit commitments (utilised and repaid) –23,712 3 –66 1 –30 0 –23,808 4 Change in risk parameters – 1 – 2 – –0 – 3 Transfer of loan commitments and credit commitments: Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 –583 3 583 –6 – – – –2 Transfer from stage 2 to stage 1 129 –1 –129 1 – – – 0 Transfer to stage 3 –9 0 –1 0 10 –0 – 0 Transfer from stage 3 1 0 3 0 –4 0 – 0 Expired loan commitments –39,278 9 –428 5 –20 1 –39,727 15 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2018 20,497 –10 337 –6 8 –0 20,842 –17 Opening balance, 1 Jan 2019 20,497 –10 337 –6 8 –0 20,842 –17 New loan commitments and increase in existing loan commitments 60,929 –16 85 –3 6 –0 61,020 –19 Changes: Change in loss allowance model or method – 0 – 0 – – – 0 Net change in existing loan commitments and credit commitments (utilised and repaid) –20,631 3 –85 1 –8 0 –20,724 4 Change in risk parameters – –2 – 2 – –0 – 0 Transfer of loan commitments and credit commitments: Transfer from stage 1 to stage 2 –573 3 573 –6 – – – –3 Transfer from stage 2 to stage 1 141 –1 –141 2 – – – 1 Transfer to stage 3 –4 0 –1 0 5 –0 – 0 Transfer from stage 3 1 –0 1 0 –2 0 – 0 Expired loan commitments –38,818 8 –469 4 –5 0 –39,292 12 Closing balance, 31 Dec 2019 21,542 –15 301 –7 3 –0 21,846 –22 The loss allowance increased by SEK 5.4 M during the year. This was due to new loan comOn 31 December 2019, the total loss allowance for commitments amounted to SEK 25 M, of mitments, an increase in existing credit commitments and certain transfers from stage 1 which the Group’s recognised loss allowance amounted to SEK 22 M and the remainder of to stage 2. SEK 4 M was settled against remineration to the regional insurance companies. For more information on the distribution renumeration model, refer to note 24 Loans to the public. 98 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 46 Anticipated recovery and settlement periods for assets and liabilities 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Amount expected to be recovered Within 12 months After 12 months Total Within 12 months After 12 months Total Assets Goodwill – 558 558 – 542 542 Other intangible assets 284 4,025 4,309 90 4,110 4,200 Deferred tax assets 91 37 128 70 53 122 Property and equipment 40 304 344 42 26 69 Owner-occupied property – 1,161 1,161 – 3,232 3,232 Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – 8 8 – 8 8 Shares and participations in associated companies – 62 62 – 54 54 Reinsurers’ portion of technical provisions 1,098 8,406 9,504 919 9,634 10,553 Loans to the public 56,994 250,106 307,099 16,895 272,531 289,426 Unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk 9,513 145,051 154,563 7,654 114,686 122,340 Shares and participations 8 4,626 4,634 66 2,634 2,700 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 15,877 36,741 52,618 7,730 36,220 43,950 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 5,209 4,726 9,934 5,522 5,324 10,847 Derivatives 1,301 6,989 8,290 543 5,548 6,090 Change in value of hedge portfolios 5 – 5 107 18 125 Other receivables 5,387 5 5,393 4,519 4 4,523 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1,261 1,061 2,321 1,026 951 1,977 Cash and cash equivalents 11,661 – 11,661 6,075 – 6,075 Total assets 108,727 463,866 572,594 51,260 455,576 506,835 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Amount expected to be settled Within 12 months After 12 months Total Within 12 months After 12 months Total Liabilities Subordinated liabilities – 2,595 2,595 — 2,593 2,593 Technical provisions 5,099 13,761 18,860 4,588 14,877 19,465 Unit-linked insurance liabilities, policyholder bears the risk 9,598 146,352 155,950 7,676 115,459 123,135 Deferred tax liabilities – 882 882 2 1,432 1,435 Other provisions – 125 125 8 111 119 Debt securities in issue 30,124 196,536 226,661 15,959 194,345 210,304 Deposits from the public 117,795 510 118,305 106,416 438 106,854 Due to credit institutions 6,565 – 6,565 5,992 – 5,992 Derivatives 196 315 511 179 608 787 Change in value of hedge portfolios 1,241 – 1,241 48 1,010 1,058 Other liabilities 4,246 1,278 5,524 3,586 52 3,638 Accrued expenses and deferred income 4,145 323 4,468 4,265 323 4,587 Total liabilities 179,010 362,677 541,687 148,719 331,249 479,968 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 99 Note 47 Classification of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets measured at fair value in profit or loss through other comprehensive income Financial assets Loan measured Derivatives receivables ­according to fair Held for Equity used in hedge Available­-for-sale and accounts 31 Dec 2019 value option trading instruments accounting financial assets receivable Total Fair value Assets Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – – – – – 8 8 8 Loans to the public – – – 307,099 – – 307,099 308,209 Unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk 154,563 – – – – – 154,563 154,563 Shares and participations 3,221 – 931 343 – 140 4,634 4,292 Bonds and other interest­bearing securities 9,945 – – – 42,673 – 52,618 52,618 Treasury bills and other ­eligible bills – – – – 9,934 – 9,934 9,934 Derivatives 68 8,222 – – – – 8,290 8,290 Other receivables – – – 1,051 – – 1,051 1,063 Prepaid expenses and accrued income – – – 152 – – 152 152 Cash and cash equivalents – – – 11,661 – – 11,661 11,661 Total assets 167,797 8,222 931 320,306 52,608 148 550,012 550,790 Financial liabilities measured at fair value in profit or loss Financial liabilities Other ­measured ­according to Derivatives used in financial 31 Dec 2019 fair value option hedge accounting liabilities Total Fair value Liabilities Subordinated liabilities – – 2,595 2,595 2,653 Debt securities in issue – – 226,661 226,661 232,880 Deposits from the public – – 118,308 118,305 119,859 Due to credit institutions – – 6,565 6,565 6,565 Derivatives 74 437 0 511 511 Other liabilities – – 2,389 2,389 2,293 Accrued expenses and deferred income – – 1,721 1,721 1,721 Total liabilities 74 437 358,237 358,748 366,482 100 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 47 Classification of financial assets and liabilities, cont. Financial assets measured at fair value Financial assets measured at fair value in profit or loss through other comprehensive income Financial assets Loan measured Derivatives receivables ­according to fair Held for Equity used in hedge Available­-for-sale and accounts 31 Dec 2018 value option trading instruments accounting financial assets receivable Total Fair value Assets Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – – – – – 8 8 8 Loans to the public – – – 289,426 – – 289,426 290,228 Unit-linked insurance assets, policyholder bears the risk 122,340 – – – – – 122,340 122,340 Shares and participations 1,546 – 1,037 – – 117 2,700 2,700 Bonds and other interest­bearing securities 7,160 – – – 36,790 – 43,950 43,950 Treasury bills and other ­eligible bills – – – – 10,847 – 10,847 10,847 Derivatives 35 6,055 – – – – 6,090 6,090 Other receivables – – – 506 – – 506 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income – – – 150 – – 150 – Cash and cash equivalents – – – 6,075 – – 6,075 – Total assets 131,081 6,055 1,037 296,157 47,637 125 482,093 Financial liabilities measured at fair value in profit or loss Financial liabilities Other ­measured ­according to Derivatives used in financial 31 Dec 2018 fair value option hedge accounting liabilities Total Fair value Liabilities Subordinated liabilities – – 2,593 2,593 2,632 Debt securities in issue – – 210,304 210,304 214,315 Deposits from the public – – 106,854 106,854 108,677 Due to credit institutions – – 5,992 5,992 – Derivatives 27 760 – 787 787 Other liabilities – – 792 792 – Accrued expenses and deferred income – – 1,499 1,499 – Total liabilities 27 760 328,034 328,821 Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss in Investment income, net. The carrying amount of other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, due to credit institutions and other liabilities is deemed to comprise a reasonable approximation of their fair value since these assets and liabilities have short terms. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 101 Note 48 Fair value valuation techniques Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position are presented in the table based on the valuation techniques applied: Level 1 refers to prices determined from prices listed in an active market. Level 2 refers to prices determined by calculated prices of observable market listings. Level 3 refers to prices based on own assumptions and judgements. 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Owner-occupied property – – – – – – 3,232 3,232 Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – – 8 8 – – 8 8 Unit-linked insurance assets, policy­holder bears the risk 154,563 – – 154,563 122,340 – – 122,340 Shares and participations 2,802 63 1,769 4,634 1,555 43 1,103 2,700 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 52,263 – 355 52,618 43,700 – 250 43,950 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 9,934 – – 9,934 10,847 – – 10,847 Derivatives 1 8,289 – 8,290 1 6,090 – 6,090 Liabilities Derivatives – 511 – 511 3 784 – 787 Owner-occupied Shares in Länsförsäkringar Shares and Bonds and other interest­Other Change level 3 ­property Liv Försäkrings AB ­participations bearing securities receivables Total Opening balance, 1 January 2019 3,232 8 1,103 250 – 4,593 Acquisitions 3 – 341 100 – 444 Divestments –3,320 – – –2 – –3,323 Recognised in net profit/loss for the year –63 – 324 7 – 268 Recognised in other comprehensive income 148 – – – – 148 Closing balance, 31 December 2019 – 8 1,769 355 – 2,132 Opening balance, 1 January 2018 2,887 – 954 188 – 4,029 Acquisitions 37 – 0 62 – 99 Divestments – – –10 –16 – –26 – 8 – – – 8 Recognised in net profit/loss for the year –84 – 159 15 – 89 Recognised in other comprehensive income 393 – – – – 393 Closing balance, 31 December 2018 3,232 8 1,103 250 – 4,593 There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2019 or during Level 2 derivatives essentially refer to swaps for which fair value has been calculated by 2018. There were no transfers from Level 3 in 2019 or 2018. discounting expected future cash flows. Normally, there are no active markets for owner-occupied property within Level 3, Bonds and other interest-bearing securities in Level 3 that are not quoted in an active which is why fair value is estimated using models based on discounted cash flows. The market comprise interest-bearing, unquoted loans. Valuations are performed by external method applied to the calculation of fair value is a combination of the location-price managers based on generally accepted valuation techniques, which means that the method, based on reported purchases of comparable properties, and a return-based underlying holdings held by the issuer of the loan are valued based on relevant observcash-flow method. During 2019, owner-occupied property were sold as of 1 November . able market data wherever available. Holdings for which market data is not available are The return method is based on a calculation of the present value of future actual cash measured at a fair value corresponding to the cost adjusted for impairment. flows in the form of operating net, which has been successively adjusted to market over 10 years and the present value of the estimated residual value in year 10. The residual Financial instruments measured at amortised cost in the statement of financial value was estimated by performing a constant capitalisation of an estimated market-adposition justed operating net. Fair values for deposits from the public (Level 2) and loans to the public (Level 3) have Shares and participations in Level 3 are measured at fair value. Holdings in Länsbeen calculated using discounted expected cash flows where the discount rates applied försäkringar AB and the insurance companies are measured at equity per share based on are the current deposit and lending rates (including discounts). During the year, loans to the most recent company reports. Delisted, insolvent companies are measured at zero, if the public were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 since the discounts used for calculatno other listing can be found. Länsförsäkringar Bank AB holds shares and participations ing fair value are not observable in a market. that cannot be reliably measured based on listing in an active market. Instead, regular Fair value (Level 2) for debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities is detervaluations are performed based on, for example, recent company reports and forecast mined based on quoted prices. Parts of debt securities in issue that are considered to be results. illiquid are adjusted based on expected current issue prices. Commercial papers do not The fair value of Level 2 shares and participations that pertain to unquoted Series B have market prices and the fair value is determined based on the yield curve of each shares with conversion rights to quoted Series A shares without restrictions is measured ­currency. based on the price of the Series A share on the balance-sheet date. 102 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 49 Information about offsetting The table shows financial assets and liabilities covered by a legally binding master netting ing that all exposures are covered by these types of agreements. The agreements entitle agreement or similar agreements, together with related collaterals. the parties to offset assets and liabilities in the event of default or insolvency. The net The Group has ISDA agreements and CSA agreements with all derivative counteramount is the amount that, in the event of default or insolvency, would be obtained, if the parts and corresponding netting agreements for reverse repurchase agreements, meanamount is an asset, or paid, if the amount is a liability. Related amounts that are not offset in the balance sheet Offset in the Amount recognised Master netting Collaterals Received 31 Dec 2019 Gross amount balance sheet in the balance sheet agreements (–) / Pledged (+) Net amount Assets Derivatives 8,575 –285 8,290 –206 –6,445 1,639 Liabilities Derivatives –796 285 –511 206 31 –274 Total 7,779 – 7,779 – –6,413 1,365 Related amounts that are not offset in the balance sheet Offset in the Amount recognised Master netting Collaterals Received 31 Dec 2018 Gross amount balance sheet in the balance sheet agreements (–) / Pledged (+) Net amount Assets Derivatives 6,204 –113 6,090 –286 –4,613 1,191 Liabilities Derivatives –901 113 –787 286 25 –476 Repurchase agreements –159 – –159 – 159 – Total 5,144 – 5,144 – –4,429 715 The Group uses derivative instruments to reduce risks or enhance management efficiency and, when used, these are recognised according to the policies for hedge accounting. Disclosures on the Group’s derivative instruments are provided in table 19 in note 2 Risk and capital management. Note 50 Disclosures on related parties The 23 regional insurance companies have been chosen to organise joint operations in Related-party transactions in the Group 2019 the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. The Group has been assigned by the regional insurance Regional insurance companies and local insurance companies companies to conduct operations in areas in which economies of scale constitute a deciLänsförsäkringar AB is wholly owned by the 23 regional insurance companies, together sive competitive advantage and to provide such service to the regional insurance comwith 15 local insurance companies. A large portion of the Group’s customer contact takes panies, which, for reasons of efficiency, are produced and provided jointly within the place through the regional insurance companies and the local insurance companies. Länsförsäkringar Alliance. Remuneration for the mediation of the Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s insurance products The assessment of whether a close relationship exists or not is based on the financial is regulated in commission agreements between these parties. Commission is also paid significance of the relationship and not only ownership. Accordingly, this includes the 23 to regional insurance companies for their work with Länsförsäkringar Bank’s, Länsförsäkregional insurance companies, with subsidiaries, and 15 local insurance companies in ringar Hypotek’s and Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning’s customer-related operations. other related parties, which together own 100% of Länsförsäkringar AB. Other related The assignment and remuneration are regulated in partnership agreements signed by the parties also include Länsförsäkringar Mäklarservice AB, Länsförsäkringar Fastighetsparties. This solution creates a unique local presence and market awareness. förmedling AB and Humlegården Fastigheter AB since these companies are wholly Länsförsäkringar AB Group manages and reconciles the Länsförsäkringar Alliance’s owned in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance. Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB and all internal and external reinsurance. The Group also carries out development projects and associated companies are also considered to be legal entities closely related to the Länsservice for the regional insurance companies in a number of areas, such as individual försäkringar AB Group. Related key persons are Board members, senior executives and claims adjustment, legal affairs and actuarial services, product and concept developtheir close family members. ment and the development of IT support and other IT services. Policies for transactions Länsförsäkringar Mäklarservice AB Transactions between closely related parties occur both as transactions of a nonrecurLänsförsäkringar Mäklarservice AB is jointly owned by the regional insurance companies ring nature and transactions on a continuous basis. and Länsförsäkringar Sak. The company works on behalf of the regional insurance comTransactions of a nonrecurring nature comprise the acquisitions and divestments of panies and Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB within non-life insurance, and on behalf assets and similar transactions. They occur in limited scope. In nonrecurring transacof the regional insurance companies within life assurance. tions, the transactions are based on written agreements that comply with market standards and terms. Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB Transactions of a continuous nature include goods and services provided for the Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB is wholly owned by Länsförsäkringar AB. The operacompanies within the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and to the Länsförsäkringar Alliance tions are conducted in accordance with mutual policies and, accordingly, are not consolfor carrying out development projects and services. Transactions of this nature shall folidated in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. low established routines as below. Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB purchases development and service from Länsförsäkringar AB. The primary task of the service operations is to provide service mainly Pricing within the areas of business analysis, accounting, office services, HR and communication. Pricing for service activities within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance is based on direct and indirect costs. Overall, pricing is intended to distribute costs within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance based on consumption. Joint development projects and joint service are financed collectively and invoiced based on an established distribution key. Process and decisions Corporate management within Länsförsäkringar AB, jointly with a service committee with representatives from the insurance companies, prepare the service levels and price lists for the sale of goods and services to related companies. Based on these discussions, the Board of Länsförsäkringar AB decides on the service levels and price lists to related parties. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 103 Note 50 Disclosures on related parties, cont. Note 51 Group companies Related-party transactions 2019 Participating interest in % CommitIncome Expenses Receivables Liabilities ments Registered Holding in directly and indirectly office of subsidiAssociated companies 4 – – – – owned subsidiaries ary, country 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Länsförsäkringar Liv 303 25 188 820 – Agria Pet Insurance Ltd UK 100 100 Owners Försäkringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) Sweden 100 100 Regional insurance LF Sak Fastighets AB Sweden 100 100 companies 2,117 2,465 7,587 12,276 62 Länsförsäkringar Bank AB (publ) Sweden 100 100 Other related parties Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning AB Sweden 100 100 Länsförsäkringar Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings­ Mäklarservice AB 24 12 3 34 5 aktiebolag (publ) Sweden 100 100 Länsförsäkringar FasLänsförsäkringar Grupplivförsäkringtighetsförmedling AB 2 0 1 0 1 saktiebolag Sweden 100 100 Humlegården FasLänsförsäkringar Hypotek AB (publ) Sweden 100 100 tigheter AB (publ) 67 – – – – Länsförsäkringar Sak FörsäkringsaktieOther 3 – 18 1 2 bolag (publ) Sweden 100 100 Total other related Utile Dulci 2 HB Sweden – 100 ­parties 96 12 22 34 7 Wasa Kredit AB Sweden 100 100 Interest income and interest expense 2019 Participating interest refers to the share of capital, which corresponds to the number of Interest Interest votes for the total number of shares. income expense Regional insurance companies – 5 Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – – Other 1 – Note 52 Supplementary information to statement of cash flows Related-party transactions 2018 2019 2018 CommitInterest paid and dividends received Income Expenses Receivables Liabilities ments Dividends received 17 39 Associated companies 3 – – – – Interest received 6,226 5,4342) Länsförsäkringar Liv 353 31 102 1,005 – Interest paid –1,497 –1,0122) Owners Adjustment for non-cash items Regional insurance comDepreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets 382 708 panies 1,663 2,493 8,792 13,471 57 Unrealised gains/losses on investment assets –31,571 4,700 Other related parties Technical provisions after ceded reinsurance 33,258 –1,964 Länsförsäkringar Pension provisions –14 16 Mäklarservice AB 24 15 4 46 6 Other provisions 20 –12 Länsförsäkringar Fastighetsförmedling AB 2 0 1 0 – Other items not affecting liquidity –1381) –180 Total 1,936 3,269 Other 3 0 6 1 3 Total other related 1) Includes gain on sale of subsidiaries including owner-occupied property. ­parties 30 15 11 47 9 2) Comparative figures have been adjusted. Interest income and interest expense 2018 Interest Interest income expense Regional insurance companies 55 35 Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – 5 Other 1 – Receivables from and liabilities to regional insurance companies include technical provisions. Agreements Länsförsäkringar Liv has a run-off agreement with Länsförsäkringar AB and with Länsförsäkringar Fondliv for Länsförsäkringar Liv’s run off. Note 45 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities provides additional information about this agreement. Significant agreements for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group primarily comprise agreements with the 23 regional insurance companies regarding commission agreements, claims adjustment agreements, and development and management agreement. Another significant agreement for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group is the sales agreement with Länsförsäkringar Mäklarservice AB. There was an agreement with Humle­ gården Fastigheter AB for the management of Utile Dulci 2 HB until 31 October 2019. Holdings for business purposes and owner-occupied property were divested on 1 November 2019. New sale and leaseback leases were signed in connection with the divestment. An earn-out may be payable. Transactions between the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and its Board and management For information regarding remuneration of closely related key persons such as Board members and senior executives see Note 12 Employees, staff costs and remuneration of senior executives. In all other respects, no transactions took place between these individual and their related parties apart from normal customer transactions. For the Länsförsäkringar Liv transactions with related parties, see the Länsför­ säkringar Liv Försäkrings AB’s 2019 Annual Report. 104 Consolidated financial statements Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 53 Events after balance-sheet date Financial effect of change in accounting policy from IAS 17 Note 55 Leases to IFRS 16 Leases The COVID-19 outbreak has now been classified as a pandemic. As per 9 March 2020, developments in the financial markets have had a moderately negative impact on the Future operating lease payments at 31 December 2018 182 Länsförsäkringar AB Group’s capital situation. There is considerable uncertainty, but Exceptions from accounting in the statement of financial position Länsförsäkringar AB is monitoring developments and is continuously adjusting its – short-term leases 0 ­operations using contingency and business continuity plans. All growth forecasts are currently highly uncertain, but most forecasters are assuming global growth of 2–2.5% – leases for which the underlying asset has a low value –6 in 2020. Extension options that it is reasonably certain will be exercised 4 Total operating lease payments before discounting at 1 January 2019 is to be recognised in the statement of financial position 180 Discount effect at 1 January 2019 –1 Note 54 Information regarding the Parent company Financial lease liabilities at 31 December 2018 – Lease liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position at 1 Länsförsäkringar AB (publ) is a limited liability company registered in Sweden with its January 2019 179 registered offices in Stockholm. Corporate Registration Number 556549-7020 On transition to IFRS 16, the Group recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities of The office address is Tegeluddsvägen 11–13, Stockholm, Sweden. SEK 179 M in the statement of financial position, which impacts property and equipment The postal address is SE-106 50 Stockholm. by SEK 163 M, other assets by SEK 16 M and other liabilities. To measure lease liabilities, the Group discounted future lease payments by using an The 2019 consolidated financial statements comprise the Parent Company and its subincremental borrowing rate on 1 January 2019. The average incremental borrowing rate sidiaries. The Länsförsäkringar AB Group also included participations owned in associapplied was 0.49%. ated companies. Länsförsäkringar AB (publ) is wholly owned by the 23 regional insurance companies and the 15 local insurance companies. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Consolidated financial statements 105 Financial statements Parent Company Income statement for the Parent Company 107 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company 107 Balance sheet for the Parent Company 108 Statement of changes in equity for the Parent Company 110 Cash-flow statement for the Parent Company 111 Note 1 Accounting policies 112 Note 2 Risks and risk management 113 Note 3 Net sales 113 Note 4 External expenses 113 Note 5 Leasing 113 Note 6 Employees, staff costs and remuneration to senior executives 113 Note 7 Fees and remuneration to auditors 115 Note 8 Profit from participations in Group companies 115 Note 9 Interest income and similar profit/loss items 115 Note 10 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items 115 Note 11 Tax 116 Note 12 Intangible assets 116 Note 13 Property and equipment 116 Note 14 Shares and participations in Group companies 117 Note 15 Other financial assets 117 Note 16 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 118 Note 17 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 118 Note 18 Equity 119 Note 19 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 120 Note 20 Other provisions 120 Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income 120 Note 22 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 120 Note 23 Anticipated recovery and settlement periods for assets, provisions and liabilities 121 Note 24 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 122 Note 25 Fair value valuation techniques 123 Note 26 Disclosures on related parties 124 Note 27 Supplementary information to the cash-flow statement 124 Note 28 Financial transactions not recognised in the balance sheet 125 Note 29 Events after balance-sheet date 125 Note 30 Proposed appropriation of profit 125 106 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Income statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net sales 3 3,577 3,235 Operating expenses External expenses 4, 5, 7 –2,814 –2,340 Staff costs 6 –1,071 –959 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of property and equipment and intangible assets 12, 13 –69 –105 Operating loss –376 –169 Profit/loss from financial items Profit from participations in Group companies 8 1,251 1,506 Interest income and similar profit/loss items 9 –1 –2 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items 10 –3 –7 Profit/loss after financial items 871 1,328 Tax 11 –5 –7 Net profit for the year 866 1,322 Statement of comprehensive income for the Parent Company SEK M 2019 2018 Net profit for the year 866 1,322 Other comprehensive income Items that cannot be transferred to profit or loss Change in fair value of equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income –1 0 Total other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax –1 0 Comprehensive income for the year 865 1,321 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 107 Balance sheet for the Parent Company SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible assets 12 345 373 Property and equipment 13 30 45 Financial assets Shares and participations in Group companies 14 17,741 17,742 Participating interests in other companies 14 – 1,016 Deferred tax assets 16 7 5 Other financial assets 15 2,524 907 Total financial assets 20,272 19,671 Total fixed assets 20,647 20,089 Current assets Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 26 543 461 Receivables from other related parties 26 36 182 Other receivables 52 85 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 17 195 84 Total current receivables 827 813 Cash and bank balances 221 209 Total current assets 1,047 1,022 Total assets 23 21,696 21,111 108 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Balance sheet for the Parent Company, cont. SEK M Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity 18 Restricted equity Share capital 1,042 1,042 Statutory reserve 5,017 5,025 Total restricted equity 6,059 6,068 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 5,471 5,471 Fair value reserve –504 –503 Retained earnings 8,606 7,276 Net profit for the year 866 1,322 Total non-restricted equity 14,439 13,565 Total equity 20,498 19,633 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 19 20 19 Other provisions 20 26 27 Total provisions 46 46 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to other related parties 26 258 323 Total long-term liabilities 258 323 Current liabilities Accounts payable 147 187 Liabilities to Group companies 26 208 246 Liabilities to other related parties 26 69 307 Other liabilities 35 43 Accrued expenses and deferred income 21 434 326 Total current liabilities 894 1,109 Total equity, provisions and liabilities 23 21,696 21,111 For information on pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see note 22. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 109 Statement of changes in equity for the Parent Company Fair value Restricted equity reserves Non-restricted equity DevelopNet ment StatuFair Share profit/ Share expenditory value premium Retained loss for Total SEK M capital tures fund reserve reserve reserve earnings the year equity Opening equity, 1 January 2018 after adjustment for change in accounting policy 1,042 189 4,801 –503 5,471 5,986 1,625 18,611 Comprehensive income for the year Net profit for the year – – – – – – 1,322 1,322 Other comprehensive income – – – 0 – – – 0 Comprehensive income for the year – – – 0 – – 1,322 1,322 Dividends paid – – – – – –300 – –300 Appropriation of profit – – – – – 1,625 –1,625 – Capitalised proprietary development expenditures – 34 – – – –34 – – Closing equity, 31 December 2018 1,042 224 4,801 –503 5,471 7,276 1,322 19,633 Opening equity, 1 January 2019 after adjustment for change in accounting policy 1,042 224 4,801 –503 5,471 7,276 1,322 19,633 Comprehensive income for the year Net profit for the year – – – – – – 866 866 Other comprehensive income – – – –1 – – – –1 Comprehensive income for the year – – – –1 – – – –1 Appropriation of profit – – – – – 1,322 –1,322 – Capitalised proprietary development expenditures – –8 – – – 8 – – Closing equity, 31 December 2019 1,042 216 4,801 –504 5,471 8,606 866 20,498 110 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Cash flow statement for the Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 Operating activities Profit after financial items 871 1,328 Adjustment for non-cash items 27 –886 –109 Income tax paid –15 –43 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital –30 1,176 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables –1,304 185 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities –236 –244 Cash flow from operating activities –1,570 1,118 Investing activities Change in shares in Group company 1,608 –800 Acquisition of intangible assets –23 –61 Acquisition of property and equipment –5 –2 Divestment of property and equipment 2 – Cash flow from investing activities 1,582 –863 Financing activities Dividends paid – –300 Cash flow from financing activities – –300 Net cash flow for the year 12 –45 Cash and cash equivalents, 1 January 209 254 Cash and cash equivalents, 31 December 221 209 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 111 Notes to the Parent Company’s financial statements All figures in SEK M unless otherwise stated. Note 1 Accounting policies Company information New IFRSs and interpretations that have not yet been applied The Annual Report for Länsförsäkringar AB (publ), Corp. Reg. No. 556549The new or revised IFRSs and interpretations not yet in force and that have 7020, pertains to the fiscal year 1 January–31 December 2019. Länsförsäkrinnot been applied in advance are not deemed to have any material effect on gar AB (publ) is a limited liability company registered in Sweden with its registhe financial statements when they enter force. tered offices in Stockholm. The company’s address is Tegeluddsvägen 11–13, SE-106 50 Stockholm, Sweden. The company is wholly owned by the 23 Differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s regional insurance companies and 15 local insurance companies. accounting policies The deviations arising between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s Compliance with standards and legislation accounting policies are due to the limitations on the possibility of applying The Parent Company’s annual accounts have been prepared in accordance IFRS in the Parent Company, as a result of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) as well as recommendathe Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with respect to the relationship tion RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities and the statements regarding listed between accounting and taxation. companies by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The regulations in RFR 2 The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group stipulate that the Parent Company, in the annual accounts for the legal entity, except in the following cases. is to apply all IFRSs adopted by the EU and statements to the extent that this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Classification and presentation format Pension Obligations Vesting Act, and with consideration to the relationship The income statement and the balance sheet for the Parent Company are between accounting and taxation. The recommendation stipulates the perpresented following the format of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, as missible exceptions from and supplements to IFRS. opposed to the consolidated statement of income and statement of financial position, which are based on IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. The Amended accounting policies applied from differences that apply in the Parent Company’s income statement and bal1 January 2019 ance sheet compared with the consolidated financial statements primarily Länsförsäkringar AB applies the accounting policies below from comprise the classification of financial income and expenses, the specifica1 January 2019. tion of current assets and fixed assets, the specification of non-restricted and restricted equity, as well as the presence of provisions as a separate IFRS 16 Leases heading in the balance sheet. IFRS 16 replaced IAS 17 Leases on 1 January 2019. The main requirement of the standard is that the lessee is to recognise leases, which were previously Shares and participations in Group companies classified as operating leases, in the balance sheet. Länsförsäkringar AB has Shares and participations in Group companies are recognised at cost. made use of the option in RFR 2 to not apply IFRS 16 in legal entities due to the relationship between accounting and taxation, which is why the lease standGroup contributions ard did not have any financial impact. Group contributions are recognised in accordance with the main rule of RFR 2. Group contributions received by the company from a Group company are IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments thus recognised according to the same policies as financial income. Group The company applies IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments from contributions paid to a Group company are recognised as an increase in 1 January 2019. IFRIC 23 clarifies how IAS 12 Income Taxes is to be applied if shares and participations in Group companies. there are uncertainties about how tax legislation is to be applied to a certain transaction or under certain circumstances. The interpretation did not entail Leased assets any impact on the company’s financial statements. The Parent Company does not apply IFRS 16, in accordance with the exception found in RFR 2. Lease payments for which the Parent Company is the Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7) ­lessee are recognised as expenses straight-line over the term and thus no The amendments provide temporary relief from applying specific hedge right-of-use assets or lease liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet. accounting requirements for hedging relationships directly affected by the IBOR reform. The relief also means that the IBOR reform will not generally Borrowing costs mean that hedge accounting needs to be discontinued. Länsförsäkringar AB Borrowing costs in the Parent Company are charged to earnings for the does not apply hedge accounting and accordingly the amendments did not period to which they are attributable. have any financial effect. 112 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 5 Leasing, cont. Note 2 Risks and risk management Lease agreements in which the company is the lessor In addition to shares in and receivables from Group companies, the Parent Irrevocable lease payments pertaining to rent for premises amount to: Company also has other securities held as non-current assets. However, 2019 2018 these holdings are limited in size relative to the investment assets of the Within one year 88 87 Group’s insurance companies. At year-end 2019, the Parent Company’s holdLater than one year but within five years – 174 ings in Länsförsäkringar Fastighetsförmedling AB amounted to SEK 3 M (3), Total 88 261 participations in tenant-owned apartments to SEK 5 M (5), shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB (publ) to SEK 8 M (8) and interest-bearing In 2019, rental income amounting to SEK 88 M (87) was recognised. The company leases bonds to SEK 2,505 M (891). In addition, bank balances amounted to SEK 221 M premises to Group companies. (209). At the end of the year, the Parent Company signed a renewed long-term service agreement with Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB. In addition to the above mentioned assets and liabilities, the Parent Company’s risks derive from the operations of the subsidiaries. Refer also to the Board of Directors’ Note 6 Employees, staff costs and remuneration to senior executives Report and the Group’s note 2 Risk and capital management. 2019 2018 Average number of employees, Sweden Men 375 335 Women 378 338 Note 3 Net sales Total number of employees 753 673 2019 2018 Salaries, other remuneration and social Income from contracts with customers security expenses Income from companies in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group 1,434 1,346 Other employees Income from Länsförsäkringar Liv 200 219 Salaries and remuneration 592 512 Income from the regional insurance companies 1,730 1,488 Social security expenses 382 333 Income from other related parties 23 23 of which pension costs 155 135 Income from external customers 103 72 Total 973 846 Total income from contracts with customers 3,490 3,148 Board of Directors and senior executives, 18 (18) Salaries and remuneration 20 39 Rental income 87 87 of which, fixed salary to the President and Executive Net sales 3,577 3,235 Vice President 6 15 of which fixed salary to other senior executives 11 21 Social security expenses 14 23 of which pension costs 6 10 Note 4 External expenses Total 34 62 2019 2018 Total salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses Cost of premises, note 5 –131 –126 Salaries and remuneration 612 551 Other cost of premises –54 –50 Social security expenses 395 356 Marketing –58 –63 of which pension costs 161 147 Consultants –433 –769 Total 1,007 907 Fees to auditors, note 7 –8 –4 IT costs –1,452 –1,121 Variable remuneration Printed matter, telephony and postage –99 –94 Variable remuneration is a rarely utilised form of remuneration at the Länsförsäkringar Other expenses –578 –114 AB Group. Total –2,814 –2,340 Remuneration of the Board Costs for premises refers primarily to rent for premises used by the Group for its Directors’ fees are payable to the Chairman and members of the Board in accordance ­operations. with a decision of the Annual General Meeting. No fee is payable to employee representaLänsförsäkringar AB in turn leases premises to Group companies. tives and to Board members from the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. Remuneration of senior executives Remuneration of the President and other senior executives comprises basic salary and other benefits. Pension benefits and other benefits paid to the President and other Note 5 Leasing senior executives are included as part of total remuneration. Senior executives are the individuals who, together with the President, comprise of corporate management. Lease agreements in which the company is the lessee Irrevocable lease payments pertaining to rent for premises amount to: 2019 2018 Within one year –151 –129 Later than one year but within five years –570 –259 Over five years –542 – Total –1,263 –388 A rental charge of SEK –135 M (–126) was recognised in profit for 2019. Lease contracts are valid between five to ten years which is 31 October 2024 and 2029. Every time that lease contracts are renewed, a basic rent level is established that is subsequently index-linked to the consumer price index. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 113 Note 6 Employees, staff costs and remuneration to senior executives, cont. Remuneration for senior executives Pension costs as a percentage of pensionable salary, % 2019 Basic salary Other remuneration Pension costs Total Defined-contribution Fredrik Bergström, President 5.7 0.0 2.0 7.7 35 Ann Sommer, Executive Vice President 3.8 0.0 1.1 4.9 30 Ceasar Åfors, Chairman of the Board 0.9 – – 0.9 – Maria Engholm, Deputy Chairman of the Board 0.5 – – 0.5 – Mikael Sundquist, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Hans Ljungkvist, Board member 0.2 – – 0.2 – Jonas Rosman, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Göran Lindell, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Susanne Bäsk, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Bengt-Erik Jansson, Board member 0.4 – – 0.4 – Maria Wallin Wållberg, Board member 0.4 – – 0.4 – Christer Villard, Former Board member 0.1 – – 0.1 – Other senior executives Parent Company (6 people) 10.6 0.2 3.7 14.5 38 Subsidiaries and Länsförsäkringar Liv (2 people) 6.1 0.0 2.2 8,.3 36 Total 2019 30.0 0.2 9,.1 39.3 Total remuneration from Parent Company 20,.1 0.2 5.8 26.0 Total remuneration from subsidiaries 9.9 0.0 3.3 13.2 Pension costs as a percentage of pensionable salary, % 2018 Basic salary Other remuneration Pension costs Total Defined-contribution Fredrik Bergström, President 1.8 0.0 0.5 2.3 35 Sören Westin, Former President 3.7 0.0 0.4 4.1 35 Johan Agerman, Former President 3.4 5.9 1.2 10.6 35 Ann Sommer, Executive Vice President 3.7 0.0 1.5 5.2 40 Ceasar Åfors, Chairman of the Board 0.7 – – 0.7 – Jan Fock, Former Deputy Chairman of the Board 0.5 – – 0.5 – Maria Engholm, Deputy Chairman of the Board 0.6 – – 0.6 – Mikael Sundquist, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Jonas Rosman, Board member 0.4 – – 0.4 – Christer Villard, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Göran Lindell, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Susanne Bäsk, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Bengt-Erik Jansson, Board member 0.3 – – 0.3 – Maria Wallin Wållberg, Board member 0.2 – – 0.2 – Other senior executives Parent Company (9 people) 20.5 0.3 8.3 29.1 42 Subsidiaries and Länsförsäkringar Liv (3 people) 10.6 0.1 4.4 15.2 38 Total 2018 47.7 6.3 16.4 70.5 Total remuneration from Parent Company 33.4 6.2 10.5 50.0 Total remuneration from subsidiaries and Länsförsäkringar Liv 14.3 0.1 5.9 20.4 Other remuneration of a former President in 2018 refers to severance pay. The cost refers to pension cost that effected the profit/loss in 2018. 114 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 6 Employees, staff costs and remuneration to senior executives, cont. Note 7 Fees and remuneration to auditors Pensions The retirement age for the President is 65. The pension is a defined-contribution plan and 2019 2018 the pension premium is to amount to 35% of the monthly salary. The retirement age for KPMG AB the Executive Vice President is 60. The pension between the age of 60 and 65 is a – audit assignments –4 –4 defined-contribution plan. The pension premium is to amount to 18% of pensionable sal– audit operations in addition to the audit assignment –1 – ary. Pensionable salary refers to fixed salary. Pension from the age of 65 is subject to the – tax consulting 0 0 terms of the pension agreements between the Swedish Insurance Employers’ Associa– other assignment –3 0 tion (FAO), the Swedish Union of Insurance Employees (FORENA) and the Swedish ConTotal –8 –5 federation of Professional Associations (SACO). The retirement age for other senior executives is 62 or 65. If the retirement age is 65, Audit assignment pertains to a review of the Annual Report and accounting, as well as the the pension is a defined-contribution plan and the pension premium is to amount to 35% Board’s and President’s administration. Audit operations other than audit assignment of the monthly salary. If the retirement age is 62, the pension between the age of 62 and pertain to various types of quality-assurance services, such as reviews of the administra65, is a defined-contribution plan. Pension amounting to about 70% of the pensionable tion, Articles of Association, regulations or agreements that result in reports or certifisalary will be paid. Pension from the age of 65 is subject to the terms of the pension cates. Other assignments pertain to activities that are not included in the above-menagreements between the Swedish Insurance Employers’ Association (FAO), the Swedish tioned items, for example, legal consultations alongside audit activities and that are not Union of Insurance Employees (FORENA) and the Swedish Confederation of Professional attributable to tax consultancy services. Associations (SACO). Severance pay A mutual period of notice of six months applies to the President. If the company terminates employment, severance pay corresponding to 12 months´ salary is paid during the Note 8 Profit from participations in group companies period of notice. A mutual period of notice of three months applies to the Executive Vice President. If the company terminates employment, severance pay corresponding to 24 2019 2018 months´ salary is paid during the period of notice. A mutual period of notice of three or six Dividends from subsidiaries 295 1,310 months applies for other senior executives. If the company terminates employment, sevGroup contributions received 365 150 erance pay corresponding to 12 or 18 months´ salary is paid during the period of notice. Share of profit in partnership 591 46 Total 1,251 1,506 Preparation and decision-making process applied in relation to the issue of remuneration of corporate management A Remuneration Policy for the Länsförsäkringar AB Group regulates the preparation and decision-making process for remuneration of corporate management. The Remuneration Committee prepares important remuneration decisions and decisions on measures Note 9 Interest income and similar profit/loss items for following up the application of the Remuneration Policy. The Board decides on remuneration and other terms of employment for corporate management and employees 2019 2018 with overall responsibility for one of the company’s control functions. Interest income, other1) 0 –1 Interest income, bonds and interest-bearing securities2) –1 –2 Composition and mandate of Remuneration Committee Capital gains, currencies 0 0 The composition and duties of the Remuneration Committee are regulated in the Board’s Capital gains, shares and participations 0 – formal work plan. The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman and two Board Capital gains, interest-bearing securities Group c­ ompanies 0 0 members. Total –1 –2 Policies for remuneration of corporate management ¹) Of which negative interest on Cash and bank of SEK 0.3 M (0.8). ²) Of which negative interest on Bonds and other interest-bearing securities of SEK 0.9 M (1.5). Senior executives in the Länsförsäkringar AB Group are to have market-based employment terms and conditions. The total remuneration must be on par with the industry. The structure and level of remuneration should be harmonised with the company’s values, meaning that it should be reasonable, moderate and well-balanced, contribute to good ethics and organisational culture, and be characterised by openness and transparency. Note 10 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items Fixed remuneration 2019 2018 Fixed remuneration is paid according to the general policy above. Interest expense, Länsförsäkringar Liv – –5 Interest expense, bonds and interest-bearing securities 0 0 Pensions Interest expenses, derivatives – – The pension solution shall be solely premium-based with a premium provision of 35% of Interest expenses, other 0 0 the monthly salary. Capital losses, currencies 0 0 Other benefits Unrealised losses, interest-bearing securities –3 –2 In addition to the above benefits a company car is offered, individual health care insurUnrealised losses, shares and participations 0 0 ance and other benefits is offered to all employees. Realised losses, derivatives – – Unrealised losses, derivatives – – Loans to senior executives 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Total –3 –7 Board members 13 10 President and Executive Vice Presidents 6 8 Other senior executives 9 21 Total 28 39 Loans granted comprise personnel loans and other loans. Personnel loans are maximised at SEK 500,000 and carry loan terms comparable to what applies to other employees in the Group. The interest rate for employees is the repo rate less 0.5 percentage points, but can never be lower than 0.5%. The interest benefit is calculated in accordance with the Swedish Tax Agency’s rules and is included in other benefits as above. The terms and conditions of other loans are market-based. Number of women among senior executives, % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Board members 50 50 Other senior executives 50 62 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 115 Note 11 Tax Note 12 Intangible assets 2019 2018 Capitalised IT costs 2019 2018 Current tax Cost Tax income for the period –6 –10 Opening cost, 1 January 701 639 Adjustment of tax expense pertaining to prior years –1 1 Acquisitions 23 62 Deferred tax income (+) / tax expense (–) Disposals –76 – Deferred tax pertaining to temporary differences 1 2 Closing cost, 31 December 648 701 Total recognised tax income (+) / tax expense (–) –5 –7 Amortisation Reconciliation of effective tax rate Opening accumulated amortisation, 1 January –134 –108 Profit before tax 871 1,328 Amortisation –49 –26 Tax at applicable tax rate –186 –292 Disposals 34 Tax on non-deductible costs –12 –8 Closing accumulated amortisation, 31 December –148 –134 Tax on non-taxable income 192 292 Impairment Tax attributable to prior year 1 1 Opening accumulated impairment, 1 January –195 –134 Recognised effective tax –5 –7 Impairment –2 –61 Applicable tax rate, % 21.4 22.0 Disposals 42 – Effective tax rate, % 0.6 0.5 Closing accumulated impairment, 31 December –155 –195 Carrying amount, 31 December 345 373 In 2019, SEK 23 M was accrued in ongoing intangible projects due to a new non-life insurance system that is expected to be capitalised and amortised from 2020. An acquired finance and monitoring system was written down by SEK 51 M during the year and has a remaining carrying amount of SEK 10 M (21). The originally estimated useful life was deemed to be 15 years. In connection with the impairment test, a new assessment of the useful life was made and is expected to be ten years, which means that the system will be fully amortised in 2021. Other intangible assets are amortised over a period of 5 to 10 years. Note 13 Property and equipment Improvement to third-party properties 2019 2018 Equipment 2019 2018 Cost Cost Opening cost, 1 January 253 253 Opening cost, 1 January 84 86 Closing cost, 31 December 253 253 Acquisitions 5 5 Depreciation Divestments/disposals –65 –6 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January –163 –149 Closing cost, 31 December 24 84 Depreciation –15 –14 Depreciation Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December –177 –163 Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 January –69 –69 Impairment Depreciation –4 –4 Opening accumulated impairment, 1 January –57 –57 Divestments/disposals 64 4 Closing accumulated impairment, 31 December –57 –57 Closing accumulated depreciation, 31 December –9 –69 Carrying amount, 31 December 18 33 Impairment Opening accumulated impairment, 1 January –3 –3 Closing accumulated impairment, 31 December –3 –3 Carrying amount, 31 December 12 12 2019 2018 Total carrying amount, 31 December 30 45 Equipment includes SEK 4 M (4) representing works of art that are not depreciated. Accumulated impairment of art amounting to SEK 2 M (2) has been made. 116 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 14 Shares and participations in group companies 2019 2018 Cost Opening cost, 1 January 22,316 21,471 Shareholder contributions – 800 Acquisitions – 50 Disposals –997 – Withdrawal –63 –51 Capital gains from partnerships 44 46 Closing cost, 31 December 21,301 22,316 Impairment Opening accumulated impairment, 1 January –3,559 –3,559 Closing accumulated impairment, 31 December –3,559 –3,559 Carrying amount, 31 December 17,741 18,758 Specification of the company’s holding of shares and participations in Group companies Corporate Number of shares Participating Participating Carrying amount Carrying amount Company name Registration Number and participations interest 2019, % interest 2018, % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Länsförsäkringar Bank AB (publ) 516401-9878 9,548,708 100 100 9,230 9,230 Länsförsäkringar Fondliv Försäkrings AB (publ) 516401-8219 10,000 100 100 5,305 5,305 Länsförsäkringar Sak Försäkrings AB (publ) 502010-9681 2,000,000 100 100 3,206 3,206 Utile Dulci 2 HB 916601-0067 – – 45,6 – 1,016 Shares and participations in Group companies 17,741 18,758 All subsidiaries have their registered offices in Stockholm. Länsförsäkringar AB owns 100% of the shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag (publ). This company is operated in accordance with mutual principles and may not pay dividends according to its current Articles of Association. As a result, the majority of the risks and rewards associated with ownership do not accrue to the owner Länsförsäkringar AB but to the life-assurance policyholders. Accordingly, this shareholding cannot be classified as a holding in a subsidiary under the definition provided in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements. Note 15 Other financial assets 2019 2018 Opening balance, 1 January 907 737 Acquisition of bonds and interest-bearing securities 2,510 291 Divestment of bonds and interest-bearing securities –873 –99 Allocation of premiums and discounts –31 –23 Change in value of bonds and interest-bearing securities 11 1 Carrying amount, 31 December 2,524 907 Number of shares Carrying amount Carrying amount Company name and participations 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB (publ) 8,000 8 8 Brf Mässen 1 5 5 Länsförsäkringar Fastighetsförmedling AB 930 3 3 Listed bonds issued by other Swedish issuers 2,508 891 Total 2,524 907 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 117 Note 16 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Net 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Property and equipment – 1 – – – 1 Financial assets – 1 – – –1 1 Pension provisions –7 –7 – – –6 –7 Deferred tax assets (–)/deferred tax liabilities (+) –7 –5 – – –7 –5 Offset – – – – – – Net deferred tax asset (–)/deferred tax liability (+) –7 –5 – – –7 –5 Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and loss carryforwards 2019 Amount at Recognised in Recognised in other Amount at 1 January profit or loss comprehensive income 31 December Property and equipment 1 –1 – 0 Financial assets 1 –1 – 0 Pension provisions –7 – – –7 Deferred tax assets (–)/deferred tax liability (+) –5 –2 – –7 Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and loss carryforwards 2018 Amount at Recognised in Recognised in other Amount at 1 January profit or loss comprehensive income 31 December Property and equipment 2 –1 – 1 Financial assets 1 0 – 1 Pension provisions –7 0 – –7 Deferred tax assets (–)/deferred tax liability (+) –4 –1 – –5 Note 17 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Other accrued income 2 Prepaid expenses 195 83 Total 195 84 118 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 18 Equity A specification of changes in shareholders’ equity is provided after in the statement of Share ownership in changes in equity. ­Länsförsäkringar AB Number of shares Number Share of votes 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Company A B C ­capital, % Shares at a quotient value of SEK 100 per share Number Number Länsförsäkringar Skåne 141,849 882,046 – 9.8 Series A 10 1,532,678 1,532,678 Länsförsäkringar Stockholm 129,212 802,382 – 8.9 Series B 1 8,885,949 8,885,949 Länsförsäkringar Östgöta 114,155 663,463 – 7.5 Series C 1 5,955 5,955 Dalarnas Försäkringsbolag 104,708 609,639 – 6.9 Number of shares outstanding 10,424,582 10,424,582 Länsförsäkringar Göteborg och Bohuslän 87,010 605,143, 821 6.6 Restricted reserves Länsförsäkringar Älvsborg 100,176 581,374 – 6.5 Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distribution. Länsförsäkringar Bergslagen 86,351 495,089 – 5.6 Statutory reserve Länsförsäkringar Jönköping 82,812 474,021 – 5.3 The aim of the statutory reserve is to save a portion of the net profit that is not utilised to Länsförsäkringar Uppsala 73,298 424,791 – 4.8 cover losses brought forward. The statutory reserve comprises restricted equity. Länsförsäkringar Västerbotten 57,195 330,919 – 3.7 No new transfers to the statutory reserve are required, although transfers can be made Länsförsäkringar Halland 56,785 329,857 – 3.7 voluntarily. The statutory reserve also includes the amount of SEK 4,801 M that was Länsförsäkringar Södermanland 58,117 323,139 – 3.7 included in the share premium reserve prior to 1 January 2006. Länsförsäkringar Göinge-­ Kristianstad 49,982 322,347 – 3.6 Non-restricted equity Länsförsäkringar Kalmar län 56,717 295,878 – 3.4 Fair value fund Fair value reserve Länsförsäkringar Gävleborg 60,058 281,083 – 3.3 The fair value reserve comprises the accumulated net change in fair value of availaLänsförsäkringar Skaraborg 64,058 253,172 – 3.0 ble-for-sale financial assets until the asset is derecognised from the balance sheet. Länsförsäkringar Västernorrland 50,186 257,122 – 2.9 Länsförsäkringar Jämtland 35,795 226,453 – 2.5 Share premium reserve Länsförsäkring Kronoberg 36,701 203,130 – 2.3 When shares are issued at a premium, meaning that a higher amount than the quotient Länsförsäkringar Värmland 31,160 202,208 – 2.2 value is paid for the share, an amount corresponding to the surplus of the quotient value LF Norrbotten 16,960 127,878 – 1.4 of the share is recognised in the share premium reserve. Länsförsäkringar Blekinge 23,088 120,500 – 1.4 Retained earnings Länsförsäkringar Gotland 16,305 74,315 – 0.9 Retained earnings comprises profit brought forward from the preceding year after 15 local insurance companies – – 5,134 0.0 deductions for any dividends paid during the year. Total number of shares 1,532,678 8,885,949 5,955 100 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 119 Note 19 Provisions for pensions and similar commitments Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Pension provisions 12 12 Holiday pay liability 61 56 Other provisions 8 6 Social security expenses 24 19 Total provisions for pensions 20 19 Special employer’s contribution 36 66 Provisions for staff costs 7 12 Pension provisions of SEK 12 M (12) are encompassed by the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Other accrued expenses 307 173 Total 434 326 Defined-benefit pension plans There are a number of minor plans that almost only encompass employees who have already reached retirement age. These plans cover old-age pensions and in some cases also survivor’s pension. The pension amounts are paid in relation to the final salary level when the employee retires and in the vast majority of cases are life annuities. In the event Note 22 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities that upward adjustment of the pension has been agreed, the Parent Company follows the norms applied by the Insurance Industry’s P ­ ension Fund (FPK). 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Contingent liabilities Defined-contribution pension plans Part-owner of Utile Dulci 2 HB – 13 The company pays fixed contributions to a separate legal entity and does not have a legal or informal obligation to pay additional contributions. The company’s payments to Länsförsäkringar AB and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv have signed a service agreement with defined-contribution plans are recognised as expenses during the period in which the Länsförsäkringar Liv due to Länsförsäkringar Liv’s run off. For additional information the employee performed the services to which the contributions refer. Primarily, contribuGroup’s note 45 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities. tions to the Insurance Industry’s Pension Fund (FPK) are recognised here. This plan encompasses all employees except for a few individuals who have individual solutions. The pension agreement for the insurance industry, the FTP plan, through insurance with the Insurance Industry’s Pension Fund (FPK) is a multi-employer defined-benefit pension plan. According to IAS 19 Employee Benefits, this pension plan entails that, as a rule, a company is to recognise its proportional share of the defined-benefit pension commitment and the plan assets and expenses associated with the pension commitment. Disclosures are also presented in the accounts pursuant to the requirements for defined-benefit pension plans. FPK is currently unable to provide necessary information which is why the pension plans above are recognised as a defined-contribution plan in accordance with IAS 19. Nor is any information available on surpluses and deficits in the plan or whether these surpluses and deficits would then affect the contributions for the plan in future years. FTP plan contributions for 2020 are expected to total SEK 59 M. 2019 2018 Expenses for defined-contribution plans 143 130 Note 20 Other provisions 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Provision for interest subsidies for personnel loans to former employees who have retired. 16 18 Other provisions 10 9 Total 26 27 120 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 23 Anticipated recovery and settlement periods for assets, provisions and liabilities 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Amount expected to be recovered within 12 months after 12 months Total within 12 months after 12 months Total Fixed assets Intangible assets1) 49 295 345 50 323 373 Property and equipment1) 18 12 30 20 25 45 Shares and participations in Group companies 17,741 17,741 – 17,742 17,742 Participating interests in other companies 8 8 – 1,016 1,016 Deferred tax assets 7 – 7 5 – 5 Other financial assets 975 1,541 ,2,515 – 907 907 Total fixed assets 1,049 19,597 20,646 75 20,014 20,089 Current assets Receivables from Group companies 542 – 542 461 – 461 Receivables from other related parties – – 182 – 182 Other receivables 87 – 87 85 – 85 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 198 – 198 84 – 84 Cash and bank balances 221 – 221 209 – 209 Total current assets 1,048 – 1,048 1,021 – 1,021 Total assets 2,097 19,597 21,696 1,096 20,014 21,111 1) The amount that is expected to be recovered within 12 months corresponds to depreciation for the year. 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Amount expected to be settled within 12 months after 12 months Total within 12 months after 12 months Total Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments – – – – 19 19 Other provisions – 46 46 – 27 27 Total provisions 46 46 – 46 46 Long-term liabilities Liabilities to other related parties – – – – 323 323 Total long-term liabilities – – – – 323 323 Current liabilities Accounts payable 149 – 149 187 – 187 Liabilities to Group companies 6 202 208 246 – 246 Liabilities to other related parties – – – 307 – 307 Other liabilities 188 – 188 43 – 43 Accrued expenses and deferred income 432 323 756 326 – 326 Total current liabilities 775 525 1,301 1,109 – 1,109 Total liabilities and provisions 775 571 1,347 1,109 369 1,478 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 121 Note 24 Classification of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets measured at Financial assets measured at fair value through other fair value in profit or loss comprehensive income Measured at Financial assets fair value in Equity measured at Equity 31 Dec 2019 profit or loss instruments amortised cost Debt instruments instruments Total Fair value Assets Other financial assets 2,508 – – – – – 2,508 Shares and participations 3 – – – 5 8 8 Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – – – – 8 8 8 Receivables from Group companies – 542 – – – 542 – Receivables from other related parties – – – – – – Other receivables – 42 – – – 42 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income – 3 – – – 3 – Current investments Cash and bank balances – 221 – – – 221 – Total 2,511 807 – – 13 3,332 2,524 Financial liabilities measured Financial liabilities measured 31 Dec 2019 at fair value in profit or loss at amortised cost Total Fair value Liabilities Liabilities to Group companies – 206,559 – 206,559 Liabilities to other related parties – – Other liabilities and accounts payable – 151,806 – 151,806 Accrued expenses and deferred income – 579,351 – 579,351 Total – 937,716 – 937,716 Financial assets measured at Financial assets measured at fair value through other fair value in profit or loss comprehensive income Measured at Financial assets fair value in Equity measured at Equity 31 Dec 2018 profit or loss instruments amortised cost Debt instruments instruments Total Fair value Assets Other financial assets 891 – – – – 891 891 Shares and participations – – – – 8 8 8 Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB – – – – 8 8 8 Receivables from Group companies – – 419 – – 419 419 Receivables from other related parties – – – – – – – Other receivables – – 185 – – 185 185 Prepaid expenses and accrued income – – 17 – – 17 17 Current investments – – – – – – – Cash and bank balances – – 209 – – 209 209 Total 891 – 829 – 17 1,737 1,737 Financial liabilities measured Financial liabilities measured 31 Dec 2018 at fair value in profit or loss at amortised cost Total Fair value Liabilities Liabilities to Group companies – 246 246 246 Liabilities to other related parties – 629 629 629 Other liabilities and accounts payable – 230 230 230 Accrued expenses and deferred income – 326 326 326 Total – 1,432 1,432 1,432 The fair value of assets classified as Loan receivables and accounts receivables and liabilThe main principle for measuring the fair value of debt securities in issue is that the value ities classified as Other financial liabilities comprises a reasonable approximation of the is measured at prices from external parties at year-end or the most recent trading date. If fair value based on the cost of the assets and liabilities, since these assets and liabilities external prices are not available or are deemed to deviate from market levels, a standard have short terms. method or valuation technique based on the estimated or original issue spread is utilised. 122 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 25 Fair value valuation techniques Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position are presented in the table based on the valuation techniques applied: Level 1 – Financial instruments whose fair value is based on quoted prices in an active Level 2 – Financial instruments measured using valuation techniques that are essentially market. A financial instrument is considered to be quoted in an active market when based on market data are categorised as Level 2. This Level primarily includes intertransactions take place at sufficient frequency and volume in order to provide continuest-rate and currency derivatives. ous price information. No additions are made for transaction costs (for example, brokerage commission) or future transaction costs in connection with a divestment. If the marLevel 3 – Financial instruments whose measurement is significantly influenced by inputs ket for the asset or liability is the most advantageous market and if a company on the that cannot be verified by external market data are categorised as Level 3. This Level measurement date can perform a transaction with the asset or liability at this price on mainly includes properties and unquoted shares and participations. this market, the holding is classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. 2019 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Shares and participations – 5 12 16 – 5 12 17 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 2,508 – – 2,508 891 – – 891 There were no significant transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2019 or during ings are not distributed to the owner; instead they accrue in their entirety to the policy2018. There were no transfers from Level 3 in 2019 or 2018. holders. Delisted, insolvent companies are measured at zero, if no other listing can be Shares and participations in Level 3 are measured at equity per share based on the found. most recent company report. Shares in Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB are valued Profits and losses are recognised in Interest income and similar profit/loss items or at the company’s share capital. The life-assurance operations are conducted in accordInterest expense and similar profit/loss items. ance with mutual principles through Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB, whose earnChange level 3 Shares and ­participations Total Opening balance 1 January 2018 4 4 Application of IFRS 9 8 8 Recognised in other comprehensive income 0 0 Closing balance 31 December 2018 12 12 Shares and ­participations Total Opening balance 1 January 2019 12 12 Application of IFRS 9 – – Recognised in other comprehensive income 0 0 Closing balance 31 December 2019 11 11 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 123 Note 26 Disclosures on related parties Pricing for service activities within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance is based on direct and sumption. Joint development projects and joint service are financed collectively and indirect costs. A price list is established in conjunction with the target process. Overall, invoiced based on an established distribution key. pricing is intended to distribute costs within the Länsförsäkringar Alliance based on conLänsförsäkringar Regional insurance Other related Related-party transactions 2019 Group companies Liv companies ­parties Total Income Services sold 1,475 203 1,726 570 3,975 Rent, premises 87 – – – 87 Financial income 660 – – – 660 Expenses Services purchased –52 – –27 0 –79 Rent, premises –104 – – – –104 Cash and cash equivalents with Receivables ­Länsförsäkringar Bank 124 – – – 124 Other receivables 419 – 31 4 454 Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities – – – – – Other liabilities 208 3 66 – 277 Länsförsäkringar Regional insurance Other related Related-party transactions 2018 Group companies Liv companies ­parties Total Income Services sold 1,392 219 1,488 23 3,122 Rent, premises 87 – – – 87 Financial income 1,460 – – – 1,460 Expenses Services purchased –17 –3 –22 –4 –47 Rent, premises –126 – – – –126 Financial costs – –5 – – –5 Cash and cash equivalents with Receivables ­Länsförsäkringar Bank 245 – – – 245 Other receivables 216 16 165 0 398 Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities – 0 – – – Other liabilities 246 38 592 – 876 Länsförsäkringar AB is owned by the 23 regional insurance companies and 15 local insurNote 27 Supplementary information to the cash-flow statement ance companies. In terms of operations, Länsförsäkringar AB with subsidiaries are organised into four business units: Non-life Insurance, Unit-linked Life Assurance, Tradi2019 2018 tional Life Assurance and Bank, as well as support functions Business Support, IT and Interest paid and dividends received Customer and Channel Support. The President’s staff includes the shared units of Accounting and Finance, Legal Affairs, Asset Management, Corporate Communication, Dividends received from subsidiaries 295 1 310 HR, Compliance and Risk Management. Withdrawal subsidiaries 63 51 Länsförsäkringar AB purchases and owns equipment that is subsequently leased to Interest received 31 2 Group companies and Länsförsäkringar Liv. Interest paid 0 –5 Länsförsäkringar AB leases its office premises from property owner Utile Dulci 2 HB. Adjustment for non-cash items Länsförsäkringar Bank manages subsidised loans to employees on behalf of the ­Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB, issued after the bank performs standard credit Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets 69 105 rating checks. Realised gains and losses –547 0 For information regarding remuneration of related key persons, such as Board Unrealised gains and losses 2 –2 ­members and senior executives, see note 6 Employees, staff costs and remuneration of Provisions 0 –18 senior executives. Hedging reserve – 2 Länsförsäkringar AB and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv have signed a service agreement Group contributions received that are regulated in the with Länsförsäkringar Liv due to Länsförsäkringar Liv´s run-off. The Group’s note 45 ­following fiscal year –365 –150 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities provides additional information about this Profit participation subsidiaries –44 –46 agreement. Total –886 –109 Related subsidiaries are specified in note 14 Shares and participations in Group ­companies. Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances. 124 Financial statements Parent Company Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Note 28 Financial transactions not recognised in the balance sheet Note 30 Proposed appropriation of profit Länsförsäkringar AB has external suppliers of IT operations at a cost of SEK 625 M (394). According to the statement of financial position for Länsförsäkringar AB, non-restricted The costs also include machinery equipment for computer operations. Some regional equity totalling SEK 14,348,948,733 is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting. insurance companies and Länsförsäkringar Liv are also included in the arrangement. Their remuneration to Länsförsäkringar AB is included in service revenue. The Parent Company´s non-restricted equity comprises (SEK) Share premium reserve 5,470,917,955 Fair value reserve –504,205,135 Retained earnings 8,606,414,586 Note 29 Events after balance-sheet date Net profit for the year 865,821,327 The COVID-19 outbreak has now been classified as a pandemic. There is considerable Non-restricted equity, 31 December 2019 14,438,948,733 uncertainty, but Länsförsäkringar AB is monitoring developments and is continuously adjusting its operations using contingency and business continuity plans. All growth The Board of Directors propose that of the unappropriated earnings in forecasts are currently highly uncertain, but most forecasters are assuming global the Parent Company SEK 67 per share be paid to the shareholders 698,446,994 growth of 2–2.5% in 2020. To be carried forward 13,740,501,739 14,438,948,733 The dividend is calculated 10,424,582 shares. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial statements Parent Company 125 Statement from the Board The Board of Directors and President affirm that this Annual Report was preand consolidated financial statements provide a true and fair view of the pared in accordance with generally accepted accounting p ­ olicies in Sweden ­Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial position and earnings. The Board and that the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance of Directors’ Report provides a true and fair overview of the Parent Compawith the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No ny’s and the Group’s operations, financial position and earnings, and 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and the Council issued on 19 July 2002 describes the significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent on the application of international accounting standards. The Annual Report ­Company and the companies included in the Group are exposed. Stockholm, 12 March 2020 Caesar Åfors Maria Engholm Susanne Bäsk Chairman Deputy Chairman Board member Bengt-Erik Jansson Göran Lindell Hans Ljungkvist Board member Board member Board member Jonas Rosman Mikael Sundquist Maria Wallin Wållberg Board member Board member Board member Susanne Lindberg Linnéa Niklasson Anna Sandqvist Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Fredrik Bergström President The Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements above were approved for publishing by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2020. The Group’s income statement, statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position, as well as the Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheet are subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2020. My audit report was submitted on 12 March 2020 Mårten Asplund Authorized Public Accountant 126 Statement from the Board Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Auditor’s Report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Länsförsäkringar AB (publ), Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal corp. id 556549-7020 control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstateTranslation from the Swedish original ment, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of Opinions the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Länsdisclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going försäkringar AB (publ) for the year 2019, except for the corporate governance concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is howstatement on pages 1-2 and the sustainability report on pages 1-2. The annual ever not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director intend to accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but 1-2 in this document. to do so. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material respects, the responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the compafinancial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2019 and its finanny’s financial reporting process. cial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in Auditor’s responsibility accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material mis31 December 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year statement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and genCompanies. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement erally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material on pages 1-2 and sustainability report on pages 1-2. The statutory administramisstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and tion report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and conare considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonsolidated accounts. ably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgthe statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position ment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: for the group. •• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and perBasis for Opinions form audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and •• Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to our have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the cirrequirements. cumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effecWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and tiveness of the company’s internal control. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. •• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Directors and the Managing Director. This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and •• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Manconsolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-2 and 1-2. The Board of Direcaging Director’s, use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing tors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a concluOur opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not sion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant conclusion regarding this other information. doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going conIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated cern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consoliaccount our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether dated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude may cause a company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are •• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the •• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they information of the entities or business activities within the group to express give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the direcAnnual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies and, concerning the consolition, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely dated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of responsible for our opinions. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Auditor’s Report 127 We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the planned As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit findin Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional ings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in internal control scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the administration and that we identified. the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures performed are Report on other legal and regulatory requirements based on our professional judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. Opinions This means that we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we ships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violations have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managwould have particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine ing Director of Länsförsäkringar AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed approappropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration priations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Basis for Opinions The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further statement on pages 1-2 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the Accounts Act. parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibiliaccordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination ties in accordance with these requirements. of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requireAnnual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the ments which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and conplace on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidasolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and tion requirements, liquidity and position in general. the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation The Board of Directors is responsible for the sustainability report on pages and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that the 1-2, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherOur examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing wise are controlled in a reassuring manner. standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matis different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditaccordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring ing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us manner. with sufficient basis for our opinion. A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess Stockholm 12 March 2020 with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: KPMG AB •• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or •• in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Mårten Asplund Annual Accounts Act, the Annual Accounts Act for Insurance Companies Authorized Public Accountant or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. 128 Auditor’s Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 About the Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability report is prepared annually and is an integrated part of the company’s annual report. The report is based on the Core level of the 2016 GRI Standards, except for the Standard on Occupational Health and Safety, which follows the updated version from 2018. The Sustainability Report also contains the company’s reporting according to Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, as well as the company’s Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. Accounting period and scope group prioritised sustainability topics. The following stakeholders The Sustainability Report describes how Länsförsäkringar AB works responded to a questionnaire and were interviewed in depth: with its most significant issues and the impact of our operations on •• Regional insurance companies (owners and customer managers) society, humans and the environment. It also describes how Läns•• Employees försäkringar AB works on sustainability risks and how sustainability •• Customers (brokers and corporate customers) topics are an integrated part of the business model. •• Civil society organisations Unless otherwise stated, the Sustainability Report pertains to •• Asset managers Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries Länsförsäkringar Sak, Agria, Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv, Länsförsäkringar Liv, Länsförsäkringar As owners and recipients of deliveries from Länsförsäkringar AB, the Bank, Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning, Länsförsäkringar Hypotek, regional insurance companies hold a unique position among stakeWasa Kredit and Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. Information and data holders. Customer meetings are managed locally by the regional applies to the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019. The previinsurance companies. Länsförsäkringar AB’s task is to conduct joint ous sustainability report was published on 27 March 2019. banking and insurance operations, pursue strategic development activities and provide service in areas that generate economies of Materiality analysis scale and enhance efficiency. Group management validated the In 2018, a materiality analysis was carried out that will form the basis results in December 2018. The update of the key sustainability topics for continued work on sustainability topics. It aimed to prioritise the governs the sustainability content of reporting in 2019. most important sustainability topics for Länsförsäkringar based on A materiality analysis was performed in 2019 to prioritise the the business’s impact on the environment and society. most important sustainability topics for Länsförsäkringar Bank. The As part of the analysis, various stakeholder groups were engaged results were in line with the those from Länsförsäkringar AB’s 2018 in autumn 2018 to enhance understanding of key stakeholders’ materiality analysis. expectations of Länsförsäkringar AB’s sustainability activities. The stakeholders’ expectations of Länsförsäkringar AB regarding susData and figures tainability topics were taken into account when the internal working Information about how the data has been collated is provided in the GRI index. Three focus areas have been renamed in the 2019 Annual Report to clarify their scope. Responsible investments has been changed to Responsible savings ­offering to clarify that it pertains to savings in funds and pensions as well as investments. Responsible banking has been changed to Responsible lending offering to highlight the customer perspective, and Sustainability requirements on suppliers has been changed to Responsible purchasing. Sustainability topic Material impact Responsible savings offering External Questions about the 2019 Responsible lending offering External Sustainability Report Questions about Länsförsäkringar Responsible insurance offering External AB’s 2019 Sustainability Report Business ethics Internal and external can be directed to the Head of Sustainability, Christina Kusoffsky Responsible employer Internal Hillesöy, via e-mail: christina. Responsible purchasing External hillesoy@lansforsakringar.se. Direct environmental impact External Long-term environmental and social Internal and external ­commitment Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 129 Governance Integrating sustainability into Länsförsäkringar AB’s operations is a priority. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Sustainability work is based on the vision of “Together we create security and opportunities” and the long-term objective is that sustainability is to feature throughout the operations. Governance of sustainability activities Sustainability Committee Länsförsäkringar AB’s Board assumes the overall responsibility for governing sustainability activities and decides on the governance documents that form the basis of such work. Länsförsäkringar AB’s Head of Sustainability The Head of Sustainability of Länsförsäkringar AB is responsible for the function, governance and standard-setting of sustainability topics in the company. Sustainability teams in A Sustainability Committee, comprising Group management, the Head of Sustainability and the Heads of Asset Management, Life Responsible lending offering Responsible insurance offering Assurance, Strategy and Change Management, Communication and Sustainability, Compliance, Risk Management and Internal Audit, meets at least four times a year to discuss, decide on and follow up Responsible savings offering Responsible purchasing priority sustainability topics. Four sustainability teams in the focus areas of responsible lending offering, insurance offering, savings offering and purchasing ensure Unit representatives/Sustainability Managers that sustainability efforts are aligned and developed with business plans. Each team includes Länsförsäkringar AB’s Head of Sustainability as well as sustainability managers and managers from the bank, insurance, fund management, asset management and purchasing. and 2020 business plans. Goals and activities are also e­ stablished for Activities and targets are monitored every quarter and reported to the area of responsible offering. the Sustainability Committee according to an annually revised agenda. UN initiatives provide sustainability framework A climate risk team, led by Risk Management with representatives Länsförsäkringar AB is a signatory of the UN Global Compact’s Ten from several business areas and Länsförsäkringar AB’s Head of SusPrinciples on human rights, labour, business ethics and environment tainability, compiles the overall climate risk exposure for each busiand seeks to ensure that the operations comply with these princiness unit and identifies how these risks interrelate in order to provide ples. Länsförsäkringar AB has also signed the UN Principles for a collective assessment of the Group’s climate risk exposure. Climate Responsible Investment (PRI). Länsförsäkringar Sak is a signatory risk is reported at least once annually. of the UN Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). These UN initiatives form the basis of the sustainability policy. Monitoring and internal control Länsförsäkringar AB’s corporate governance system aims to ensure Governance documents and training healthy and responsible control, risk management and a high level of The sustainability policy includes Länsförsäkringar AB’s material susinternal control in the operations. This governance system includes tainability topics and aims to provide managers and employees with the organisation, internal rules and systems for internal control. guidance in their daily sustainability work. The policy also outlines enviInternal control is based on three lines of defence: ronmental considerations and the precautionary principle. The sustain•• The first line of defence consists of the operations, which are ability policy was updated in 2019 with clarifications regarding lending. responsible for risk management and monitoring. A deviation During the fourth quarter, management decided that Länsförsäkringar reporting system is in place. AB’s fossil-free vision would be expanded into a climate-smart vision. •• To support internal control, the second line of defence exists New employees are informed about the content of the sustainabilwhereby Compliance is responsible for independent monitoring ity policy and other relevant guidelines in the induction programme. and control to ensure that the operations are conducted in full All employees are also to complete a mandatory e-course that regulatory compliance. Risk Management is responsible for includes the Code of Conduct, security and sustainability every year. ­independent risk control and ensuring that the operations are Alongside the sustainability policy, Länsförsäkringar AB also has ­conducted with a high level of risk control. other governance documents and guidelines that describe sustain•• The third line of defence consists of Internal Audit, which is the ability governance and focus, divisions of responsibilities, targets, Board’s support for quality assurance and evaluation of the organiactivities and monitoring. sation’s risk management, governance and internal control. Self-assessments and operational procedures are applied for the ongoing monitoring of compliance with these governance Sustainable goals in business plans ­documents. Policies and guidelines are revised annually. All business units and departments have set activities and goals A whistle-blowing function is available to prevent crime or regarding diversity and reduced environmental impact in their 2019 ­suspected crime in the business. 130 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Governance documents Responsible offering Owned by Sustainability policy Director of Corporate Communications and Sustainability Policy on responsible investments and corporate governance Head of Asset Management Credit policy and credit instructions Credit Manager Policy on anti-money laundering and terror financing Head of Anti-Money Laundering Bank Responsible business conduct Owned by Sustainability policy Director of Corporate Communications and Sustainability Code of Conduct for Employees Head of Compliance Personnel Policy HR Director Equality and diversity plan HR Director Remuneration Policy HR Director Guidelines for company cars and business travel procedures HR Director Purchasing and procurement policy Head of Purchasing Code of Conduct for Suppliers Head of Compliance Guidelines on identifying and managing conflicts of interest Head of Compliance Policy on improper benefits Head of Compliance Long-term environmental and social responsibility Owned by Research fund regulations Research Director Annual sustainability agenda Sustainability Committee Sustainability Committee •• Responsible savings offering •• Responsible insurance offering •• Responsible lending offering •• Responsible employer •• Long-term environmental and social Q4 Q1 •• Reporting results of commitment sustainability activities – Annual Report •• Direct environmental impact Other Business planning Standing agenda •• Regulatory compliance •• Climate issues •• Other sustainability topics Sustainability Committee Q3 Q2 Sustainability Committee •• Responsible insurance offering •• Responsible savings offering •• Responsible purchasing •• Responsible lending offering Other •• Long-term environmental and social The Board of Directors decides on the commitment sustainability policy A more detailed description of corporate governance is provided in the Corporate Governance Report of Länsförsäkringar AB’s Annual Report. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 131 Stakeholder dialogue Länsförsäkringar affects millions of people through its operations. More than 3.9 million customers in the Länsförsäkringar Alliance, more than 3,000 suppliers and 2,100 employees in Länsförsäkringar AB all have expectations of Länsförsäkringar AB. Stakeholder dialogues are a chance for Länsförsäkringar AB to discuss and ascertain stakeholders’ expectations. Priority stakeholders Communication channels Issues Activities in 2019 Owners and Board Reporting, training, Board Mission of operations, product develOngoing dialogue on sustainability topics, status and meetings, various forums and opment, policies and guidelines, risks business plans. Training. consulting bodies and AGM. and long-term objectives. Customers Customer surveys, customer Availability, service and quality, Tools for selecting sustainable funds on the fund meetings and questionnaires. responsible savings offering, environplatform – sustainability globes, sustainability mental and social responsibility inte­ratings, sustainability profile and carbon measuregrated into customer offering, transments. Expanded range of sustainable funds. parency and tools to select sustainable ­Customer meetings Claims-prevention tips for products. ­customers. Health-promotion services for people and animals. Trained customers in claims prevention. Employees Employee surveys, employee Work environment and health, skills Skills development in the form of training, seminars appraisals, meetings and development, diversity, inclusion and and lectures. Employee surveys. Monthly managtraining. equality. er-employee reviews. Activity-based workplace projects. Sustainability day with activities and lectures.­Regular lectures on sustainability. Suppliers Procurement, self-assessEnvironmental and social responsibilDialogue meetings on sustainability topics, site visits ment questionnaires and ity, sustainability risks in the supply and risk surveys of the largest sustainability risks. meetings. chain. Partners, trade organisaPartnerships, meetings, quesIndustry-wide challenges within enviUpdated the sustainability overview for Länsförsäktions and civil society tionnaires and exchanging ronmental and social responsibility, ringar Fondförvaltning and for lending in Länsförsäkorganisations know-how. responsible savings offering, responsiringar Bank. Provided sustainability research results. ble lending offering, transparency, cliConducted dialogues with industry organisations mate change, responsible insurance about insurance risk. offering, claims prevention. Authorities Reporting and meetings. Responsible offering, transparency Dialogue on natural catastrophes and climate risks. and climate risks. Investors Reporting, meetings and Responsible offering, common social Greater transparency on sustainability, responded to responses to questionnaires. challenges, environmental and social questionnaires. Meetings. risks, and transparency. 132 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Our partnerships Insurance partnerships AMICE – Association of Mutual Insurers and Insurance Insurance Sweden Cooperatives in Europe An industry organisation working to promote good business condiAn organisation representing the particular interests of mutuality, tions for the insurance industry and to increase confidence in the above all in issues of European legislation, and works for the industry and knowledge of the importance of private insurance in exchange of information and experiences among its more than 110 society. Länsförsäkringar sits on the Board and in several committees. members in 20 countries. Länsförsäkringar sits on the Board and in several working groups, such as sustainability. Kyoto Statement of the Geneva Association An initiative that encourages the world’s insurance companies to Eurapco – European Alliance Partners Company work together with customers, policy-makers and industry colAn alliance of eight insurance companies working in 18 countries. The leagues to help reduce environmental impact. The Geneva Associamembers exchange information and experience. Länsförsäkringar is tion, which has existed for 40 years, has a global partnership on ecoan active member of the Board and several committees, including nomic, political and social issues in the insurance industry. committees on responsible investments and sustainability. Länsförsäkringar is a signatory. ICMIF – International Cooperative and Mutual Insurance PSI – Principles for Sustainable Insurance Federation PSI is a UN initiative of principles on integrating sustainability into A representative body to support the development of mutuality and insurance offerings. Länsförsäkringar Sak has been a member since the construction of mutual and cooperative insurance companies the end of 2016 and submits a PSI report describing its sustainability around the world. More than 200 members in 72 countries exchange work every year. Länsförsäkringar Sak is participating in a global pilot information and experiences. Länsförsäkringar is an active member. project on climate risks initiated by PSI. INI – International Network of Insurance A network of more than 120 market-leading insurance companies all over the world who work together to solve insurance needs for corporate customers operating in other countries. Investment partnerships Access to Medicine Foundation Montreal Pledge A foundation founded by the British and Netherlands governments Länsförsäkringar AB has signed the Montreal Pledge, an initiative together with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The foundation whereby investors pledge to measure and publicly disclose the seeks to improve access to medicine for people around the world. ­carbon footprint of their investment portfolios. The Montreal Pledge Every other year an index is produced that shows the actions pharis supported by both PRI and the United Nations Environment maceutical companies are taking to improve conditions for people ­Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). without access to basic medicine. Länsförsäkringar supports this ­initiative. PRI – Principles for Responsible Investments PRI is a UN initiative of principles concerning the integration of susCDP tainability in investment decisions, engagement and collaboration. A civil society organisation that collects global environmental inforLänsförsäkringar AB is a member and submits annual reports on the mation from companies. The initiative is supported by over 800 instiimplementation of these principles to PRI. Länsförsäkringar particitutional investors worldwide. Through dialogue with companies and pates in investor initiatives to influence other companies and stakeby supporting the CDP’s work, investors want to increase transparholders in sustainability topics. ency and promote environmental reporting, and encourage companies to work actively to reduce their environmental impact. LänsSustainable Value Creation försäkringar supports the CDP. “Sustainable Value Creation” is a collaborative project comprising 17 of Sweden’s largest institutional investors. The project aims to Institutional Owners Association highlight the importance of working with sustainability topics in The Institutional Owners Association for Regulatory Issues in the a structured manner. Länsförsäkringar is an active member. Stock Market is a partnership between pension funds, AP national pension funds, insurance companies and fund companies. The association develops best practice in corporate governance and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning is an active member. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 133 Investment partnerships, cont. Sustainalytics Engagement Service A common cooperative platform for active owners. Länsförsäkringar AB actively participates in this forum together with institutional investors all over the world to influence companies to act responsibly and improve the company’s sustainability results. Swedish Investment Fund Association A trade organisation whose purpose is to look after the collective interests of fund management companies and fund savers alike. Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning is an active member. Swesif – Sweden forum for sustainable investments Swesif is an independent network forum for organisations that work for or with sustainable investments in Sweden. Swesif’s goal is to increase knowledge and interest surrounding sustainable investments. Länsförsäkringar is a member. Partnerships in banking Swedish Bankers’ Association Swedish Financial Coalition against Commercial Sexual An association of banks in Sweden whose tasks include spreading Exploitation of Children knowledge about banks and their role for growth and welfare in A partnership between banks and Ecpat to prevent the Swedish ­society. Länsförsäkringar is a member of the board and the Sustain­payment system from being abused for the purchase of child porability Committee. nography and trafficking of children for sexual purposes, and also to influence public opinion on such criminal activity. Länsförsäkringar is a member of the Financial Coalition. Other partnerships Diversity Charter Sweden Red Cross A non-profit organisation that seeks to promote diversity in workLänsförsäkringar AB has signed an agreement making it possible for places. Its members are companies and organisations that actively employees to volunteer with the Red Cross. work on diversity and apply an inclusive approach to their own businesses. Länsförsäkringar is a member. SNS – The Centre for Business and Policy Studies An independent think tank that brings together the worlds of Global Compact ­academia, business and government for knowledge-sharing and A UN initiative for responsible business conduct with ten principles ­dialogue on key societal issues. Länsförsäkringar is a member. on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Länsförsäkringar AB is a signatory. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) TCFD was founded in 2015 by the Financial Stability Board. It is NMC – The Swedish Association for Sustainable Business intended to support companies’ efforts to provide qualitative susA professional association and cross-industry platform for sharing tainability information to the finance sector’s stakeholders and of knowledge on running a sustainable business, contributing to supervisory authorities. The framework consists of four areas: ­sustainable development. Länsförsäkringar is a member. Gover­nance, Strategy, Risk management, and Metrics and targets. Länsförsäkringar supports TCFD. Novare Potential A recruitment and staffing company with the aim of leading new arrivals into the Swedish job market. Its method is called “introduction recruitment,” meaning that Novare Potential employs a person for the first year and after one or two years the person moves over to the company. Länsförsäkringar has a partnership agreement with the company. 134 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Statistics and key figures Employee statistics Länsförsäkringar AB Group including Länsförsäkringar Liv Employee response to employee survey1) % 2019 2018 2017 Believe that diversity in working groups is valued 87 83 84 Believe that Länsförsäkringar AB is an equal opportunity workplace 90 87 87 Believe that they receive regular feedback from their manager 82 81 82 Believe that one’s own skills are developed in line with changing work requirements 79 78 79 Believe that they have a reasonable stress level in their work 71 70 70 Believe that they have a good work/life balance 82 81 81 1) The response rate for the employee survey was 94% in 2019, 96% in 2018 and 95% in 2017. Employees New employees recruited during the year Number 2019 2018 2017 Number 2019 2018 2017 Permanent employees 2,111 1,910 1,847 Women Men Women Men Women Men of whom, men 883 816 777 0–30 years of age 56 31 27 19 35 32 of whom, women 1,228 1,094 1,070 31–40 years of age 55 52 32 39 31 45 Permanent employees recruited during the year 330 210 247 41–50 years of age 50 37 31 28 41 35 Permanent employees who have left and now work at another company in the Länsförsäkringar 51–60 years Alliance 9 5 9 of age 33 14 21 10 12 12 Permanent employees who left during the year 160 176 170 61– 2 0 0 3 3 1 Total 196 134 111 99 122 125 Employee turnover % 2019 2018 2017 All employees are full-time employees regardless of whether they work full or part-time. Employees who have children under the age of 12 can work Permanent employees 8.3 9.5 9.7 part-time according to the industry’s collective agreement. Employee age range Manager age range Number 2019 2018 2017 Number 2019 2018 2017 0–30 years of age 219 178 209 Women Men Women Men Women Men 31–40 years of age 511 464 460 0–30 years of age 3 2 2 0 3 2 41–50 years of age 649 602 634 31–40 years of age 17 27 19 19 21 20 51–60 years of age 584 547 463 41–50 years 61– 148 122 81 of age 69 55 61 57 56 56 Average age, women 44 44 44 51–60 years Average age, men 44 44 44 of age 48 48 47 40 35 27 61– 5 7 3 8 1 5 Total 142 139 132 124 116 110 Total 281 256 226 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 135 Employee statistics Länsförsäkringar AB Group including Länsförsäkringar Liv Average age of managers Sickness absence Year 2019 2018 2017 % 2019 2018 2017 Women 47 47 46 Total sickness absence 3.7 3.0 3.0 Men 47 47 47 Gender distribution among managers Gender distribution among management and Board % 2019 2018 2017 Number 2019 2018 2017 Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Group management 50 50 62 38 57 43 Group management including President 5 5 8 5 5 5 Heads of department 40 60 47 53 53 47 Management teams1) 27 30 31 35 33 36 Group managers and team leaders 53 47 52 48 50 50 Board members 2) 35 46 23 47 22 49 1) Includes union representatives. 2) Regular members including union representatives. Carbon emissions in the operations Sources of carbon emissions1) 2019 2018 2017 CO2 emissions, Consumption kg mWh CO2 emissions, kg Consumption mWh CO2 emissions, kg Consumption mWh District heating – properties and offices 2) 67,732 1,042 103,445 1,515 121,310 1,619 Electricity consumption – operations 38,491 3,774 38,369 3,762 36,003 3,530 Electricity consumption – properties 11,484 1,126 11,639 1,141 11,150 1,093 1) Total 117,707 5,942 153,453 6,418 168,463 6,242 Sources of carbon emissions3) 2019 2018 2017 CO2 emissions, kg Km travelled CO2 emissions, kg Km travelled CO2 emissions, kg Km travelled Flights 540,455 5,095,628 648,814 5,675,482 620,426 5,284,022 Company car journeys 117,553 1,281,539 152,599 1,315,508 153,685 1,399,053 Private car journeys 4) 36,299 243,615 39,636 257,377 41,921 265,322 Rail journeys 4 1,286,405 3 1,059,863 2 978,943 Total 694,310 7,907,187 841,052 8,308,230 816,034 7,927,340 5) Total carbon emissions in the operations 812,017 994,505 984,497 Total carbon emissions per employee 385 521 533 1) Market-based Scope 2 under the GHG Protocol. Emission factors from district heating and electricity. 2) Degree day adjusted figures used to calculated district-heating usage. 3) Scope 3 under the GHG Protocol. Emissions factors from the travel agency regarding flights and rail journeys as well as from the Swedish Transport Administration and lease partners regarding car journeys. 4) A new emissions factor from the Swedish Transport Administration was used for 2019 and the corresponding figures for 2018 and 2017 were recalculated. 5) Last year’s Annual Report included paper consumption as a separate source of carbon emissions. This has been removed since the figure was calculated incorrectly and is not significant. 136 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Responsible savings offering Activities related to responsible savings offering 2019 2018 2017 Number of companies with which reactive sustainability dialogues1) were conducted by a consultant on Länsförsäkringar AB’s behalf2) 60 123 119 Number of companies directly engaged by Länsförsäkringar AB in reactive sustainability ­dialogues3) 11 21 15 Number of companies with which sustainability dialogues were conducted via investment initiatives that include Länsförsäkringar AB and/or via consultants on Länsförsäkringar AB’s behalf4) 259 223 – Number of companies directly engaged by Länsförsäkringar AB in preventive sustainability ­dialogues 10 17 17 Number of excluded companies regarding sustainability5) excluding companies with fossil fuel operations 66 40 33 Number of excluded companies with fossil fuel operations6) 192 134 130 Number of general meetings at which votes were cast7) 67 60 50 Participation in nomination committees 18 16 16 1) Reactive company dialogues refer to dialogues with companies in which a sustainability incident has occurred. 2) The consulting firm engaged conducts dialogues with companies that appear in the firm’s sustainability filter on behalf of Länsförsäkringar AB and other companies. Several of Länsförsäkringar AB’s external fund managers also maintain ongoing dialogues with companies on sustainability topics. 3) Dialogues conducted by Länsförsäkringar AB itself, together with external managers or via consultants on Länsförsäkringar AB’s behalf. 4) New key figure for 2019. Dialogues were also conducted in 2017 but no comparative figures are available. 5) Pertains to excluding direct ownership of shares and credit bonds in companies operations in controversial weapons, serious norm contraventions and manufacturing of tobacco products. 6) Refers to energy and mining companies with more than 5% of their income from thermal coal and oil sand in 2019, 20% of their income from thermal coal in 2018 and 2017. 7) Refers to annual and extraordinary general meetings. Specification of sustainability dialogues, reactive and preventive, 2019 Environment, 76% Human rights and labour, 19% Business ethics, 5% Analysis and carbon footprint, % 2019 2018 % of total capital in institutional portfolios screened on sustainability criterias1) 84 67 % of total capital in the fund company’s funds screened on sustainability criterias 98 90 % of total capital in institutional portfolios with a measured carbon footprint2) 48 16 % of total capital in the fund company’s funds with a measured carbon footprint 46 46 1) The percentage that was not subject to a sustainability screening comprises government bonds, derivatives, cash balances and unlisted funds. Managers of unlisted funds follow applicable black lists and continuously report on the fund’s sustainability profile. 2) Carbon footprint refers to both the current analysis and the scenario analysis until 2030. These analyses include listed shares, loans, bonds from governments, supranational and intergovernmental organisations and Bergvik Skog. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 137 Research projects Länsförsäkringar’s Research Fund Research field Ongoing research projects and tests Start Tomorrow’s society: Digitisation, urbanisa•• Regional growth against all odds: Driving forces for long-term growth in Nordic regions. 2017 tion, sharing economy Lund University. •• Regional economic development and transformation in Sweden: Then, now and tomorrow. 2018 Lund University. •• The geography of trust: Trust in local society in a changing Sweden. 2017 Ersta Sköndal Bräcke University College. •• Continuous internal audit using artificial intelligence in insurance companies. 2018 University of Gävle. •• Blockchains for dynamic pricing of innovative insurance products. 2018 University of Gothenburg. •• Transparent algorithms in the insurance industry. RISE SICS. 2018 •• The insurance company in digital ecosystems. University of Gothenburg. 2018 Climate adaptation •• Improved climate adjustments to residential areas. Linköping University. 2020 •• Financial effects of climate policy. University of Gothenburg. 2020 Secure homes •• Secure homes for the elderly from smart technology, start 2019. Dalarna University. 2019 •• Partial repairs of waterproof membranes. RISE. 2019 •• Removing snow from rooftop solar panels. RISE. 2019 Road safety •• Testing bicycle lights. VTI. 2019 Agria’s Research Fund Research field Ongoing research projects Start The role of animals for humans and society •• Dogs, humans and society. University of Gothenburg. 2019 •• New methods and tools for a better work environment in the equine industry. RISE. 2019 •• Stable yard cultures in cyberspace. Malmö University. 2018 •• Horses on the road. Nord University, Norway. 2017 •• The influence of dogs on physical and mental health in humans. Norwegian University 2018 of Life Sciences. Veterinary Medicine, Animal Science •• Physical burdens in dog agility performances. Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 2019 and Technology University of Helsinki. •• Identification of genetic risk factors for hip dysplasia in dogs. University of Copenhagen. 2020 •• Non-slip floors for preventing bovine injuries; Do grooves reduce the risk of slipping 2017 on concrete floors? Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences •• From colt to athlete changes in movement symmetry over time in trotter and saddle 2017 horses. Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. •• Optimising antibiotic treatment times for cystitis in dogs. University of Copenhagen. 2017 •• Bile acid in faeces of cats with IBD or gastrointestinal cancer. University of Copenhagen. 2019 •• Epidemiology of knee joint illnesses in dogs. Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. 2017 138 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Index Sustainability Report The sustainability report in accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (ÅRL) ­encompasses Länsförsäkringar AB and its subsidiaries Länsförsäkringar Sak, Agria, Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv, ­Länsförsäkringar Bank, Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning, Länsförsäkringar Hypotek, Wasa Kredit and Länsför­ säkringar Fondliv. Länsförsäkringar Liv submits its own sustainability report. The sustainability disclosures can be found by following the pages references below. Explanation Page reference Overall Business model 4–7, 12–13 Organisation and monitoring 130–131 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8-9, 14 Social and personnel-related issues Policy on social and personnel-related issues 130–131 Social and personnel-related issues risks and risk management 24-25 Social and personnel-related issues goals and outcomes 135–136 Climate and environmental issues Climate and environment policy 130–131 Climate and environmental risks and risk management 14, 18–23, 27–29 Climate and environmental goals and outcomes 18–23, 27–28, 136-137 Respect for human rights Human rights policy 130–131 Human rights risks and risk management 18–19, 27 Human rights goals and outcomes 18–19, 27, 137 Combating corruption Anti-corruption policy 130–131 Anti-corruption risks and risk management 18-19, 26 Anti-corruption goals and outcomes 26, 137 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 139 Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Länsförsäkringar AB, corporate identity number 556549-7020 Engagement and responsibility International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted It is the board of directors who is responsible for the sustainabilauditing standards in Sweden. I believe that the examination has ity report for the year 2019, as indicated on page 139, and that it provided me with sufficient basis for my opinion. is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Opinion The scope of the examination A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. My examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the Stockholm, 12 March 2020 statutory sustainability report. This means that my examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substanMårten Asplund tially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with Authorised Public Accountant 140 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Global Reporting Initiative The report is based on the Core level of the 2016 GRI Standards, except for the Standard on Occupational Health and Safety, which follows the updated version from 2018. GRI Standard GRI Page reference GRI Comments UN SDGs UN Global Compact General disclosures Organisation profile 1–10 102-1 Name of the organisation Inside cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-7 102-3 Location of headquarters Stockholm 102-4 Location of operations Inside cover 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4-5 102-6 Markets served Inside cover 102-7 Scale of the organisation Inside cover 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 135–136 Data from the HR system 5, 10 102-9 Supply chain 27 8 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation 14 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 130 102-12 External initiatives 133–134 102-13 Membership of associations 133–134 Strategy 1–10 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 14, 18, 20, 22, 26–29, 129 Ethics and integrity/Business ethics and values 10 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 130–131 Governance 10 102-18 Governance structure 130–131 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12–13, 132 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 24 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14, 129, 132 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12–14, 129, 132 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14, 16–17, 132 Including SCI – customer satis­faction and product responsibility Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 129 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 129 102-47 List of material topics 129 102-48 Restatements of information 129 And comments in GRI table 102-49 Changes in reporting 129 102-50 Reporting period 129 102-51 Date of most recent report 129 102-52 Reporting cycle 129 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 129 Christina Hillesöy, Head of Sustainability 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 129 102-55 GRI content index 141–143 102-56 External assurance The GRI report has not been externally assured. A preparatory audit took place to assure the report in 2020. See page 140 for the auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory report. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 141 UN Sustainable GRI Page Development UN Global GRI Standard ­reference GRI Comments Goals ­Compact Economic performance 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 130–131 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Inside cover 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due Inside cover, 14 to climate change 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Inside cover, 12–13 Responsible offering Responsible savings offering 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 18–19, 130–131 1–17 1–10 Engagement and dialogue Number of reactive company dialogues on sustainability 19, 137 1–17 1–10 Climate risk in investments Initiative to measure the climate risk in the savings offering 18–19 13 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 137 Refers to carbon 13 emissions G4-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s 137 1–17 1–10 portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues Active corporate governance Number of preventive dialogues on sustainability 137 1–17 1–10 Active corporate governance Number of general meetings at which votes were cast 137 Active corporate governance Participation in nomination committees 137 5,10 Exclusions Number of blacklisted companies regarding sustainability 137 1–17 1–10 Responsible lending offering 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 20–21, 130–131 8, 16 7–9, 10 Climate risks in lending Initiative to consider climate risk in lending 20 8 7–9 Availability G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for 21 8 disadvantaged people Responsible insurance offering 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 22–23, 130–131 Claims prevention Initiatives for claims-prevention methods 22–23 3, 12, 13 7–9 Claims adjustment Initiative to reduce use of resources and negative 22–23 12, 13 7–9 climate impact via claims adjustment Climate risk in the insurance Management of climate risk in the insurance offering 22–23 13 offering Responsible business conduct Responsible employer Labour practices and decent work 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 24–25, Statistics refer to 3, 5, 8, 10 3,6 130–131 employees in Sweden 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 135 Statistics refer to 5, 10 employees in Sweden Occupational health and safety 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 24–25 3 403-6 Promotion of worker health 24–25 Standard from 2018. 3 Refers to employees in Sweden Training and education 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 24–25 404-2 Programmes upgrading employee skills and transition 24–25 assistance programmes Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 24–25 5,1 0 3, 6 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 135–136, Statistics refer to 5, 10 6 144–147 employees, Board and management in ­Sweden 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No cases reported 5, 10 6 in 2019 142 Appendix to Sustainability Report Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 UN Sustainable GRI Page Development UN Global GRI Standard ­reference GRI Comments Goals ­Compact Business ethics 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 130–131 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 26 16 2,10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 26–27 16 2,10 and procedures Responsible purchasing 103-1, 103-3 Management approach disclosures 27, 130–131 8, 12, 16 1–10 Purchasing organisation Percentage of 100 largest suppliers that account for 80% of 27 1–10 the purchasing volume have signed the Code of Conduct Direct environmental impact 103-1 103-3 Management approach disclosures 28, 130–131 12, 13 7–9 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 136 Refers to carbon 13 emissions. See footnote 4 and 5 on page 136 for change compared with 2018 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 136 Refers to carbon 13 emissions Environmental and social responsibility 103-1–103-3 Management approach disclosures 130–131 Research Number of research projects and total amount invested 29, 138 3, 8, 11–13, 16 8–9 in research (SEK) UN Global Compacts 10 principles Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Principle 1: Businesses should support Principle 3: Businesses should uphold Principle 7: Support a precautionary Principle 10: Businesses should work and respect the protection of internathe freedom of association and the approach to environmental challenges. against corruption in all its forms, tionally proclaimed human rights. effective recognition of the right to including extortion and bribery. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to ­collective bargaining. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not promote greater environmental complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms responsibility. of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 9: Encourage the developPrinciple 5: The effective abolition of ment and diffusion of environmentally child labour. friendly technologies. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Appendix to Sustainability Report 143 Board of Directors and auditors 1 Caesar Åfors Chairman of the Board since 2018. Born 1959. Elected 2016. President of own business at Virå Bruk. Education: M.Sc. in Forestry. Other Board appointments: Chairman of Länsförsäkringar Södermanland, Board member of Lansa AB, Intea Fastigheter AB and CRK Forest management AB. Previous experience: Board member of Länsförsäkringar Bank, CFO and Executive Vice ­President of Klövern AB (publ). 2 Maria Engholm Deputy Chairman since 2018. Born 1967. President/CEO of HSB MälarDalarna. 1 2 Elected 2015. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics. Other Board appointments: Chairman of Dalarnas Försäkringsbolag and Dalarnas Försäk­ ringsbolags Förvaltnings AB. Previous experience: Board member of HSB Riksförbund, HSB Projektpartner AB, Länsförsäkringar Bank, Local ­Federation Director of Siljan Region and Board member of Sparbanken Dalarna. 3 Susanne Bäsk Born 1962. President of Länsförsäkringar Skåne. Elected 2016. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics. Other Board appointments: Board member of Länsförsäkringar Skåne, Länsförsäkringar Fastighetsförmedling and ­Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Chairman of the Swedish Insurance Employers’ Association. Previous experience: President of Nordea Finans, Board member of Länsförsäkringar Bank and Wasa Kredit. 3 4 4 Bengt-Erik Jansson Born 1953. Chairman of Länsförsäkringar Uppsala Elected 2017. E­ ducation: M.Sc. in Agriculture, and in Business and Economics. Previous experience: Business Area Manager Food and Executive Vice President Kiwa Sverige AB, Head of IT and Business Service, Lantmännen Lantbruk. 5 Göran Lindell Born 1954. Chairman of Länsför­säkringar Jönköping. Elected 2014. ­Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics, Linköping University. Previous experience: Municipal Commissioner and ­member of parliament. 6 Hans Ljungkvist 5 6 Born 1952. Chairman of Länsförsäkringar Göteborg och Bohuslän. Elected 2019. Education: Post-secondary education in auditing, banking and taxation as well as business administration and law from Umeå University. Other Board appointments: Chairman of AB Tornstaden and Crepido AB. Previous ­experience: Senior positions at various Swedish listed companies for more than 20 years, mainly in finance and industry. 7 Jonas Rosman Born 1963. President of Länsförsäkringar Skaraborg. Elected 2014. Education: Upper-secondary education in economics, agricultural education. Other Board appointments: Chairman of Skaraborg Invest AB. Board member of Hällefors Tierp Skogar AB. Previous experience: Accounting consultant, Business Manager Federation of Swedish Farmers Consulting, chief econo­ 7 8 mist at Federation of Swedish Farmers Consulting, President of Skaraborg Agricultural Society. 8 Mikael Sundquist Born 1961. President of Länsförsäkringar Bergslagen. Elected 2014. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics. Other Board appointments: Chairman of Chamber of Commerce of Mälardalen. Board member of Länsförsäkringar Fastighetsförmedling AB. Previous experience: Board member of 1:a ­Västmanlandsfonden, Länsförsäkringar Sak, Chairman of Länsförsäkringar Mäklarservice, senior positions at Länsförsäkringar and Handelsbanken. 9 144 Board of Directors and auditors Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 9 Maria Wallin Wållberg Born 1967. President of Likvor AB. Elected 2018. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics. Other Board appointments: Chairman of Länsförsäkringar Västerbotten, Fastighetsbolaget Fabriken AB, Länsförsäkringar Västerbotten Invest AB. Previous experience: CEO of Innovationsbron Umeå, Vice Presi­ dent of Innovationsbron AB, CEO of Connect Norr, Chairman of IKSU and Esculapen AB and Board member of SweTree Technologies AB. Employee representatives 10 11 10 Susanne Lindberg Born 1967. Employee representative. Elected 2012. Education: Upper-secondary education in economics, diploma in non-life insurance and life assurance from Swedish Institute of Insurance Training (IFU), diploma in individual claims adjustment training from Länsförsäkringar. Other Board appointments: Deputy Chairman of Forena, Chairman of the Länsförsäkringar Alli­ ance’s Staff Association, deputy Board member of Länsförsäkringar Fondliv, deputy Board member of Länsförsäkringar Liv, Board member of Insurance Industry’s Pension Fund (FPK). Deputy: Mirek Swartz 11 Linnéa Niklasson 12 Born 1958. Employee representative. Elected 2014. Education: Systems developer, upper-secondary education in economics. Other Board appointments: Länsförsäkringar Sak, Agria Djurförsäkring, Chairman of Forena Läns­ försäkringar AB, treasurer Forena Länsförsäkring, Forena Board. Previous experience: Object specialist, Test Manager, Change Management at Läns­ försäkringar AB, Systems Developer Agria, Chairman of Agria employee club, Group Manager accounts receivable ledger/IT. Deputy: Mirek Swartz 12 Anna Sandqvist Born 1963. Compliance. Employee representative. Elected 2014. Education: B.A. Other Board appointments: Agria Djurförsäkring, Chairman of SACO association at Länsförsäkringar AB. Previous experience: AMF Pension, Wasa Försäkring. Deputy: Tomas Hansson Secretary of the Board: Olle Törnell. Born 1958. Head of Legal Affairs. Employed 1992. Education: LLM, Uppsala University. Previous experience: Head of Legal Affairs Wasa Försäkring, bank attorney Nordbanken. Auditor: KPMG AB with Mårten Asplund as auditor in charge. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Board of Directors and auditors 145 Corporate management 1 Fredrik Bergström Born 1970. Employed 2018. President and CEO of Länsförsäkringar AB. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics, Uppsala University. Board appointments: Chairman of Länsförsäkringar Bank, Länsförsäkringar Fondliv and Länsförsäkringar Sak, Board member of Länsförsäkringar Liv, Deputy Chairman of Insurance Sweden, Board member of Swedish Insurance Employers Association (FAO), European Alliance Partners Company AG and Enebybergs Tennishall AB. Previous experience: President of Länsförsäkringar Stockholm, Head of Retail at SBAB, Head of Distribution Private Sweden at If and other positions at If Skadeförsäkring AB and Dial Försäkrings AB. 1 2 2 Eva Allqvie Born 1961. Employed 2019. Head of Strategy and Change Management. Education: LLM, Uppsala University. Previous experience: Various positions at the Länsförsäkringar Alliance since 1998. Most recently served as Head of Business Development, Communication and HR at Länsförsäkringar Stockholm. 3 Susanne Bergh Born 1969. Employed 1989. Head of Customer and Channel Support. 3 4 Education: Diploma in market economics. Previous experience: Various positions at the Länsförsäkringar AB Group. Most recently as Head of Digital Channels at Länsförsäkringar Bank. 4 Mathias Collén Born 1981. Employed 2019. President of Länsförsäkringar Fondliv. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics, School of Business, Economics and Law at University of Gothenburg. Board appointments: Board member of Ledamot Försäkringsgirot AB. Previous experience: Head of Business at Länsförsäkringar Fondliv, Head of Commercial Business area at Länsförsäkringar Stockholm and senior p­ ositions at Livförsäkringsbolaget Skandia. 5 6 5 Björn Dalemo Born 1975. Employed 2019. Head of LB Sak. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics. Previous experience: Chief Underwriting Officer, Trygg-Hansa/Codan. 6 Sven Eggefalk Born 1969. Employed 2018. President of Länsförsäkringar Bank AB. Education: B.A. in Economics, North Park University Chicago. Board appointments: Chairman of Länsförsäkringar Hypotek and Wasa Kredit. Board member of Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning, Läns­ försäkringar Fastighetsförmedling and Swedish Bankers’ Association. Previous experience: President of Länsförsäkringar Östgöta, President of Wasa Kredit, 15 years at SEB in various senior positions. 146 Corporate management Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 7 Ulrica Holmgren Born 1973. Employed 2019. CIO. Education: M.Sc. in Engineering, Faculty of Science and Engineering, Linköping University. Previous experience: Senior positions such as CIO at Telenor, Management Consultant PriceWaterhouseCoopers, Etransformer and Cartina. 8 Malin Rylander-Leijon Born 1970. Employed 2001. CFO. Head of Finance. Education: Administration Programme, specialising in Economics, 7 8 Uppsala University. Previous experience: Auditor at SET Revisionsbyrå and various positions at the Länsförsäkringar AB Group, most recently as Head Controller at the Länsförsäkringar AB Group and Head of Finance & Control Länsförsäkringar Liv, Board member of Länsförsäkringar Fondliv, Länsförsäkringar Liv, Tribona AB and Utile Dulci 2 HB. 9 Ann Sommer Born 1959. Employed 1988. President of Länsförsäkringar Sak. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics. Board appointments: Chairman Länsförsäkringar Gruppliv, Agria Djurförsäkring and Swedish Theft Prevention Association (SSF). Board 9 10 ­member of SOS International, AMICE (Association of Mutual Insurers and Insurance Cooperatives in Europe), ICMIF and Co-operatives Sweden. Previous experience: President of WASA International and Wasa Inter­ national UK, Board member of Equatorial Re Singapore, Swedish Forest Agency and Landstingens Ömsesidiga Försäkringsbolag. 10 Olle Törnell Born 1958. Employed 1992. Head of Legal Affairs. Education: LLM, Uppsala University. Previous experience: Head of Legal Affairs Wasa Försäkring, bank attorney Nordbanken. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Corporate management 147 Definitions Direct insurance Capital adequacy ratio, bank Tier 1 ratio, bank Insurance contract concluded directly between Closing own funds as a percentage of the closing Tier 1 capital at year-end in relation to the closing the insurer and the policyholder. In contrast to risk-weighted amount. risk-weighted amount. assumed reinsurance, the insurance company is Cost/income ratio, bank Earnings per share directly responsible to the policyholder. Total expenses in relation to total income. The Profit/loss for the year attributable to the Parent Operating expenses in the insurance operations cost/income ratio is calculated before and after Company shareholders in relation to the average Includes costs of marketing, sales and adminis­ credit losses. number of shares during the year. tration in insurance operations. Collective consolidation, life assurance Risk Exposure Amount, bank Expense ratio, non-life insurance The ratio between the market value of total net The Risk Exposure Amount is calculated by multi­ Operating expenses in the insurance operations assets and the company’s total commitments to plying an institution’s capital requirement for as a percentage of premiums earned after ceded policyholders (guaranteed commitments and pre­ assets in the balance sheet, off balance sheet reinsurance. liminarily distributed bonus) for the insurance pol­ items, operational risk and credit valuation adjust­ icies that carry bonus rights. ment risk by 12.5. After ceded reinsurance The proportion of an insurance transaction for Solvency margin, non-life insurance Return on equity which the insurance company assumes the risk, Solvency capital as a percentage of premium Operating profit less standard tax at a rate of and which is not reinsured with another insurance income after ceded reinsurance. 21.4% in relation to average equity adjusted for company. Sometimes the term “for own account” capital contributions and Additional Tier 1 Capital Solvency capital is used. loans. The sum of equity, untaxed reserves, deferred tax Claims payments liabilities, subordinated debt as well as surplus Net interest income, bank The cost for claims incurred, including costs for values on assets. Interest income from loans to the public, credit claims that have not yet been reported to the institutions and income from interest-bearing Credit losses net, bank insurance company. The cost also includes the securities less expenses for deposits and funding Confirmed credit losses and reserves for credit run-off result, meaning the profit or loss arising in from the public, credit institutions and expenses losses (“loss allowance”) less recoveries of receiv­ the provision for claims outstanding made in the for interest-bearing securities. ables and net expense for the year for credit losses immediately preceding year-end accounts. Runfor guarantees and other contingent liabilities. Technical result for non-life insurance off profit/loss arises since some of the claims in operations the provision are either settled during the period Credit losses in relation to loans, bank Premiums earned less claims payments, claims at amounts differing from those allocated or are Net credit losses in relation to the carrying amount adjustment costs and operating expenses in the re-valued pending final settlement. of loans to the public and to credit institutions. insurance operations plus profit/loss from ceded Technical provisions Common Equity Tier 1 capital, bank reinsurance and investment income transferred Provision for unearned premiums and unexpired Total Tier 1 capital excluding Additional Tier 1 capital. from financial operations. risks, life-assurance reserves and provision for Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, bank Claims ratio claims outstanding and comparable commit­ Common Equity Tier 1 capital in relation to the The ratio between claims payments, including ments in accordance with signed insurance con­ risk-weighted amount. claims adjustment costs and premiums earned tracts. For life assurance, this shall correspond to after ceded reinsurance. the insurance company’s guaranteed insurance Cost ratio, non-life insurance commitments. The sum of operating expenses in the insurance Tier 2 capital, bank operations and claims adjustment costs in rela­ Primarily comprises fixed-term subordinated Management cost ratio, life assurance tion to premiums earned after ceded reinsurance. debt. Total operating expenses and claims adjustment costs as a percentage of average managed assets. Investment margin, bank Total return ratio Net interest income in relation to average total The sum of direct yield, realised gains and losses, Investment income transferred from financial assets. and unrealised changes in the value of assets in operations relation to the average fair value of managed Premiums are paid in advance, while operating Premium income assets. expenses and claims costs are paid in arrears. Premiums paid in during the year or recognised as Funds that have not yet been paid out are invested receivables at year-end since they have fallen due Combined ratio, non-life insurance in order to obtain a return. The estimated interest for payment. Premium income is a common mea­ The sum of operating expenses, claims payments on these investments – the cost of capital – is sure of the volume of insurance operations. and claims adjustment costs in relation to premi­ transferred from investment income to the insur­ ums earned after ceded reinsurance. Premiums earned ance operations. The proportion of premium income attributable to Reinsurance Solvency ratio the fiscal year. If an insurance company cannot, or does not wish Own funds in relation to the solvency capital to, assume the entire liability to policyholders, it Tier 1 capital, bank requirement, according to the Solvency II Direc­ reinsures part of its underwritten policies with Tier 1 capital is part of own funds and comprises tive in Swedish law. other insurance companies. In this connection, equity and Additional Tier 1 capital. Deductions are the reinsurance is said to be “ceded” by the first Own funds, bank made for such items as deferred tax assets, good­ company and “assumed” by the second company. Own funds comprises the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 will and other intangible assets, investments in capital and the difference between expected financial companies and the difference between losses and reserves established for probable expected losses and reserves established for credit losses. probable credit losses. 148 Definitions Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Länsförsäkringar Liv Försäkrings AB income statement and balance sheet Income statement Consolidated balance sheet SEK M 2019 2018 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK M 2019 2018 Premium income, net 1,539 1,684 Assets Investment income, net 9,949 -527 Investment assets 115,979 110,662 Claims payments -4,928 -4,939 Reinsurers’ portion of technical provisions 0 397 Change in technical provisions -520 4,992 Receivables 2,730 1,399 Operating expenses -426 -412 Other assets 3,634 3,979 Technical result, life-assurance operations 5,614 798 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 53 72 Non-technical items – Total assets 122,396 116,509 Profit before appropriations and tax 5,614 798 Tax allocation reserve 50 -14 Equity, provisions and liabilities Tax -97 -175 Equity 27,974 23,703 Net profit for the year 5,567 609 Untaxed reserves 291 340 Other comprehensive income – Technical provisions 85,018 84,850 Comprehensive income for the year 5,567 609 Provisions for other risks and expenses 32 30 Deposits from reinsurers 0 397 More detailed information about Länsförsäkringar Liv is available at https://www. Liabilities 8,902 7,006 lansforsakringar.se/other-languages/english/about-lansforsakringar/finan­ Accrued expenses and deferred income 179 183 cial-reports/lansforsakringar-liv/ Total equity, provisions and liabilities 122,396 116,509 Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Länsförsäkringar Liv 149 Addresses LF Norrbotten Länsförsäkringar Stockholm Länsförsäkring Kronoberg Länsförsäkringar Bank Box 937 SE-169 97 Solna Box 1503 SE-106 50 Stockholm SE-971 28 Luleå Visit: Telegrafgatan 8A SE-351 15 Växjö Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 Visit: Köpmantorget Tel: +46 8 562 830 00 Visit: Kronobergsgatan 10 Tel: +46 8 588 400 00 Tel: +46 920 24 25 00 E-mail: stockholm@lansforsak­ Tel: +46 470 72 00 00 E-mail: info@lansforsakringar.se E-mail: info@LFnorrbotten.se ringar.se E-mail: info@LFkronoberg.se Länsförsäkringar Hypotek Länsförsäkringar Västerbotten Länsförsäkringar Södermanland Länsförsäkringar Kalmar län SE-106 50 Stockholm Box 153 Box 147 Box 748 Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 SE-901 04 Umeå SE-611 24 Nyköping SE-391 27 Kalmar Tel: +46 8 588 400 00 Visit: Nygatan 19 Visit: Västra Storgatan 4 Visit: Norra Långgatan 17 E-mail: info@lansforsakringar.se Tel: +46 90 10 90 00 Tel: +46 155 48 40 00 Tel: +46 20 66 11 00 Länsförsäkringar Fondförvaltning E-mail: info@LFvasterbotten.se E-mail: info@lfs.se E-mail: info@LFkalmar.se SE-106 50 Stockholm Länsförsäkringar Jämtland Länsförsäkringar Göteborg Länsförsäkringar Blekinge Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 Box 367 och Bohuslän Box 24 Tel: +46 8 588 400 00 SE-831 25 Östersund SE-404 84 Gothenburg SE-374 21 Karlshamn E-mail: info@lansforsakringar.se Visit: Prästgatan 18 Visit: Lilla Bommen 8 Visit: Drottninggatan 56 Wasa Kredit Tel: +46 63 19 33 00 Tel: +46 31 63 80 00 Tel: +46 454 30 23 00 Box 6740 E-mail: info@lfz.se E-mail: info@gbg.lansforsakringar.se E-mail: info@lfblekinge.se SE-113 85 Stockholm Länsförsäkringar Västernorrland Länsförsäkringar Skaraborg Länsförsäkringar Göinge-­ Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 Box 164 Box 600 Kristianstad Tel: +46 8 635 38 00 SE-871 24 Härnösand SE-541 29 Skövde Box 133 E-mail: info@wasakredit.se Visit: Köpmangatan 13 Visit: Rådhusgatan 8 SE-291 22 Kristianstad Agria Djurförsäkring Tel: +46 611 36 53 00 Tel: +46 500 77 70 00 Visit: Tivoligatan 6 Box 70306 E-mail: info@lfy.se E-mail: info@LFskaraborg.se Tel: +46 44 19 62 00 SE-107 23 Stockholm Länsförsäkringar Gävleborg Länsförsäkringar Östgöta E-mail: info.goinge-kristianstad@ Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 Box 206 Box 400 lansforsakringar.se Tel: +46 8 588 421 00 SE-801 03 Gävle SE-581 04 Linköping Länsförsäkringar Skåne E-mail: info@agria.se Visit: Drottninggatan 35 Visit: Platensgatan 11 Box 742 Länsförsäkringar FastighetsTel: +46 26 14 75 00 Tel: +46 13 29 00 00 SE-251 07 Helsingborg förmedling E-mail: info@lfgavleborg.se E-mail: info@lfostgota.se Visit: Södergatan 15 SE-106 50 Stockholm Dalarnas Försäkringsbolag Länsförsäkringar Älvsborg Tel: +46 42 633 80 00 Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 21 Box 3 Box 1107 E-mail: info.skane@lansforsak­ Tel: +46 10 219 54 00 SE-791 21 Falun SE-462 28 Vänersborg ringar.se E-mail: info@lansfast.se Visit: Slaggatan 9 Visit: Vallgatan 21 Länsförsäkringar Mäklarservice Tel: +46 23 930 00 Tel: +46 521 27 30 00 JOINT COMPANIES Box 27120 E-mail: info@dalarnas.se E-mail: info@alvsborg.lansforsak­ Länsförsäkringar AB SE-102 52 Stockholm Länsförsäkringar Värmland ringar.se SE-106 50 Stockholm Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 21 Box 367 Länsförsäkringar Gotland Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 Tel: +46 8 588 490 00 SE-651 09 Karlstad Box 1224 Tel: +46 8 588 400 00 E-mail: Redaktion.Formedlare@ Visit: Köpmannagatan 2 A SE-621 23 Visby E-mail: info@lansforsakringar.se lansforsakringar.se Tel: +46 54 775 15 00 Visit: Österväg 17 Länsförsäkringar Liv Humlegården Fastigheter E-mail: info@LFvarmland.se Tel: +46 498 28 18 50 SE-106 50 Stockholm Box 5182 Länsförsäkringar Uppsala E-mail: info@lfgotland.se Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 SE-102 44 Stockholm Box 2147 Länsförsäkringar Jönköping Tel: +46 8 588 400 00 Visit: Engelbrektsplan 1 SE-750 02 Uppsala Box 623 E-mail: info@lansforsakringar.se Tel: +46 8 678 92 00 Visit: Fyrisborgsgatan 4 SE-551 18 Jönköping Länsförsäkringar Fondliv E-mail: info@humlegarden.se Tel: +46 18 68 55 00 Visit: Barnarpsgatan 22 SE-106 50 Stockholm E-mail: info.uppsala@lansforsak­ Tel: +46 36 19 90 00 Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 ringar.se E-mail: info@lfj.se Tel: +46 8 588 400 00 Länsförsäkringar Bergslagen Länsförsäkringar Halland E-mail: info@lansforsakringar.se Box 1046 Box 518 Länsförsäkringar Sak SE-721 26 Västerås SE-301 80 Halmstad SE-106 50 Stockholm Visit: Stora Gatan 41 Visit: Strandgatan 10 Visit: Tegeluddsvägen 11–13 Tel: +46 21 19 01 00 Tel: +46 35 15 10 00 Tel: +46 8 588 400 00 E-mail: info@lfbergslagen.se E-mail: info@LFhalland.se E-mail: info@lansforsakringar.se 150 Addresses Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial calendar 2020 First quarter: Interim report January-March 2020, Länsförsäkringar Bank 28 April Interim report January-March 2020, Länsförsäkringar Hypotek 28 April Second quarter: Interim report January-June 2020, Länsförsäkringar Bank 22 July Interim report January-June 2020, Länsförsäkringar Hypotek 22 July Interim report January-June 2020, Länsförsäkringar Alliance 3 September Third quarter: Interim report January-September 2020, Länsförsäkringar Bank 23 October Interim report January-September 2020, Länsförsäkringar Hypotek 23 October Production: Länsförsäkringar AB in cooperation with Springtime-Intellecta. Photos: Länsförsäkringar’s image bank, Istock and Jimmy Eriksson. Print: GöteborgsTryckeriet. We print on environmentally friendly paper. Länsförsäkringar AB 2019 Financial calendar 151 LFAB 03404 Utg 21
