2020-04-08 1/3 Practical actions and measurement of outcome OX2’s highest executive support and endorse the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our commitment is stated among employees, at our website, in the Annual Report 2019 as well as in the company’s Code of Conducts (for employees and for suppliers). During the last year, OX2 has taken several actions to offer healthy and safe workplaces for all employees and suppliers, to strive for a fully non-discriminating corporate culture, to show a remarkably high degree of environmental compliance and to secure fair play and high business ethics in all collaborations. For example, a Health & Safety manager was appointed in order to secure systematic work environment management. Most of the company’s staff have been involved in efforts to clarify OX2’s core values to reinforce the corporate culture, and Equal Belonging has been identified as a leading key value. OX2 has updated and implemented a new code of conduct in order to clarify the company’s commitment to business ethics, environmental considerations and social corporate responsibility in order to create long-term relations, both internally and with business partners, suppliers and other stakeholders. OX2 relates its business to all 17 Sustainable Development Goals and monitors the outcomes of its activities, see the outcome in the sustainability report, appendix 1. In the table below, an OX2 statement as well as a reference to relevant documents can be found, principle by principle: Ten Principles of the OX2 statement and documentation UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should Our employees as well as our suppliers must recognize and support and respect the protection of respect international human rights standards in accordance internationally proclaimed human with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human rights; and Rights. We shall all avoid directly causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts and, where possible, seek to Principle 2: make sure that they are prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts linked to not complicit in human rights abuses. our companies through our business relationships. Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct Labour Principle 3: Businesses should We shall maintain freedom of association and recognize the uphold the freedom of association right to collective bargaining. All employees must have the and the effective recognition of the right to freely form, join and organize unions and to negotiate right to collective bargaining; collectively. Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct 2020-04-08 2/3 Principle 4: the elimination of all We do not tolerate forced or compulsory work as defined by forms of forced and compulsory the International Labor Organization conventions. Employees labour; shall be free to terminate their employment after the agreed period of notice, in accordance with national law or contract. Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of We do not tolerate workers under the age of 15 or child labor child labour; and as defined by the International Labor Organization conventions, nor any benefit from the use of child labor. Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: the elimination of We strive for a corporate culture that is based on meritocracy discrimination in respect of and which is fully non-discriminating out of gender, sexual employment and occupation. and political orientation, gender identity, ethnic origin, religion, disability or age. We believe in non-hierarchical structures as well as in a multicultural approach. We constantly need to work to stay open, inclusive, supportive and tolerant. This culture creates the best foundation for OX2 as a long-term viable company. Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Gender Equality and Diversity policy Environment Principle 7: Businesses should We apply the precautionary principle by avoiding materials support a precautionary approach to and methods that may pose environmental and health risks environmental challenges; when appropriate alternatives are available. Code of Conduct Principle 8: undertake initiatives to We take on a holistic and transparent approach to optimize promote greater environmental environmental aspects in everything we do. We devote time responsibility; and and energy to self-evaluation and continuous improvements. We promote actions that brings positive environmental impact and defend biodiversity. Code of Conduct Principle 9: encourage the Our products and processes strive to be designed in a way development and diffusion of that efficiently utilizes energy and raw materials and environmentally friendly minimizes waste and residual products over the life of the technologies. product. We strive for reducing our carbon footprint as much as possible both in our projects but also in connection with our business travel and operations of our offices. We also promote carbon smart choices for our employees’ office commuting. Code of Conduct 2020-04-08 3/3 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work No employee or supplier may – either directly or via a against corruption in all its forms, representative or third party − give, promise, offer, receive, including extortion and bribery. accept, or demand any kind of bribe or improper benefit to or from a third party. An improper benefit can refer to gifts, reimbursements, or entertainment to or from a third party that are unlawful or inconsistent with accepted business practice in the relevant context. Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Policy against corruption Appendices: 1. Sustainability report (part of Annual report 2019) 2. Code of Conduct 3. Supplier Code of Conduct 4. Gender Equality and Diversity Policy 5. Policy against corruption
