Smart City Lighting Solutions COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 – United Nations Global Compact WWW.NOVALU.ME STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP): October 2019 to October 2020. Novalume is committed to supporting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact relating to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption, as “ Novalume joined the UN Global Compact three years ago and I am pleased to confirm that Novalume reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. I am convinced that none of the future challenges, especially those created by the coronavirus pandemic, can be resolved without a global approach. well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made in implementing these As members of UN Global Compact and a global community, we must tap principles. into collective intelligence and collaboration by showing strong leadership In addition to its continued support for the Global steering toward an innovative vision. Compact, Novalume takes action to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Since the creation of Novalume, we have implemented the ten principles Our efforts are detailed in the Sustainable of the United Nations Global Compact in our daily work and lead the Development Goals chapter of this publication. process to next step by involving our partners and suppliers. Date of publication: October 22, 2020. We are all committed to provide our joined contribution. Next issue: October, 2021. The Novalume COP is available on Novalume’s Sincerely yours, corporate website (novalu.me) and in hard copy form. Kim Krahl Larsen Chief Executive Officer of Novalume United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me SUMMARY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Novalume takes action to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals NOVALUME TODAY AND NOVALUME OFFICES (SDGs). Below you will find the relevance and influence of the SDGs on our work to drive positive social, economic and environmental change. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 Implementing the 10 principles into business, strategies and operations H O UR P R O D UG UC RO TS TH A Human Rights and Commitments CT N D PA AT THE • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of IM SE CORE DIR IC E internationally proclaimed human rights; and EC OF OUR RV T MISSION • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. S Labor Principles Integration and Evaluation • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Challenges • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Ensure healthy lives and promote AND COMMUNITIES Make cities and human settlements well-being for all at all ages inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable friendly technologies. 12 RESPONSIBLE Ensure access to affordable, reliable, CONSUMPTION Ensure sustainable consumption Anti-corruption Policies and Procedures 1 4 AND PRODUCTION sustainable Under-5 for all and modern energyThe tuberculosis out patterns and production of urban residents • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, deaths incidence rate declined by including extortion and bribery. dropped between 21% LIVE in slum-like conditions (2018) 13 CLIMATE Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable2000 economic from and 2017; growth, full and productive employment andnonetheless decent ACTION Take urgent action to combat 2 billion 10 million people The global climate change and its impacts 9 10 work for all 9.8 million out of people worldwidE on average , in 2000 people Developed material footprint 2.3% do not have access TUBERCULOSIS to waste collection have access to electricity to services in 2017 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient5.4 million infrastructure, promote inclusive and is rapidly Strengthengrowing, Developed countries the means of implementation and revitalize in 2017 less sustainable industrialization and foster Thewas energy innovation incidence HIV of of pay outpacing population and the The global Global mean Partnership for Sustainable one fifth useDevelopment median hourly Real87% needed to create natural resources among adults temperature in of men is 12% years oldhigher economic growth 186 Parties GDP $1 15‒49 in of the sub-Saharan than that ofAfrica women Only half2018 (53%) is approximately to produce the same amount of urban residents have of economichave outputratified 1°C above As declined by 37% convenient access to public transport (2018) grew vaccinations by 840 million people without between 2010 and of economic 2017 output metric 190 developingthe Paris countries Agreement 4.8% tons 500 METRES 1,000 METRES Industrialization resultedrural in anareas electricity live in 4 each year infections per 1000 uninfected the pre-industrial baseline Convenient access means residing within 500 m walking billion (estimate) distance of a bus stop/low-capacity transport system 150 countries in 80% s drop 92 (2010–2016) and 1000 m of a railway or ferry terminal LDC 3.39 have developed annually in measles 3 43 Climate-related and geophysical disasters 54 billion RemittanceS Nearlyurban 100 deaths is too (2010–2017), slow national 9 10 urban 2000 2016 billion 2.14 2 billion1.3 million lives claimed an estimated will becountries the largest aresource in LDC between 2000 and 2017 s The in research 2010 Global globaland 2017 investment residents out and of between 1998 20171990 2000 2017 2060 plans, with of external half lowactively andof Despite almostin financing them an in the middle-income increase in in 2018, air globaladopting climate in 2019finance to meet the 2030 Agenda TARGET unemploymentis development net breathe ODA polluted countries implementation policies flows ofto and 17%reach 5% (2015‒2016), (projected There were an estimatedless than the 3.5 million more malaria cases rate is bilateral comparedphase $2 trillion with 2013‒2014, totalled measures $550 billion) United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global in 2017 comparedCommunication Compact On Progress oda (COP) 2020,aid toOctober t o p r o m o |t e novalu.me 2020 7% SDG Manufacturing value in the 10 highest-burden African countries to(2018) 2016 (2016), up from Material footprint per capita $149 billion in high-income countries is added per capita in 2018, CO to the LDC S africa Currentsustainable commitments GDP17.5% of total final energy target consumption comeS From 3$739 billion Atmospheric billion (2000) 2 60% downhigher by is fell byTo limit concentration 27 fell by footprint per person 17 metric global warming to statistics— consumption and investment ofproduction in One fifth 0.33% total ODA— than in upper-middle-income 146% $114 $4,938 tons renewableEurope energy fossil fuels 2.7% 3% people lack of countries and more than 4% LDC s and to 1.5°C, global carbon Northern metric tons must be doubled 303 policies and to emissions need to fall 2 america ofclean young people cooking fuels 13pre-industrial times metric continues meet statistical instruments than in place toare be higher investment Globally in and technology are not in level 2017 thefrom of low-income to 55% of 2010 levels in real terms tons capacity-building climate activites NOVALUME TODAY Novalume is an innovative Danish company that works towards greener and Novalume Vision smarter city lighting solutions for public infrastructure. In other words, Novalume Our vision is to develop the best-in class Smart City lighting solutions and is in the business of enabling their customers to go green and taking positive enable our customers to achieve more with less. action for the environment. Passionate, Innovative, Solution-Oriented, Predictable and Eco-Friendly: these are the core values of Novalume’s culture. Novalume’s core product, Lumintell™, which is a Light Management System (LMS), They guide us in our daily work, in the way we do business and in our enables intelligent management and maintenance of LED streetlights. Lumintell™ commitment to our customers – a commitment that is bound by trust and solution drastically reduces the city’s lighting energy consumption and CO2 professionalism. emissions by up to 30%, and the city lighting maintenance costs by up to 50%. Novalume Solution With the ability to integrate IoT and incorporate data on everything from air quality Cities are connecting intelligent streetlights and creating wireless Smart and noise nuisance to road sensors and weather conditions, Lumintell™ is also a City solutions, allowing them simultaneously to save energy, reduce CO2 launchpad for all kinds of other environmental initiatives, which taps directly into emissions and maintenance costs. the Smart City and Green agenda of municipalities. Lumintell™ provides a reliable and efficient network, allowing you to As a consequence of Covid-19 crisis this year, we hope and expect that governments remotely control and monitor an unlimited number of streetlights – in general will accelerate decisions on infrastructure and environmental projects individually or in groups. Each streetlight is connected wirelessly to an in order to: online application via the Cloud at www.lumintell.city. create a public demand to kick-start economic activities and create local jobs, There is no software to install and the only piece of equipment needed reduce the city’s energy consumption and carbon emissions, is the Lumintell™ Node. Our unique solution consists only of two types accelerate the green agenda and deliver on the UN Sustainable Development of nodes: Lightand Cluster Control Units to manage and connect your Goals (SDGs). streetlights. Lumintell™ creates a flexible network, with no fixed cabinet installations or large gateways to maintain and install. IMore than ever, Novalume wants to make a positive environmental and sustainable impact, both locally and globally. To help us do this we cooperate with a number of partner organizations that share this goal. Our partners to create cities greener and more sustainable include Gate 21, Doll Living Lab, State of Green and CLEAN (further info about our partnerships in the SDG 17 section). Our involvement with organizations like these allows us to share our knowledge and stay at the cutting edge of technology, so we can go green together. “Hundreds of cities around the world are connecting their LED lighting network and building Smart City infrastructure, and the social, economic and environmental benefits are already being documented. Thanks to the existing street lighting infrastructure of cities and our LUMINTELL™ solution, we can connect cities, reduce dramatically their energy consumption, maintenance costs and C02 emissions, provide in smart data and make cities more efficient, intelligent and sustainable.“ Kim Krahl Larsen, CEO United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me NOVALUME OFFICES Novalume A/S is headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark, with two branch offices: in Santiago, Chile and in Bogóta, Colombia. In June 2019, Novalume moved its headquarters from Roskilde to Copenhagen. The offices are in the Ørestad district of the city, a modern and growing business and residential area that is home to many leading Danish companies and institutions. The Novalume headquarters are on the top floor of the Neroport building, conveniently reachable by public transport, bike and car, as well as being in proximity to Copenhagen Airport. Key Facts • Worldwide Smart City lighting installations since 2017: +20 municipalities • Business activities in +10 countries with municipalities, ESCOs (Energy Service Companies), OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers) and distributors • A total of 60,000 Lumintell V1 luminaires have been sold, half of them are connected United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me COMMUNICATION ON Lumintell™ solution reduces the PROGRESS 2020 cities’ energy consumption and Novalume is committed to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations CO2 emissions by up to 30% – its Global Compact. maintenance costs by up to 50% Human Rights and our Commitments Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. *** Novalume continues to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and to make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. In particular, Novalume takes action to avoid infringing human rights and seeks to make a positive contribution towards the protection and fulfillment of human rights. Continued application of the Code of Conduct In relation to these commitments, in addition to adhering to international and local laws where we operate, the Novalume Code of Conduct continues to be a central document for how we do business. Novalume distributes the Code of Conduct to all new employees and all cooperation partners and insists on compliance as a condition of working with Novalume. The Code of Conduct sets out concrete conduct requirements and states that Novalume will not “conduct business with a Partner engaged in violation of fundamental human rights.” Staff meetings and supplier evaluations Novalume encourages employees to meet and feel comfortable discussing any issues of concern. Staff meetings take place on a regular basis, at least once a month, and issues raised are brought to the attention of management. Novalume conducts supplier and sub-supplier evaluations every two years. In this way, Novalume monitors and evaluates the respect of human rights protection in the supply chain. The next supplier and sub-supplier evaluations are scheduled for 2021. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me Municipality of Glostrup (DOLL), Denmark Kim Krahl Larsen (CEO) during a business trip in China in May 2019. Kim Krahl Larsen (CEO) during one of the Supplier Evaluations in China (May 2019) including inspecting health and safety certificates from suppliers and ensuring that the Code of Conduct provisions on working conditions are being respected. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me Labor Principles Integration and Evaluation Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. *** Code of Conduct requirements Being founded in Denmark, a country with a strong history of trade unionism and collective bargaining, Novalume naturally upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining in the countries where it operates. This is affirmed in the Novalume Code of Conduct. Novalume complies with all rules and regulations with regard to labor in the regions where the company is represented. In addition, the Code of Conduct prohibits all forms of forced labor and child labor and seeks to impose higher standards than the legal requirements, for example in the areas of remuneration, leave and working hours. Equal opportunities scheme Novalume is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to not discriminating in any way in respect of employment and occupation. Furthermore, the CEO of Novalume ensures that any measure implemented to address COVID-19 is accessible to people without discrimination of any kind such as race, colour, disability, age, gender, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth, sexual orientation, gender identity or other status. Competitive terms of employment In addition to furthering the Global Compact Principles on Labor, Novalume seeks to go beyond them. Novalume’s headquarters in Copenhagen provide improved working conditions for its employees, with a high-quality lunch provider, an exceptionally light office environment and comfortable climate-controlled office space. As a result of the crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic, the workplace has been arranged in a manner that minimises the risk of infection and ensures it is possible to maintain social distancing among employees. This means, among other things, that employees should be seated with (at least) one metre between them and guidelines has been provided to employees on how to use the canteen, meeting rooms etc. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me Job motivation and perks Communication and up-to-date information about the COVID-19 pandemic Novalume reimburses its employees competitively and has an attractive bonus The Novalume Board ensures that they take any necessary steps to protect their scheme when sales targets are met. In addition, Novalume pays more than half employees. The CEO of Novalume informs employees about the infectiousness of employees’ lunch, there is a pension scheme with health insurance cover for all of COVID-19 and the authorities’ recommendations on how to avoid the spread employees, and several staff members benefit from the use of staff laptops and of the disease. Furthermore, he personally ensures that up-to-date information mobile phones that can be used privately. circulate on good hygiene practices and provides any necessary equipment Workplace evaluations, organisation of work and staff meetings to facilitate this, such as hand sanitisers in specific location of the office: main Novalume monitors and evaluates its performance with regard to labor in the entrance and kitchen mainly. same way as human rights protection, as described in the previous section. Periodically, Kim Krahl Larsen (CEO) also issues a reminder on actions that In accordance with Danish law, a workplace evaluation (‘arbejdspladsvurdering’) employees must take to help stop viruses like coronavirus spreading. As the is carried out annually at Novalume’s offices. The most recent evaluation was situation can evolve rapidly and imply further guidance on additional issues, performed the 24th of June, 2020. Novalume continues to align itself with the rules and regulations implemented Amongst other things, Kim Krahl Larsen (CEO), in collaboration with employees, by Danish government in Denmark and local governements in the country our has organized the work in a way that ensures part of the workforce can continue employees are (Chile, Colombia and China). to work from home if necessary or if needed by some employees. Further, the Continuity of Income and honouring each contract working hours of such employees have be arranged flexibly, to ensure that as The management board ensures a stable continuation of income despite important few employees as possible use public transportation during rush hours, and to delays of payment of certain customers and flexible working arrangements such as minimize the number of employees arriving at work at the same time. staying off work because of illness, quarantine or caring for a sick family member. Physical meetings including business travel are also avoided wherever possible, Current contracts have also been honored to the greatest extent possible. and video conferencing has been highly recommended. Engagement with suppliers is essential to ensure decent working conditions in Supplier evaluations global supply chains while providing support for business continuity by allowing The supplier and sub-supplier evaluations, described in the section on human flexibility in delivery and quotas. rights above, include inspecting health and safety certificates from suppliers and ensuring that the Code of Conduct provisions on working conditions are being respected. According to the Code of Conduct, suppliers are also required to keep records to demonstrate compliance. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me Environment Challenges and diffusing environmentally friendly technologies. Novalume’s IoT solutions put municipalities in a position to initiate environmental initiatives regarding air Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to pollution, noise pollution etc. environmental challenges; Just as monitoring and responding to key performance indicators is an integral Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental part of business interventions, successful environmental projects are also dataresponsibility; and driven. In order to improve quality of life in a city, it is first necessary to know what the starting point is. Without keeping track of environmental indicators, it would Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally be impossible to know if climate initiatives were successful or if goals were being friendly technologies. met. In practice, this means the need for air quality sensors in different parts of *** cities, sending data in real time. Conducting an environmental policy in line with the Global Compact’s The Novalume Headquarters: offices, catering and cleaning environmental principles is still central to Novalume’s business. Environmental responsibility and sustainability are major factors in the Novalume’s culture but also in its offices in Ørestad, Copenhagen. The offices are located in Precautionary approach the Neroport building, which is owned and operated by the Swedish property With regard to taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, company Castellum, and catering and cleaning by the Compass Group Denmark, Novalume deems the main risk of environmental damage due to its activities to operating under the brand Eurest. be in the supply chain and addresses this risk with provisions for environmental protection in the Code of Conduct, which must be adhered to by suppliers. The Castellum is the Nordic region’s most sustainable property company, having Environmental Protection standards include, but are not limited to, minimizing ranked first in the world in the 2019 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark pollution in the supply chain. These provisions are intended to ensure that our (GRESB) awards for the fourth consecutive year. Castellum’s approach to the cooperation partners also protect the environment and adopt a precautionary ownership, management and development of the Neroport building and its other approach to environmental challenges. property holdings includes focus on resource efficiency and high environmental construction standards. Novalume’s products and services both promote greater environmental Compass Group Denmark is a leading provider of facility management, catering responsibility among our clients and encourage the development and diffusion of and cleaning services, a subsidiary of Compass Group PLC, a global service environmentally friendly technologies. company with more than 600,000 employees in over 50 countries. Their approach is holistic and rooted in the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emissions One of Novalume’s environmental focus areas is reducing energy consumption Compass Group actively pursues the UN sustainable development goals (SDGs), and thereby CO2 emissions. Projections indicate that 5 billion people (60% of the which address the global challenges facing the world and seek to ensure a world’s population) will live in cities by 2050 and, according to the International sustainable future for all. An example of this is Urban Nomad, which ensures that Energy Agency, the overall demand for lighting will be 80% higher by 2030 than our work clothes, dish cloths and disposable products are produced sustainably it was in 2005. and are biodegradable. InDenmark, Compass Group focus their efforts on three of the SDGs: SDG 3, 8 & 12. With lighting representing a large and increasing share of municipal energy consumption, our LED public lighting solutions – with the Lumintell™ smart Since the reopening of the canteen of the Neroport building the 31st of August, system – allow municipalities to drastically reduce their energy consumption and several good hygienic practices and food safety measures have been adopted, CO2 emissions by up to 75%. This important reduction of energy consumption and among others: CO2 emissions has a direct and positive impact on the environment. • Physical separation of workers and other staff in all premises of a business operation. Keeping 1.5 meter distance between guests in the canteen Environmental monitoring with IoT sensors • Improved cleaning, disinfection and sanitation measures such hand Another of Novalume’s focus areas this year, the incorporation of IoT sensor sanitisers in all premises, instructional floor stickers, installing physical barriers, plugins for our Lumintell™ Smart City and Lighting Management System, also extra training of food workers about hygiene and food safety, etc) contributes to promoting greater environmental responsibility and developing United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me • Reducing menu options temporally and offering lower risk menu items Anti-corruption Policies and Procedures that require less direct food handling, Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including ‘Go Green’ branding and SDGs Label Pins extortion and bribery. Novalume continues to use the ‘Go Green’ label to promote greater environmental responsibility. The logo is used in Novalume’s marketing materials and features *** prominently in the new offices. Code of Conduct provision Novalume Management team also shows its dedication to support the SDGs by Anti-corruption continues to be an important issue for Novalume. Novalume bearing the SDG label pins during events and meetings with partners, service stands by the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy set out in the Code of providers or city officials. Conduct. Violation of these provisions by a cooperation partner results in the termination of the business relationship with immediate effect. An exemple of this effect during meetings, and for those who are not familiar with this pact, is the questions asked about the SDGs, the Communication on Progress Management pledge and the UN Gobal Compact organization. Their questions shows a certain interest Top management in the company is still required to sign and abide by an extended and eventually their will to be a new member. agreement and pledge on anti-bribery. Record-keeping and oversight Novalume’s business practices require the keeping of written records to facilitate the monitoring of transactions. Novalume also uses the services of consultancy ‘Go Green’ branding firms in its overseas dealings to ensure the avoidance of personal business Novalume continues interests and control of transactions. to use the ‘Go Green’ label to promote greater environmental responsibility. The logo is used in Novalume’s marketing materials and features prominently in the offices. Monitoring our environmental efforts Novalume monitors environmental protection in the supply chain during supplier and sub-supplier evaluations. The next evaluations will take place in 2020. Novalume also monitors and evaluates environmental performance using the Lumintell™ system, which provides analytics data, including an energy savings analysis, for the installations where the system is deployed. Since the Covid-19 pandemic, Kim Krahl Larsen (CEO) has also encouraged telecommuting and virtual meetings which can reduce negative impacts on the environment caused by travel and reduce our carbon footprint. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2020 In addition to its continued support for the Global Compact, Novalume takes action to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Novalume’s activity relevant to the SDGs and the targets that it helps achieve is outlined in the following sections. Influence of the SDGs on our work UG H O U R P R OD RO UC T H TS A ACT N D P AT THE IM CORE ES CT IC DIR OF OUR RV E MISSION SE The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which was adopted in September 2015 by the member states of the United Nations, is an action plan for people, planet and prosperity. It includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 targets. They balance the three dimensions of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. They rely on partnerships, thus requiring everyone to work together: business, governments, NGOs and civil society. United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me Ensure healthy lives and promote Ensure access to affordable, reliable, well-being for all at all ages sustainable and modern energy for all Goal 3: Good Health And Well-Being Goal 7: Affordable And Clean Energy Under-5 9 10 Target 3.9: “By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses tuberculosis The from Target 7.3: “By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency.” hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination.”incidence rate out of people worldwidE on average , deaths 2.3% *** *** declined by One of Novalume’s focus areas this year, the incorporation of IoT sensors for the between 21% have access Novalume to electricity contributes directly to the goal of doubling the global rate of dropped Lumintell™ Smart City System, is directly related to the goal of promoting 2000 good and 2017; improvement in energy efficiency by developing technologies that minimize from energy consumption and allow people to do more with less. health and well-being, specifically regarding the reduction of air pollution. nonetheless less energy 10 million According the UN Habitat, cities consume today 78% of the word’s energy. (1) 87% 9.8 million Increasing air pollution is a growing global problem and one that requires action from cities and national governments alike. Researchers estimate that air pollution Energy usage is expected to grow by 25%(2) by 2040. was needed to create in 2000 people Developed Lighting accounts for almost 20% of the total global usage and up to 40%(2) of $1 kills nearly 800,000 people a year in Europe alone and the WHO puts the annual a city’s energy bill, so smart street lighting represents an excellent opportunity for fatalities worldwide at 7 million(1). to TUBERCULOSIS of the improvement; by reducing the need for energy, cities lower their impact on the in 2017 As described in the Environment section above, monitoring and responding to 5.4 million environment and climate change. 840 million data is key to successful environmental initiatives at a local and national level. of economic output in 2017 With street lighting representing people without a large and increasing share of municipal each year Lumintell™, in addition to being an intelligent lighting solution, functions as a citywide IoT-ready network that can be used to connect smart sensors in any location The incidence of HIV energy consumption, our energy-efficient electricitysolutions live in have the potential to make a and in any combination. Smart data are then visible directly in the among adults Lumintell™ web rural areas significant contribution to achieving this goal. (2010–2016) application, making it easily usable for environmental monitoring. 15‒49 years old in Real-time monitoring ensures accurate data that allows municipalities sub-Saharan to take Africa action to reduce pollution. Action that could be taken on the declined by 37% basis of real-time vaccinations air quality sensor data might be to regulate traffic in specific parts various times or impose restrictions on certain types of construction work. between of the 2010 city atand 2017 resulted in an 4 infections per 1000 uninfected 80% drop 3.39 3 in measles deaths 2.14 2 between 2000 and 2017 17.5% 3 billion 2010 2017 of total final energy consumption comeS From Source: (1) UN Habitat (United Nations Human Settlements Program), (2) WEMO 2019 (World Energy Market renewable energy people lack Observatory), (3) Global Smart Street Lighting & Smart Cities (Page 5): Market Forecast (2019 – 2028) by Northeast Group (2017) There were an estimated 3.5 million more malaria cases Source: (1) WHO, https://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2014/air-pollution/en/ clean cooking fuels in the 10 highest-burden African countries in 2017 compared to 2016 and technology United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all work for all Goal 8: Decent Work And Economic Growth In continuation of the Lumintell™ V1 Solution (2017), a LED luminaire with an embedded LMS solution, Novalume has launched its externally mounted median hourly pay of Target 8.2: “Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, median hourly pay of Lumintell™ V2 Solution in 2019, and a Lumintell™ V3 Solution is in final stages of men is 12% higher men is 12% higher technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value development with was launched in August 2020. Real GDP Real GDP added and labour-intensive sectors.” Lumintell“ consists of an in-house developed software platform. Together with the Target 8.4: “Improve progressively, through 2030, globalthan that of women corresponding hardware component, Lumintell™ NEMA andthan Zhaga that Nodes, of theywomen resource efficiency grew by in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework grew by provide an advanced and intelligent Smart City Solution within the international fast-growing market of connected infrastructure. 4.8% 4.8% of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead.” *** annually Novalume’s energy-efficient products and services facilitates resource efficiency in consumption and the decoupling of economic growth from environmental annually degradation. in LDC s The As an exemple of decent work for all, Novalume joined last year a scheme global in LDC s The global (2010–2017), unemployment organized by the Danish Ministry of Employment (Beskæftigelsesministeriet) (2010–2017), unemployment 5% 5% to offer an internship to a person who is reentering the workforce after having less than the been out of work for an extended period due to illness. rate is less than the rate is 7% SDG (2018) 7% SDG (2018) Novalume also employs foreingners not only in the Headquarters and locals in foreign countries where Novalume has its business activities. Novalume is an GDP equal opportunity employer and is committed to not discriminating in any way target in respect of employment and occupation. For exemple, in Chile, Colombia and GDP target One fifth China, all Novalume employees are paid above-average salaries in their respective countries. One fifth of young people At Novalume, we believe that the key to sustainable and Smart City solutions for of young people our society is innovation and technological development, with a closeare not in collaboration are not in with our partners (see the SDG 17 for more details about our partnerships). Since education, the creation of Novalume in 2016, significant innovations diversification and education, In 2018, creative solutions have been implemented in the core of our business, labour productivity employment product In 2018, labour productivity employment development, services and our way of working. increased by 2.1% from 2017: or training increased by 2.1% from 2017: or training the highest annual growth the highest annual growth since 2010 since 2010 United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me 9 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, And Infrastructure The electricity cost savings achieved through upgrading to Novalume’s solutions are so significant that they pay for the cost of upgrading, typically within a few Industrialization Target 9.1: “Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and Industrialization years. This makes the cost of upgrading very affordable. For the same reasons as indicated in the Environment section of the Global Compact in LDC s in LDC s human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all.” Principles chapter and the sections above, Novalume’s solutions contribute to Target 9.4: “By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them is too slow is too slow 2000 2016 resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound 2000 2016 sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of technologies. clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all Global investment Global investment countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities.” in research and in research and totechnology meet theand2030 Agenda TARGET Target 9.C: “Significantly increase access to information and communications development is strive to provide universal and affordable access to the Internet to meet the 2030 Agenda TARGET development is in least developed countries by 2020.” Manufacturing value *** $2 trillion (2016), up from Manufacturing value $2 trillion (2016), up from added per capita added per capita Technological innovation and increasing urbanization make Smart Cities more relevant today than ever before. $739 billion $739 billion (2000) (2000) $114 $4,938 $114 $4,938 Novalume’sLDC s street lighting products and Europe and services form part of the local LDC s Europe and infrastructure where they are deployed. Northern Northern 90% 90% america america In 2019, Novalume launched an externally mounted solution (Lumintell™ Node) for LED streetlights, which expands the available market to include basically all LED luminaires worldwide. During the summer 2020, another step has been reached with the launch of the new Lumintell™ Field App and the Lumintell™ of people live Node Zhaga within of people live within range of a 3G or version that includes motion and daylight sensors, as well as enhanced service and maintenance features. range of a 3G or Medium-high This standardized andinterface high-tech Zhaga, makessectors higher the deployment process quality for smart Medium-high and high-tech sectors higher quality lighting much easier and faster and unlock the potential for Novalume’s mobileproducts network (2018), mobile network (2018), account for 45% to improve ofinfrastructure lighting the globalaround manufacturing the world. but not all can account for 45% of the global manufacturing but not all can value added (2016) , but the share is only 15% in Thanks to the new Lumintell™ Node and system, municipalities can now afford to use it upgrade value added (2016), but the share is only 15% in afford to use it sub-Saharan Africainfrastructure with sensing and communication capabilities, LED street lighting sub-Saharan Africa while significantly improving the efficiency, maintenance and running costs of their lighting network. 45% 15% 45% 15% United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me global sub-saharan africa global sub-saharan africa 11 12 SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE AND COMMUNITIES Make cities and human settlements CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Ensure sustainable consumption inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable and production patterns Goal 11: Sustainable Cities And Communities Goal 12: Responsible Consumption And Production Target 11.6: “By 2030, reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities, including by paying special attention to air quality and municipal and other waste management.” 1 4 out of LIVE in slum-like conditions (2018) Target 11.B: “By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and human urban residents The global Target 12.7: “Promote public procurement practices that are sustainable, in accordance with national policies and priorities.” material footprint Target 12.A: “Support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption settlements adopting and implementing integrated policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efficiency, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, resilience is rapidly growing, and production.” Developed countries 2 billion to disasters, and develop and implement, in line with the Sendai Framework for *** use one fifth people Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, holistic disaster risk management at all levels.” outpacing population and Denmark is a world leader when it comes to developing new and green technoloof natural resources economic growth gy – particularly in terms of Smart City and lighting solutions. For exemple, DOLL *** Living Lab, a leading facility of its kind in Europe, and probably in the world, tests do not have access to produce the same amount to wasteNovalume’s collectionproducts and services facilitate improving safety, air quality and and demonstrates intelligent outdoor lighting systems and Smart City technoloof economic output As resource efficiency in cities, as well as mitigating climate change. gies. services As described in the Environment section of the 10 Principles, Novalume’s energydeveloping countries efficient street lighting allows cities to reduce their adverse environmental impact By coupling tons point is typically overlooked by city administrators. 190 metric outdoor lighting with lighting control systems as the logical starting billion Innovation and regulations by cutting energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Also, as detailed in the Good (estimate) are driving increased use of smart and connected devices, including wireless netHealth and Well-Being section above, Novalume’s IoT and sensors network provide an effective tool for cities to improve air quality and reach other environmental 92 works, smart controls and nodes, the Internet of Things (IoT), cloud-based soft54 ware and smartphone applications. billion goals. Only half (53%) of urban residents have 43 billion billion Nearly 100 convenient Public lighting represents one of the most excellent power grids spread across access public transport tothroughout (2018) Thanks to the Lumintell™solution, city workers do not have to be “High Tech” or countries are towns and cities the globe. It’s like the nervous system of a city, IT savvy to deploy and utilize Smart City applications. Due to Novalume’s technoconnecting over 300 million streetlights worldwide(1) with access to power. 500 METRES 1,000 METRES 1990 2000 2017 2060 logical developments and innovations, municipalities in developing countries can actively By connecting streetlights and sensors, Lumintell™ provides a powerful dashboard Convenient access means residing within 500 m walking be “smart“ as well. The last three years, Novalume has set-up or participated in adopting for presenting smart data in a way that makes it useful for improving the urban environment. distance of a bus stop/low-capacity transport system and 1000 m of a railwaymonitoring Real-time ensures accurate data that allows municipalities or ferry terminal 150 countries several workshops, events and training in Chile, Colombia, Denmark, Italy, Indonesia and other countries to support technology and regulations on a national and policies and measures to take action and reach their goals. Action that could be taken on the basis of have developed local level. Material footprint per capita in high-income countries is to promote real-time air quality sensor data might be to regulate traffic in specific parts of the At Novalume we believe, that the key to promote sustainability in consumption, nationalwork. urban 9 10 sustainable 60% higher city at various times or impose restrictions on certain types of construction urban Intelligent streetlights and sensors can be used for many different plans, with almost applications: production and development footprint 27 is the cooperation between ciizens, knowledge inconsumption and out of per stitutions, companies, person national metric and local policy makers. whether the priority is improving sustainability, safety, energy-efficiency, reducing residents CO emissions or improving the quality of life of citizens. half of them in the than in upper-middle-income countries and more than tons 17 metric production breathe polluted air 2 tons implementation 2 303 policies and Source: (1) Global Smart Street Lighting & Smart Cities: Market Forecast (2019 – 2028) by Northeast Group (2017) phase 13 times metric tons instruments are in place Globally the level of low-income United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me countries highUpper-middlelowUnited Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me income income income 13 CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to combat Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize climate change and its impacts the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Goal 13: Climate Action Goal 17: Partnerships The global mean Target 13.2: “Integrate climate change measures into national policies, strategies and planning.” Target 17.14: “Enhance policy coherence for sustainable development.” temperature in Target 17.16: “Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development, *** 186 Parties complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships that mobilize and share 2018 is approximately Cities are growing rapidly in terms of inhabitants and the space they occupy. knowledge, expertise, technology and financial resources, to support the RemittanceS havewe ratified 1°C above Every minute, we add 10,000 square metres of city space. Every five days, achievement of the sustainable development goals in all countries, in particular will be the largest source build a new Paris. Each year, the total size of Japan. the Paris developing countries.” of external financing in This urbanization requires us to rethink how our cities are engineered. Today, cities occupy 3% of the Earth’s land, but account for two thirds of the world’s energy (1) Agreement lowand middle-income Target 17.17: “Encourage and promote effective public, public-private and civil the pre-industrial baseline in 2018, society partnerships, building on the experience and resourcing countries in 2019of strategies demand and 70%(2) of CO2 emissions. The large carbon footprint of cities also impacts air quality, raising growing concerns on the health and well-being of net ODA bilateral partnerships.” (projected to reach totalled $550 billion) citizens. In fact, 91%(3) of the world’s population currently lives in places where air $149 billion oda aid to *** Climate-related and geophysical quality levels exceed the World disasters Health Organization’s limits, causing 4.2 million (4) claimed an estimated deaths every year. 1.3 million lives in 2018,Smart Citiestoandthe LDC S africa At Novalume, we believe that the key to sustainable and innovative solutions for Current commitments our society is the cooperation between organizations, companies, between 1998 and 2017 to statistics— In other words, the impact of cities is enormous. But so are the opportunities down by fell by policy makers and citizens. fell by 0.33% of total ODA— for urban efficiency. To deliver on the UN Sustainable DevelopmentDespite Goals and an the increase in 3% Joining local and international networks is a great opportunity for Novalume Paris Agreement, we need to be city-centric. Cities have a unique opportunity reduce their energy consumption, CO2 emissions and air pollutionflows energy-efficient technologies and system such as Lumintell™. global climate by usingof 17% to finance new,(2015‒2016), compared with 2013‒2014, 2.7% from 2017organizations in focused real terms 4% about the latest green tech trends and collaborate with must be doubled to to improve our business activities and services, get insight into and inspiration meet statistical other capacity-building on the green transition, sustainability, innovative innovation and Lumintell™ facilitates the reduction of electricity consumption and thereby of smart solutionsfrom 2017 for cities. objectives by 2030 CO2 emissions – a central climate change measure – and also provide tools used Our current partnerships and memberships Atmospheric CO 2 for reducing other forms of pollution that contribute to climate change. Just as In this section, you will find our key partners that help us to generate more innovative, concentrationmonitoringisand responding to key To limit performance global warmingindicators is an integral investment part of in In sub-Saharan more sustainable and greener solutions. In 2020, three new memberships have 146% business interventions, successful environmental projects are also data-driven. In of order to improve quality of life in a city, it is first necessary to know what the starting point is. Without to 1.5°C, global carbon emissions need to keeping track of fall fossil fuels continues to be higher environmental indicators, it would be than investment in been signed with a focus on: • • the energy sector with Energy Cluster Denmark, Africa, less than one quarter technology standards for smart street lighting with Zhaga Consortium, pre-industrial impossible to know if climate to 55%initiatives of 2010 levels were successful or if goals were climate being activites • of national and communication protocol for smart cities with TALQ Consortium. levels met. (2017) In practice, this means the need for air quality sensors in different cities, sending data in real time. by 2030 and continue parts of These partnerships and memberships are gathered belowstatistical around four key plans a steep decline to zero competencies: are fully funded 60 net emissions by 2050 800 Source: (1)(2) World economic Forum, the 17th of January. 2020. https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2020/01/ 2016 • Environment, Green Growth and Sustainability 50 $781 smart-and-the-city-working-title. (3)(4) World Health Organization, https://www.who.int/health-topics/airpollution#tab=tab_1 600 billion $681 • Smart City and Smart Street Lighting 40 billion 30 400 Over 80% compared to 45% and only 20% 20 200 United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me of people in in developing in LDC s United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me 10 0 fossil global climate developed countries countries fuel finance are online 0 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development • Energy, Technology and Innovation • Financing ENVIRONMENT, GREEN GROWTH & SUSTAINABILITY GATE 21 – The Gate for Green Growth (Denmark) RemittanceS Gate 21 is a nonprofit partner organization with a vision of making Greater Copenhagen the leading region in the world for green transition and growth. will be the largest source As a partner of Gate 21, Novalume joins some of the most ambitious regions, municipalities, companies and knowledge institutions in Greater of external financing in Copenhagen, where we participate in working toward the common goal lowand middle-income of accelerating green in 2018, countries in 2019 net ODA bilateral change and growth. For more information, visit gate21.dk STATE OF GREEN – Denmark’s Offical Green Brand (projected to reach totalled $550 billion) aid to odarelations with international State of Green is a not-for-profit, public-private partnership from Denmark. The $149 billion organization fosters stakeholders and is a network in 2018,of Danish to the LDC businesses, S africa governmental Current and academic institutions, commitments experts, and to statistics— researchers. With the other members of State of Green, Novalume will be working down by fell by fell by to drive the global transition to a sustainable, low-carbon, resource-efficient 0.33% of total ODA— 2.7% 3% society. For more information, visit stateofgreen.com 4% must be doubled to SMART CITY & SMART STREET LIGHTING meet statistical from 2017 in real terms– The largest cooperation platformcapacity-building LIGHTING METROPOLIS in Scandinavia for from 2017 future innovative lighting objectives by 2030 Member since 2019. Lighting Metropolis works to make Greater Copenhagen (Skåne, Halland & Eastern Denmark) the region where global companies invest in the innovation, testing and demonstration of future solutions in collaboration with cities, scientists and local companies. In sub-Saharan Africa, less than The new lighting project, called Lighting Metropolis – Green Economy (LMGE), will one quarter lead to energy savings in the region. Only one fifth of the public lighting in Greater of national Copenhagen is classified as energy-efficient today. LMGE exploits this enormous statistical plans potential to implement qualitative and energy-saving LEDs, and thereby further consolidating the region as a leading metropolis of sustainable lighting solutions. are fully funded 14 Danish and Swedish municipalities participate in this project together with Novalume and other companies. For more information, visit lightingmetropolis. Over 80% compared to 45% and only 20% of people in in developing in LDC s | novalu.me United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me countries United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 developed countries are online Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development com. TALQ Consortium – The Smart City Protocol (2020) DOLL – Lighting the Future of Smart Cities Founded in 2012, the TALQ Consortium aims to define a globally accepted smart DOLL Living Lab is a leading facility of its kind in Europe, testing and city protocol for central management software (CMS) to configure, control, demonstrating intelligent outdoor lighting systems and Smart City technologies. command and monitor heterogeneous outdoor lighting networks and Smart 80+ delegations come and visit DOLL Living Lab annually, experiencing the City applications. The TALQ Smart City Protocol is a specification for information solutions in a 1:1 scale. Currently, 50+ partner companies such as Novalume exchange, suitable for implementation in various products and systems. This and knowledge institutions contribute to the Living Lab’s success. RemittanceS Novalume’s RemittanceS way interoperability between Central Management Software (CMS) and Outdoor will be the largest source installation is conveniently located next to the visitor center so public decision will be the largest source Device Networks (ODN) from different vendors will be enabled, such that a single makers and practitioners from city and government levels, as well as financing of external Smart in of external financing in CMS can control different ODNs in different parts of a city or region. For more City-focused players in general, can discover the full potential lowand middle-income of the Lumintell™ information, visit talq-consortium.org. lowand middle-income in 2018, countries in 2019 solution in live conditions. For more information, visit doll-livinglab.com. in 2018, countries in 2019 net ODA bilateral SMART CITY CLUSTER DENMARK – Cluster of Smart City(projected to reach Solutions Providers net ODA bilateral ZHAGA Consortium – Smart standards, smarter lighting (2020) With its origins in Europe, the Zhaga Consortium is a global (projected to reach lighting-industry totalledSmart City Cluster Denmark is a new Danish initiative (2019) $550 that billion) creates an totalledorganization that aims to standardize interfaces of components $550ofbillion) LED luminaires $149 billion overall frameworkoda aid to for companies, research environments, cities and projects in in order to ease oda $149 billion aid to and accelerate the adoption of the latest-generation technology in in 2018,Denmark to that the LDCthe work with africa S digitization Current commitments of cities and local communities City. For more information, visit smartcitycluster.dk Smart to the LDC in 2018,smart street-lighting S cities. and smart africa Currentand Thanks to the Lumintell™Node commitments municipalities can now upgrade LED street lighting infrastructure with sensing system, to statistics— to statistics— down by fell by fell by ANAP Asociación Nacional de Alumbrado Público (Colombia) 0.33% of total ODA— down by fell by and communication capabilities, while by improving fellsignificantly the efficiency, 0.33% of total ODA— maintenance and running costs of their lighting network. For more information, 2.7% 3% 4% 2.7% 3% 4% Novalume joined the ANAP Group in 2018 in order to promote the evolution of must be doubled to visitzhagastandard.org. must be doubled to public lighting services in Colombia. All members, through the promotion of work meet statistical plans and discussion tables, conferences and congresses, develop and pursue CLEAN – International Cleantech Cluster meet statistical in realand from 2017constant research innovation in order to boost the use capacity-building terms of new technologies from 2017 in real termscleantech cluster based in Denmarkcapacity-building CLEAN is a world-leading with an international from 2017 and the preservation of the environment, while improving objectives by and 2030 public services focus. Their from mission2017 objectives is to accelerate the green and sustainable 2030 bywhile transition the quality of life of residents. Novalume will participate at the next Smart City creating growth for the Danish cleantech companies. CLEAN has four focus Forum organized by ANAP, Smart City Expo Latam and Alianza Smart Latam in areas: Smart Energy, Resource Efficiency, Smart City and Internationalization. The In sub-Saharan Bucaramanga, Colombia in December 2019. For more information, visit anap.co. In sub-Saharan organization creates innovative solutions to some of the challenges that concern us all and as a member of CLEAN, Novalume wants to contribute to this vision. ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION Africa, less than For more information, visit cleancluster.dk Africa, less than one quarter Energy Cluster Denmark – The platform for innovation in the energy sector FINANCING one quarter (2020) of national of national Energy Cluster Denmark is Denmark’s cluster organization for the entire energy statistical plans sector. Created in 2020, this platform facilitates the synergy and technological EKF Denmark’s Official Export Credit Agency statistical plans EKF and other international financial partners assist us in securing our international development across the energy areas with a close dialogueare fully between thefunded 400 business transactions. For more information, visit ekf.dk are fully funded members. For more information, visit energycluster.dk. Over 80% compared to 45% and only 20% Over 80% compared to 45% and only 20% of people in in developing in LDC s United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me of people in in developing in LDC s United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me developed countries countries developed countries countries are online are online THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principlesbased approach to doing business. This means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. By incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, Novalume is not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Novalume is a signatory member of the Environment United Nations Global Compact since 2017 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. *** More information about the UN Global Compact ‘s SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) by 2030 here: https://www.un.org/ sustainabledevelopment/ Announcement of Novalume’s support of the principles of the UN Global Compact in the Newsroom of Novalume’s Corporate Website: https://novalu. me/newsroom United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress (COP) 2020, October 2020 | novalu.me Smart City Lighting Solutions Kay Fiskers Plads 9, West Tower, Copenhagen S, Denmark +45 35 37 88 88 | info@novalu.me novalu.me
