2019 ANNUAL REPORT FREUDENBERG GROUP The Freudenberg Group stands for technology and champion. For Freudenberg, striving together for innovation. Together with customers and research solutions that support global sustainability is both partners, Freudenberg employees develop leadingmotivation as well as the concept for success. It edge technologies, products, solutions and services. enables the Group to provide its customers with The innovative strength of Freudenberg has many solutions and answers to tomorrow’s questions, today. facets. Having pioneered innovation throughout its The company slogan “Innovating Together” embodies history – from chrome tanning and the development the Group’s identity. This Annual Report brings you of the Simmerring to sophisticated and high-tech many examples of what makes Freudenberg so medical devices – the company is an innovation unique and different. HIGHLIGHTS [€ million] 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales Germany 1,116 1,269 1,557 1,641 1,477 EU (excluding Germany) 1,700 2,094 2,434 2,448 2,445 Other European countries 308 314 441 429 412 North America 1,668 2,093 2,502 2,434 2,526 South/Central America 274 281 326 285 284 Asia 1,204 1,700 1,907 2,016 2,115 Africa/Australia 141 149 179 202 209 Total sales 6,411 7,900 9,346 9,455 9,468 Consolidated profit 521 1,087 700 602 611 Cash flow from operating activities 763 945 929 828 957 Cash flow from investing activities -429 -1,510 -612 -581 -601 Balance sheet total 7,238 10,224 10,194 10,239 11,355 Equity 3,700 4,603 4,835 5,312 5,820 Equity ratio 51 % 45 % 47 % 52 % 51 % Workforce (as at Dec. 31) 34,007 46,266 47,653 49,137 48,851 Workforce (annual average) 34,312 40,951 47,657 48,894 49,108 LOCATIONS WORLDWIDE The Freudenberg Group is active in some 60 countries with some 49,000 employees. 2019 FREUDENBERG ANNUAL REPORT CONTENTS COMPANY BOARDS Supervisory Board 2 Board of Management 3 Executive Council 4 Management of the Business Groups 5 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 6 FOREWORD OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT 8 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress) 12 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT Fundamental Information Business Model 43 Research and Development 46 Report on Economic Conditions Macroeconomic Environment 50 Business Development and Position 53 Earnings Position 55 Financial Position 55 Report on Operations by Business Area 60 Report on Events after the Date of the Statement of Financial Position 85 Report on Opportunities and Risks 86 Report on Expected Developments 96 Freudenberg SE (HGB) 99 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 104 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 106 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 110 Shareholdings 163 Independent Auditor’s Report 174 COMPANY BOARDS SUPERVISORY BOARD 1. From left: Wentzler, Kurz, Freudenberg, Freudenberg-Beetz, Haas-Wittmüß, Kairisto 2. From left: Pott, Purvis, Schildhauer, Schücking, Thielen, Towfigh Martin Wentzler, Martin Haas-Wittmüß, Walter Schildhauer, Großhesselohe Dreieich Stuttgart Chairman of the Supervisory Vice President of Managing Partner of speedwave Board at Freudenberg SE KION GROUP AG GmbH Attorney Essimari Kairisto, Dr. Christoph Schücking, Professor Dr. Dieter Kurz, Lindau Korschenbroich Frankfurt am Main Deputy Chairman of the Member of the Supervisory Board Attorney and Notary Public Supervisory Board Freudenberg SE of Applus+ Services S.A., Fortum Chairman of the Shareholder Oyj, TenneT Holding B.V. Mathias Thielen, Council of the Carl Zeiss Foundation Zürich, Switzerland Dr. Richard Pott, Managing Director of Leverkusen Martin Freudenberg, Credit Suisse AG Chairman of the Supervisory Board Heidelberg of Covestro AG Managing Director of Jumag Professor Dr. Emanuel V. Towfigh, Dampferzeuger GmbH David M. Purvis, Bad Soden Kansas City, Missouri, USA Professor and Dean of Law School, Dr. Maria Freudenberg-Beetz, Weinheim Former Executive Vice President EBS Universität für Wirtschaft und Biologist and CTO at Solectron Corp. Recht as at December 31, 2019 2 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT From left: Krauch, Sohi and Krieger Dr. Mohsen Sohi Frankfurt am Main Chief Executive Officer Dr. Tilman Krauch Heidelberg Member of the Board of Management, CTO Dr. Ralf Krieger St. Leon-Rot Member of the Board of Management, CFO as at December 31, 2019 3 EXECUTIVE COUNCIL Members Business Groups Claus Möhlenkamp (CEO) Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Frank Müller (CEO) Vibracoustic Dr. Frank Heislitz (CEO) Freudenberg Performance Materials Karin Overbeck (CEO) Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Hanno D. Wentzler (CEO) Freudenberg Chemical Specialities and the Board of Management Membership of the above-mentioned five CEOs in the Executive Council takes stronger account of the perspectives of the Business Groups with regard to overarching issues. as at December 31, 2019 4 MANAGEMENT OF THE BUSINESS GROUPS Management Business Group Claus Möhlenkamp (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Dr. Theodore Duclos (CTO), Ludger Neuwinger-Heimes (CFO) Richard Schmidt (CEO), Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Craig Barnhart (CFO) Dr. Andreas Raps (CEO), EagleBurgmann Dr. Sebastian Weiss (CFO), Dr. Kai Ziegler (CTO) Frank Müller (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Vibracoustic Dr. Jörg Böcking (CTO), Volker Christ (CFO) Dr. Frank Heislitz (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Performance Materials Thomas Herr (CFO), John McNabb (CTO) Dr. Andreas Kreuter (CEO), Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Frank Reuther (CFO), Dr. Jörg Sievert (COO) Satoshi Kawamura (CEO), Japan Vilene Company Yasuhiro Esaki (COO), Yukiyasu Izuta (CFO), Atsushi Shimoda (CTO) Karin Overbeck (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Dr. Arman Barimani (CTO), Solutions Kerstin Borrs (CFO) Hanno D. Wentzler (CEO and Member of the Executive Council), Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann (CFO) Dr. Max Gisbert Kley (CEO), Freudenberg Medical Kurt Ziminski (CFO) as at December 31, 2019 5 REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Furthermore, the body dealt intensively with potential new business areas based on the current strategy, while also examining acquisitions and their integration in the Freudenberg Group. Some examples include: Freudenberg Sealing Technologies acquired a majority shareholding in XALT Energy, LLC, Midland, Michigan, USA, a producer of heavy duty lithium ion battery cells, modules and systems. Freudenberg Medical increased its holding in the medical technology specialist Cambus Teoranta of Spiddal, Ireland by 40 percent to 90 percent. Freudenberg Filtration Technologies acquired a 75 percent of the shares in Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., Ltd., of Foshan, China – a leading provider of air and water filtration solutions. Freudenberg Performance Materials acquired the FilcGroup, Škofja Loka, Slovenia. Filc manufactures needlepunched nonwovens and laminated materials. Martin Wentzler (Chairman) Freudenberg Performance Materials also submitted an offer to acquire 100 percent of the shares in Low & In 2019, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Bonar PLC, London, United Kingdom, a global Board held regular and detailed discussions examining manufacturer of technical textiles. The proposed the Freudenberg Group’s progress and important transaction is still pending approval from antitrust business transactions based on verbal and written authorities. The Supervisory Board was also involved in reports from the Board of Management. Both company the sale of the Freudenberg IT Business Group to the boards jointly consulted on fundamental issues Syntax Group. regarding business policy which was updated where necessary. In addition, the Supervisory Board advised the The Audit Committee met four times in the year under Board of Management in managing the company while review. In Q1 2019, it advised closely on the annual also supervising and monitoring the conduct of business. financial statements as at December 31, 2018 and on The Chairman of the Supervisory Board held regular the audit reports on these financial statements. In the discussions with the members of the Board of second meeting, the focus was on the auditor's report Management on current business developments. Reon recommendations for the internal control system. gular exchanges between the Chairman of the This report was discussed extensively with auditor Supervisory Board, the Chairman of the Audit representatives. Other issues addressed by the Audit Committee and the Board of Management member Committee included the Group's risk management, responsible for Finance were also held. the work of the Ethics Office, the Freudenberg Group tax compliance system, the applicable principles of the The year under review was characterized by an German Corporate Governance Codex, the impact of uncertain market environment. In seven meetings, the changes to the financial reporting standard IFRS 16 on Supervisory Board therefore analyzed and discussed in the Freudenberg Group and a preview of the 2019 detail the markets, sales and earnings developments, annual financial statements. The Audit Committee the financial situation and the Group's risk was also regularly consulted about the ongoing reports management. The Supervisory Board also closely from Corporate Audit and issued a report to the plenary examined the good results from the most recent image meeting of the Supervisory Board for each of its survey and the findings about how the Freudenberg meetings covering the topics discussed in the Audit Group can become even more customer oriented. Committee and the outcomes of its consultations. The Another focus was on the continued development of Audit Committee also supported the invitation to Freudenberg’s sustainability strategy and the tender for the audit. implementation of a uniform, Group-wide HR system in 2020. 6 The Innovation and Technology Committee held three results of our audit, the dependent company report meetings. Topics covered included digital solutions and does not give rise to any reservations. We have technology developments in various Business Groups therefore issued the following audit opinion: as well as current innovations in the Freudenberg Group, such as the “Atomistic Simulations” project that Based on our audit and assessment, which were received the Freudenberg Innovation Award. carried out in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that: The HR Committee met four times in the year under review. Focal points included the personal 1. The factual statements made in the report are development of management, the Talent Managecorrect, ment process and succession planning in important 2. The payments made by the company in bodies of the Freudenberg Group. connection with legal transactions detailed in the report were not unreasonably high, The annual financial statements, the consolidated 3. There are no circumstances in favor of a financial statements compiled pursuant to IFRS, the significantly different assessment than that consolidated management report for Freudenberg SE made by the Board of Management in regard to and the Freudenberg Group as well as the dependent the measures listed in the report.” company report 2019 for Freudenberg SE were audited by Ernst & Young GmbH, WirtschaftsprüfThe Supervisory Board examined and approved the ungsgesellschaft, Mannheim, and were approved report on relations with affiliated companies without reservation. The members of the Supervisory (dependent company report) and took note of the Board were provided with the documentation for the auditor's report. The examination of the dependent annual financial statements and the audit reports in company report by the Supervisory Board did not result due time. The Supervisory Board approved the in any objections to the concluding statement by the consolidated financial statements and the combined Board of Management in the dependent company management report of Freudenberg SE and, following report. examination, concurred with the auditor's findings. The annual financial statements of Freudenberg SE as In the year under review, Dr. Mohsen Sohi was at December 31, 2019 are therefore adopted. The appointed to another five-year period in office as the report drafted by the Freudenberg SE Board of CEO of Freudenberg SE, effective from July 2020. In Management in compliance with Section 312 AktG addition, Martin Freudenberg, Walter Schildhauer, (German Stock Corporation Act) regarding relations Mathias Thielen and Essimari Kairisto were elected with affiliated companies (dependent company report) members of the Supervisory Board of Freudenberg SE was audited by the auditors, who issued the following for a term of four years. Martin Haas-Wittmüß is new opinion: to the body. “We render this report in accordance with the The Supervisory Board thanks all its employees, provisions of Section 313 AktG and conclude that the Business Group managing bodies and the Board of Mareport of the Board of Management of Freudenberg SE, nagement for their great personal commitment in a Weinheim, Germany, on relations with affiliated demanding year with many uncertainties. They have companies for the financial year from January 1 to all made an important contribution to the success of December 31, 2019 attached as Appendix 1, complies the Freudenberg Group. with the provisions of Section 312 AktG. The Board of Management provided us with all the explanations Weinheim, March 20, 2020 and supporting documents requested. The dependent For the Supervisory Board, company report complies with the principles of a true and fair view. In accordance with Section 312 (3) 3rd sentence AktG, the concluding statement of the dependent company report has therefore been included in the management report (Section 289, Martin Wentzler (Chairman) Germany Commercial Code (HGB)). Based on the 7 BOARD OF MANAGEMENT FOREWORD The Freudenberg Group performed well in the year under review despite challenging economic and geopolitical conditions. In 2019, sales remained at the same level as in the previous year. Exchange rates had a slight positive impact. However, operating result was lower than in the previous year mostly due to the downturn in the automotive industry and weaker growth in China. The Freudenberg Group’s return on sales was nevertheless good at 8.7 percent. In addition, once again we invested heavily in the future of the Group, in machines, equipment, acquisitions and especially in the three key topics of the 2018 to 2020 strategic period: Mobility, Digitalization and Sustainability. As an innovative technology group, we have also considerably intensified our already very high levels of research and development activity. Reasons for the decline included the downturn in the automotive industry, lower growth in China and the start-up costs in the battery and fuel cell business. In 2019, we continued to invest heavily to secure the future of our Group. Noteworthy here are the ever greater investments in the changing demands of mobility. Investments in research and development were the highest ever: €480.9 million (previous year: €444.3 million). This represents 5.1 percent of sales (previous year: 4.7 percent). The focus here was on the topics of the 2018 to 2020 strategic period: Mobility, Digitalization and Sustainability. Freudenberg measures the effectiveness of research and development activities in the share of new proDr. Mohsen Sohi (CEO) ducts (those younger than four years) as a percentage of total sales. This increased again to 34.7 percent (previous year: 33.6 percent). Business performance figures: Consolidated profit rose from €602.4 million in the Overall, sales of €9,467.8 million were almost at the previous year to €610.6 million in 2019. same level of €9,455.4 million for the previous year. This figure includes positive exchange rate effects totaling Our equity ratio as of the reporting date was €150.6 million. This was primarily due to developments 51.3 percent (previous year: 51.9 percent). Liquid funds in the US dollar's exchange rate. Acquisitions at year end totaled €1,117.3 million (previous year: contributed some €139.1 million in sales in the year €984.7 million). under review. This was offset by divestment effects of almost the same amount, mostly due to the sale of the The ratings agency Moody’s Deutschland GmbH, Freudenberg IT Business Group. Frankfurt am Main, gave Freudenberg SE an “A3” rating with a stable outlook, as in the previous year. This is In addition to sales, operating result is a key indicator equivalent to an excellent single-A rating. of our financial performance. Our business generated a profit of €820.0 million. This is below the previous year’s high level of €910.3 million and is equivalent to a return on sales of 8.7 percent. 8 9,467.8 820.0 48,851 Sales € million Operating profit € million Freudenberg employees Portfolio development Strategic period 2018 to 2020: three topics in focus In a volatile environment, broad diversification helps. The pace of technological and digital change continues We reduced our risk exposure by strengthening various to accelerate, especially the fundamental business areas with acquisitions in the year under transformation of the automotive industry, driven by review. Some examples include: electromobility. As a reliable partner for our customers, we are working hard on forward-looking innovations In April 2019, Freudenberg Medical increased its for all drive types including electric engines, hybrids, holdings in the medical technology specialist Cambus fuel cells and internal combustion engines. Teoranta of Spiddal, Ireland by 40 percent to 90 percent. So, we have expanded our electric and fuel-cell drive Also in April 2019, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies expertise for our largest market segment, “Mobility”. acquired a 75 percent share in Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., As part of this process, an essential step was the Ltd. of Foshan, China – a leading provider of air and integration of parts of fuel cell manufacturer Elcore water filtration solutions. The cornerstone was laid for GmbH and Elcomax GmbH, both headquartered in the new Shunde site in August. Investments totaling Munich and acquired in January 2018. Freudenberg €50 million will be used to build new production Sealing Technologies also purchased a majority facilities, labs and offices with some 55,000 square shareholding in battery manufacturer XALT Energy LLC meters of floorspace. of Midland, Michigan, USA in the year under review. In addition, a new organizational unit, “Battery and Fuel In December 2019, Freudenberg Performance Materials Cell” was created within the Freudenberg Sealing acquired the Filc-Group, Škofja Loka, Slovenia. Filc Technologies Business Group. The unit's goal is the manufactures needle-punched nonwovens and market launch of electric and fuel-cell drive systems for laminated materials, and complements our heavy-duty vehicles, buses, trains and ships. technology portfolio. Freudenberg Performance Materials and Japan Vilene Furthermore, in September 2019, Freudenberg Company have also further expanded their battery Performance Materials submitted an offer to acquire separator business. Freudenberg Performance 100 percent of the shares in Low & Bonar PLC, London, Materials and Freudenberg Filtration Technologies United Kingdom, a global manufacturer of technical expanded their product range for the fuel cell business, textiles. Approval from antitrust authorities is still for example with high-tech gas diffusion layers, pending for the proposed transaction. humidifiers and special filter systems. In late February 2019, the Freudenberg IT (FIT) Business In digitalization, we are focusing on solutions that give Group was sold to the Canadian Syntax Group. Three IT our customers added value as well as those that signicompanies – Syntax, FIT and EmeraldCube – were ficantly increase our efficiency. We achieve this with brought together under the Syntax company to create numerous applications; specific examples of new a strengthened global IT full-service provider with a solutions are: clear IT growth plan. A Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions app that provides added value to our customers by helping better manage cleaning processes. It combines functions such as time records, personnel data, task 9 management, quality management and real-time companies work to create an innovative process that reports, making it possible to lower administrative generated a fundamental new understanding of how costs by up to 15 percent. friction functions in materials, lubricants and seals. Another example is the web-based solution Chem-Trend developed to continuously monitor Efficiency and excellence expanded release agent dilution rates in real time. The customer no longer needs to manually monitor the process using In the year under review, we continued to work on our random sampling and time-consuming evaluations. “Operational Excellence”, making our processes, You can find more examples on page 48. services and products better, more efficient and safer across all areas. One example is PEOPLE+: We are using Sustainability at Freudenberg focuses on energy and this Group-wide project to create a uniform HR process material efficiency. The issue has two dimensions at for greater efficiency and improved transparency with the Group: One dimension is the design of processes a shared IT system. For the first time, we will have a and use of equipment to conserve resources (Footprint). single common system that covers everything from HR The second dimension is the numerous Freudenberg master data and processes to talent management and products and solutions that make our customers' compensation for the entire Group. production more efficient and sustainable or allow products to be manufactured with greater resource When compared to other manufacturers, Freudenberg efficiency (Handprint). Group-wide key performance has top class occupational safety. The LDIFR value indicators have been established for material efficiency, (accidents with at least one day of work lost per one energy efficiency and the reduction of CO2 emissions. million hours worked) was 1.4 in the year under review Examples of successful sustainability projects can be (previous year: 1.5). found on pages 20 to 23 in the “Responsibility for Society” chapter. In the UN Global Compact Progress Report starting on page 14, we show the measures that Survey confirms very good image Freudenberg has taken to implement the Global Compact principles in the past year to help achieve the A good image on the market is vital to a company’s UN Sustainable Development Goals. success. So, Freudenberg carries out regular image surveys. The findings of the 2018/2019 image survey show that Freudenberg is very strong on the market. Attractive innovations for our customers 83 percent of the surveyed customers, potential customers and multipliers evaluated Freudenberg’s image Innovations are vital to Freudenberg’s current and as good to very good. 16 of 18 image categories were future success. Our company is continually developing rated excellent. With a recommendation rate (Net innovative solutions – both with and for our customers. Promoter Score) of 57, Freudenberg belongs to the Customers increasingly see attractive added value in “best in class” category. Other findings include: Our integrating and combining several technologies and customers want even more information, particularly associated services to create an overall system. So, the about innovations. Global Innovation Forum – a regular forum for Freudenberg’s innovation community – focused on “Systems and Services” in the year under review. The Giving back to society participants discussed the shape of future Freudenberg innovations in the systems and services Success for Freudenberg means both financial success, sector. Freudenberg, primarily a component and while also fulfilling our responsibility for society. product manufacturer, already offers system solutions. Freudenberg’s commitment to Corporate Citizenship extends beyond the value chain. With the launch of the Examples of our innovation strength include the 21 “e²” (education and environment) initiative, Corporate projects submitted for our in-house Freudenberg Citizenship has expanded worldwide since 2015. The Innovation Award. The winning project, Atomistic goal is to provide people with access to education and Simulations, had developers from four Freudenberg employment, and support environmental protection. 10 Freudenberg has already donated a total of €14 million Thanks to customers and employees to “e²”. By the end of the year, “e²” was supporting some 110 projects. In the year under review, Freudenberg The image survey proves that our customers trust us celebrated the company’s 170-year-anniversary by and appreciate our products and services. We thank all planting trees near the Group’s sites to symbolize its our customers and partners for this and especially for commitment. Thousands of employees planted some the excellent cooperation. 20,000 trees. The campaign reforested parts of devastated woodlands, made city parks greener and Now more than ever, our goal is to recognize the neighborhoods close to our sites more attractive. demands of tomorrow’s customer today, understand their needs, work closely with them – and most important – actively reach out to them. This is the key Outlook to success, because the customer always comes first for us, in everything we do – particularly in these We expect the macro-economic environment in the uncertain economic times with their challenging 2020 financial year to remain challenging. Geopolitical market conditions. and economic uncertainties are unlikely to ease. Against this backdrop, we are cautious in our planning Despite all the uncertainties, we accomplished a lot in for the coming year and anticipate subdued business 2019. This is primarily thanks to our nearly 49,000 performance in those markets relevant to the Group. employees. I thank you all on behalf of the Board of Nevertheless, we will continue to invest in long-term Management. projects. The changes in mobility, digitalization and sustainability solutions will remain important strategic We are confident about the future as we are well topics. We are also working to strengthen our portfolio prepared for change. Let us work closely together with through acquisitions. Our efforts here are influenced our customers, use our opportunities and keep a by the findings from a strategic project that examined vigilant eye on our markets. what the world might look like in 2050 and what business opportunities could result from the changes. Weinheim, March 20, 2020 Our goal is also to create a balanced portfolio For the Board of Management combining cyclical and anti-cyclical businesses – with equal sales contributions from the Americas, Europe and Asia. Dr. Mohsen Sohi CEO 11 LEADING TECHNOLOGY GROUP As a leading technology group, excellence at Innovation forms a common thread through Freudenberg means setting standards in technolFreudenberg’s history – covering chrome tanning, ogy, innovation and quality. Simmerrings along with sophisticated and hightechnology medical products. All around the world, Freudenberg is a global technology group that Freudenberg Group products and services make a strengthens its customers and society long-term valuable contribution to customer success – often inthrough forward-looking innovations. Working visible, but always essential, fully in keeping with the with customers and the world of science, Freudenberg company’s positioning “Freudenberg is a values-based employees develop leading-edge technologies, prodtechnology group that best serves its customers and ucts, solutions and services. society”. They are experts in their fields and use their expertise The collaborative search for environmentally and to develop excellent solutions for some 40 market segsocially sustainable solutions is both Freudenberg’s ments and thousands of applications – seals, vibration motivation and the basis for the company’s success. control technology components, technical textiles, “Innovating Together” is put into practice across Busifilters, cleaning technologies and products, specialty ness Groups and regional sites around the world. chemicals and medical technology products. 12 Kapitel Freudenberg employees act and think like entrepreneurs, show initiative and are ready to take on responsibility. They work in diverse teams on international projects to develop solutions that are both innovative and forward-looking. Innovation, strong customer orientation and close cooperation, as well as diversity and team spirit are the cornerstones of the Group. The company holds strong to core values it has been putting into practice for 170 years: a commitment to excellence, reliability and pro-active, responsible action. 13 RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOCIETY (UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT) As a family-owned, values-based technology group, success for Freudenberg is financial success as well as fulfilling the company’s responsibility for society. The two goals have been inextricably linked since the TE C OM RA IP PL company’s founding. R PO NSH IA N O IZ E C CI T CE VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS INNOVATION Y I E T CT LEADERSHIP S A F OTE PEOPLE MA RESPONSIBILITY & L N RIG HTS H E A L T H & PR Freudenberg Values & Principles ABO E N VIR O N M E NTAL R LONG-TERM ORIENTATION Areas relevant to “Responsibility” HU Processes and initiatives along the value chain ON (based on the UN Global Compact) SUSTA IN A BILITY Initiatives that extend beyond the value chain 14 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) At Freudenberg, “Responsibility for Society” enhealth and occupational safety and have developed compasses the following five areas: Sustainability, innovative, sustainable solutions to improve quality Health, Safety and Environmental Protection, Corpoof life around the globe. rate Citizenship, Compliance and Human Rights & Labor. All five areas are firmly anchored in FreudenIn 2014, the company signed the United Nations berg’s Values and Principles and closely interlinked. Global Compact to communicate its actions to customers, neighbors, potential employees and inValues have always been important at Freudenberg stitutions. The principles that underlie the Global when dealing with customers, business partners, Compact are inscribed in the Freudenberg Group’s neighbors and the environment. Freudenberg emGuiding Principles with different wording. The ployees pledge to uphold an internal Code of Conprinciples focus on four areas: human rights, duct, take part in Freudenberg’s “We all take care” labor standards, environmental protection and initiative to improve environmental protection, anticorruption. The Global Compact goes hand in hand with the SusAfter extensive quantitative and qualitative analyses tainable Development Goals. Launched by the United the company identified and prioritized eight goals (see Nations in 2016, they have become a widely accepted graphic above). framework to which ever more companies and individuals are committed and use to publicly position On the following pages you can read more about the themselves. In the year under review, Freudenberg anmeasures the company used to implement the Global alyzed which of the 17 goals and their 169 sub-goals, Compact Principles over the past year to contribute to the company had made a significant contribution to. achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. 15 “We all take care” Group-wide initiative Every year, Freudenberg honors employees who have successfully taken part in the “We all take care” award. Since launching in 2002, the internal “We all take care” initiative has encouraged employees around the world In the year under review two teams came in first: to make their work and workplace safer, healthier and Freudenberg Sealing Technologies in Findlay, Ohio, USA, more environmentally friendly; to get involved in souses shrink films that reduce packaging costs and waste cial projects and help improve safety at the company. by 90 percent. First place also went to Freudenberg Performance Materials in Kaiserslautern, Germany with its environmentally friendly tuftbacking for carpeting made from recycled materials. What unites both projects: They both focus – in completely different ways – on waste reduction, one of Freudenberg’s top priorities. Second place went to Freudenberg Performance Materials in Weinheim for their new tool to classify and approve new chemical substances in daily production. The form, easy-to-complete even for non-chemists, is already being rolled-out to other Freudenberg companies. The initiative stands for putting corporate values into Third place went to the “One Team, One Globe” project practice – across country borders, hierarchies and Busiby SurTec, a Freudenberg Chemical Specialities comness Groups. Each employee is encouraged to bring pany. The project team inspires colleagues around the forth ideas and suggestions. Via the Group-wide inglobe to do more exercise: After 50 days, employees had tranet, the “Freudenberg Portal”, employees can find taken enough steps to walk once round the globe. details about successful projects and speed up the improvement process. As part of the Corporate Health, The final award ceremony presented 11 projects from Safety, Security, Environment meetings, upper manthroughout the Freudenberg World. A total of 163 projagement was integrated in the process and the heads ects were submitted. from each of the Business Groups helped move things forward. Up to now, more than 3,600 projects have been submitted. Good atmosphere at the “We all take care” Awards 16 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) Important figures for “Responsibility for Society” On this page, you can see a selection of the important figures quantifying “Responsibility for Society”. A detailed explanation for the figures can be found in the chapters for the five areas of responsibility. 48,851 Freudenberg employees 92.2 (in tons/ million euros in sales) 163 CO emissions ² “We all take care” projects 0.24 (in kWh/euro sales) 1.4 Energy Efficiency LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate): 13.6 All workplace incidents with at least one day of work lost per one million hours worked (in tons/million euro sales) Waste 22.5 (million euros) Investments in environmental protection and workplace safety 17 SUSTAINABILITY Product and process sustainability have always been part of responsibility as practiced at Freudenberg. In 2016, the Group’s Sustainability Strategy was developed and handed over to all the Business Groups as a framework in 2017. Sustainability was also made a systematic component of the strategy process. 18 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability Sustainability is a part of Freudenberg’s “ResponsiENERGYEFFICIENCY ENERGY EFFICIENCYAT ATFREUDENBERG FREUDENBERG bility for Society” and has two dimensions: One di(Kilowatt [kWh hours per euro per euros in sales) sales] mension is how the company designs processes and 0.34 uses equipment to conserve resources (Footprint). The second dimension is the numerous Freudenberg products and solutions that make our customer’s 0.24 production more efficient and sustainable or allow products to be manufactured with greater resource efficiency (Handprint). Freudenberg helps improve sustainability around the world by minimizing our Footprint and maximizing our Handprint. The five core topics: materials, waste, energy, emissions and 17 18 19 water are the most important ones for the Group. The 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 five core topics were used to derive 3 essential Groupwide TOP themes for Freudenberg: Material efficiency, energy efficiency and emissions. There are key perforalone. The project findings have now created a basis mance indicators (KPIs) for these areas. The KPIs help to further advance energy efficiency and contribute to create more transparency by making improvements climate protection at other Freudenberg Group sites. comparable across the Group. Since 2017, CO2 emissions across the Group have been Freudenberg started recording energy consumption tracked in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas protothroughout the Group in 2009 (see graphic, energy efcol. Adjusting for direct and indirect energy consumpficiency) in an effort to generate transparency. Energy tion, Freudenberg reports emissions in accordance intensive production areas also represent huge potenwith Scopes 1 and 2. Site-based calculations indicate tial savings. This includes the nonwoven production a value of 92.2 (previous year: 94.1) tons of CO2 per at Freudenberg Performance Materials, where an million euros in sales. energy-efficiency project was launched in the reporting year. The Weinheim and Durham, North Carolina, Since 2018, a Group-wide waste KPI based on the sites worked with Freudenberg Service KG experts Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has been recorded. In to identify several measures that will help save a tothe reporting year it was 13.6 (previous year: 14.6) tons tal of 3.5 million kilowatt hours a year in Weinheim per million euros in sales. Materials Emissions Material efficiency Air pollution/ Recycled, renewable and Emissions replacement materials End-of-Life-(EOL) handling of products & Waste Water & Waste handling Water pollution Water consumption Energy Energy efficiency Renewable energy Ma te r ials ter Wa Was t n s e Energy Emissio 19 EXAMPLES OF SUCCESSFUL SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS Footprint The Freudenberg Group’s constant quest for greatThe search for sustainable production processes is er sustainability strengthens innovation. Likewise, an important part of Freudenberg’s DNA and is firminnovations make more sustainable processes and ly anchored in the principles of the values-based products possible. Innovation and sustainability are technology group. Topics such as energy and mateclosely linked and drive each other. Innovations can rial efficiency, the sustainable use of resources and contribute to sustainability by having a positive imwaste reduction are important in minimizing the pact on the Footprint and Handprint. company’s Footprint. Continuous improvement in these areas helps Freudenberg take responsibility for society. Selected Footprint examples are listed on this twopage spread; selected Handprint examples can be found on the following two-page spread. WASTE/ENERGY Resource conserving production: from PET bottles to Freudenberg Performance Materials sites in Novedrate nonwovens and Pisticci, Italy and Colmar, France process some 2.5 Freudenberg is one of the largest recyclers of PET botbillion bottles a year. In Japan, the Japan Vilene Comtles in the world. They are shredded into flakes and pany Business Group also recycles PET bottles at its processed to nonwovens, given a new life as headOyama site. Every year over 57,000 tons of reyclate are liners and are made into roof membranes or sound made from bottles. This saves resources and reduces and thermal insulation in buildings. In Europe, the CO2 emissions. At the Freudenberg site in Novedrate, Italy, some three million PET bottles are daily processed into polyester nonwovens. 20 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability Materials Waste Emissions Material efficiency Waste handling Air pollution/ Emissions Recycled, renewable and replacement materials End-of-Life-(EOL) Energy Water handling of products Energy efficiency Water pollution Renewable energy Water consumption MATERIALS/WASTE WATER Sensor reduces scrap and improves quality From rainwater to potable water Innovative sensor technology from Freudenberg MeIn arid regions like the one surrounding the dical reduces scrap and improves quality. The Business Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies site in Group manufactures tubing for medical applications. Cuautla, Mexico, every drop of water is useful. Since If the tubes deviate minimally from the desired speci2016, the site has used rainwater instead of drinking fications, they need to be scrapped. The silicone used water for certain applications, such as flushing toicannot be melted down and recycled. Now a sensor lets or cooling systems. To make the water usable, the monitors the extrusion of the tubing and precisely site converted the several thousand square meters of measures the interior diameter and wall thickness. roofs on the site to act as rainwater collectors. In the If the system reports deviations, the production proyear under review, over 2,400,000 liters of water were cess can be halted immediately, significantly reducing collected. scrap. MATERIALS/EMISSIONS/ EMISSIONS/ENERGY/WASTE WASTE/ENERGY Lean and sustainability go hand in hand Bonding agent preserves environment and health Saving packaging material and transport emissions pays Elastomers reduce vibrations, and steel, aluminum or off twice – for the environment and customer loyalty. plastic components are bonded and assembled to make As part of a Lean project at the Freudenberg Oil & Gas vibration control components such as motor or drive Technologies’ site in Stavanger, Norway, the delivery logimounts. The Vibracoustic Business Group is increasingly stics were optimized and made more sustainable at the using water-based bonding agents to do this. When comsame time. The sealing rings are no longer individually pared to solvent-based bonding agents, they are better shrink-wrapped but packed directly in cardboard boxes for the environment and the health of production worcontaining a fixed number of units. This reduces plaskers. When they are applied, no gases are released that tic waste and simplifies storage. Even though the order need to be removed from the room air-saving energy. volume increased, the number of individual deliveries The water-based bonding agent can be applied in lower was drastically reduced – lowering transport emissions, doses while creating the same adhesive forces, reducing time and costs. both consumption and waste. 21 EXAMPLES OF SUCCESSFUL SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS: Handprint Responsibility for society means that Freudenberg also helps customers become more sustainable. Innovative products and services can thus help contribute to greater energy efficiency for our customers. Expanding our Handprint also has a positive impact on our customers’ quality of life while making an improved contribution to sustainability in various areas outside of Freudenberg. Selected Handprint examples are listed on this twopage spread, selected Footprint examples can be found on the previous two-page spread. MATERIALS/WASTE/EMISSIONS Optimal combination of sustainability and making it a suitable warm padding material in sportsfunctionality wear and functional textiles. The material can also be For manufacturers of outdoor clothing, Freudenberg vacuum-packed for delivery, reducing transport emisPerformance Materials (FPM) has an innovative and sions and saving costs. When unpacked, it quickly resustainable alternative to down: Comfortemp Fibergains its full volume. ball is a padding made from connected fiber balls, Comfortemp Fiberball is a padding made from linked fiber balls, making it suitable as thermal padding in sportswear and functional textiles. 22 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Sustainability Materials Waste Emissions Material efficiency Waste handling Air pollution/ Emissions Recycled, renewable and replacement materials End-of-Life-(EOL) Energy Water handling of products Energy efficiency Water pollution Renewable energy Water consumption MATERIALS/WASTE MATERIALS/WASTE A clean deal: biodegradable sponge wipes Material efficiency thanks to material competency Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions sells 200 milThe Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Business Group lion sponge wipes under the Vileda and Wettex brands. focuses on material efficiency to avoid waste and reThe packaging notes they are “100% biodegradable”. duce the use of raw materials for its customers. ExamOnce the sponge wipes have reached the end of their ples include many SurTec products such as industrial lives, they can be placed in a compost bin or thrown on a cleaners which use a special modular composition to compost pile. As they are made from cellulose, they comhelp conserve resources. In combination with suitable pletely break down without a trace within eight weeks. treatment measures such as oil separation, filtration, A clean deal – for the home and environment. osmosis or ion exchange, very long immersion times can be achieved with reduced wastewater volumes in customer operations. EMISSIONS/ENERGY WATER Components and systems for mobility of the future Drinking water for a growing population Freudenberg’s investments in future technologies such Clean drinking water is a valuable resource in many as batteries and fuel cells are helping make clean and world regions. The Freudenberg Filtration Technolsustainable high-performance drive systems economogies Business Group produces a broad range of filically feasible. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies is exter media for drinking water filtration, which make panding its product portfolio in the automotive industry a targeted contribution to improving water qualito include components for both of these drive systems. ty by filtering out hazardous suspended particles. The Business Group offers complete fuel cell and batPhysiologically harmless raw material together with tery systems for heavy-duty mobility applications such state-of-the-art production technology guarantee as buses, utility vehicles, ships and trains – including all filter media that meet the tough hygiene, efficiency components, modules and sub-systems needed for opand economic feasibility standards needed for water erations. treatment. Freudenberg is therefore helping supply a growing world population with drinking water. 23 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Freudenberg’s HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) Guideline includes the HSE principles and defines the Freudenberg Group’s values for HSE. The overarching goals are avoiding accidents, preventative health protection and continuously reducing the negative impact of its business on the environment. 24 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Occupational health and safety and environmental protection Freudenberg is committed to employees’ wellbeing their German production sites. Other production sites and their personal development. Occupational safety at EagleBurgmann in Austria, Freudenberg Home and and health are supported and put into practice at all Cleaning Solutions in Sweden and Freudenberg Perlevels within Freudenberg. Health protection, occupaformance Materials in France have also followed this tional safety and process safety are all part of the daily example. The Group is also checking which European routine at Freudenberg. sites require energy audits in accordance with DIN EN 16247-1. The approach has allowed the Freudenberg Group to reduce the number of accidents to a low level relative to industry benchmarks. Existing measures are strengthened and enhanced with new approaches Investments for continuous improvement. Success in occupational safety serves as a benchmark for other areas where The share of direct investments in environmental proFreudenberg also hopes to continuously improve. In tection, occupational health and safety as part of overaddition to the reduction of environmental impacts all investment in tangible assets, intangible assets and this also includes health protection. This is how preinvestment properties was 6.2 percent (previous year: ventative health management projects are increasing7.6 percent). ly pursued in the company. The safety of our employees at work is given top priority. In addition, the annual HSE week is held in which Environmental Protection all Freudenberg Group sites are called on to carry out HSE campaigns that look at daily routines. In the year Freudenberg feels obligated to protect the environunder review, employees were informed about traffic ment and takes responsibility to make sure its actions safety in terms of reaction times and visibility as well are as environmentally friendly as possible. as skin protection. The goal is to continuously reduce the company’s negInternal and external audits as well as the HSE asative impact along the entire value chain, by using sessments at all Freudenberg Group sites are used to natural resources more efficiently, reducing emissions, assess improvements in environmental protection, ocsaving energy, water and other materials while improvcupational safety and health protection or fire safety. ing transportation. The audit findings are systematically evaluated, and remediation measures implemented within the releFirst prize for the Freudenberg-wide “We all take care” vant Business Groups and Group-wide. initiative went to two environmental projects in the year under review. Both projects focused on waste reduction. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies in Findlay, Ohio, USA, uses shrink films that reduce packaging Management systems costs and waste by 90 percent. Freudenberg Performance Materials in Kaiserslautern, Germany, uses The expansion of occupational health and safety manrecycled PET to manufacture backing material for caragement systems (OHSAS 18001 and conversion to ISO peting, reducing CO2 emissions in the value chain and 45001) and environmental protection systems (ISO also satisfying customer demand for a greater share 14001) continued in 2019. of recyclates in products. Both projects contributed to sustainability. Other examples of successful sustainNumerous sites are implementing DIN EN ISO ability projects can be found on pages 20 to 23. 50001-compliant management systems to reduce energy consumption and thus limit the environmental Freudenberg uses many raw materials and processes impact of industrial activity. The Freudenberg Perforin production. The materials and processes vary in their mance Materials, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies, impact on occupational safety and the environment. EagleBurgmann, Vibracoustic and Freudenberg Home The goal is to continuously reduce the physical hazards and Cleaning Solutions Business Groups have estabat a site as well as their impact on the environment. lished the corresponding management systems at 25 We actively search for alternatives to hazardous maResource consumption terials or those with a pending REACh (European Regulation on Registration, Evaluation and Restriction of In 2019, Freudenberg used 2.3 million megawatt Chemicals) classification prior to the passage of any hours of energy (previous year: 2.4 million megawatt regulations. Assessments are carried out to prevent hours). The energy usage was primarily distributed any negative impact on production from restrictions among the following sources: placed on a material. In addition, many products are • Third-party supplies (electricity, steam and disdeveloped in phased processes to make sure that the trict heating, which were produced external to the use of hazardous chemicals and the environmental Freudenberg site; 1.56 million megawatt hours) impact of a new product is less than its predecessor. • Gas (0.70 million megawatt hours) • Heating oil (0.04 million megawatt hours) • Renewable energy produced in-house (61 megawatt Incidents hours) In 2019, the Freudenberg Group had 25 environmenThe 2.3 million megawatt hours generated costs totaltal and crisis management events (previous year: 24 ing roughly 166 million euros. Energy costs made up 1.8 events). percent of overall revenue (previous year: 1.7 percent). At the Freudenberg Performance Materials site in Durham, North Carolina, USA, a severe fire caused over a million euros in damage. The truck from a third-party Contaminated sites company caught fire, probably due to a defective electric heater used to keep the diesel tank warm. The adjacent Provisions for contaminated sites fell by 0.3 percent trailer with stored rolls burnt down completely. Further relative to the previous year. damage was done to the storage dock. The smoke also damaged and contaminated the stored goods. Remediation work began at the former Freudenberg Sealing Technologies site in Pinerolo, Italy. After fiAnother series of small fires occurred, includnalizing the renovation plans, the most efficient iming the Freudenberg Sealing Technologies’ sites in plementation of the required measures was put in Schwalmstadt, Germany, the Vibracoustic site in Carmi, place for the water treatment plant in Weinheim. A Illinois, USA and Cascante, Spain as well as Freudenberg groundwater monitoring program was continued at Medical in Baldwin Park, California, USA. the Klüber Lubrication site in São Paulo, Brazil. At the Industrial Park in Weinheim, at the Freudenberg Due to planned conversion measures at the Weinheim Home and Cleaning Solutions site in Arnhem, Nethersite, new provisions have been set aside for exploratilands and Chem-Trend in Howell, USA small amounts on and potential remediation measures. Due to new of operating materials leaked out causing minor envilimits for perfluorinated and polyfluorinated chemironmental damage. None of the three incidents caused cals, analytical and monitoring costs for future proany long-term damage. jects will rise. Due to the long-lasting public protests and political unrest in India, Venezuela, Chile and Hong Kong, the sites faced occasional operational shutdowns and travel bans. 26 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Occupational health and safety and environmental protection Preventative healthcare In occupational safety, the focus was on measures aimed at both raising employee awareness of safe Employees at the Freudenberg company, SurTec got conduct as well as the design of safe working syssome exercise for a good cause in the year under retems. An example: Freudenberg Performance Mateview. Under the motto, “One Team, One Globe in 50 rials (FPM) in Weinheim developed a form to classify Days” they walked in groups with pedometers for a risk for new chemical substances used in daily prototal of 46,927 kilometers – more than once around duction that is both easy to fill out and effective. the globe. The 117 million steps that they took helped not only improve their own health but also benefited The internal Safety Boost initiative was carried out selected social projects. The winning teams donated in 2019 as well. It was used to intensify and focus their award money to charitable causes such as those occupational safety activities once again. Unsafe for children suffering from cancer. situations, potential high-risk workplace accidents, environmental events and fires were examined and The Weinheim site offered its employees numerous reported across Freudenberg. Safety culture formed health programs in the year under review. Skin and another focal point. A pilot training program based sun protection were one focus. In summer, employon a self-organized learning process, especially deees were provided with more important information signed for line management was carried out in Kaito prepare for their vacation. serslautern and Bristol, New Hampshire, USA. The initiative will be continued in 2020. Around the globe, Freudenberg supports employees in emergency situations abroad with a further service. Occupational Safety Freudenberg’s internal reporting uses the LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate) benchmark. The figure serves as a non-financial key performance indicator for the Freudenberg Group. All workplace incidents with at least one day of work lost per one million hours worked are measured. The total number of incidents resulting in more than one day’s absence in the year under review was 149 (previous year: 156). There were seven severe accidents in 2019 (previous year: six), including a fatal accident. At the Vibracoustic site in Wuxi, China, a technician was fatally injured during maintenance work in a vulcanization press, when a part fell on him. Occupational health and safety have top priority at Freudenberg. 27 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Corporate Citizenship has always been integral to Freudenberg and practiced both inside and outside the company. The Group strives to be a good corporate citizen and good neighbor in all the countries, states and communities we call home. Corporate Citizenship at Freudenberg goes beyond the value chain – as seen in the hundreds of projects near our sites. 28 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Corporate Citizenship In 2019, many Group companies, sites and employees Freudenberg also used its 170-year anniversary to give around the world again volunteered in small initiasomething back to the communities it calls home. As tives and complex projects. All campaigns are tailored a visible sign of dedication, thousands of employees to local requirements and in general Freudenberg emplanted some 20,000 trees around the sites. The camployees volunteer locally. paigns reforested parts of devastated woodlands, making city parks greener and neighborhoods close to Freudenberg industrial sites more attractive. Global program for education and environmental protection Company-wide initiative for refugees Freudenberg has worked for society since its founding. With the launch of the “e²” (education and environThe Freudenberg Group is donating 2.6 million euros as ment) initiative, Corporate Citizenship has expanded part of a company-wide initiative to help integrate refworldwide since 2015. The goal is to provide people ugees. By late 2016, the company had helped over 70 with access to education and employment, and supdifferent initiatives in Germany and in crisis-plagued port environmental protection. The initiative comregions supporting children and young people, and plements existing individual initiatives that meet an teaching language skills. established list of criteria. Freudenberg has already donated a total of 14 million euros to “e²”. Now, as a next step, refugees need long-term prospects and traineeships. As donations are used to By the end of the year, “e²” had supported 110 aid projsecure the financing, refugee traineeships can be creects, covering everything from small-scale campaigns ated in addition to regular traineeships. to large-scale educational programs, all in the direct neighborhood of Freudenberg sites. Examples of supIn 2017, the first refugees started their traineeships at ported projects include: The Pebbles Project in South Freudenberg. In the year under review, a further three Africa’s Himmel-en-Aarde Valley supports disadvanrefugees started their traineeships. The Group also taged children’s education, health and nutrition. The offered ten refugees an internship – with the goal of “Adream China” organization opened a new teaching hiring as many as possible later as apprentices. center in an elementary school in Wuxi, China, that uses innovative and creative teaching methods to make learning easier for the children. The Win-WIT project in Barcelona, Spain supports women in industrial professions. Thumbs up: Freudenberg employees in India also took part in the global tree-planting campaign celebrating the 170-year-anniversary of the company. 29 On “Service Day” in North America, Freudenberg employees dedicated their time for society – particularly for children and young people. The following examples illustrate the long-term orienSchool project in China tation of local aid projects at the Freudenberg Group: In May 2008, an earthquake devastated the village of Haijin in Szechuan Province, China. Freudenberg helped rebuild an elementary school that reopened Training center in India in 2009. The building has enough space to teach 300 students. Every year, Freudenberg employees visit the Since 2009, Freudenberg has offered young people in elementary school and organize various activities such a non-profit training center in Nagapattinam, India in as the summer school project, tutoring and a Christthe province of Tamil Nadu south of Chennai the opmas party. portunity to qualify as electricians, welders, plumbers, motor mechanics and machinists in dual training programs. So far, more than 700 young people have had a successful start to their careers. Most have found a job “Service Day” in North America in the large, well-known organizations in and around Chennai. The Nagapattinam region is poor, populated In North America, Freudenberg organized the sixth mainly by farmers and fishers, and suffered immenseService Day. Employees from over 60 sites in Canada, ly from the 2004 Tsunami. the US and Mexico volunteered to help at educational institutions, municipalities and agricultural facilities. 30 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Corporate Citizenship Exchange program for children of employees Volunteer exchange In celebration of the company’s 150th birthday in In 2019, some 140 participants from 40 charitable 1999, the youth exchange program TANNER was initiatives and clubs from the Rhine-Neckar region launched for children of employees. The goal is to met at the Freudenberg Group in Weinheim for their expose young people to other cultures, expand their 8th annual networking meeting. The goal is to prohorizons and learn life lessons. Over the years, more vide new inspiration for non-profits and discuss other than 1,300 young people have traveled the globe with topics, meet like-minded individuals while also develTANNER. The young participants, their parents and the oping ideas for new projects. The Freudenberg Group hosts all have a stronger feeling that they are part of created the meeting to expand the network among the global Freudenberg community. the many non-profit organizations in the area. Germany-wide initiative: “Die Wissensfabrik” Freudenberg Foundation (The Knowledge Factory) Since 1984, the Freudenberg Foundation has been Since 2016, Freudenberg has also been a member of helping bring about real, long-term change by prothe Germany-wide initiative, “The Knowledge Factomoting inclusion, education and democracy. As a ry” which works together with companies to support non-profit company, the Foundation is a Partner in educational projects in preschools and schools. Up to the Freudenberg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft. The now, Freudenberg employees in partnership with eduprimary focus of activities are children and young cational establishments have supported two “Knowlpeople and their social, linguistic, educational and edge Factory” projects: The goal of “KiTec Children professional integration. Discover Technology” is to get preschool and elementary school children interested in technological interactions. The “IT2School” project provides the targeted fundamentals of information technology (IT) to students in their first few years at secondary school. In 2019, some 140 participants from 40 charitable initiatives and clubs from the Rhine-Neckar region met at the Freudenberg Group in Weinheim for their 8th annual networking meeting. 31 COMPLIANCE As early as 1887, when his sons joined the company, founder Carl Johann Freudenberg drafted his first business policy principles. The document forms the basis for the Freudenberg Group’s ten Business Principles with which partners and employees identify. One principle stipulates that success must come from performance, another states that Freudenberg shall not engage in illegal or unethical business practices. 32 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Compliance Business Principles and Guiding Principles worked with Ernst & Young in 2018 to carry out a survey across all Business Groups. The self-evaluation Supplemental Guiding Principles were derived from provided information about the risk profile for each the Freudenberg Group’s Business Principles and deof the Business Groups. Across the Business Groups, fine the values used in conduct towards employees, potential risks from anti-corruption and cartel legbusiness partners, stakeholders and third parties. islation were identified, which have been classified as dangerous due to the company’s global presence as well as the product and market diversity of the Freudenberg Group. Compliance Structure Freudenberg has the goal of permanently strengthenFreudenberg is a company where the Business Groups ing the compliance organization, the documentation have general autonomy when making operational deand the processes. Another step in this direction is cisions. Along with the Group Holding company, the the launch of the Global Compliance RepresentaBusiness Groups are also generally responsible for tives Meeting, where compliance officers from the compliance with laws and regulations. Business Groups share their views on implementing the Freudenberg Compliance Standards, best pracAt the Holding level, and thus the duty of the tices and further development of the compliance Freudenberg Compliance Management Council, the programs. focus is on the most important compliance issues relevant across the Business Groups and thus those with 2019 also included compliance training sessions. The international implications, and which could specifie-learning program covering numerous individual cally pose a threat to Freudenberg’s reputation. topics represent an expanded opportunity to train employees from various departments and areas of To determine the suitability for the Compliance Manresponsibility in specific topic areas. Employees and agement System in the individual Business Groups, executives are also trained in classroom sessions and the Freudenberg Compliance Management Council workshops using case studies. The Business Principles and Guiding Principles in the Group are discussed with all new employees. 33 Freudenberg provides regular employee compliance training in the form of personal meetings and e-learning sessions. Code of Conduct Conduct is binding even for new employees (as an annex to their employment agreement for example) and The Code of Conduct is derived from the Business the need for compliance with the Code is emphasized. Principles and Guiding Principles, with a close focus The global standard e-learning tool for the Freudenon Responsibility. The Code of Conduct is the same berg Code of Conduct is a suitable medium for all emeverywhere around the world and designed to ensure ployees to learn more about it. The tool also allows for that respect for the law and proper conduct remain a the monitoring of participant attendance and perforcornerstone of how Freudenberg conducts business. mance and invites employees to give feedback. The Code of Conduct is available to all employees Further measures were taken by the Freudenberg around the world in 26 languages, as a printed broCompliance Management Council to maintain and chure and a digital document. It is communicated and further develop the Code of Conduct as a central eleexplained to all employees. The Business Groups have ment of corporate culture and to extend the range of made use of a wide-range of media available for comassistance and support offered to employees and their munication, including presentation templates, FAQs superiors. This includes regular discussions with comand e-learning tools. The consistent and continuous pliance officers in the Business Groups, who actively communication clearly indicates that the Code of work with the Ethics Offices and their employees. 34 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Compliance Ethics Offices about its work in the past year and focused on the trends in the cases processed and the procedures The Ethics Offices are an important part of when working through cases. Freudenberg’s Compliance Management System. The offices are a contact for any employees who – for whatever reason – feel they cannot turn to their superiors, HR team or their employee representatives. Risk Management and Corporate Audit The opportunity to confidentially and proactively report compliance violations or impending violations Fraud prevention and anti-corruption measures and in a confidential environment helps create a culture evaluation of their effectiveness also remained a of trust and protects Freudenberg’s internal Values component of risk management and the work of the and Principles. Corporate Audit team. The goal of the department was to uncover corrupt practices, evaluate the effecIn 2019, the Corporate Ethics Office reported to the tiveness of counter measures and, if necessary, take Freudenberg Compliance Management Council appropriate action to improve them. As a guaranteed confidential contact point for employees, the Ethics Offices are an important part of Freudenberg‘s Compliance Management System. Some employees can be seen in the photograph. 35 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR Diverse teams drive innovation at Freudenberg. The best solutions and innovations come when employees contribute their varied experience, knowledge and skills to a collaboration. Employees provide new ideas, generate imaginative solutions and create innovative products. Freudenberg employees all have a common foundation: entrepreneurship in their mindset and actions. This stance can be found in around 60 countries. 36 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Employees As of December 31, 2019, Freudenberg employed 48,851 employees (previous year: 49,137 employees). GROUP FREUDENBERGGROUP FREUDENBERG EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BYBY REGION REGION 14,067 14,101 2018 2019 12,176 11,398 10,783 10,864 10,562 10,062 1,461 1,359 588 567 Germany Europe North South/Central Asia Africa/ (excluding Germany) America America Australia In Germany, the employee headcount was 11,398 (previous year: 12,176), in Europe (ex-Germany) the number was 14,101 (previous year: 14,067), in North America 10,562 (previous year: 10,783), in Asia 10,864 (previous year: 10,062) and in Africa/Australia 567 (previous year: 588), in South America / Central America 1,359 (previous year: 1,461). You can find information about training at Freudenberg on page 41. 37 Corporate Principles The Freudenberg Group Guiding Principles are Value Guiding Principle “People” for Customers, Leadership, Responsibility, Innovation, People and Long-Term Orientation. The principles form As a family company, we are devoted to our emthe basis and benchmark for everything the Group ployees’ well-being and personal development. does. Regular audits assess whether or not these We reject all forms of discrimination and harassbenchmarks are applied in the workplace. The most ment and show understanding and respect in our recent employee survey was made in 2017. A new surdealings with each other. vey is planned for 2020. We promote a multi-cultural environment where In Human Rights & Labor, the focus is on the Guiding employees work together in worldwide teams to Principles governing People and Responsibility as they enrich our culture and capability. We believe in the express the Freudenberg Group’s fundamental intervalue of enduring relationships with customers, pretation of these topics. The Leadership Principles are suppliers and industrial partners part of the Group’s Business Principles (see also page 32, Compliance). Guiding Principle “Responsibility” Our company and its family shareholders together are committed to protecting the environment. Our goal is to be a good corporate citizen and good neighbor in all the countries, states and communities we call home. We take all possible care to ensure the safety of the workplace and of our products. As a family company, we strive for the highest standards of personal behavior. Fairness and integrity guide our conduct amongst ourselves, towards our business partners and the general public. Management Principles The Freudenberg Group has social responsibilities to all its staff, both in Germany and abroad. No one single standard can be applied here: what is needed is a flexible response attuned to the laws, customs, needs and possibilities in each individual country. Discrimination and exploitation of vulnerable people have no place in our company. The Group’s business policy requires adherence to behavioral principles with which both the partners and the employees feel able to identify: We, too, have to hold our own against fierce competition. Success has to come from performance; we shall not agree to any business where illegal or unethical means are utilized. 38 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Freudenberg employees in discussion: Our picture shows a Freudenberg meeting room in Kaiserslautern, Germany. We will not manufacture any products designed The Business Principles are compulsory for all emto harm people (e.g. weapons). ployees and must be actively put into practice and carried out at all levels, starting with the Board of A responsible attitude to the environment and Management at Freudenberg SE, the Board of Partthe safety of our staff are important corporate ners, management at the Business Groups and all objectives, and must not be restricted to letter ofother leaders. the-law compliance with the relevant statutory requirements. Infringements are not acceptable and may result in disciplinary action from the Board level down Compliance with applicable laws and other regand include Business Group management and ulations, as well as with the applicable Business other superiors. This is especially true in cases of and Guiding Principles of the Freudenberg Group active and passive corruption, breaches of antiand the observance of non-contradictory, suppletrust rules, violation of relevant legal environmenmentary in-house (e.g. Code of Conduct employee tal and technical safety and labor law rules (such handbooks) and external local practices (together as breaches of equal opportunity principles) and “Corporate Principles”) is an indispensable condiviolations of employees’ personal rights (such as tion for solid cooperation among all Group empersonal degradation or sexual harassment). ployees and is the foundation for relationships with third parties, specifically suppliers, customers and authorities. They thus form the basis for the economic success of the Group. 39 Attractive Employer portant in helping to ensure and improve employee health and well-being. The Group provides the best Strengthening the employer brand possible medical support as part of an occupational health management program and sponsors numerIn the year under review, the employer promise from ous sport and fitness programs. 2017 was communicated further. The goal was to speak to individual target groups and make sure that Freudenberg would appeal to the right talented individuals in sufficient numbers in the future. Thanks to Talent Management an employer branding campaign in German and US social media, the Freudenberg Group’s recognition imThe goal of the talent management process is holistic proved markedly. Both the follower numbers in the soand professional employee development as well as the cial networks – primarily LinkedIn and Facebook – and successful identification and training of future executhe visitor numbers to the redesigned career website tives. In the process, employees receive balanced and increased. calibrated feedback from their superiors. They also discuss their next development steps with them. As Sample awards part of talent management, succession candidates are systematically identified for expert and leaderIn 2019, the Freudenberg Group once again won varship functions, to ensure the long-term stability of ious awards for successful human resource work. the leadership team. Examples include: For the eighth time in a row, the Freudenberg company, Chem-Trend of Michigan, US was named one of the 150 Top Employers in the Region. The Detroit Free Press rating also included Diversity and Inclusion awards for Freudenberg NOK Sealing Technologies in Detroit, Michigan, USA. In the year under review, Diversity is anchored in the Group’s Values and Princithe Freudenberg Group in Germany also received the ples and also clearly positioned in the brand. FreudenFair Company Seal of Approval which it has had since berg is convinced that teams with people of various 2009. Fair Company is a voluntary pact where compaages and genders and with diverse cultural backnies work to ensure fair working conditions for those grounds are more successful. starting their careers. The balanced gender distribution is particularly noteAttractiveness worthy with a focus on the hiring process, early identification of female talent as well as the targeted career Freudenberg offers numerous benefits that are continpromotion of women in top executive positions. Posiuously expanded to attract new employees and retain tive development was found in this area: The share of current employees. Offers tend to vary from region to female experts and executives remained stable at 33 region and site to site, but on the whole are generally percent, the share of females in middle management far better in most cases than the minimum legal rewas over 25 percent. The share of jobs filled by women quirements in the respective countries. increased from 32 percent in 2018 to 37 percent in 2019. A focus was technical jobs. As part of the Talent Management program (see Talent Management on this page) Freudenberg supports To improve an integrative working environment, varinumerous continuing education programs at all hierous training courses were offered in the areas of “Subarchical levels (see Employee Development, page 41) conscious Bias” as well as “Inclusive Leadership”. The to continually advance their employees. Freudenberg goal is to create a working environment where every also sees maintaining a good work-life balance as imperson feels appreciated, respected and heard. 40 Responsibility for Society (UN Global Compact Progress Report) – Human Rights & Labor Employee development known as “PEOPLE+”, involves the implementation of global processes for employee master data, talent In 2019, the Group-wide leadership development promanagement and compensation. In the year under gram was offered in all the regions. Some 800 execureview, experts from all Business Groups defined the tives took part around the world. global processes, standards and the security concept. The system go-live is planned for late May 2020. Freudenberg has three executive development programs: The Strategic Leadership Program, Business Vocational training at Freudenberg Leadership Program – both carried out with the renowned business school INSEAD – and the Operations In 2019, 121 young people (previous year: 134) startLeadership Program. In 2019, a total of 110 executives ed vocational training at Freudenberg companies in participated in them. In sum, roughly 440 top execuGermany. tives have been trained since the launch in 2014. In total, 390 persons were in traineeships at The Freudenberg Academy as a virtual combination Freudenberg as of December 31, 2019. The specof all the continuing education activities means the trum ranges from 2-year commercial or technical benefits of the learning management system can traineeships to dual studies at a university of cobe advanced and modern learning formats (such as operative education. Neighboring companies send e-learning) can be offered globally. their young employees to Freudenberg for training, highlighting the company’s reputation for the high standard of its vocational training. The Training Center helps ensure this quality. It offers innovative and Launch of a new global employee information system modern learning concepts in a light-filled, two-story building. An example includes the Learning Factory To place employees even more at the center of all 4.0, where trainees learn about company processes HR processes and to make sure that workflows are through production workflows, helping them gain a efficient, Workday, a cloud-based software for HR IT quicker grasp of interactions and better control of the processes was launched in January 2019. The project, processes using high-tech machines. To kick-off the project, members of the HR Executive Team and the PEOPLE + Core Team designed a logo together. 41 UN-Global-Compact-Index The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is the world’s largest and most important initiative for responsible corporate leadership. Since signing in 2014, Freudenberg has voluntarily agreed to make sure its business is values-based and sustainable. The following Global Compact Index provides an overview of the 10 principles in the Global Compact and illustrates the pages of the Annual Report where readers can find information about the progress we have made in implementing these principles. UNGC-PRINCIPLE Content Reference Human Rights 15, 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 Principle 1 Protection and compliance with international 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 human rights Principle 2 No violations of human rights 29, 33*, 38–39, 41 Labor standards 15, 25–27, 29, 33*, 34, 38-39, 40, 41 Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the right 33* to collective bargaining Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced labor 33* Principle 5 Abolition of child labor 33* Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination 33*, 38, 40, 41 Environmental Protection 12, 15, 16, 19–23, 25–26, 29, 33* Principle 7 Environmental protection through care principle 19–23, 25–26, 29, 33* Principle 8 Support for environmental awareness 16, 19–23, 25, 29, 33* Principle 9 Development of environmentally friendly 12, 16, 19–23, 26 technologies Anti-corruption 33*–35, 39 Principle 10 Anti-corruption measures 33*–35, 39 * The parts of the Freudenberg Code of Conduct covering the relevant principles. 42 Combined Management Report – Business Model COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT FUNDAMENTAL INFORMATION At year-end 2019, the number of companies in Freudenberg totaled 463 located in 56 countries. 427 of these companies were included in the consolidation. BUSINESS MODEL 403 companies, including 160 sales companies and 159 production companies, were fully consolidated. The remaining companies were holding or Organizational structure management companies. The Freudenberg Group (Freudenberg) is a global Together with partners, customers and the world of technology group whose goal is to strengthen its science, the ten Business Groups aspire to develop customers and society long-term through forwardcutting-edge products, excellent solutions and services looking innovations. for some 40 market segments and for thousands of applications: Seals, vibration control components, technical textiles, filters, cleaning technologies and products, specialty chemicals, and medical products. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT PARENT COMPANY FREUDENBERG & CO. KOMMANDITGESELLSCHAFT BUSINESS OPERATIONS PARENT COMPANY FREUDENBERG SE Seals and Vibration Control Technical Textiles and Cleaning Technologies and Specialties Technology Business Area Filtration Business Area Products Business Area Business Area Business Groups Business Groups Business Group Business Groups Freudenberg Sealing Freudenberg Performance Freudenberg Home and Freudenberg Chemical Technologies Materials Cleaning Solutions Specialities Freudenberg Oil & Gas Freudenberg Filtration Freudenberg Medical Technologies Technologies EagleBurgmann Japan Vilene Company Vibracoustic As at December 31, 2019. For further details on Freudenberg companies, please refer to the chapter entitled “Review of Operations by Business Area”. 43 Freudenberg builds on lasting and reliable Innovation strength, strong customer orientation and relationships with customers and partners. The close collaboration as well as diversity and team spirit partnership with NOK Corporation, Tokyo, Japan, for are the cornerstones of the Group. Commitment to example, already spans almost 60 years. Numerous excellence, reliability and pro-active, responsible action activities in the Americas, Asia and Europe have been have belonged to the company’s core values ever since jointly established during the decades-long it was founded in 1849. partnership. Freudenberg introduced the “Strategic Guide” Freudenberg and NOK Corporation jointly hold shares leadership concept in 2013. Under this concept, the in several companies. Particularly worthy of mention Board of Management concentrates on developing the are Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership, Plymouth, Freudenberg Group strategy, approves major USA, which is fully consolidated in the consolidated investments, draws up strategic guidelines, and financial statements, as well as NOK-Freudenberg defines strategic planning. Operational business is in Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore, which is disclosed atthe hands of independent companies whose equity as a 50:50 joint venture in the consolidated management conducts business under their own financial statements. responsibility. These individual companies in turn belong to Business Groups. Further details can be found under “Investments in joint ventures“ and “Investments in associated Freudenberg has two parent companies: Freudenberg companies“ in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft (Freudenberg & Co. KG), Statements. Weinheim, Germany, is the strategic parent company, Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, Germany, is the parent Across the globe, the Freudenberg Group’s products company with responsibility for managing business and services make a valuable contribution to the operations. The corporate bodies of Freudenberg & Co. success of its customers – rarely visible, but always KG are the Management Board, the Board of Partners indispensable in the spirit of the positioning that reads and the General Meeting. The corporate bodies of “Freudenberg is a values-based technology group that Freudenberg SE are the Board of Management, the best serves its customers and society“. Supervisory Board and the Shareholders Meeting. The composition of the Management Board of It is Freudenberg’s goal to offer customers in the Freudenberg & Co. KG and the Board of Management passenger car and commercial vehicle industry, of Freudenberg SE is identical. This also applies to the mechanical and plant engineering, textile and apparel, Board of Partners of Freudenberg & Co. KG and the construction, mining and heavy industry, energy, Supervisory Board of Freudenberg SE. chemical, oil and gas industry, medical technology, civil aviation and rail vehicles sectors excellent Freudenberg is a family company and is currently technological and innovative products as well as owned by some 350 heirs to the founding father Carl services. Johann Freudenberg. 44 Combined Management Report – Business Model Organizational changes Business processes Acquisitions and disinvestments and discontinued In the year under review, Freudenberg conducted operations operational excellence activities in all areas with a view to making processes, services and products better, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies acquired the more efficient and safer. One example of these majority interest in the US battery manufacturer XALT activities is “PEOPLE+”: With this Group-wide project, Energy, LLC, Midland, Michigan, USA, in January 2019. Freudenberg is increasing efficiency through standardized HR processes and enhancing Freudenberg Medical increased its share in the medical transparency through a common IT system. For the technology specialist Cambus Teoranta, Spiddal, Ireland, first time, processes and HR master data, along with from 40 to 90 percent in April 2019. data on talent management and compensation will be available in one single system. Also in April 2019, Freudenberg Filtration Technologies acquired a 75 percent share in Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., Digitalization continues to advance at a fast pace and Ltd., Foshan, China, a leading provider of air and water has already changed almost every business. There are filtration solutions. innumerable possibilities for initiating digital change. The Freudenberg Group is concentrating on solutions Freudenberg Performance Materials acquired the Filc that offer their customers added value or improve their group, Škofja Loka, Slovenia, in December 2019. Filc is a efficiency. During the year under review, Freudenberg manufacturer of needle punch nonwoven textiles and addressed future topics such as the Internet of Things laminated materials. and artificial intelligence, developed new competencies and identified business opportunities. Furthermore, Freudenberg Performance Materials Today, the company already offers customers made an offer to acquire 100 percent of the shares of substantial added value through software-based Low & Bonar PLC, London, United Kingdom, a globally solutions and software apps as well as technologyactive manufacturer of technical textiles, in September driven applications. 2019. The proposed transaction is subject to approval by the antitrust authorities. Moreover, all Business Groups continued to work on responding to customer needs even more effectively Freudenberg sold the Freudenberg IT Business Group and on optimizing business processes. Further details (FIT) to the Canadian Syntax Group at the end of and information can be found in the chapter entitled February 2019. Three IT companies Syntax, FIT and “Review of Operations by Business Area”. EmeraldCube were brought together under the Syntax umbrella to create a strengthened global IT full-service provider with a clear IT growth plan. 45 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT As a technology group, responding to the challenges In the 2019 financial year, Freudenberg conducted of our time with innovations is part of Freudenberg’s research and development activities in the amount of DNA. The company slogan “Innovating Together” €480.9 million (previous year: €444.3 million). This reflects the great importance of innovation for represents 5.1 percent of sales (previous year: Freudenberg. Continually working together on 4.7 percent). Research and development activities also sustainable advancements in our portfolio of products include development expenses for customer-specific and services is a pillar of the Group’s success and is also development projects disclosed under cost of sales in anchored in the Group’s values and principles as well the consolidated statement of profit or loss. as the brand positioning with the benefit statement that reads “Freudenberg is a values-based technology The Business Groups account for the largest share of group that best serves its customers and society”. funds for research and development activities. They cooperate closely with their customers on technology, product and service developments in their market segments. As a leading technology group and innovative partner, Freudenberg constantly strives to meet the most demanding requirements in terms of process, product and service quality. The objective of all innovation activities is to constantly expand and renew the portfolio of products and services. Freudenberg measures the effectiveness of research and development activities as the share of new products (products less than four years old) in total sales. This share is 34.7 percent (previous year: 33.6 percent). Successful innovation management The constant further development of products and services along with new solutions is fundamental to the success of a company. Freudenberg therefore attaches the utmost importance to holistic innovation management throughout the Group. All activities are defined and strategically pursued at Business Group level. The Freudenberg Technology Innovation corporate function supports the Business Groups in their mediumand long-term innovation activities, for example by making available expertise, materials, processes and surface technology methods as well as providing opportunities for exchange on crosssectional technologies such as tribology and 46 Combined Management Report – Research and Development electrochemistry. Furthermore, the corporate function LLC. The outcome: A new high-energy-density battery identifies new technologies and trends, and drives the package that simplifies the installation of new protection of intellectual property in collaboration powertrain technologies for manufacturers of heavywith the Business Groups. duty vehicles. Vibracoustic’s new high-efficiency motor mounts for Adding value through service and system electric motors are tuned to dampen noise and innovation vibrations typical of electric vehicles without compromising the overall functioning of the mount. The consistent alignment of activities to the value chain and the supply chain, and therefore to customer Other Freudenberg solutions for the mobility market benefit, is further confirmation of Freudenberg’s include products that not only reduce fuel innovation strength. Consequently, the main theme at consumption but can also be easily processed. One the “Global Innovation Forum“, a regular networking example is an innovative technical fabric cargo cover event for Freudenberg’s innovation community, in the for SUVs from Freudenberg Performance Materials. It year under review was “Systems and Services”. Added not only weighs less, but also meets customers’ value that is attractive for customers thus also demands to reduce the noise level and upscale the increasingly comprises the integration and visual appeal. Furthermore, unlike traditional plastic combination of several technologies plus the cargo covers, the nonwoven covers do not release any associated services to form a complete system. This volatile organic compounds. allows Freudenberg to broaden the scope of its business that has to date predominantly centered on manufacturing components and products. Such a transition is primarily driven by a stronger focus on the digital transformation and the related availability of data and information, along with great materials expertise. This presents new business opportunities for Freudenberg, especially in e-mobility. Mobility New drive technologies in the automotive industry such as fuel cells or electric motors, also call for new developments in materials and testing methods. Freudenberg has comprehensive electrochemical and Freudenberg employees carrying out a test in an inert atmosphere surface technology expertise. This know-how is glovebox. harnessed to create solutions for fuel cells and batteries or to improve friction properties for a longer product service life – an essential step if e-mobility is to catch on permanently. In the year under review, Freudenberg Sealing Technologies invested in researching and developing new mobility technologies through the acquisition of the majority interest in the U.S. company XALT Energy, 47 Digital transformation Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions launched “iQonnect”, an app for professional cleaning Digitalization and data analysis are the key to companies that enables them to manage cleaning optimizing products and processes. In the year under processes more efficiently. The app combines review, Freudenberg worked on forward-looking functions such as time registration, HR data, task themes such as the Internet of Things and artificial planning, quality management and real-time intelligence, developed new competences and reporting and can reduce administrative costs by up to identified business opportunities. The company 15 percent. already offers its customers significant added value through software-based solutions and apps as well as Freudenberg Medical has developed a new technology-driven applications. measurement system called “Helix iMC” that can continuously measure the inner diameter of silicone In the year under review, Freudenberg Filtration tubes during production. This innovative technology is Technologies launched its “e.FFECT” software tool that unique and increases product quality for high analyzes efficiency, pressure drop and energy precision applications, such as pacemaker lead consumption for multi-stage filters in various market insulation. segments for industrial filtration customers. Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies has been offering Materials competence its customers a new, value-added prototype service since 2019. This service enables targeted project Product performance and sustainability depend to a management combining Freudenberg Oil & Gas large extent on the materials used. Thanks to strategic Technologies’ leading capabilities in design, construction programs for materials development, new highand testing. The Business Group first collaborates with performance thermoplastics and specialty chemicals its customers to develop sealing solutions based on found their way into new, improved Freudenberg Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies’ design and products in 2019. Furthermore, experts in the fields of materials expertise, and subsequently uses its materials tribology and digital modeling at Freudenberg are able development and product testing laboratory to provide to alter specific material properties using digital verified, certified solutions tailored to the requirements models, thus creating numerous benefits for of the industry. This accelerates customers’ product customers. development activities. Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies developed an “DilutionIQ” developed by Chem-Trend (a company innovative elastomer seal suitable for applications in belonging to the Freudenberg Chemical Specialities the extreme conditions of steam environments. It Business Group) is a web-based solution for constant, functions at temperatures in excess of 300 degrees real-time monitoring of release mixing system dilution Celsius and has excellent resistance to rapid gas ratios. Customers no longer need to collect samples by decompression that can occur during operation at hand for time-consuming analysis. Chem-Trend also high temperatures and pressures and can result in stores historical data collected by the “DilutionIQ” serious damage to elastomer seals. system, thus reducing the number of routine activities for the customer still further. SurTec (a company belonging to the Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Business Group) successfully EagleBurgmann improved its software for engineering launched an innovative environmentally-friendly and sales by adding a simplified user interface. coating with high corrosion resistance that is a Complex simulations of sealing solutions can now be substitute for the nickel-zinc coatings previously used. used and evaluated more efficiently. 48 Combined Management Report – Research and Development The substances are harmless to human health and can Four Freudenberg companies shared the internal be used in numerous surface treatment applications. Freudenberg Innovation Award in the year under review. With their “Atomistic Simulation” project, Together with Fraunhofer Institute for Mechanics of developers and technicians from EagleBurgmann, Materials, experts from EagleBurgmann developed a Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, Klüber Lubrication high-end DLC coating for gas seals in the year under and Freudenberg Technology Innovation established review. an innovative process that is a fundamentally new way to understand friction in materials, lubricants, and Manufacturers of medical devices need innovative seals. technologies to expand their product portfolios and reduce research and manufacturing times. Freudenberg Medical supports customers with commercialization ready modular “plug & play” platforms and product configurations for catheter systems. Japan Vilene Company offers its customers an innovative double-layer backing material for the manufacture of wound dressings. The product with an extremely low active ingredient adsorption capability comprises a thermally bonded thin PET film and a lowdensity PET nonwoven. Freudenberg Awards Freudenberg recognizes outstanding achievements in innovation by regularly presenting two external science prizes – the Carl Freudenberg Prize and the Karl Freudenberg Prize – and an internal innovation prize, the Freudenberg Innovation Award. The 2019 external Karl Freudenberg Prize was awarded to Dr. Yi Lu for his research on superconductors. Four scientists won the 2019 Carl Freudenberg Prize for their research work in the field of e-mobility: Dr. Philipp Braun, Dr. Akanksha Bhutani, Dr. Bartosz Gladysz and Matthias Luh worked on issues relating among other things to battery safety, the early detection of errors and risks when developing products, and efficient battery charging using semi-conductor materials. 49 REPORT ON ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT In 2019, the global economy lost much of its world trade. Within the eurozone, only Italy recorded dynamism compared with the previous year. The even lower growth than Germany. manufacturing sector was hit inter alia by the effects of the international trade disputes. In many regions, Economic development in major emerging economies continued high employment levels and the related was also unusually weak. China reported the lowest strong private consumption were the main factors momentum for almost 30 years. This was not only that prevented the economy from slipping into attributable to the structure-driven slowdown in recession. Given the lower prospects for economic growth, but also the result of the customs dispute growth, many central banks, such as the FED and the with the USA. India, with its traditionally less exportECB, decided on expansive measures. oriented economy, again had to contend with massive structural problems, and economic growth was far In the USA, the positive effects of the financial policy below the level needed to catch up with industrialized stimuli initiated by the US administration gradually nations. Economic momentum in Brazil and Russia lost momentum. In Japan, economic dynamism remained subdued. remained moderate despite all the efforts on the part of the government and the central bank. The high dependence on export business made German industry particularly susceptible to the problems in EUROPE WORLD REGIONS GDP GDP GDP GDP Region growth 2018 growth 2019 Region growth 2018 growth 2019 Eurozone 1.9 % 1.2 % USA 2.9 % 2.3 % Germany 1.5 % 0.6 % Mexico 2.1 % 0.0 % France 1.7 % 1.3 % Brazil 1.3 % 1.1 % Italy 0.8 % 0.2 % Argentina -2.5 % -2.5 % Spain 2.4 % 2.0 % Japan 0.3 % 1.0 % Portugal 2.4 % 1.9 % Russia 2.3 % 1.2 % Ireland 8.2 % 5.4 % China 6.6 % 6.1 % Greece 1.9 % 2.0 % Taiwan 2.7 % 2.5 % United Kingdom 1.4 % 1.3 % India 6.8 % 5.0 % Sources: Consensus Inc., national statistical offices Sources: Consensus Inc., national statistical offices GDP growth 2019 as at February 2020 GDP growth 2019 as at February 2020 50 Combined Management Report – Macroeconomic Environment Sector-specific environment in North America (minus 4 percent). There were minor changes in Russia (minus 1 percent) and Brazil (plus Developments in the Freudenberg Group’s main sales 1 percent). The share of all-electric and hybrid vehicles markets were very mixed. in global production in 2019 rose to just short of 7 percent (Source: IHS Markit). Following the slight dip in the previous year, global production in the automotive industry declined Based on a worldwide average, production in the significantly in 2019, dropping 6 percent to a total of mechanical engineering sector stagnated in 2019 89 million passenger cars and light vehicles. Production (0 percent). However, here, too, key producing countries in the EU fell by just under 5 percent, with significantly reported negative growth rates compared with the sharper decreases in Germany (minus 8 percent), the previous year: In both Germany and Italy, production UK and Italy (minus 14 percent each) than, for example, was 3 percent lower, the drop in the UK was 7 percent, in Spain (0 percent). There was also a sharp downturn and the decline in the USA 1 percent. China reported a in production in China (minus 8 percent) and India rise of 4 percent, one of the weakest increases of recent (minus 11 percent). The drop was relatively moderate years (Source: VDMA). LIGHT VEHICLE DOMESTIC PRODUCTION 2019 production in million units (88.8 million units worldwide) 24.3 17.6 12.3 10.6 9.2 4.8 4.2 3.9 3.8 2.8 of which China Japan India South Korea EU 28 Germany USA Mexico Brazil Rest of world Source: IHS Markit, February 2020 51 In the textile and apparel industry, momentum in the The continuing high employment level brought further traditional manufacturing countries continued to tail important growth momentum to private consumption. off. China, the global market leader, only reported Inflation remained in the planned target corridors. In growth of 1.3 percent in 2019. Production fell by 2.7 Germany, the annual average rate of inflation was percent in the USA, by 2.6 percent in Japan and by 3.6 1.4 percent (Source: Federal Statistical Office). percent in the EU (Source: National statistical offices). The oil price was quite volatile over the course of 2019, The picture in the construction industry in 2019 was fluctuating within a corridor of just under US$50 to up mixed. In many regions, momentum picked up further to US$66 per barrel (WTI). The average annual price compared with the previous year. Production grew 3.1 was US$57.05, 12 percent lower than the previous year percent in Germany, 2.2 percent in Italy, 2.0 percent in (Source: New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX)). the UK, and 0.7 percent in France. In the USA, the increase was 0.7 percent, in China it was as high as 9.9 The euro exchange rate trended downward from percent. Some countries, however, saw a decline – in January to the end of September 2019, before Japan, for example, production dipped by 0.8 percent. recovering slightly in the final quarter of the year. The (Source: National statistical offices). annual average exchange rate was US$1.12 per euro, 5.2 percent lower than the level of the previous year There was further growth in the medical technology (Source: Deutsche Bundesbank / European Central sector, traditionally relatively independent of economic Bank). cycles, in 2019. Production in Germany rose by 4.8 percent, in Japan by 3.6 percent and in the USA by 4.0 percent. In China, growth slowed to 6.6 percent (Sources: National statistical offices, BMI Research). EURO EXCHANGE RATE DEVELOPMENT IN 2019 US dollar per euro 1.30 1.25 1.20 1.15 1.10 1.05 1.00 Jan. Feb. March Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Source: European Central Bank; month-end rates 52 Combined Management Report – Macroeconomic Environment Business Development and Position BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND POSITION For Freudenberg, sales, operating result and return on The forecasts made at the beginning of the year with sales are the key financial performance indicators. The respect to the key financial and non-financial key performance indicator operating result describes performance indicators are regularly reviewed and profit before income tax without special effects (for updated in the course of the year. The financial and example, significant restructuring expenses), the profit non-financial key performance indicators presented or loss on disposals of assets, impairment of goodwill, are made available to the Board of Management on a or results of major associated companies. The return on monthly basis. This allows trends and changes to be sales is calculated from the two key performance identified in good time so that measures can be taken indicators sales and operating result. to counteract any detrimental developments. In its internal reporting, Freudenberg uses the LDIFR The key financial performance indicators are used for (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate) as a non-financial assessing business success, the position and key performance indicator. It measures all accidents at development of the Group, and focus on sustainable work involving at least one day’s absence per million growth and a continuous increase in enterprise value working hours. Starting with the 2015 financial year, as indicators for steering future, values-driven success. the indicator also includes data for temporary employees and agency staff. Our performance indicators developed as follows: FORECAST/ACTUAL COMPARISON, FREUDENBERG ACTUAL 2018 Forecast for 2019 Change ACTUAL 2019 Sales [€ million] 9,455.4 at prior year level +0.1 % 9,467.8 Operating result [€ million] 910.3 slight decrease -9.9 % 820.0 Return on sales [percent] 9.6 slight decrease -0.9 % points 8.7 LDIFR [LDI per million working hours] 1.5 slight reduction -0.1 1.4 The Freudenberg Group developed well in the year One focus at all levels on the company in the 2019 under review in spite of the difficult economic and financial year lay on occupational safety. Measures in geopolitical market environment. At €9,467.8 million, this area concentrate on safety-conscious behavior on Freudenberg sales were at the level of the previous year the part of all employees as well as creating safe and the forecast development was therefore achieved. systems of work. The internal Safety Boost initiative continued in 2019. Under this initiative, occupational At €820.0 million, operating result was below the high safety activities are further intensified and focused. level recorded in the previous year and slightly lower Unsafe situations, accidents at work, environmental than the forecast development. This corresponds to a incidents and fires with potentially high risks are return on sales of 8.7 percent. Among other reasons, analyzed and reported throughout the Freudenberg the decline is attributable to the downturn in the Group. The LDIFR in the 2019 financial year was 1.4 automotive industry, weaker momentum in China, and (previous year: 1.5), in line with the forecast. startup costs for expanding the battery and fuel cell business. 53 SALES BY SECTOR [in %] Sales Energy and water 4 Construction 4 Freudenberg aims for profitable growth achieved both Textile Chemical 3 through its own efforts (organic) and through and apparel 5 Medical and acquisitions (external). Key success factors are in Spare parts pharmaceutical 4 particular the innovative product range, customerbusiness 5 Other oriented, flexible solutions to problems in the different Final users industry 10 sectors 10 sectors of industry, and structured expansion into attractive markets and strategic business areas. Mechanical Automotive and plant OEMs 44 In the 2019 financial year, Freudenberg reported sales engineering 11 of €9,467.8 million (previous year: €9,455.4 million). Exchange rate effects totaling €150.6 million had a positive effect on sales. These effects were primarily attributable to developments in the US dollar North America accounted for 27 percent of total sales exchange rate. Acquisitions fully offset the (previous year: 26 percent). Freudenberg generated a disinvestment effects of the sale of the Freudenberg IT share of 26 percent (previous year: 26 percent) of total Business Group. sales in the European Union (excluding Germany). Asia accounted for 22 percent (previous year: 21 percent) of Sectors and regions total sales. The distribution of sales by sectors and regions SALES BY REGION [in %] remained very stable compared with the previous year. Africa / Australia 2 Germany 16 In the 2019 financial year, the share of automotive OEM business in total sales amounted to 44 percent (previous year: 44 percent). The share of the second EU (excluding Asia 22 most important customer grouping, mechanical and Germany) 26 plant engineering, remained approximately at the previous year’s level, with a total of 11 percent South & Central (previous year: 12 percent). The share for other industry America 3 sectors increased slightly from 9 percent to 10 percent. There was no change in the share in total sales Other European North America 27 countries 4 compared with the previous year for the remaining sectors. 54 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position Earnings position financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. [€ million] 2018 2019 The consolidated profit was €8.2 million higher than Sales 9,455.4 9,467.8 the figure for the previous year. Cost of sales -6,395.6 -6,480.5 Gross profit 3,059.8 2,987.3 Selling expenses -1,297.2 -1,298.3 Financial position Administrative expenses -633.5 -638.6 Research and development Financing management expenses -374.3 -414.6 Other income and expenses 51.8 194.6 Freudenberg SE and the central financing company Income from participation in joint ventures 22.0 14.3 Externa Handelsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit Profit from operations 828.6 844.7 beschränkter Haftung, Weinheim, Germany, steer all the financing activities of Freudenberg, thus ensuring Financial result 6.7 -16.2 that Freudenberg has sufficient liquid funds. As a Profit before income taxes 835.3 828.5 general principle, companies obtain the financing they Income taxes -232.9 -217.9 require via cash pool agreements or internal loans – for Consolidated profit 602.4 610.6 legal, fiscal and other reasons, financing in some countries also takes the form of bank loans guaranteed by Freudenberg SE. At €9,467.8 million, sales in 2019 were at the level of the previous year. The cost of sales ratio rose by 0.8 Freudenberg does not expose itself to financial risks percentage points and gross profit therefore also fell by through speculation with derivative financial 0.8 percentage points. The selling expenses ratio and instruments but uses such instruments only for hedging, the administrative expenses ratio remained at the and therefore reducing, risks in connection with prior-year levels of 13.7 percent and 6.7 percent underlying transactions and items. Future transactions respectively. are only hedged if there is a high probability of occurrence. In order to ensure the identification and Compared with the previous year, research and management of all financing risks, the Freudenberg development expenses rose by €40.3 million, reflecting Group pursues a holistic approach to financial risk growing activities in battery and fuel cell business. management. The existing financial risks are identified and limited in an institutionalized control loop. The balance of other income and expenses rose by €142.8 million. The increase was largely due to income Exchange rate risks on currency markets remain high. from the sale of the Freudenberg IT Business Group In addition, there is volatility on the credit and capital and changes in the status of participations previously markets. This also impacts the financing conditions for consolidated at-equity. This effect was partially offset industrial companies. In the opinion of the Board of by the higher impairment losses on goodwill in the Management, Freudenberg is in a good position to year under review. tackle these challenges thanks to its conservative finance policy. Liquidity measures include high reserves The financial result fell by €22.9 million. This decrease of liquid funds and committed credit lines with core was mainly due to the fall in the pro-rata share in the banks. Liquid funds are always invested on the basis of results of associated companies. The fall was partly internal directives. These call for the risk-based, limitoffset by higher income from investments and affiliated oriented diversification of financial investments companies and income from the remeasurement of 55 between issuers with an investment grade rating and components. Further details on interest rate structure for investment only for short terms. can be found in the section on interest rate risks in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. A key element in external borrowing is a long-term shareholder loan where the interest payable is oriented As in the previous year, the rating agency Moody`s towards market interest rates for the same terms plus Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, a premium. rated Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, at “A3”, with a stable outlook. The Group therefore continues to hold a As at December 31, 2019, Freudenberg had undrawn single-A rating. committed credit lines amounting to some €950 million. The interest payable on the certificates of This gives Freudenberg very good creditworthiness at indebtedness (“Schuldscheindarlehen”) included in the investment grade level. liabilities to banks is based on variable and fixed 56 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION STRUCTURE Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Change [€ million] [€ million] [Percent] [€ million] Assets structure Non-current assets 6,203.9 7,060.7 13.8 856.8 Current assets 3,926.9 4,282.8 9.1 355.9 Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 108.3 11.0 -89.8 -97.3 Assets 10,239.1 11,354.5 10.9 1,115.4 Capital structure Equity 5,312.1 5,819.5 9.6 507.4 Non-current liabilities 2,195.8 2,604.5 18.6 408.7 Current liabilities 2,663.9 2,929.9 10.0 266.0 Liabilities in connection with non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups 67.3 0.6 -99.1 -66.7 Equity and liabilities 10,239.1 11,354.5 10.9 1,115.4 Capital structure The equity ratio decreased from 51.9 percent to The €266.0 million increase in current liabilities to 51.3 percent. Adjusted for the effects of the application €2,929.9 million was chiefly the result of the rise in of IFRS 16, the equity ratio would have risen to 52.8 short-term financial debt. This development also percent. In absolute terms, equity rose by €507.4 reflects the first-time application of IFRS 16. As at the million. This was chiefly attributable to the positive statement of financial position date, current lease result and to positive exchange rate developments. liabilities amounted to €87.8 million. In addition, shortThis increase was offset by actuarial losses on the term liabilities to banks rose to €243.5 million (previous remeasurement of defined benefit obligations as a year: €133.5 million). result of lower discount rates, and dividend payments to Freudenberg & Co. KG as well as to holders of nonAdjusted for exchange rate effects and changes in the controlling interests. consolidated group, non-current liabilities rose by 14.7 percent while current liabilities fell by 8.7 percent. Non-current liabilities amounted to €2,604.5 million As regards the currency structure, reference is made to (previous year: €2,195.8 million). This change was the currency risk section of the Notes to the mainly due to the increase in long-term financial debt, Consolidated Financial Statements. which rose significantly in connection with the firsttime application of IFRS 16. As at the statement of financial position date, non-current lease liabilities amounted to €254.3 million. In addition, provisions for pensions and similar obligations rose from €718.1 million in the previous year to a total of €842.3 million, chiefly as a result of lower discount rates. 57 Investments Liquidity Adjusted for acquisitions, investments in intangible Cash flow from operating activities in the 2019 assets, tangible assets and investment properties financial year amounted to €956.9 million, corresamounted to €362.1 million (previous year: €378.6 ponding to a year-on-year increase of €128.5 million. million). This rise is chiefly due to the first-time application of IFRS 16, under which only the interest portion of lease The Freudenberg Group invested worldwide. For payments is recognized in cash flow from operating example, the Freudenberg Performance Materials activities. In addition, the lower operating result was Business Group continued work on the construction of more than offset by the positive development in a new spunlaid plant in Taiwan, which started last year, working capital. and also initiated the relocation of production in Nantong, China, at the request of the local government. As a result of higher acquisitions than in the previous Vibracoustic continued work on the construction of a year, the negative cash flow from investing activities third plant in Chongqing, China. For the newly acquired increased to €-600.9 million. company Freudenberg Apollo Filtration Technologies Co. Ltd. in Shunde, China, Freudenberg Filtration Cash flow from financing activities in the 2019 Technologies invested in a new production and office financial year was €-230.9 million (previous year: complex with an area of 55,000 square meters. €249.0 million). The main factors in this development Investments in Germany totaled €110.5 million were payments to the shareholder and non-controlling (previous year: €125.2 million). Vibracoustic initiated interests as well as the repayment of financial debts, further expansion of its air spring production facility in which also included lease liabilities for the first time in Hamburg. 2019 in accordance with IFRS 16. Investments planned for 2020 are likely to be financed On the basis of the assessment of the Board of from cash flow from operating activities and to have no Management, the Group can meet all of its payment major effect on net assets. obligations without any restrictions. 58 Combined Management Report – Business Development and Position Assets Overall assessment The total assets of Freudenberg rose by €1,115.4 The 2019 financial year was characterized by a difficult million to €11,354.5 million (previous year: €10,239.1 economic and geopolitical environment. Sales of the million). Freudenberg Group were at the level of the previous year, while the operating result was lower. The main Non-current assets rose from €6,203.9 million to reasons for the decrease included the downturn in the €7,060.7 million. Adjusted for exchange rate effects and automotive industry, less dynamic growth in China and changes in the consolidated group, there was an start-up expenses in the battery and fuel cell business. increase of €252.2 million in non-current assets. This is chiefly due to the first-time application of IFRS 16. As at In the 2019 financial year, we once again invested the statement of financial position date, the right-ofstrongly in the future viability of our Group. Key use assets for leased underlying assets amounted to strategic topics were the transformation in mobility, €336.9 million. This increase was partly offset by digitalization and sustainable solutions. Freudenberg amortization of intangible assets. In particular, the aims for profitable growth which may come both from systematic amortization of intangible assets of the its own resources and from acquisitions. In a volatile Vibracoustic Group acquired in 2016 should be environment, it is beneficial to be a broadly diversified mentioned. Furthermore, an impairment loss was company. This is why we aim for a balanced portfolio of recognized with respect to the goodwill of Freudenberg cyclic and anticyclic business with equal contributions Medical. from North and South America, Europe and Asia. Against this backdrop, we further strengthened various Current assets rose by €355.9 million to €4,282.8 Business Groups through acquisitions in the year million. Adjusted for exchange rate effects and the under review. change in the consolidated group, there was a total increase of €214.7 million. The rise in current assets was Furthermore, one of the main focuses of the Group in chiefly due to the increase of €90.5 million in the 2019 financial year was once again occupational inventories and €110.5 million in other current assets. safety. In the year under review, the non-financial This includes the payment in connection with the performance indicator LDIFR was 1.4 (previous year: acquisition of Low & Bonar PLC , which was made to an 1.5). It was therefore possible to reverse the slight escrow account. Securities and cash at bank and in negative trend from the previous year and further hand grew by a total of €132.6 million, chiefly as a positive development is forecast. result of the development in business operations and the resulting increase in cash flow from operating Against the backdrop of our solid net assets and activities. These effects were offset by developments in financial position and our high-earnings business, our acquisitions and disinvestments. overall assessment of the econonic position of the Group is positive. 59 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS AREA The Freudenberg Group’s ten Business Groups are Together with its partners, customers and the world of divided into four Business Areas: “Sealing and science, Freudenberg aspires to develop cutting-edge Vibration Control Technology”, “Technical Textiles and products, excellent solutions and services for some Filtration”, “Cleaning Technologies and Products”, and 40 market segments and thousands of applications in “Specialties”. They focus on long-term, sustainable and the spirit of the positioning that reads “Freudenberg is profitable growth. a values-based technology group that best serves its customers and society“. SEALS AND VIBRATION CONTROL TECHNOLOGY BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Seals and Vibration Sales in this Business Area amounted to Control Technology Business Area comprised the €5,325.8 million (previous year: €5,506.4 million). following Business Groups: The headcount at the close of the financial year was 30,569 (previous year: 32,451 ). • Freudenberg Sealing Technologies • Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies There was a change in the Seals and Vibration • EagleBurgmann Control Technology Business Area in 2019: • Vibracoustic Freudenberg Medical became part of the Specialties Business Area in the year under review. The Freudenberg Medical portfolio has evolved in recent years, leading to this reallocation. When it was set up in 2011, the Business Group was assigned to the Seals and Vibration Control Technology Business Area based on its materials and manufacturing process expertise. 60 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area FREUDENBERG SEALING TECHNOLOGIES 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 2,258.9 2,218.8 Workforce 14,795 14,073 FREUDENBERG SEALING TECHNOLOGIES Business development Key events For Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, the financial At the beginning of 2019, Freudenberg Sealing year was defined by a marked fall-off in demand – Technologies increased its ownership stake in above all in the automotive industry and especially in XALT Energy, LLC to more than 50 percent. The the second half of the year. This was attributable company based in Midland, Michigan, USA, develops among other things to the discussion about diesel and produces lithium-ion technology solutions for bans in Germany, uncertainty about the technology heavy-duty mobility applications. The additional multitransformation in mobility, the trade dispute million dollar investment is intended to revitalize between the USA and China, Brexit and the debt production capabilities at the Midland production crisis in Italy. plant and to intensify research and development efforts into new mobility technologies. Additionally, These economic risks had a noticeably negative impact there is a standing agreement to acquire all remaining on sales during the course of the year. Almost all shares in XALT Energy, LLC over the next few years. regions and market segments in automotive and industrial business were affected, with the fall-off in Furthermore, the Business Group is developing fuel cell sales in some cases quite severe. stacks for mobile applications with a power spectrum of 30 to 100 kilowatts at its new Fuel Cell Innovation Sales price increases, positive effects from acquisitions Center in Munich. Work is being carried out on both a and favorable exchange rate effects could not offset hydrogen system and a methanol system. The first the decline in sales volumes. complete system should be available for customer 61 demonstration purposes in early 2021. Series High rotational speeds cause the shaft seals used in production has been slated for 2024, with the focus on electric powertrains to reach high circumferential products for customers from the commercial vehicle velocities. A new generation of test stands at industry and for off-highway applications such as Freudenberg Sealing Technologies now ensures that buses, trains, trucks and ships. For that reason, the fuel friction can be precisely determined at rotational cells are being designed for a much higher power speeds of up to 36,000 rpm. Seals that are used capability than is the case for fuel cells used in between the electric motor and the downstream passenger cars. transmission have to satisfy much more stringent requirements for speed-endurance strength than seals In order to shorten the time-to-market for this in conventional powertrains. While the internal technology, the Business Group entered into a combustion engines in cars today reach a maximum technology partnership in the maritime sector at the rotational speed of between 4,000 and 7,000 rpm, end of 2019. The project consortium includes Meyer electric motors for series production vehicles currently Werft in Papenburg, Germany, the largest shipyard for reach a maximum rotational speed of more than the construction of cruise ships. The first practical tests 20,000 rpm. In future, as further technical advances are for the fuel cell solution on board the cruise ship made these requirements will increase further, AIDAnova are already planned for 2021. because at rotational speeds of up to 36,000 rpm, substantial electrical potential can be generated In the commercial vehicle sector, Freudenberg Sealing between the housing and the shaft of an electric motor. Technologies is collaborating with FlixBus, Europe’s The discharge can take place across the shaft bearing largest operator of long-distance bus travel. Up to 30 and lead to surface damage from electrical erosion. long-distance buses are to be fitted with fuel cell Freudenberg Sealing Technologies already offers seals technology under a joint project. that enable the voltage to be drained off across an electrically conductive nonwoven. The new test stands Another focus of current business activities is eare an important tool for designing and validating such mobility, and in particular powertrain electrification. As seals. both the energy density and the power density of batteries and electric motors continue to rise, and The auto industry is not just betting on electric charge current and speed increase, attention centers powertrains as a way to reduce CO2 emissions from on the safety and thermal management of these road vehicles. Even conventional internal combustion systems during the operation of electric vehicles. engines are expected to become more climate-friendly Disruptive electromagnetic fields form where electric thanks to e-fuels. These are liquid or gaseous vehicle current flows. Electronic components must therefore fuels that are not refined from fossil petroleum – they be protected from such disruptions caused by are created from carbon and hydrogen with the help of electromagnetic waves. Experts from Freudenberg solar and wind energy. New findings in material Performance Materials and Freudenberg Sealing research show the impact that OME (oximethylene Technologies are working together on ways to provide ether), a substitute for diesel fuel, has on the long-term shielding with plastic housings. In the future, they stability of seals. The research has found that seals could partially replace the aluminum versions that made from an already widespread material, fluoro have dominated the market until now. Both Business rubber (FKM), are basically suited for renewable fuels. Groups have teamed up to develop processes that can equip plastics with conductive coatings or nonwovens. In addition, further innovations also brought market Early lab tests show excellent values for success in the year under review: Particularly worthy of electromagnetic shielding of up to 99.9 percent. mention are new material and sealing innovations designed to help the aerospace industry address ever increasing safety and performance requirements. 62 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area These include a new high-temperature, fireproof Profile: material as well as new ethylene propylene diene Freudenberg Sealing Technologies is a long-standing monomer (EPDM) materials and a fluoroelastomer technology expert and market leader for sophisticated (FKM) material. Freudenberg’s new proprietary and novel applications in sealing technology and efireproof sealing fabric is made to withstand extremes. mobility solutions worldwide. The Business Group is also Tested on standard aerospace seals and passing AC20establishing itself as a full-service provider for fuel cell 135 fireproof requirements, the fabric acts as a barrier, systems for the commercial vehicle industry. With its providing at least 15 minutes for necessary corrective unique materials and technology expertise, the action in the event of a fire. company is a proven supplier for products and applications, as well as a development and service partner to customers in the automotive industry and the Location changes general industry sector. Starting from the invention of the Simmerring®, which was developed by Freudenberg The production location in Diadema, Brazil, will close by in 1932, the Business Group today offers a broad the end of 2020. The plant, which has been in operation customer-oriented product portfolio – from tailor-made since 1976, has some 350 employees. It produces seals individual solutions to complete sealing packages and for the aftermarket, the automotive and the general components for electric vehicles. Its subsidiary industry sectors. The reason for the closure is the Dichtomatik is the sales organization in the market for persistently weak Brazilian market. Despite significant technical seals. The Corteco brand is the specialist for the investment in new technologies, new materials and independent automotive aftermarket. new product lines, there is no possibility for the profitable and sustainable further development of With its XALT Energy brand, the Business Group produces business in the foreseeable future. The automotive large-scale lithium ion battery cells, modules and retail business under the Corteco brand will, however, systems for use in heavy-duty commercial vehicles, city continue. Moreover, a significant portion of existing and transit buses, in the marine industry and in Brazilian business will be preserved and key accounts in industrial applications. In addition, Freudenberg Sealing Brazil, particularly those in the automotive industry, Technologies offers a broad product portfolio for the fuel will be served by other production locations in North cell business. America and Europe. 63 FREUDENBERG OIL & GAS TECHNOLOGIES 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 109.8 107.0 Workforce 500 491 FREUDENBERG OIL & GAS TECHNOLOGIES Business development agreed to extend the production cut deal by a further nine months to March 31, 2020. Sales at Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies in 2019 were slightly down on the level for 2018. In addition to these market developments, there were also significant project delays in the connector Business development was heavily impacted by the business, with sales from these projects only being following market factors: Drilling activities in the US realized in 2020. Furthermore, the decline in Business market, an important market for Freudenberg Oil & Group sales is also attributable to lower volumes in the Gas Technologies, declined year-on-year. In addition, technical seals business. Moreover, exchange rate the oil price is of major significance to the Business effects impacted sales in the “Connectors” and Group. The oil and gas industry only begins to invest “Engineered Seals” business units. once the price per barrel is significantly higher than US$50 per barrel and there is no uncertainty as to Volume and price increases in component seals whether the price could drop to below the US$50 mark. business in the “Pressure Control Products” business Only then does demand for products increase. The oil unit had a positive impact on sales by the Business price was quite volatile over the course of 2019, Group. fluctuating within a range of just under US$50 to up to US$66 per barrel (WTI). The average annual price was US$57.05, 12 percent lower than the previous year. At a meeting in Vienna in June 2019, the OPEC countries and their allies in the coalition dubbed “OPEC plus” 64 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Key events Location changes In April 2019, Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies In April 2019, Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies introduced customers to its new, value-added opened a new sales and stocking facility in Midland, prototype service. This service enables targeted project Texas, USA. Initially, the facility concentrated on management combining Freudenberg Oil & Gas supporting new wells in the Permian Basin in western Technologies’ leading capabilities in design, Texas and eastern New Mexico. During the course of construction and testing. The Business Group first the year, sales activities were expanded to cover collaborates with its customers to develop sealing products from the “Engineered Seals” and solutions based on Freudenberg Oil & Gas “Connectors“ units. Technologies’ design and materials expertise, and subsequently uses its materials development and product testing laboratory to provide verified, certified Profile: solutions tailored to the requirements of the industry. Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies provides innovative This accelerates customers’ product development sealing solutions and products to the global oil and gas initiatives. With this service, Freudenberg Oil & Gas industry. The Business Group is focused on the Technologies is strengthening its reputation as a exploration and production (upstream) segment of the leading provider of sealing solutions for the oil and gas oil and gas industry. The “Pressure Control” business unit industry. offers products for drilling activities and the “Engineered Seal” and “Connectors” business units supply products The Business Group improved productivity in the year for oil and gas production. The Business Group provides under review through intensive activities in operational component seals and connectors for land-based and excellence. In addition, Freudenberg Oil & Gas offshore platforms and subsea applications. Technologies successfully invested in occupational health, safety and environmental measures (HSE). The Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies serves a wide range Business Group achieved its best HSE performance ever of customers including oil and gas producing companies, in 2019. original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and engineering and service companies that provide In 2019, the Business Group continued to focus on technologies, equipment and services for the exploration solutions for applications in oil and gas exploration and and production of oil and gas from land-based platforms production. Efforts centered on high-pressure and and subsea throughout the world. The Business Group high-temperature sealing solutions. For example, an has its own materials development and product testing innovative elastomer seal developed by Freudenberg lab in Houston, Texas, USA, where it develops and tests Oil & Gas Technologies is suitable for applications in new materials and solutions. the extreme conditions of steam environments. It functions at temperatures in excess of 300 degrees Celsius and has excellent resistance to rapid gas decompression that can occur during operation at high temperatures and pressures and can result in serious damage to elastomer seals. Furthermore, Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies developed products that enhance the cost effectiveness and safety of installing and operating oil and gas sites. 65 EAGLEBURGMANN 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 821.7 858.5 Workforce 5,644 5,814 EAGLEBURGMANN Business development pharmaceuticals, the food processing industry, water and waste water. Business with retailers in the year Sales at EagleBurgmann in the year under review were under review was very good. higher than the level for the previous year. The regional perspective was also positive: Business in The Business Group’s OEM business saw solid growth. North America developed well, particularly in the The figures for “International Projects” were in line power plant segment. The same applied for China, with expectations. Two major projects to deliver several where there was a strong performance for gashundred seals and supply systems to refineries in lubricated compressor seals. In the EMEA region Thailand and Vietnam are particularly worthy of (Europe, Middle East and Africa), organic sales were mention. In Russia, EagleBurgmann won its first major slightly up on the previous year. In Japan, the market contract with a key customer for a liquefied natural gas environment for the semiconductor business proved (LNG) processing plant. difficult, but EagleBurgmann was nevertheless able to hold sales stable. Growth in the Asia-Pacific region The service business also developed very well in 2019, exceeded expectations, and the very satisfactory partly through expansion of the service range to development of service business in the oil and gas include services for pumps. Of the core service industry there merits special mention. segments, expansion was strongest in the chemical EagleBurgmann’s growth in India was driven in industry, followed by services for power plants and the particular by orders in the refinery segment and from oil and gas industry. EagleBurgmann further expanded pump manufacturers. its market shares in the growth segments of 66 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Key events Business Group is constantly working on measures to improve customer orientation. Digital business development was of central strategic importance for EagleBurgmann in the year under The Business Group initiated several activities in the review. The focus lay on the concrete implementation year under review to advance the “ONE of innovative technical solutions aimed at developing EagleBurgmann” corporate culture; these included value-added services for customers. revamping the corporate design and fostering the feedback culture. The “EB Bike” bike leasing program Numerous digital tools were developed and rolled out launched in summer 2019 is an environmentallyfor sales and sales-related units, and underpinned by friendly incentive for employees. training. One app, for example, allows customers to view real-time data on material availability, order status and services. In addition, the customer Location changes relationship management system was expanded further with new features such as an integrated pricing In particular the changes in the market for large gas function. Furthermore, a web shop was launched as an turbines and the associated impact on the fabric additional sales channel. expansion joint business led to the decision to close production at the location in Vejen, Denmark, from Digital developments and openings also played an June 30, 2019. Key areas of sales, engineering and important role in product development and administration were centralized in Ringkøbing, manufacture. Examples include the continuous Denmark, and production relocated to the sites in Tuzla, expansion of a software-aided product configurator for Turkey, and Chennai, India. customer-tailored sealing solutions, or the use of complex calculation methods such as the crossThe footprint of the 89 service centers worldwide was Business Group atomistic simulation project. constantly adjusted to take account of customer proximity and market requirements. EagleBurgmann’s multi-year EB Complexity Management Program is tasked with reducing complexity and managing it intelligently. The aim is to Profile: fulfill customer expectations comprehensively and EagleBurgmann is one of the leading international individually while at the same time reducing the scale manufacturers of industrial sealing technology. The of vendor variants by means of modular, multiple-use Business Group develops, manufactures and markets a components. For EagleBurgmann, this will make the broad range of high-quality products for pumps, entire process chain faster and more effective. The first compressors, agitators and special equipment – positive effects emerged just a few months after the customer-specific and series-manufactured. program had been launched. These sealing solutions are used when safety and An international customer satisfaction survey reliability are most important, for example, in the oil and conducted in the year under review reflected the gas industry, refineries, the (petro-)chemical industry, the external perception of EagleBurgmann: Apart from pharmaceutical and food processing industries, power excellent results in product quality and the product plant technology or water applications. A dense sales portfolio, the study also mirrored those areas where and service network ensures the best possible customer the customer response is particularly sensitive. It is proximity. EagleBurgmann’s aspiration to meet customer expectations to the very best of its ability and the 67 VIBRACOUSTIC 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 2,146.9 2,141.5 Workforce 9,989 10,191 VIBRACOUSTIC Business development with stricter environmental requirements. In terms of vibration control technology this brings new In 2019, the market environment for Vibracoustic was opportunities and challenges for innovative approaches shaped by declining vehicle production, particularly in and solutions. the growth region of China. Worldwide, production fell year-on-year by some 6 percent as the global economy Serving market trends such as alternative drive systems increasingly lost momentum, trade disputes persisted, and autonomous driving calls for intelligent solutions and car manufacturers’ margins came under increasing to support manufacturers in their efforts to meet pressure. The latter is attributable to high investments increasingly stringent emission regulations. in e-mobility that led to growing price pressure for the supplier industry. Raw material prices remained at a While noise and vibrations are still generated by the high level. internal combustion engine in hybrid electric vehicles, all-electric vehicles present a different challenge. Noise Despite the difficult market environment, Vibracoustic and vibrations generated at higher frequencies and by was able to maintain sales at the prior-year level and auxiliaries previously masked by the internal extend its market leadership thanks to a solid order combustion engine become audible and noticeable. backlog. Vibracoustic is collaborating closely with leading OEMs Going forward, car manufacturers will be offering to develop innovative and efficient solutions to meet growing numbers of electric vehicles in order to comply these challenges. 68 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Furthermore, both established electric vehicle Profile: manufacturers and new players are increasingly Vibracoustic is a leading global NVH expert (noise, turning to air spring systems, since they also bring vibration, harshness) for the automotive industry, additional benefits for all-electric vehicles. Air spring providing customized solutions adding comfort and systems can, for example, contribute to reducing air supporting efficiency, safety and durability. Its resistance and improving passive cooling of the battery expertise along the entire product life cycle and on all packs. vehicle systems as well as its broad product range enable Vibracoustic to solve current and future NVH challenges across all automotive segments. Key events With a global network of development and production Vibracoustic develops innovative approaches and locations, the Business Group supplies almost all solutions based on the challenges of new mobility passenger car and commercial vehicle manufacturers concepts. One example of new developments during as well as their direct suppliers worldwide with the year under review is mounts with integrated lobecomponents that significantly increase onboard shaped damper structures (flaps) designed for noise comfort. phenomena specific to electric motors. They ensure that unwanted noise in a specific frequency range is efficiently reduced without impacting the general function of the mount. The additional flaps sit on either side of the main spring so they do not have any effect on the cost, weight or size of the component. Demand for air spring systems is steadily increasing. Work on further expansion of air springs production at the Hamburg site commenced in the second half of 2019 with a view to responding to this trend and in order to manage orders from several premium car manufacturers. In 2019, further investments were again made in kicking off customer projects. 69 TECHNICAL TEXTILES AND FILTRATION BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Technical Textiles and In total, the Business Area generated sales of Filtration Business Area comprised the following €1,969.9 million (previous year: €1,899.2 million) Business Groups: last year. At year-end 2019, the headcount was 9,447, compared with 8,521 at the close of the • Freudenberg Performance Materials previous year. • Freudenberg Filtration Technologies • Japan Vilene Company FREUDENBERG PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 70 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area FREUDENBERG PERFORMANCE MATERIALS 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 919.5 887.0 Workforce 3,685 3,993 Business development components and special applications such as Evolon also grew. 2019 was a challenging year for Freudenberg Performance Materials. The business environment proved difficult, as demand in some key markets Key events progressively slowed down from the second quarter onward. This was attributable to uncertainty In September 2019, Freudenberg Performance associated with the economic slowdown, the trade Materials made an offer to acquire 100 percent of the disputes, and Brexit. As a consequence, there was a shares of Low & Bonar PLC. Low & Bonar is a globally drop in sales by the Business Group compared with the active manufacturer of technical textiles, is listed on the previous year. London Stock Exchange, and operated eleven production facilities in Asia, Europe and North America The automotive market, which had already begun to with a workforce of some 1,900 employees in 2018. slacken in China and the USA in the second half of 2018, Among other things, this step will allow Freudenberg also weakened in Europe in 2019. This impacted the Performance Materials to further expand its technical Business Group’s “Automotive Interiors” segment and expertise in spunlaid nonwovens. Low & Bonar’s twobusiness with filter media. step process solution will give the Business Group even greater flexibility and allow it to tailor solutions even Momentum in the apparel market slowed in almost all more individually to customers’ requirements. The regions, and margins came under increasing pressure. proposed acquisition is subject to approval by the Developments in Germany were especially slack as antitrust authorities. mid-market retailers were hit by competition from global players. In China, capacities relocated to South Effective October 1, 2019, Freudenberg Performance East Asian countries as a result of the trade dispute Materials acquired the activities of the startup FRICTins with the USA. GmbH, Wolnzach, Germany – including FRICTins’ innovative technology to increase the friction In the “Construction” segment, the market cooled coefficient. This technology combines a unique harddown significantly in the second half of the year – after particle coating process with a special nonwoven from relatively positive momentum during the first months Freudenberg. The Business Group has acquired the of 2019 – and there was high volatility in both Western startup’s pilot plant and will be setting up industrialEurope and North America. The Russian market was scale production. The FRICTins technology has already more stable, although there was greater pressure on won two awards: The German Innovation Award from margins from Chinese competitors exporting to the the German Design Council in 2018 as well as the region. Materialica Design and Technology Award in 2017. Despite the challenging economic conditions, some In December 2019, Freudenberg Performance Materials segments in the Business Group achieved encouraging acquired 100 percent of the shares of the Filc group. Filc sales development. The newly-established “Healthcare” is a manufacturer of needle punch nonwoven textiles Division reported growth in the promising advanced and laminated materials headquartered in Slovenia. wound care segment in Europe. In the Energy business, The company focuses on the automotive market and sales in cable protection applications and battery the construction industry and had some 360 employees separators rose. Furthermore, the industrialization of at year-end 2018. gas diffusion layer (GDL) production for fuel cells proved a success, with significant sales growth and an Also in December 2019, Freudenberg Performance extended portfolio of globally active customers in Asia, Materials signed an agreement to sell its South Europe and the USA. In addition, business in shoe American Hygiene nonwoven business to the Brazilian 71 nonwoven specialist Fitesa Não Tecidos S.A. Fitesa is one design and manufacture of carpet tiles. Freudenberg of the main suppliers of nonwovens to the global has received this award since 2008. In Russia, the hygiene market. Under this umbrella, the former customers Soprema and Dörken recognized regional business of Freudenberg Performance Freudenberg Performance Materials as a top supplier. Materials can develop better and grow long-term in the These customers particularly appreciate the high new structures. This concludes Freudenberg product quality. Performance Materials’ exit from the Hygiene segment that is no longer part of the Business Group’s core In the USA, Freudenberg Performance Materials was business. The sale was completed in February 2020. recognized with second place in the “Achievement Awards”, roll goods category, from INDA, the Association The Business Group intensified its innovation activities of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry, at the IDEA Show in the year under review with the aim of developing 2019. The new textiles made from super new and advanced process technologies and fostering microfilaments (Evolon New Generation) are half the growth through special products with attractive market thickness and twice the density of those used in the potential. One example is the integration of the original Evolon. They open up entirely new applications activities of FRICTins GmbH with its innovative in fields such as encasings and technical packaging. technology to increase the friction coefficient. In India, the Business Group was presented with the A further example is the installation of a new spunlaid prestigious “Most Innovative Product in Sustainability line at Freudenberg Far Eastern Spunweb Comp. Ltd., Award 2019” for Freudenberg’s 100 percent recycled Taoyuan, Taiwan. The line is scheduled for PET interlinings. commissioning in the first quarter of 2020. Thanks to cutting-edge product and process technology, this The Business Group was also recognized for its social investment is a fundamental milestone for further engagement: In Brazil, the City Council of Jacareí growth in the Automotive Interior, Carpet Tiles, Shoe presented the Freudenberg Performance Materials site Components, and Filtration segments. with the “Corporate Citizen Seal Award 2019“, the fifth time the site has received this award. The prize honors A new production line was commissioned at companies for their outstanding social engagement in Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens (Suzhou) Co. Ltd., the region. In Russia, the Freudenberg Performance Suzhou, China, to meet the growing demand for printed Materials site in Zavolzhie came third in the “Social headliners that offers significant potential on the Asian Responsibility” category of the “Entrepreneur of the automotive market. Year” competition organized by the Government of the Nizhniy Novgorod Region. A new production line for comfortemp fiberball padding was also installed at the same location; this is an innovative thermal insulation for sportswear and Location changes functional garments that has attracted considerable interest on the apparel market since its launch. Freudenberg Performance Materials continued with the restructuring of its logistics activities at the The Business Group was recognized with several Weinheim site in 2019 following the successful awards from customers and associations in the year conclusion of negotiations with employee under review. Among them was the “Supplier representatives. The planned measures were Excellence Award 2019” from Interface Thailand implemented and will be continued in 2020. presented to the Business Group for outstanding product quality, service and commitment to In Nantong, China, the Business Group began sustainability. Interface is a worldwide leader in the relocating production. The first step involved the start of 72 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area construction work on a new factory in an industrial zone. The second step to clear the present location takes place in 2020. The relocation was requested by the local government as it is planned to use the former site for residential units in future. The relocation is supported by funds from the local authority and provides the opportunity to build a unique cutting-edge factory for shirt interlinings. Completion is scheduled for the end of 2020. In the Energy Division, the ongoing structural changeover in battery separators, where demand is switching from NiMH rechargeable batteries to lithium-ion technology, and competitive pressure from Chinese manufacturers of sulfonated products led to the decision to discontinue production at the site in Swindon, United Kingdom. Once the last production orders have been completed, decommissioning activities will commence at the end of the first quarter of 2020. Profile: Freudenberg Performance Materials is a leading global supplier of innovative technical textiles for a wide range of markets and applications, including automotive, construction, apparel, energy, filter media, healthcare, hygiene, building interiors, footwear and leather goods, as well as special applications. The Business Group is a pioneer in the field of nonwovens and operates 23 production locations in 13 countries worldwide. 73 FREUDENBERG FILTRATION TECHNOLOGIES 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 422.0 502.6 Workforce 2,134 2,777 FREUDENBERG FILTRATION TECHNOLOGIES Business development In industrial filtration, the Business Group expanded its market position in the gas turbine segment in Taiwan, Sales by Freudenberg Filtration Technologies rose South America, the USA, and the Middle East. The significantly compared with the previous year despite Business Group reported growth in Australia in diesel the challenging market environment. The increase is exhaust filters for underground mining vehicles and air attributable to the acquisition of a leading provider of filters for the food and beverage industry. Several major air and water filtration solutions in China. Overall, orders for energy-efficient high-performance air filters existing business was approximately at the level of the were placed by energy companies in several regions. previous year. While sales in industrial filtration grew in the mid-single-digit percentage range in spite of volatile market demand, business in automotive filters Key events dipped sharply in line with market demand. Freudenberg Filtration Technologies acquired a The global downturn in the automotive industry had a majority shareholding in Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., Ltd., in particularly unfavorable effect in China and North April 2019. The company is a leading provider of air and America. The previous year’s level was almost reached water filtration solutions in China and will continue as in Europe. Both OEM sales and aftermarket sales were a joint venture between Freudenberg as the majority affected in all regions. 2019 saw the first promising shareholder and the former sole proprietor Apollo results from the further expansion of business in fuel ZhanMao Technologies (HK) Co. Limited, Wanchai, cells and agricultural machinery. Hong Kong under the name Freudenberg Apollo Filtration Technologies Co., Ltd. Integration is 74 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area progressing as planned. Ground breaking for the new Honda Motors recognized the automotive filters team facility in Shunde was held in August. €50 million is in North America with the “Supplier Performance being invested in a new 55,000 square meter Award” for the eight year in succession. In addition, the production and office complex. market launch of the “micronAir Gas Shield” activated carbon modules for cabin air filters commenced: These With this acquisition, the Business Group has begun filters protect against numerous harmful gases – from setting up a third Division called “Consumer Filters” nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, ammonia and headquartered in Shunde to join the “Automotive ozone through to aldehydes. Filters“ and “Industrial Filtration” Divisions. This organization tailored to fit customers’ requirements on the end consumer market develops and manufactures Location changes filtration solutions such as filters for air purifiers, household applications and drinking water treatment. The partial relocation of filter cartridge and cassette Freudenberg Filtration Technologies is therefore filter production from Weinheim, Germany, to establishing a balanced mix between industrial, Potvorice, Slovakia begun in 2018 was concluded. The automotive and consumer applications. approximately 40,000 square meter site now has some 400 employees and is therefore one of the largest The Business Group won its biggest single order to date production locations in the Business Group. High order in business with water treatment and wastewater backlogs during the relocation and ramp up phase led filtration systems for industrial applications. The to delivery delays in the first half of the year that were Freudenberg company Aquabio Ltd. is to plan and build solved by progress in productivity. one of the largest anaerobic membrane bioreactor systems in the UK for an international milk producer: Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Mexico and its The system has a high water recycling share and the approximately 90 employees moved within the city of biogas from the bioreactor will be used for energy León to a new production, logistics and sales location. generation. All manufacturing and logistics processes at the new headquarters were optimized based on the LEAN In the year under review, the Business Group invested approach. in expanding production capacity; these investments included an offline laminating system and a robot cell for fully-automated production of automotive filters in Profile: Europe, and a production line for filters for air purifiers Freudenberg Filtration Technologies is one of the in China. Freudenberg Filtration Technologies began world’s leading specialists in the development and rolling out what are known as cobots in Italy and production of air and liquid filtration solutions and Slovakia. These are robots intended to interact with their applications. The Business Group’s solutions humans in a shared space or to work safely in close make industrial processes more economical, conserve proximity. resources, protect people and the environment and thus contribute to improving the quality of life. Digitalization has high priority in all areas at Freudenberg Filtration Technologies. Several digitalization projects aimed at selectively improving processes and increasing organizational efficiency were launched in Sales, Production and Administration in the year under review. 75 JAPAN VILENE COMPANY 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 557.7 580.3 Workforce 2,702 2,677 JAPAN VILENE COMPANY Business development From a regional perspective, Japan Vilene Company grew sales slightly in its important Japanese market Sales by Japan Vilene Company expressed in euros during the year under review. In contrast, sales declined were slightly higher than the previous year in a in the rest of Asia and in North America. The effect of challenging market environment. Favorable exchange the acquisition of Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG, rate effects had a positive impact on sales. Meuselwitz, Germany, in April 2018 impacted sales in Europe, which were slightly higher than the level for Developments in the Industrial Materials division the previous year. during the year under review were mixed, but overall there was a slight decrease in sales. While sales in electrical and industrial materials, for headliner facings, Key events and for apparel and amenity materials were down on the previous year’s level, there was a slight rise in sales Japan Vilene Company stepped up its operational in medical materials and air filter materials. excellence activities in the year under review. The aim is to improve productivity at all Business Group sites Sales in automotive floor mats declined in all regions – through systematic methods. To that end, the Business with the exception of Japan. This decline was Group established new KPIs in the year under review particularly pronounced in Europe. and worked on several topics including processes for logistics and HR. Japan Vilene Company’s fiber business was down in all regions in the year under review. 76 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area Japan Vilene Company organized a workshop on future offering interlinings and wadding made of recycled PET ways of working in July and August 2019. Some since 2019. The range is to be progressively extended. 25 employees, all between 20 and 40 years of age, discussed various workplace models with an external Furthermore, Japan Vilene Company has developed a expert. They focused in particular on working methods separator for the next generation of lithium-ion that are beneficial to both employees and the company. batteries together with Yamagata University and New work processes aimed at improving efficiency and Osaka Soda Ltd. The base material is a heat-resistant based on the findings of the workshop were nonwoven from Japan Vilene Company, combined with established. a special synthetic rubber from Osaka Soda. Yamagata University participates in pilot production and Japan Vilene Company was recognized with numerous assessment. The aim is to commercialize battery awards in the year under review. In the automotive separators for drones. sector, the floor mat division was recognized for the fourth year in a row with the “Best Performance Award” In 2018, Japan Vilene Company won the Air Cleaning from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. The award acknowledges and Contamination Control Research Convention among other things delivery performance, throughput Award for its research into the development and time and quality. The Business Group was also performance assessment of nanofiber air filter media. recognized with the “Excellent Supplier Award” from In April 2019, the Business Group reported to the MAZDA Motor Corporation. Convention on progress with work on this topic, which includes research into cellulose nanofibers for filter In the filter business, Japan Vilene Company won the media – an application that researchers in the industry “Excellent Prize (Cost Competitiveness Award)” from consider to be extremely promising. Keihin Co., Ltd., one of Japan Vilene Company’s most important Tier 1 customers for automotive cabin air filters. The award acknowledges the Business Group’s Profile: efforts to reduce production costs for both Japan Vilene Since it was established in 1960, Japan Vilene Company and Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thailand) Company has maintained its position as the leading Co. Ltd., a joint venture with Freudenberg Filtration domestic manufacturer of nonwoven materials under Technologies. Furthermore, THAI NOK CO., LTD. the motto of ‘‘Engineering Fabric Innovation’’, recognized Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thailand) Co. utilizing its long-standing raw material expertise and Ltd. with the “Best Supplier Award FY2018”. The considerable know-how in the fields of production company chose Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thailand) processes and technologies as well as nonwoven Co. Ltd.as one of the “TOP 10” from 104 suppliers. converting. The Business Group’s ‘‘Automotive’’, ‘‘Medical’’, ‘‘Electrical’’ and ‘‘Industrial’’ divisions offer a Demand for sustainable products continues to rise in broad portfolio of products for a wide range of the apparel market. Japan Vilene Company has been applications. 77 FREUDENBERG HOME AND CLEANING SOLUTIONS 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 931.4 975.5 Workforce 3,273 3,218 CLEANING TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS BUSINESS AREA The Cleaning Technologies and Products Business Wettex and Marigold brands are active in the Area comprises the Freudenberg Home and mechanical cleaning and laundry care segment for Cleaning Solutions Business Group whose Vileda, final users and professional cleaning companies. Vileda Professional, O-Cedar, Oates, Gimi, Gala, FREUDENBERG HOME AND CLEANING SOLUTIONS Business development Cleaning Solutions exceeded its annual targets in the region and won market shares. Developments in The consumer climate in 2019 was cautiously friendly. In business with the “Spin Mop” and “Turbo” floor cleaning this environment, sales by Freudenberg Home and systems was particularly pleasing. Flat mop sales secured Cleaning Solutions rose compared to the previous year. further business against competitors for Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions, particularly in the UK. The EMEA region (Europe, Middle East and Africa) drove Market shares were also won in Germany. business throughout 2019. With growth in the uppersingle-digit percentage range, Freudenberg Home and 78 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Area In North and South America, the Business Group Key events reported slight losses in market shares in stationary trade in a constant market. In the USA, on the other hand, Numerous prestigious awards in 2019 again testified successful online sales of the “Spin Mops“ stimulated to the high quality of products from the Business business. Group: The “Vileda VR 2010 PetPro” won the “Red Dot Design Award”. In the USA, “Americaʼs Test Kitchen” Market development in Asia was positive. Freudenberg magazine recognized the “PURActive” scourer as the Home and Cleaning Solutions won further market best kitchen scourer. Furthermore, in Germany the shares there and continued the steady growth of “Superfeger”, “Ultramat” and “Turbo” products previous years. India remained the principal growth scooped up the first three places in the “New Product driver. There was market uncertainty in Hong Kong due of the Year 2019” category of the prestigious “HIT to the unrest there. However, the Business Group Award”. adapted flexibly to the situation and consolidated its market leadership. In the year under review, the Business Group continued to make use of sustainability certificates to In the institutional cleaning business, Vileda Professional communicate the environmental compatibility of its again grew faster than the market, especially in hospitals, products more effectively to consumers and retailers. care facilities and office cleaning. The cleanroom These certifications include the “Plastica Seconda Vita” cleaning business even achieved double-digit growth in label and the “Forest Stewardship Council” (FSC) its main markets of North America, China and India. certification. Market development in Europe was positive, particularly in Poland, Italy, the UK and the Netherlands. The 2019 also saw the implementation of further projects “iQonnect” digital platform for managing the to reduce the complexity of the product range, as well operations of cleaning workforces, was successfully as the successful realization of projects to improve rolled out in Spain and Canada in 2019. In Australia, the efficiency across the value chain, for example in Business Group successfully introduced the first transport, logistics, trading and administration. “Vileda Professional” systems. In global terms, growth in e-commerce business Profile: remained consistently high with growth rates in excess Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions is a leading of 20 percent. Freudenberg Home and Cleaning international company for branded cleaning products Solutions is seeking to generate further momentum in and systems as well as laundry care products. The online trading with the successive modernization of the products are sold under the brand names Vileda, Vileda web infrastructure for all brands. To that end, the Professional, O-Cedar, Oates, Gimi, Gala, Wettex and Business Group has launched websites and web shops in Marigold. Portugal and Germany. Sweden, Finland and Denmark now have new web presences for the Vileda brand. Detailed market expertise, innovations, effective new products and a strong customer focus all help the company succeed. International market and customer research, innovation centers and production facilities in all regions of the world, as well as a dedicated sales network in more than 35 countries, also help the company thrive. 79 SPECIALTIES BUSINESS AREA In the year under review, the Specialties Business There were two changes in the Specialties Business Area chiefly comprised the following Business Area in 2019: Groups: • Freudenberg Medical became part of this • Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Business Area. This Business Group formerly • Freudenberg Medical belonged to the Seals and Vibration Control Technology Business Area. However, the Overall, the companies in this Business Area Freudenberg Medical portfolio has evolved in generated sales totaling €1,435.2 million (previous recent years, leading to this reallocation. year: €1,374.0 million) in the 2019 financial year. At year-end 2019, the headcount was 5,617, • The Freudenberg IT Business Group, formerly compared with 4,892 at year-end 2018. part of the Specialties Business Area, was sold to the Syntax Group in the year under review. FREUDENBERG CHEMICAL SPECIALITIES 80 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas FREUDENBERG CHEMICAL SPECIALITIES 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 1,104.1 1,123.5 Workforce 3,635 3,669 Business development still need time to penetrate the market. Sales deficits in Asia and Europe were in part offset by growth in other For Freudenberg Chemical Specialities, 2019 was a year markets such as North and South America. characterized by demand that fell short of expectations in important market segments and Capol grew throughout the year. The restructuring of regions. The negative effects of the trade dispute the North American market organization following the became increasingly apparent and determined the acquisition of Colarôme Inc., Saint Hubert, Canada, in weak market environment – particularly in China and 2017 showed the first positive effects. parts of Europe. Despite the challenges, the Business Group achieved positive year-on-year organic growth. The retail business of OKS in the important German market did not meet the level of the previous year. The global automotive sector remained weak and impacted demand in the related market segments of automotive suppliers and the bearing industry. In Key events contrast, specialized markets such as wind, food, or the oil and gas industry developed well, but could only SurTec responded to growing demand in South East partly offset the decline in the automotive segment. Asia for specialty chemicals for surface technologies by opening a new manufacturing facility in Vietnam – the The strategy of developing new fields of business to first for Freudenberg in this country. improve risk spreading again proved to be the right approach. Despite the subdued development in sales, Klüber Lubrication’s new European logistics center in the Freudenberg Chemical Specialities divisions Maisach near Munich went into regular operation. In generated growth better than the market average. This addition to logistics tasks primarily oriented to Klüber is to some extent attributable to customer projects Lubrication, the center also houses a central European that kicked off during the year under review after lead filling unit for smaller pack sizes and a technical center times that in some cases spanned several years. with laboratories, testing and application engineering Furthermore, the Business Group’s companies also for Chem-Trend. benefited from their strong market position built up over decades and the high customer loyalty this has In the year under review, the divisions established brought. strategic market organizations for improved internal sustainability (footprint) and to develop sustainable Klüber Lubrication recorded solid growth in many value-added offerings for customers (handprint). These market segments in the year under review. Examples activities provide important input for innovation and include the food market and segments such as wood, project management. Klüber Lubrication, Chem-Trend, oil and gas, wind, and the marine industry. OKS and Capol have each published sustainability reports to enhance the transparency of these measures. Chem-Trend is more dependent on economic developments in the automotive industry than the Chem-Trend successfully launched a new, digitallyother divisions, but held its own in a highly competitive controlled application technology for foundries in environment. The broad portfolio covering many Europe. The technology significantly increases different market segments, the strong innovation production efficiency for customers. capabilities and the growing share of environmentallycompatible solutions brought gains in market share. A unique atomistic simulation method for surface processes developed by Klüber Lubrication together SurTec defended its strong market position. with other Freudenberg companies won the Sustainable products were successfully introduced, but Freudenberg Innovation Award in 2019. 81 SurTec developed a market-ready environmentallyProfile: friendly surface coating to protect metals against The Freudenberg Chemical Specialities Business Group corrosion that has particularly promising market comprises the operationally autonomous divisions of potential in the automotive sector and also meets the Klüber Lubrication, Chem-Trend, SurTec, OKS, and Capol. new requirements set by e-mobility. Various customers Klüber Lubrication is one of the world’s leading in China recognized SurTec Metal Surface Treatment manufacturers of specialty lubricants. Chem-Trend is a Technology Co. Ltd., Hangzhou, China, with a total of world market leader for release agents used to three awards for best technical service, outstanding manufacture composite, rubber, plastic, metal and quality management and as supplier of the year. polyurethane molded parts. SurTec is a leading supplier of chemical specialties for surface treatment and In addition, the Business Group again won various electroplating. OKS specializes in performance lubricants excellent employer awards in the USA. Klüber and in repair and maintenance products. Capol is a Lubrication NA LP, Texas, USA, and Chem-Trend Limited world-leading provider of surface treatment products for Partnership, Howell, USA, were recognized. the confectionery industry. The Barcelona Chamber of Commerce honored Klüber Lubrication GmbH Ibérica S.en C., Parets del Vallès, Spain, for its long-term commitment to society. The President of the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce and the Catalan government’s Minister for Economic Affairs presented the company with the award. 82 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas FREUDENBERG MEDICAL 2018 2019 Sales [€ million] 169.1 171.5 Workforce 1,523 1,561 FREUDENBERG MEDICAL Business development The second negative external effect was the closure of a large ethylene oxide sterilization facility in In 2019, there was a slight rise in Freudenberg Medical Willowbrook, Illinois, USA, by the US Environmental sales expressed in euros on the back of a growing Protection Agency (EPA) in February 2019. EPA analyzed global market for medical products. ambient air samples and concluded that residents and employees had been exposed to raised ethylene oxide While business in the “Ear, Nose, Throat” and “Specialty concentrations in the air. Several Freudenberg Medical Components” units showed strong organic growth, products were affected by the closure. In cooperation two negative external effects impacted sales in the with customers, Freudenberg Medical revalidated the “Minimal Invasive Solutions” business: The first was a products in alternative sterilization facilities. meta study published at the end of 2018 raising concerns about the safety of Paclitaxel-coated stents Freudenberg Medical again further extended its range and balloons. As a consequence, the US Federal Drug of proprietary product and process platforms in 2019. Authority (FDA) recommended restricting the use of Given the increasingly demanding requirements made Paclitaxel-coated devices for many patients, a decision of medical products, Freudenberg Medical offers that affected Freudenberg Medical sales in the year technical solutions that enable medical device under review. Meantime, more precise data has been manufacturers to realize advanced product concepts, published that refutes these concerns. As a result, shorten development times and save development Freudenberg Medical sales in Paclitaxel-coated devices and manufacturing costs. The Business Group has a are in the process of recovering. presence at eleven locations in the USA, Europe, Latin America and Asia and is therefore able to offer its services all over the world. This is particularly 83 appreciated by the Business Group’s customers applications, such as pacemaker lead insulation, and operating worldwide. dramatically cuts down on material usage and process time. Key events Furthermore, Freudenberg Medical launched the “Helix Twist” technology in the year under review. This In 2019, Freudenberg Medical acquired a further proprietary technology offers new design possibilities 40 percent share in Cambus Teoranta. The Business for applications such as pacemakers that require Group therefore now holds a 90 percent share. Cambus navigation through tortuous pathways within the specializes in the design and manufacture of highhuman body. precision hypotubes and micro-component solutions for minimally invasive medical devices. Location changes 2019 was a year of numerous product and process launches for Freudenberg Medical. The “Ear, Nose, Freudenberg Medical began construction work on its Throat” unit significantly strengthened its speech new Global Headquarters in Beverly, Massachusetts, restoration product portfolio with devices such as the USA, in 2019. Freudenberg Medical will also relocate new laryngectomy tubes. Furthermore, the unit the manufacturing facility for silicone components in launched a new device for removing foreign bodies. Gloucester, Massachusetts, USA, to the new location, where the operation will undergo expansion. The new, Freudenberg Medical continues to build up its portfolio approx. 3,500 square meter building has ISO Class 8 of proprietary solutions for minimally invasive cleanrooms. The operation will be ISO 13485-certified technology, and now offers customers a complete and FDA-registered for the manufacture of medical family of introducers with branded hemostasis valve products. It is planned to open the facility in the second technology, and the steerable Composer catheter half of 2020. handle, which has been expanded to cover various catheter sizes and adaptations for therapeutic markets such as electrophysiology. Profile: Freudenberg Medical is the global partner for the design, Moreover, Freudenberg Medical launched several development and manufacture of innovative medical process innovations, including the ground-breaking products. The company’s portfolio comprises catheter “Helix iMC” measurement system to continuously solutions for minimally-invasive procedures and measure the inner geometry of silicone tubes. The components made from complex medical materials. The technology is unique to the medical device market and company is a leader in the field of high-precision silicone is specifically designed for medical silicone extrusion. It and thermoplastic components and tubing as well as increases product quality for high-precision coatings and metal hypotubes. 84 Combined Management Report – Review of Operations by Business Areas Report on Events after the Date of the Statement of Financial Position REPORT ON EVENTS AFTER THE DATE OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Major events after the date of the statement of financial position which are not included either in the statement of profit or loss or the statement of financial position are explained in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the section “Major events after the date of the statement of financial position”. 85 REPORT ON OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS Freudenberg is exposed to numerous opportunities Opportunities and risks inseparably associated with business activities. Monitoring technological, political and Global presence social changes in particular is part of proactive entrepreneurship. This often generates opportunities Due to its global presence, Freudenberg has for many to be harnessed in order to secure and specifically years been able to offer products and services at improve the company’s competitiveness. uniform worldwide standards. As a result, Freudenberg Opportunities are addressed in the context of the can keep pace with the international strategies of its annual planning process and pursued and reported customers, for example in production or research and throughout the year. Long-term opportunities for development. Traditionally, Freudenberg has leveraged profitable growth are primarily identified as part of the this expertise for many customers from Europe or strategy process. Freudenberg operates a Group-wide North America as they also gain a foothold in emerging risk management system, in which newly-acquired countries. As the presence in these countries increases, business operations are also integrated, to identify some progress is being made to successfully support risks in a timely fashion and respond to them the international strategy of customers from emerging appropriately. The following report is in line with the economies entering the market in Western Europe. If assessment of the Board of Management. this trend were to intensify in the future, Freudenberg could achieve additional benefits from its global presence. With the Freudenberg global brand, the Group delivers a clear benefit statement, strengthens the image and raises visibility, for example as a solid supplier or an attractive employer. Investments in strategic growth areas and regions A central element of strategic planning is the continuous evolution of existing business through product and process innovations with a view to achieving profitable, significantly higher than market growth in existing business areas. This is also achieved by expanding the portfolio through selective, targeted acquisitions in order to close identified technology gaps and gain access to new markets. The successful growth strategy in the defined areas therefore continues. Examples in 2019 include the acquisition of shares in Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., Ltd., and the Filc group. Options to acquire new areas of business that complement Freudenberg’s existing organization are also examined. In the medium term, Freudenberg’s goal is a strategically balanced portfolio with sales distributed evenly among the regions of North and South America, Europe and Asia. 86 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Trendand regulation-oriented product Future mobility concepts development As a partner of the automotive industry, the Social trends are constantly changing. Changes in foreseeable changes in drive technology and consumer behavior and growing expectations of alternative mobility concepts also impact Freudenberg. products and services, for example with regard to the The term “new mobility” as used by Freudenberg not sustainability of products and their manufacture, are only covers e-mobility but also includes developments key drivers in the search for innovative solutions and for the entire spectrum of drive technologies such as new raw materials. New regulations and standards improvements in internal combustion engines, hybrid reflect these changing trends. Freudenberg therefore solutions, all-electric cars and vehicles powered by fuel closely aligns the further development of its products cells. Freudenberg components are also used in to regulatory requirements. Systematically focusing on autonomous driving technology. regulatory changes with reference to trends and the Group’s ensuing innovation activities offers significant Freudenberg regards itself as well prepared for these market potential and opportunities for the future. developments thanks to its materials know-how and more than ten years of experience researching components for high-performance batteries for Pioneer for future technologies electric motors as well as some 20 years of experience researching the development of fuel cells. Advances As a global technology group, Freudenberg works and new developments in battery components, motors, constantly on product and process innovations and charging units, filters, thermal management, vibration develops technology-based solutions for the future control systems or specialty lubricants offset together with its partners. In spite of all necessary reductions in demand for seals. Going forward, adjustments, the ongoing trend toward digitalization Freudenberg will remain a competent provider of in various forms (for example, Internet of Things or solutions for high-tech innovations – for all kinds of Industry 4.0) as well as the move toward sustainability drivetrains. and environmental awareness represent opportunities for profitable growth for Freudenberg. Systems and services The strategy-oriented innovation activities therefore focus on the continuous further development of the Further evolving the delivery of components and Group’s entire portfolio. This applies above all to the products to provide complete systems generates new sectors of mobility, digitalization, energy, environment, opportunities. This represents a new dimension for healthcare, comfort and lightweight construction. Freudenberg involving greater complexity, Consequently, the key issues for the Business Groups responsibility and risk. during the year under review were e-mobility, systems and services, and sustainability. There were also highlyAs forward integration progresses, there will be innovative approaches in fuel cell developments focused initiatives to develop and provide services. leading, for example, to cooperation projects with an These services will be based on the interaction international long-distance travel bus operator and between products and systems made possible by with the largest shipyard for the construction of cruise digitalization and the resulting availability of data and ships. Further groundbreaking advances in innovation information. These “smart services” can also cover activities and award achievements can be found in the several products and systems. chapter entitled Research and Development . 87 Harnessing synergies for strategic issues includes harmonized assessment systems and is based on standardized skills profiles and definitions Throughout the world regions, Freudenberg’s knowof potential. This enhances the comparability of how and innovation strength are used in some assessments and facilitates personnel development. 40 market segments and for thousands of applications. The process improves the basis on which The company engages in numerous activities Freudenberg can take personnel decisions. specifically targeted at pooling this knowledge, because the potential thus generated makes a key Risk management system contribution to securing the future. Synergies are harnessed to drive key strategic issues such as The Group’s risk management system is a digitalization, sustainability and materials efficiency decentralized system oriented to the organizational across the Business Groups. Joint projects and structure. It covers all fully-consolidated Freudenberg programs are always implemented under expert companies, and includes all Group measures guidance and have already produced the first results. addressing the main risks. This process in particular ensures the structured identification, assessment, The “Future Technologies” corporate unit bundles control and monitoring of main risks. The process also strategic know-how and works on numerous includes appropriate risk communication and the technology-oriented initiatives. These include a project continuous improvement of the risk management with a very long-term perspective to determine future system. business opportunities for the Freudenberg Group. Based on several development scenarios, employees The primary objective of the risk management system and external experts analyze growth fields for business is the early identification of risks that might jeopardize opportunities thus identified and target specific the continued existence of the company and the strategic product developments. The “Technology initiation of appropriate countermeasures. The Foresight” unit is tasked with determining the intention is not to avoid all potential risks, but rather to technological perspectives of trends and new create the leeway for taking a deliberate decision to technologies, and with advising the Business Groups. enter into a risk backed by a comprehensive knowledge The “Technology Platforms” group sponsors and of essential information. monitors the development of the Freudenberg Group’s technology platforms. These platforms bundle key The risk management strategy is derived from the cross-sectional topics with a view to developing new general strategy of the Group. The risk management technologies. The “Scientific Networks” group provides system is continually developed, refined and audited. a support function, among other things in the search for relevant universities and research institutions. Controlling, internal auditing, the compliance “Technology Intelligence” offers assistance with organization, the Code of Conduct, the internal control locating research competence and support with system, various quality assurance systems as well as locating database availability. several corporate functions make a significant contribution to the success of the Group’s risk management. Talent management A talent management process covering the majority of employees worldwide has been in place at Freudenberg for several years. The process establishes a uniform procedure for talent management throughout the entire Group. It 88 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Risks various degrees and can lead not only to fines or other penalties or compensation, for example, but can also Risks are defined as all future developments, events or impact the reputation and image of the Group as a actions that could have a negative impact on the whole. In extreme cases, legal risks could have a targets and strategies of the Group. substantial effect on Freudenberg. The following deals with risks classified as significant Freudenberg has many measures in place to respond for Freudenberg ranked in descending order by their to these legal risks. These include comprehensive importance according to the potential level of quality assurance mechanisms tailored to the damage. These quantifiable and non-quantifiable requirements of the respective business models and risks can have very differing impacts. They may occur value chains, clearly-defined product specifications, individually and independent of one another or instructions, regular training for employees, simultaneously. In all cases they have the potential to documentation, and preventive contractual solutions impact the net assets, financial position or results of containing provisions limiting liability and taking operations of the Group directly or indirectly in the account of the parties’ spheres of influence. These short or long term. Quantitative data are not measures are flanked by customary insurance cover disclosed because qualitative factors affecting which is thoroughly analyzed and where necessary operating activities such as failure to meet corporate adapted to changed conditions on an annual basis. targets or damage to the company’s reputation are included in impact classification. The Group conducts its global business in many different jurisdictions under different legal and regulatory frameworks that are undergoing change and Legal risks and compliance becoming steadily more complex. The scale and scope of the laws and regulations that must be observed are Freudenberg is a globally active manufacturer of subject to constant changes that are sometimes functionally relevant technical components and difficult to predict, and demand a high level of system parts for the automotive industry and many information processing, interdisciplinary and crossother sectors of industry. Freudenberg develops and border communication as well as a swift response and produces specialty lubricants, release agents and a proactive approach. broad range of specialty chemicals for very diverse applications. Freudenberg also produces cleaning By tradition, compliance with laws and regulations as equipment and filter products for end users and is well as internal guidelines and Freudenberg’s own becoming increasingly active in the manufacture and Guiding Principles and Business Principles has very high sale of medical materials and components. Widepriority at Freudenberg. Employees are made aware of ranging services in the various business segments and trained in the relevant legal risks for their respective round off the Freudenberg portfolio. Consequently, Business Group and the regions of relevance for Freudenberg is exposed to several legal risks. These Freudenberg; they are expected to observe and comply include in particular risks in the fields of data with these requirements. protection, competition and antitrust law, product liability risks, contractual warranty risks, tax and excise Freudenberg uses classic methods (documents in all the duty law, M&A transactions, asset misappropriation main relevant languages and attendance seminars) to fraud, anti-corruption regulations, infringements of communicate compliance issues through training, dialog intellectual property rights (patents and brand law), and discussions. Modern communication instruments export controls as well as risks in the fields of such as web-based training, e-learning tools, interactive occupational health and safety and environmental video conferences, etc., are also being increasingly used protection. These risks can affect Freudenberg to to reach as many employees as possible. 89 Despite all carefully applied control and prevention At the end of January 2020, the United Kingdom exited mechanisms in our compliance structure and the EU with a transition period (Brexit). It is intended to compliance measures, there is a residual risk that is conclude negotiations on key issues by the end of 2020, unavoidable given the size and complexity of our with negotiations on other topics, however, continuing global organization. Furthermore, the possibility that after that date. Failure to reach agreement between Freudenberg or Freudenberg employees unconsciously the negotiating partners in some areas cannot be ruled infringe(s) third-party rights cannot be ruled out; this out, resulting in a no-deal situation. WTO rules would could trigger negative judicial consequences or apply in the event that no individual agreement on damage the image or reputation of Freudenberg. trade relations can be reached. Over the last few years, Freudenberg has made preparations for the impact of various UK exit scenarios with a raft of operational Macroeconomic and sectoral risks measures (including customs and administrative costs, logistic and customs clearance problems, supplier and Freudenberg delivers solutions to many customer customer bottlenecks, legal framework and segments and sectors and is active in many regions specifications as well as exchange rate fluctuations). and countries. The broad diversification of the Group Nevertheless, unexpected direct or indirect effects with reduces dependence on individual customers, a shortor medium-term impact on some sections of customer groupings, suppliers, raw materials, the Group from 2021 cannot be ruled out. The longtechnologies, regions and countries. Freudenberg is term impact depends on the final withdrawal terms. actively involved in the rapid development of There may be a limited operational and strategic alternative automotive drivetrain technologies impact on Freudenberg, which should be seen in the through intensified research and development context of the Group's broad geographical and sectoral activities in various product groups, and tests the diversification. As long as Brexit does not lead to a findings in several cooperation projects with industrial global economic downturn, the overall effect on partners. Notwithstanding, Freudenberg is dependent Freudenberg will be manageable. on the general economic situation, particularly with regard to the general demand for its products and services. In spite of sustained efforts to diversify further, Information security risk a slump in demand in a specific region or sector or a persistent international trade conflict can lead to a Modern business processes are based to a significant substantial decline in sales and earnings for extent on information captured, processed, exchanged Freudenberg, as is the case for most other companies, and stored by electronic means. Potential risks caused and thus pose a significant risk for Freudenberg. by faults in these processes could impact both internal business processes and communication with Freudenberg has taken several measures to limit the customers and suppliers, and could, for example, lead negative consequences of demand-side risks. In to the interruption of operations at Freudenberg or at a particular, the company has appropriate capacity third party. Demands on the reliability and security of flexibility and practices active working capital IT systems are intensifying as a result of technological management. Freudenberg regularly monitors several progress and the trend towards greater process success indicators and can thus respond promptly to networking. As a provider of services that require a negative developments. In the context of a long-term functioning IT infrastructure, Freudenberg offers its response to demand-side risks, Freudenberg makes customers the usual guarantees regarding availability targeted investments in research and development, in and performance. individual regions and customer relations, as well as in selected strategic growth areas. The aim of the guideline on information security issued by the Board of Management is to preserve the 90 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks confidentiality, availability and integrity of information. interruption in operations with a possible impact on Freudenberg deals with the relevant information the sales and earnings of the Group. security risks by operating information security management systems oriented to the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 international standard. The Business Financial risks Groups and corporate functions conduct regular risk assessments and implement the appropriate As an internationally active company with major measures. For example, measures such as shareholdings in other countries Freudenberg is geographically separate, redundant data centers are exposed to financial risks which under certain implemented to deal with technical risks. Various circumstances could significantly impact the net forms of internal training and communication assets, financial position or results of operations of the measures encourage heightened awareness on the Group. Such risks include financial risks from the part of employees with regard to the correct handling Group’s M&A activities arising from the potential of information and information processing systems. impairment of goodwill and investments or of The effectiveness of the information management unrecognized obligations. Freudenberg employs security system is regularly assessed and the system is various measures to manage these risks. The Group has upgraded where necessary. Currently, this is several specialist functions and expert groups particularly relevant in light of the general trend specifically tasked with the identification, analysis and towards increased cyber risks. control of Freudenberg‘s financial risk profile. This also includes the regular review of financial risk management methodology and steering. Interruption of operations and long-term disruptions Various measures to safeguard liquidity are in place which allow Freudenberg to react swiftly to The classic risk of unplanned interruptions of unexpected liquidity-related risks. Such risks are operations has several possible causes. The main ones hedged by solid banking and Partners’ financing and are interruptions in production, raw material high liquid reserves. Freudenberg has a high equity availability, delivery delays, restricted availability of IT ratio, a stable level of Partners’ reserves, and infrastructure, damage from natural hazards, or any comprehensive credit lines. combination of these causes. The possible consequences are loss of sales revenue and earnings, In addition, Freudenberg is exposed to exchange rate contract infringements, contractual penalties and and interest rate risks. Managing these risks is claims for damages as well as reputational damage. implemented by internal guidelines and processes and monitored by a treasury management system. Because Freudenberg has taken numerous precautions to the exchange rate risks of the various companies have maintain and safeguard IT systems (back-up solutions, a partially offsetting effect, the effective foreign emergency data centers) as well as to meet contractual exchange risk is determined for the Group as a whole delivery obligations (dual/multi-sourcing, lead centers and steered by a central unit. with interchangeable infrastructures, cross-plant tools, crisis training at relevant production locations) and to Interest rate risks arise from possible changes in the ensure delivery reliability and contract compliance, and market rate and can lead to changes in the market has also taken out insurance cover for insurable value of fixed interest investments. individual risks. Despite all the measures that have already been taken or will be taken in the event of an Funds for subsidiaries are made available in the form of emergency, there is a residual risk of a temporary loans or cash pool agreements. Freudenberg 91 companies channel surplus liquidity to the central organizational unit that pools the Group’s technical finance department. knowledge – in particular on cross-sectional technologies. At 5.1 percent, Freudenberg invested a Binding internal guidelines for Freudenberg companies substantial share of sales in research and development clearly specify that derivative financial instruments in the 2019 financial year. This led the share of sales may not be used for speculative purposes, but only for attributable to new products to increase to 34.7 hedging risks in connection with underlying percent. transactions and associated financing operations. The Group’s conservative finance strategy was one of Contractual risks several factors that led the rating agency Moodyʼs Deutschland GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany, to Freudenberg enters into contracts with third parties on confirm its Freudenberg SE “A3“ rating with a long-term a daily basis and makes continuous adjustments to its “stable” outlook in May 2019. This gives Freudenberg portfolio through acquisitions and disinvestments of very good creditworthiness at investment grade level. companies and business units. During the course of these activities, obligations are assumed or commitments undertaken that may change as time Risks from technological progress and third-party goes by, must be complied with over a longer period of innovations time, or may prove impossible to meet as a consequence of unforeseen events. These activities As a highly diversified technology group, Freudenberg could in retrospect prove disadvantageous and above is active in numerous product and market segments, all could negatively impact the earnings situation of some of which differ considerably. Moreover, the Group to a limited extent. Freudenberg has several Freudenberg conducts its entrepreneurial activities on measures in place to deal with these significant risks, the basis of different business models. Consequently, such as comprehensive upfront analyses and checks Freudenberg operates in a constantly changing with regard to acquisitions supported by external environment and is exposed to technological progress experts and consultants. This is complemented by and a wide range of innovations. In specific terms, this interdisciplinary and supra-regional risk management means that Freudenberg comes up against new resources established at both Business Group and products, technologies or organizational structures. holding company level, as well as the continuous improvement and further development of systematic Freudenberg addresses the implications of these contract management and contract monitoring in line customary risks in its regularly updated corporate with business demands. strategy and limits these risks by various measures, in particular in-house research and development and innovation. The most important pillar and key driver of Occupational safety, health protection and innovation at Freudenberg is to be found in the environmental risks Business Groups, whose research and development activities are closely geared to their customers. In Freudenberg has production sites in some 60 countries, addition, the Freudenberg Group acquires companies some of which operate under very different conditions. or business units to add to the Group’s technology and There are operational risks with regard to production product portfolio and to enhance competitiveness processes in particular in terms of workflows, through innovation. production equipment and the processing of hazardous materials. Freudenberg trains employees to With the Freudenberg Technology Innovation comply with safety regulations and in the use of corporate function, Freudenberg has created an 92 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks protective equipment, and fulfills all relevant safety requirements and guidelines. Group-wide standards in the fields of occupational Freudenberg locations are continually exposed to safety, health, environment and fire protection define natural hazards as a result of the presence in various and implement the minimum requirements and regions and climate zones. In spite of the usual guidelines for the Business Groups. Internal and preventive measures, natural hazards such as external audit processes monitor the implementation earthquakes, floods, forest fires, mudslides or heavy of programs to constantly minimize risks in these fields snowfall can occasionally negatively impact the at the Business Groups. The audit findings are business operations of the units concerned. Natural systematically evaluated and measures implemented hazards are taken into consideration as part of the site throughout the Group. Sites regularly conduct selection process and during the acquisition process. emergency and evacuation exercises. Despite all of these preventive measures, significant occupational SARS, the avian influenza virus H5N1 or the zika virus safety, health protection and environmental risks highlighted concerns about the risk of a global cannot be entirely ruled out. pandemic. The coronavirus first identified in China in January 2020 is spreading across the world and has In the case of hazardous substances, efforts are, for developed into a pandemic. Despite the hygiene example, made to identify substitutes for substances measures in place at plants, Freudenberg employees with proven, unacceptable risks before a statutory could be exposed to the effects of the virus either at the provision comes into effect with a view to minimizing workplace or in a private context. The impact on the potential and customary risks arising in connection Freudenberg Group, particularly in the event of longwith such hazardous substances. This also forestalls term quarantine measures or through a pronounced undesirable effects through a possible ban on a given global spread, could involve the international supply substance. In addition, many product developments chain or significantly reduce demand for products, are subject to a stage gate process which among other thereby resulting directly or indirectly in shortfalls in things ensures that new products have a better sales or earnings. environmental performance than their predecessors and that undesirable substances are not used in the development of new products. 93 Since it was launched in 2002, the worldwide “We all the consolidated financial statements. Additional take care” initiative motivates Freudenberg employees controls are implemented in the consolidation process. to make their work and their workplaces safer, healthier and more environmentally friendly as well as The consolidation process is also supported by a taking responsibility for society. The initiative is software tool for the automatic reconciliation of supported by the Group's top management, employee balances throughout the Group. The individual representatives and senior executives in the Business companies have a local internal control system which Groups, and the best projects are honored each year. is the responsibility of the respective Business Group and which must comply with uniform minimum Internal control and risk management requirements applicable throughout the Group. system (referred to the Group financial reporting process) The Corporate Controlling & Accounting organizes seminars for employees involved in this process in the The Group internal control and risk management event of important changes in financial reporting system for the financial reporting process at procedures and IT applications, thereby guaranteeing a Freudenberg is tasked with ensuring the functionality, consistently high standard of reporting. Actuarial compliance and effectiveness of financial reporting in reports and evaluations are compiled by specialist the Group. The internal control system includes service providers. measures designed to ensure the complete, accurate and timely transmission and presentation of There is a clear demarcation of tasks between the information of relevance for the preparation of the corporate function and the companies. The segregation consolidated financial statements and the of functions and the dual control principle are consolidated management report of the Group. systematically applied. It is standard procedure for the auditor of the Freudenberg Group and the auditors of The consolidated financial statements and the the consolidated companies to review the functionality consolidated management report of the Group are and compliance of the relevant reporting process. prepared centrally. The minimum requirements Suggestions for improvements are regularly discussed regarding reporting content submitted by the and optimized. In addition, the functionality and companies are defined and controlled centrally, and the compliance of processes of relevance to financial time frame and process requirements are monitored. reporting are reviewed regularly under an internal auditing process. The complete package of processes, The regularly updated IFRS accounting guideline forms systems and controls adequately ensures that the the basis for the IFRS reporting packages of the parent Group’s reporting process is in accordance with IFRS company and of all domestic and foreign subsidiaries and other regulations and laws of relevance to financial included in the consolidation. There are binding reporting and is reliable. instructions for Freudenberg’s internal coordination and other preparatory work for the financial statements. Freudenberg uses a standard software tool for the Group financial reporting process. This tool is used throughout the company worldwide and clearly defines user rights observing the principle of the separation of functions. The system covers both reporting by Freudenberg companies and the data for 94 Combined Management Report – Report on Opportunities and Risks Overall assessment of the opportunities and risks Freudenberg has an in-depth understanding of the shortand long-term opportunities necessary for the further development of existing business areas and the development of new activities to secure the future of the Group, and actively pursues these opportunities. In our opinion, based on the probability of occurrence and potential impact of the risks described above, they do not individually or cumulatively present a risk to the continued existence of Freudenberg. 95 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS The assumptions made in the report on expected global economic development and on the Freudenberg developments are based on the planning for the Group. These risks could have an adverse effect not only Freudenberg Group adopted by the Board of on sales, but also on production, the procurement Management and the Supervisory Board. This planning market and the supply chain. Furthermore, attention is is premised on our underlying expectations regarding also focusing on increasingly vociferous demands from macroeconomic conditions and developments in the the public to improve climate protection, combined markets of relevance to the Freudenberg Group. The with calls for fundamental technological change in the assessments of future business development take field of drive engineering, along with the upcoming their orientation from the targets set by our Business challenges from the megatrends of digitalization and Groups as well as the opportunities and risks arising demographic change. In light of this, we are engaged in from expected market conditions and the competitive careful planning for the coming year and expect situation in the planning period. Set against this modest business development in the markets relevant backdrop, we adjust our expectations for business to the Group. development on a case-by-case basis in line with the latest forecasts. The statements contained in the With regard to individual developments in our regional following report are based on the knowledge available core markets, we expect the German economy to grow to us at the beginning of 2020. 0.5 percent in 2020, close to the previous year's level. At 0.8 percent, the growth forecast for the eurozone, We expect the generally challenging macroeconomic which remains the Group’s largest sales region, is lower environment to continue in the 2020 financial year. than in previous years. The looming trade dispute Measured against markedly lower global economic between the USA and Europe is likely to have a growth in 2019, growth forecast for the global dampening effect on the economies of EU countries. economy in 2020 is only expected to be slight.1 The fiscal policy alignment of the European Central Economic and geopolitical uncertainties are not Bank under its new leadership remains to be seen. We expected to decrease. Attention will focus above all on expect an expansive monetary policy to continue. further developments in the global trade disputes. Although there have recently been the first indications We anticipate slightly lower economic growth of of possible de-escalation in the trade dispute between 1.9 percent in the USA in 2020. This deceleration is the USA and China, there still seems little likelihood of mainly attributable to the uncertainty triggered by the a comprehensive dismantling of existing trade barriers. trade disputes between the USA and China, the EU and The United Kingdom’s exit from the EU (Brexit) was other countries. Furthermore, budgetary policy in the completed in January 2020, but it is still uncertain USA is expected to be less expansive. The situation on whether a comprehensive agreement on future the labor market, however, remains good and as a relations between the United Kingdom and the EU can result, private consumption will provide an important be reached by the end of the year or whether there will stimulus. The US Federal Reserve eased its monetary be no arrangements for key areas such as trade policy by lowering interest rates in the second half of between the United Kingdom and EU countries from 2019 to prevent the incipient economic downturn from 2021 once the transition period has expired. The spilling over into the industrial sector. There was a coronavirus outbreak could trigger macroeconomic further cut in interest rates in early 2020 as a measure risks that could have a negative financial impact on 1 Sources: In this chapter, all figures relating to economic developments are based on data from Consensus Economics, the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, and the market research and consulting company Schlegel und Partner. 96 Combined Management Report – Report on Expected Developments to counter the impending negative effects of with decreases of 0.9 percent in Europe, 0.7 percent in coronavirus on the economy. China and 2.1 percent in Japan. Growth in Japan is expected to lose further We expect to see global stagnation in the mechanical momentum. The economy is heading toward and plant engineering industry, Freudenberg’s second stagnation with growth at 0.2 percent. No boost is most important sector. Demand will continue to feel expected from domestic demand or from exports. the effects of the slowdown in the global economy and the weak automotive sector. Economic developments in the emerging economies present a mixed picture. China remains one of the Private consumption, on the other hand, will show most important growth regions for Freudenberg. positive development. We expect growth of 1.7 percent Growth in China will continue to weaken and, taking in the industrial nations, with the emerging economies account of the economic impact of the coronavirus, will even showing noticeably higher growth rates, for tend towards 5.0 percent, the lowest level for three example, 5.8 percent in China, and 7.1 percent in India. decades. The negative effect on exports of the trade dispute with the USA is becoming increasingly obvious. Developments in the oil and gas industry are also of Moreover, there is the danger of a debt crisis in the relevance to Freudenberg. The industry is expected to corporate sector. The government is resorting to continue to grow, albeit at a slower pace. expansive measures, but it is facing structural difficulties and growing risks in the financial system. In order to manage economic and geopolitical uncertainties, we will stay agile and continue to For India, we forecast economic growth of 5.5 percent. respond swiftly and flexibly to changing customer and The government has taken measures to combat weak market requirements. We will therefore continue to growth. Cutting corporate tax rates and easing foreign invest in long-term projects. Our key strategic themes direct investment rules aim to strengthen production. will still be the mobility transformation, digitalization However, consolidating public finances remains a and sustainable solutions. In addition, we will work on challenge. The debt level is high for an emerging strengthening our portfolio through acquisitions. Our economy. efforts in this context will be influenced on the one hand by the findings of a future project tasked with For Russia, we expect moderate economic growth of developing scenarios for the world in 2050 and 1.2 percent. Industry presents a split picture. Foreign identifying the business opportunities for Freudenberg trade remains weak. On the domestic front, however, under these scenarios. On the other, our goal is a momentum is picking up, for example in the digital balanced portfolio combining cyclical and anticyclical economy. At the same time, private consumption is businesses – with equal sales contributions from recovering from the effects of the increase in VAT in North and South America, Europe and Asia. 2019. In 2020, we will continue to drive forward with our In light of the persistently weak global economic projects in the fields of sustainability, non-financial key climate expected for 2020, developments in the sectors performance indicators, and our responsibility for served by Freudenberg will be mixed. The automotive society. As a responsible, innovative technology group, industry is a particularly important sector for Freudenberg will once again implement numerous Freudenberg. Measured against the marked downturn measures in environmental protection, occupational in the automotive industry in 2019, we expect global health and safety. As in the previous year, special production in 2020 to dip slightly by 0.2 percent. attention will again be devoted to occupational safety Increases of 2.3 percent in North America will contrast in 2020. We expect to see the LDIFR (Lost Day Incident 97 Frequency Rate) in the 2020 financial year on the level of the previous year. The analysis of present risks concludes there is no threat to the continued existence of Freudenberg. There were no major changes in the overall risk situation compared with the previous year. Anticipated sales developments in our Business Groups reflect the regional and sectoral developments and challenges described above. We expect Group sales in the 2020 financial year to be on the level of the previous year. Set against the backdrop of a persistently challenging macroeconomic environment, we are engaged in careful planning and anticipate a slightly lower operating result. On the basis of these forecasts, we expect a slight decline in the return on sales in 2020. Weinheim, March 20, 2020 The Board of Management 98 Combined Management Report – Report on Expected Developments Freudenberg SE (HGB) FREUDENBERG SE (HGB) Freudenberg SE is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The investment result decreased from €612.1 million Freudenberg & Co. KG, Weinheim, and the parent to €561.7 million. Among other factors, the negative company with responsibility for the operations of the development in the results of individual affiliates had a Freudenberg Group. corresponding impact on the overall result. This was partially offset by the rise in dividend payments from The net assets, financial position and results of €30.7 million to €36.8 million. operations of Freudenberg SE are characterized by its holding function. The company holds interests in Other operating income rose from €7.0 million to affiliated companies and it is the profit from these €46.4 million. The main factor was income from the investments that dominates the earnings situation of sale of affiliates. Freudenberg SE. Material expenses rose from €9.6 million to €12.3 The annual financial statements of Freudenberg SE are million and represent services purchased. set up in accordance with the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB – German Commercial Code) and the AktienAt €11.9 million, personnel expenses were at the same gesetz (AktG – German Stock Corporation Act). level as in 2018 (previous year: €12.0 million). EARNINGS SITUATION The other operating expenses fell from €99.5 million to €98.3 million. This fall was chiefly due to lower [€ million] 2018 2019 administrative expenses and lower losses on the Sales 21.5 24.3 disposal of financial assets. Investment result 612.1 561.7 The financial result decreased by €1.3 million (previous Other operating income 7.0 46.4 year: increase of €0.6 million). In particular, the result Material expenses -9.6 -12.3 was negatively affected by an impairment loss on Personnel expenses -12.0 -11.9 financial assets. Other operating expenses -99.5 -98.3 Financial result -29.9 -31.2 Income taxes fell by €7.1 million from €-23.5 million to Profit before taxes 489.6 478.7 €-16.4 million. This was chiefly due to the lower Income taxes -23.5 -16.4 corporation tax for the current financial year. Profit of the year 466.1 462.3 At €462.3 million (previous year: €466.1 million), the profit for the year of Freudenberg SE was at about the same level as the previous year. The sales of Freudenberg SE largely result from the charging of services and from royalties for the Freudenberg global brand amounting to €11.3 million (previous year: €11.4 million). 99 ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FINANCIAL amount of €106.1 million (previous year: €118.5 POSITION million). Provisions increased by €6.0 million from €151.0 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 million to €157.0 million and chiefly include provisions Intangible assets 11.7 10.9 for pensions. Tangible assets 1.4 1.4 Financial assets 2,447.0 2,522.8 Liabilities rose by €29.2 million from €1,328.1 million, to €1,357.3 million chiefly as a result of the drawdown Receivables and other assets 2,098.7 2,430.4 of loans. Cash at bank and in hand 28.4 13.1 Total assets 4,587.2 4,978.6 SUMMARY STATEMENT Equity 3,108.1 3,464.3 Against the backdrop of our sound situation with Provisions 151.0 157.0 respect to net assets and financial position and the Liabilities 1,328.1 1,357.3 high earnings of our affiliates, we assess the general economic situation of Freudenberg SE as positive. Total equity and liabilities 4,587.2 4,978.6 REPORT ON EXPECTED DEVELOPMENTS The assets of Freudenberg SE as the holding company As the parent company of the Freudenberg Group chiefly consist of shares and participations in responsible for business operations but without its companies and amounts receivable from these own business operations, Freudenberg SE mainly companies. receives income from its affiliates. As a general principle, expectations concerning business As at the statement of financial position date, financial developments within the Freudenberg Group therefore assets had risen by €75.8 million to €2,522.8 million also have an impact on the earnings of Freudenberg SE. (previous year: €2,447.0 million) as a result of various For this reason, the assumptions and statements made capital increases. in the report on expected developments for Freudenberg are equally relevant to Freudenberg SE. Receivables and other assets mainly include amounts receivable from affiliates. As at the date of the NET RETAINED PROFIT AND DIVIDEND statement of financial position, these had risen by €336.4 million to €2,396.2 million (previous year: In December 2019, the Shareholders Meeting resolved, €2,059.8 million). This is mainly the result of higher as proposed by the Supervisory Board and the Board of cash pool receivables from Externa Handelsund Management, to pay a dividend of €106.1 million Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung (previous year: €118.5 million) to the sole shareholder with headquarters in Weinheim. Freudenberg & Co. KG in 2019 from the net retained profit as at December 31, 2018, which amounted to Equity increased to €3,464.3 million (previous year: €2,362.9 million. €3,108.1 million). The net retained profit from the previous year rose by €356.2 million from €2,362.9 The Board of Management proposes that the profit for million to €2,719.1 million. The profit for the year fell the 2019 financial year, amounting to €462.3 million from €466.1 million to €462.3 million. The net retained (previous year: €466.1 million) should be carried profit for the year was reduced by dividends paid in the forward to new account. 100 Combined Management Report – Freudenberg SE (HGB) SUMMARY CONCLUDING STATEMENT OF DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT OF FREUDENBERG SE “We hereby declare in accordance with Sec. 312, Para 3, AktG (German Stock Corporation Act) that, on the basis of the circumstances of which we were aware at the time when transactions with affiliated companies were implemented or acts or forbearances were taken, our company received consideration comparable with that obtainable from a non-affiliated company and did not suffer any disadvantage as a result of such acts or forbearances.” 101 102 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 104 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 106 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 107 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 108 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 109 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 110 Shareholdings 163 103 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ASSETS [€ million] Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 ASSETS Intangible assets (1) 2,475.3 2,687.3 Tangible assets (2) 2,204.0 2,743.3 Investment properties (3) 10.3 18.1 Investments in joint ventures (4) 167.3 183.8 Investments in associated companies (5) 947.8 944.7 Other financial assets 118.6 138.5 Financial assets 1,233.7 1,267.0 Other non-current assets (7) 72.1 83.1 Deferred taxes (26) 208.5 261.9 Non-current assets 6,203.9 7,060.7 Inventories (6) 1,127.8 1,218.3 Trade receivables 1,467.5 1,482.1 Other current assets 265.8 376.3 Current receivables (7) 1,733.3 1,858.4 Current tax assets 81.1 88.8 Securities and cash at bank and in hand (8) 984.7 1,117.3 Current assets 3,926.9 4,282.8 Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups (9) 108.3 11.0 10,239.1 11,354.5 104 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Financial Position EQUITY AND LIABILITIES [€ million] Note Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Subscribed capital 450.0 450.0 Capital reserves 50.2 50.2 Retained earnings 4,452.9 4,902.1 Equity without non-controlling interests 4,953.1 5,402.3 Non-controlling interests 359.0 417.2 Equity (10) 5,312.1 5,819.5 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations (11) 718.1 842.3 Other long-term provisions (12) 109.0 115.2 Long-term provisions 827.1 957.5 Financial debt 887.6 1,132.3 Other non-current liabilities 132.3 167.3 Liabilities (13) 1,019.9 1,299.6 Deferred taxes (26) 348.8 347.4 Non-current liabilities 2,195.8 2,604.5 Other current provisions (12) 571.6 597.2 Current tax liabilities 90.7 107.6 Financial debt 802.5 1,052.8 Trade payables 883.0 914.0 Other current liabilities 316.1 258.3 Liabilities (13) 2,001.6 2,225.1 Current liabilities 2,663.9 2,929.9 Liabilities in connection with non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups (9) 67.3 0.6 10,239.1 11,354.5 105 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS [€ million] Note 2018 2019 Sales (14) 9,455.4 9,467.8 Cost of sales (15) -6,395.6 -6,480.5 Gross profit 3,059.8 2,987.3 Selling expenses (16) -1,297.2 -1,298.3 Administrative expenses (17) -633.5 -638.6 Research and development expenses (18) -374.3 -414.6 Other income (19) 135.3 313.9 Other expenses (20) -83.5 -119.3 Income from investments in joint ventures (4),(21) 22.0 14.3 Profit from operations 828.6 844.7 Income from investments in associated companies (5),(22) 46.9 -15.9 Other investment result (23) -9.5 33.9 Other interest and similar income (24) 13.3 20.8 Interest and similar expenses (25) -44.0 -55.0 Financial result 6.7 -16.2 Profit before income taxes 835.3 828.5 Income taxes (26) -232.9 -217.9 Consolidated profit 602.4 610.6 Of which: attributable to Freudenberg 553.2 571.0 Of which: attributable to non-controlling interests (27) 49.2 39.6 106 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME [€ million] Note 2018 2019 Consolidated profit 602.4 610.6 Other comprehensive income: Remeasurement of defined benefit plans (11) 5.3 -121.0 Changes in value of securities -22.3 -4.0 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (10) -1.7 34.9 Share in other comprehensive income and loss of associated companies (5) -34.4 5.0 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss -53.1 -85.1 Exchange rate differences (10) 73.6 75.4 Changes in value of derivative financial instruments (10) 0.3 -0.3 Miscellaneous comprehensive income 10.4 -8.2 Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met (10) -4.0 -1.7 Share in other comprehensive income and loss of joint ventures (4) 0.2 0.0 Share in other comprehensive income and loss of associated companies (5) -19.0 2.2 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met 61.5 67.4 Other comprehensive income for the year 8.4 -17.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 610.8 592.9 Of which: attributable to Freudenberg 553.5 549.9 Of which: attributable to non-controlling interests 57.3 43.0 107 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS [€ million] Note 2018 2019 Profit before taxes 835.3 828.5 Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses on intangible assets, tangible assets, investment properties and financial assets less write-ups 441.7 559.0 Income from investments and interest income -41.6 18.5 Income taxes paid -244.6 -237.1 Profit or loss on disposal of intangible assets, tangible assets, investment properties and financial assets -22.1 -195.5 Dividends received 26.8 44.0 Other expenditure and income not affecting payments -2.5 -29.4 Changes in inventories, trade receivables and other assets -70.5 40.1 Changes in trade payables and other liabilities 5.6 -23.0 Changes in provisions -68.3 -12.3 Interest paid -41.7 -54.7 Interest received 10.3 18.8 Cash flow from operating activities (28) 828.4 956.9 Cash inflow from disposals of intangible assets, tangible assets and investment properties 47.9 25.8 Cash outflow from acquisitions in intangible assets, tangible assets and investment properties -378.6 -362.1 Cash inflow from disposals of financial assets 1.5 29.6 Cash outflow from acquisitions of financial assets -74.5 -161.9 Cash inflow in connection with the disposal of consolidated companies or other business units less cash disposed of -1.5 186.2 Cash outflows in connection with the acquisition of consolidated companies or other business units less cash acquired -175.8 -318.5 Cash flow from investing activities -581.0 -600.9 Payments to shareholders/non-controlling interests (29) -142.4 -157.6 Cash inflow from the take-up of financial debts 178.0 201.9 Cash outflow from the repayment of financial debts -287.4 -274.5 Cash inflow from disposals of loans and securities held as non-current assets 3.6 3.0 Cash outflow from acquisitions of loans and securities held as non-current assets -0.8 -3.7 Cash flow from financing activities -249.0 -230.9 Changes in cash and cash equivalents with effect on payments (31) -1.6 125.1 Changes in cash and cash equivalents from changes in consolidated group 0.0 -3.4 Changes in cash and cash equivalents from exchange rate differences -9.1 9.4 1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 998.8 988.1 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year1 988.1 1,119.2 1 The figures include assets and groups of assets held for sale. 108 Consolidated Financial Statement – Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Financial Remeasureinvestments ment of Fair value accounted defined measurefor using the Subscribed Capital Currency benefit ment of equity [€ million] capital reserves translation obligations securities method Status Jan. 1, 2018 450.0 50.2 -155.3 -318.5 44.7 123.3 Consolidated profit Appropriation of profit Other comprehensive income 69.5 8.3 -22.5 -56.4 Status Dec. 31, 2018 450.0 50.2 -85.8 -310.2 22.2 66.9 Status Jan. 1, 2019 450.0 50.2 -85.8 -310.2 22.2 66.9 Changes in consolidated group 5.4 Consolidated profit Appropriation of profit Other comprehensive income 69.3 -115.4 -3.9 8.3 Status Dec. 31, 2019 450.0 50.2 -16.5 -425.6 18.3 80.6 Equity without Tax effects Other Total nonNonrecognized retained retained controlling controlling [€ million] in equity earnings earnings interests interests Equity Status Jan. 1, 2018 82.8 4,240.9 4,017.9 4,518.1 325.9 4,844.0 Consolidated profit 553.2 553.2 553.2 49.2 602.4 Appropriation of profit -118.5 -118.5 -118.5 -24.2 -142.7 Other comprehensive income -6.3 7.7 0.3 0.3 8.1 8.4 Status Dec. 31, 2018 76.5 4,683.3 4,452.9 4,953.1 359.0 5,312.1 Status Jan. 1, 2019 76.5 4,683.3 4,452.9 4,953.1 359.0 5,312.1 Changes in consolidated group 5.4 5.4 65.9 71.3 Consolidated profit 571.0 571.0 571.0 39.6 610.6 Appropriation of profit -106.1 -106.1 -106.1 -50.7 -156.8 Other comprehensive income 32.4 -11.8 -21.1 -21.1 3.4 -17.7 Status Dec. 31, 2019 108.9 5,136.4 4,902.1 5,402.3 417.2 5,819.5 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS General Freudenberg is an international industrial group The Group currency is the euro. All amounts are mainly active as a supplier to the automotive, indicated in million euros unless otherwise stated. mechanical engineering, oil and gas industries as well as the textile and apparel industries. The portfolio also includes medical technology and consumer goods. Accounting standards published but not yet applied The consolidated financial statements of FreudenThe following additional standards, interpretations berg SE, Weinheim, Germany (registered with and amendments published by the International Mannheim Local Court, HRB 714579), for 2019 have Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the IFRS been drawn up in accordance with the International Interpretations Committee are not yet binding. The Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as they are to be application of these standards, interpretations and applied in the European Union (EU) as of the date of amendments is subject to endorsement by the EU the statement of financial position (Decemwhich, in some cases, is still pending. ber 31, 2019). Freudenberg SE has availed itself of the right as laid down in Sec. 315e (3) HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch, “German Commercial Code”) to set up its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS. Application Endorsed Standards/interpretations/amendments binding from1 by EU Probable impact IFRS 3 Amendments to IFRS 3 – Business January 1, 2020 No No material impact Combination IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts January 1, 2021 No No material impact Various Amendments to IAS 1 and IAS 8 – January 1, 2020 Yes No material impact standards Definition of Material Conceptual Amendments to Conceptual January 1, 2020 Yes No material impact Framework Framework – References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards Various Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 January 1, 2020 Yes No material impact standards and IFRS 7 – Interest Rate Benchmark Reform 1 From this date or for reporting periods beginning after this date. 110 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting standards applied for the first time in the reporting year In the 2019 financial year, the application of the following amended and new standards was binding for the first time: Standards/amendments Title Impact IFRS 9 Amendments to IFRS 9 – Prepayment Features No material impact with Negative Compensation IFRS 16 Leases See information provided below IAS 19 Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan Amendment, No material impact Curtailment or Settlement IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint No material impact Ventures Various standards Annual Improvements to IFRSs No material impact 2015-2017 Cycle IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments No material impact In January 2016, the IASB published IFRS 16 – Leases. as the initial carrying amount of the right-of-use asset The standard was endorsed into EU law on October 31, and the lease liability in accordance with IFRS 16. 2017. IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 – Leases and related interpretations. The introduction of IFRS 16 with effect In connection with the transition to IFRS 16, right-offrom January 1, 2019 has eliminated the distinction use assets with respect to leased assets were between operating and finance leases on the part of recognized in the amount of €358.7 million as at the lessee. Since the introduction of IFRS 16, January 1, 2019. With respect to classes of assets, this Freudenberg has therefore capitalized all leases as amount breaks down as follows: right-of-use assets and recognized the resulting payment obligations as lease liabilities at net present [€ million] value. A right-of-use asset is defined as the right to use Land and buildings 301.5 a leased asset for the agreed lease term in return for a Passenger cars 38.2 charge. The requirements for the recognition of leases Forklift trucks 13.4 by the lessor remain largely unchanged by IFRS 16. IT infrastructure 5.6 In accordance with the transition requirements, Total 358.7 Freudenberg applies the new standard on the basis of the modified retrospective method; the comparison period is therefore presented in accordance with the The figure disclosed for land and buildings under nonprevious requirements under this method. There is no current assets as at December 31, 2018 already negative impact on equity at the time of the first-time included assets in the amount of €5.4 million as application, as at January 1, 2019, as a right-of-use finance leases. asset in the amount of the lease liability is recognized for all existing operating leases. In the case of leases previously classed as finance leases, the carrying amount of the leased asset as at December 31, 2018 in accordance with IAS 17 and the carrying amount of the lease liability in accordance with IAS 17 are recognized 111 The reconciliation between commitments arising from operating leasing contracts as at December 31, 2018 and the initial carrying amounts of lease liabilities as at January 1, 2019 is as follows: [€ million] Commitments arising from operating leasing contracts at December 31, 2018 375.0 Minimum lease payments (notional amount) on finance lease liabilities at December 31, 2018 7.6 Leases of low-value assets (relief option) -16.6 Service components (application option) 3.3 1 Other 18.9 Gross lease liabilities at January 1, 2019 388.2 Discounting -29.6 Lease liabilities at January 1, 2019 358.6 1 Mainly includes effects from the reassessment of leases as part of the introduction of IFRS 16. Lease liabilities were discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate as at January 1, 2019. The weighted average interest rate was 2.58 percent. 112 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated group Apart from Freudenberg SE, 60 German (previous year: In the year under review, 7 companies were included in 66) and 342 foreign (previous year: 355) affiliated the consolidated financial statements as fully companies, with respect to which Freudenberg SE has consolidated affiliated companies for the first time. 26 the power to direct the relevant activities of the companies which had previously been fully company, the right to variable returns from the consolidated were no longer included as fully company and the ability to affect such variable returns, consolidated affiliated companies due to sale, are fully consolidated. liquidation or merger. The timing of the initial consolidation was determined on the basis of the date Freudenberg operates a joint venture in the field of when Freudenberg SE gained control. In the event of mechanical seals within the EagleBurgmann Business loss of control, deconsolidation is effected. Group together with the partner Eagle Industry Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. Freudenberg holds a 25-percent Acquisitions and disposals stake in EagleBurgmann Japan Co., Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. The partner also holds a 25-percent indirect stake With effect from April 1, 2019, the Freudenberg in EagleBurgmann Germany GmbH & Co. KG, Filtration Technologies Business Group acquired 75 Wolfratshausen, Germany. According to the joint percent of the shares in Apollo Air-Cleaner Co., Ltd., venture agreement between the partners, Foshan, China (Apollo). The company is a leading Freudenberg exercises control over affiliated comprovider of air and water filtration solutions in China. panies of the EagleBurgmann Group in which In 2018, Apollo generated sales of about €96 million Freudenberg holds less than half of the voting rights of with about 1,000 employees. Following the the other company; such affiliated companies are completion of the transaction, Apollo will continue as therefore fully consolidated. a joint venture between Freudenberg as the main shareholder and the previous sole proprietor Apollo In the consolidated financial statements 14 foreign ZhanMao Technologies (HK) Co., Limited, Wanchai, (previous year: 14) joint ventures are included. These Hong Kong, under the name of Freudenberg Apollo legally independent companies are managed jointly Filtration Technologies. The company is fully with the partner company in each case. Both parties consolidated as part of the Freudenberg Group. The hold rights to the net assets of the companies. The consideration for the acquisition was €138.1 million, joint ventures are consolidated by the equity method. which was transferred in full with effect on payments. In a contract between them, the two shareholders In addition, 9 foreign (previous year: 10) associated have agreed on put and call options for the acquisition companies are included in the consolidated financial of the entire minority interest, which may be exercised statements. Freudenberg does not control these subject to a number of conditions. At the date of companies but only exercises a significant influence. acquisition, the put option was measured at fair value These companies are consolidated by the equity on the basis of level 3 input factors. At the date of method. acquisition, the fair value was €52.9 million. The goodwill in the amount of €114.6 million resulting All affiliated companies, joint ventures and associated from the purchase price allocation, which is not companies are listed under “Shareholdings”. deductible for tax purposes, mainly represents synergy potential in connection with the processing of the rapidly growing Chinese market for filtration solutions and synergies resulting from complementary competences in research, development and production activities for filtration solutions. 113 Since the date of the acquisition, Freudenberg Apollo With effect from January 1, 2019, the Freudenberg Filtration Technologies has generated sales in the Sealing Technologies Business Group acquired further amount of €80.8 million and has contributed profit of shares in the battery manufacturer XALT Energy, LLC, €2.4 million to consolidated profit. If the acquisition Midland, Michigan, USA, raising its stake to about 50 had already taken place at January 1, 2019, sales would percent. The Freudenberg Medical Business Group also have been €18.1 million higher and consolidated profit increased its stake in the medical technology specialist would have been €0.9 million1 higher. Cambus Teoranta, Spiddal, Ireland, to a total of 90 percent. Previously, the two companies had been With effect from December 31, 2019, the Freudenberg consolidated as associated companies by the equity Performance Materials Business Group acquired all method. They have been fully consolidated with effect the shares in the Filc Group, Škofja Loka, Slovenia (Filc). from January 1, 2019 and April 1, 2019, respectively. Filc is a producer of needle punch nonwoven textiles Both separately and together, the two acquisitions and laminated materials. The company employs about were not significant. 360 people and focuses on the automotive and construction industries. The consideration for the The transaction costs arising in connection with the acquisition of the shares was €212.0 million, which company acquisitions were, in each case, not was transferred in full with effect on payments. The significant and were recognized with effect on net goodwill in the amount of €108.6 million resulting income. As at the acquisition date, there was no from the provisional purchase price allocation mainly significant difference in each case between the gross represents synergy potential in connection with the contractual amounts receivable and the fair value of mutual exchange of technologies and know-how for the acquired receivables. the production of needle punch nonwoven textiles. As at the date of the statement of financial position, the purchase price allocation was provisional as a detailed analysis of the assets and liabilities transferred had not been finalized. If the acquisition had already taken place as at January 1, 2019, the sales of the Freudenberg Group would have been €89.8 million higher and the consolidated profit would have been €11.3 million higher. 1 Adjusted for expenses which would already have been recognized in the prior period in the event of acquisition at January 1, 2019. 114 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The fair values of the main asset and liability items of the companies acquired as at the acquisition dates were determined mainly on the basis of level 3 input factors. The cumulative values were as follows: [€ million] Apollo Filc Intangible assets 160.8 108.7 Tangible assets 29.5 44.5 Other non-current assets 0.7 11.8 Inventories 10.4 15.5 Trade receivables 20.1 13.7 Other current assets 4.5 0.8 Cash and cash equivalents 4.2 27.5 Assets 230.2 222.5 Non-current liabilities 11.8 0.8 Current liabilities 34.2 9.7 Liabilities 46.0 10.5 Net assets 184.2 212.0 Intangible assets identified in connection with With effect from February 28, 2019, the Freudenberg purchase price allocations mainly concern customer Group sold the Freudenberg IT Business Group (FIT) to lists/relations, technologies and know-how. The fair the Syntax Group. The Business Group which was sold values of the customer lists identified were measured is a global cloud provider and IT service provider for by the residual value method on the basis of business upscale medium-sized enterprises. FIT provides a planning with a useful life of 9 to 15 years. As regards broad IT service spectrum that covers almost the entire technologies, a relief-from-royalty approach with a SAP landscape. This strategic disposal will allow the useful life of 5 to 15 years was applied. two companies to pool their specific strengths in ERP know-how and to serve new markets with a growing portfolio. In 2018, Freudenberg IT generated sales of about €164.8 million. 115 Consolidation methods Accounting and measurement principles The consolidated financial statements are based on Acquired intangible assets are capitalized at acquithe annual accounts of Freudenberg SE and the sition cost and amortized on a systematic basis. consolidated companies according to IFRS. All the annual accounts concerned were drawn up as at Systematic amortization is based on the following December 31, 2019. In accordance with IFRS 10, the useful lives: accounts of the individual companies to be included in the consolidated financial statements were drawn up Software 3 to 8 years applying uniform accounting and measurement Patents and licenses depending on contract term methods. The acquisition costs of the individual consolidated companies are set off against the pro-rata share in the Intangible assets with finite useful lives acquired in fair value of the equity of the companies concerned as a business combination are amortized on a of the date of acquisition according to the purchase systematic basis over useful lives of up to 25 years. method. Identifiable acquired assets and liabilities are also included in the consolidated statement of An impairment test is carried out on goodwill at financial position at their fair values as of the least once per year. For the impairment test, the acquisition date. Any remaining differences are shown goodwill acquired is allocated to the groups of cashas goodwill. generating units expected to benefit from the business combination. In line with internal Inter-company profits and losses, sales, expenses and management reporting, the groups of cashincome and all receivables and payables between generating units are represented by the Business consolidated companies are eliminated. Deferred Groups. An impairment loss is recognized if the taxes are set up on consolidation transactions carrying amount of the group of cash-generating affecting net income. units is higher than its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value Joint ventures and associated companies are less costs to sell and the value in use of the group of consolidated by the equity method on the basis of cash-generating units. financial statements drawn up in accordance with IFRS. For the determination of the recoverable amount, The differences arising from the acquisition of the value in use of the group of cash-generating shareholdings in joint ventures and associated units concerned is determined by the discounted companies form part of the book value of the cash flow method on the basis of a detailed shareholding in the company concerned. Amortization planning period of 5 years. The discount rates used is not recognized on goodwill in subsequent periods. for the determination of the value in use are based An impairment test is carried out on the book value of on the weighted average cost of capital (hereafter the shareholding in the joint venture or associated WACC) determined separately for each group of company as a whole if there are indications that the cash-generating units. carrying amount could be impaired. 116 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Impairments of capitalized goodwill are shown under acquisition or production cost can be reliably other expenses in the consolidated statement of profit measured. or loss. Reversals of impairments are not recognized with respect to goodwill for which impairments have Taxable grants and tax-free investment subsidies, been recognized. normally paid by public bodies, are set off against acquisition or production cost or recognized in the Impairment losses going beyond goodwill are statement of financial position as deferred income. recognized for individual assets of cash-generating units if the fair value less costs of disposal of such Movable non-current assets and industrial buildings units or the value in use of such units has fallen are depreciated over their useful lives, normally on a below their carrying amount. straight-line basis. Provided that such assets meet the requirements of Systematic depreciation is determined on the basis of IAS 38, internally generated intangible assets are the following useful lives: carried as assets at production cost and are amortized on a systematic basis over their useful lives, if their Buildings max. 50 years useful lives are finite. Machinery and equipment 5 to 20 years If the useful life of intangible assets is not considered Other fixtures, fittings and office equipment 3 to 20 years to be finite, no amortization is effected. An impairment test is carried out on such assets annually. An intangible asset may be regarded as having an indefinite useful life when, based on an analysis of all An impairment test on tangible and intangible assets of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to assigned to cash-generating units is always carried out the period over which the asset is expected to if circumstances or changed conditions indicate that generate net cash flows for the Group. the carrying amount of such cash-generating units may not be recovered. The composition of the cashExpenditure in connection with development projects generating units is determined at the divisional or is capitalized as intangible assets if, in addition to regional level as a function of the business model and meeting the criteria of IAS 38, a Group threshold is differs between Business Groups. If the impairment of exceeded. Otherwise, development expenditure is an asset reflected by a write-down in the past is reduced shown as expenses. Capitalized development or eliminated, the impairment loss is reversed. The expenditure is amortized on a straight-line basis over amortized acquisition or production cost represents the the underlying useful life of the product concerned. upper limit of measurement in such cases. Amortization of capitalized development expenditure is normally recognized in research and development Under IFRS 16, right-of-use assets and corresponding expenses. payment obligations are recognized for all leased assets. The right-of-use asset represents the lessee’s Tangible assets are capitalized at acquisition or right to use a leased asset (the underlying asset) for an production cost. In the case of assets produced by agreed term in return for a charge. In accordance with Group companies, production cost also includes the relief options allowed by IFRS 16, Freudenberg directly attributable cost as well as pro-rata overheads recognizes lease payments associated with underlying and depreciation. assets of low value as expenses on a straight-line basis in the statement of profit or loss. Assets of low value Borrowing costs are capitalized as part of acquisition are identified on the basis of classes of assets. Leased or production cost in the case of qualifying assets. assets in the classes of machinery and equipment, IT equipment and other fixtures, fittings and office Expenditure for repairs and maintenance is generally equipment are classed as of low value. In the case of shown as expenses. Such expenditure is only leased assets in the other classes of assets land and capitalized if future economic benefits in connection buildings, passenger cars, fork lift trucks and IT with such expenditure are probable and the infrastructure, right-of-use assets and corresponding 117 lease liabilities are recognized even if the term of the attributable costs as well as production and material lease is short (less than 12 months). In the case of overheads and depreciation. contracts which include a lease component and another non-lease component, such as a service Receivables and other assets are recognized at installment, Freudenberg recognizes such non-lease amortized cost. Loss allowances are made on the basis components as part of the lease in accordance with of the expected credit loss model. For trade receivables, the practical expedient allowed by IFRS 16. Right-ofthe simplified approach to impairment losses is use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over adopted. In this approach, the loss allowance is always the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the term calculated on the basis of the lifetime expected credit of the lease. In the event that the exercise of a losses. In order to determine the expected credit losses, purchase option is assessed as reasonably certain, the customers are assigned to groups with similar credit right-of-use asset is depreciated over the useful life of risks. Individual impairment losses are recognized if the underlying asset irrespective of the term of the circumstances become apparent which allow the lease. conclusion that certain receivables are subject to a credit risk in excess of the general credit risk. In the Land and buildings held to earn rentals from third determination of loss allowances, credit insurance is parties are dealt with as investment properties. Such taken into consideration. The amortized cost is properties are measured at acquisition cost. approximately equivalent to the fair value of the assets Investment properties are depreciated over their concerned. Long-term receivables are discounted if the useful lives. This approach normally corresponds to amount of such discount is significant. straight-line depreciation. As a general principle, systematic depreciation is calculated on the basis of a Contract assets, which are mainly the result of maximum useful life of 50 years. The fair value is realization of revenue over time for customer-specific determined by the discounted cash flow method. products and development contracts are recognized at amortized cost. For determining impairment losses, Participations are shown at fair value. In some cases, the simplified procedure for determining the expected amortized cost represents the best estimate of fair credit losses is applied. value. The other financial assets are classified and measured Investments in joint ventures and associated on the basis of the business model within which the companies are shown at acquisition cost on first-time financial assets are held and on the basis of consolidation and subsequently adjusted for changes contractual cash flows at the time of acquisition. There in the share of the shareholder in the net assets of the are differences between the treatment of equity and company concerned. In the event that the losses of a debt instruments. Investments in equity instruments joint venture or associated company attributable to which are held as long-term strategic participations, Freudenberg exceed the value of the share in that and which are not expected to be sold within the company, no further impairment losses are recognized. shortto medium-term future are measured in equity If there is objective evidence of impairment or value without effect on net income. Debt instruments with recovery in the case of such participations, cash flows not consisting solely of interest payments assumptions concerning future business developand principal repayments, investments for which ments must be made with a view to determining the another measurement would result in an accounting recoverable amount. mismatch and shares in partnerships are measured at fair value through profit or loss. An impairment test is Long-term loans are discounted if the amount of such carried out for debt instruments measured at discount is significant. amortized cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income. Inventories are shown at acquisition or production cost or at net realizable value, where this is lower. Cash at bank or in hand is shown at its nominal value. Inventories of raw materials and consumables and Cash held in foreign currencies is converted using the merchandise are measured by the weighted average exchange rate as of the statement of financial position cost method. Production cost includes directly date. The expected credit loss model is applied. 118 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Derivative financial instruments that do not meet the Other provisions allow for all recognizable risks and requirements for hedge accounting are measured at uncertain obligations towards third parties which will fair value through profit or loss. probably result in an outflow of resources which can be reliably estimated. Such provisions are recognized Non-current assets and groups of assets held for sale at their most probable settlement value and are shown separately in the statement of financial discounted if the amount of such discount is position if they are available for immediate sale in their significant. Reimbursement rights in this connection present condition and the sale of such assets is highly are shown separately under other assets. In its probable within the next 12 months. Such assets are contracts with customers, Freudenberg provides shown at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and warranty services for general repair obligations but book value. Systematic depreciation is not recognized does not provide for any extended warranties. In on such assets from the date of reclassification. accordance with IFRS 15, the existing warranties are Liabilities included in a disposal group are shown mainly classified as assurance-type warranties and are separately under liabilities. recognized in accordance with IAS 37 – Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. The requirement for the reversal of the impairment of assets has been complied with both for non-current Liabilities are shown at their face value or at the and for current assets. Unless individual standards call repayment or settlement value, where this is higher. for a different measurement, the amortized Non-current liabilities are discounted if the amount of acquisition or production costs represent the upper such discount is significant. limit of measurement in such cases. Contract liabilities relate to considerations received Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are from customers in advance of performance under a determined by the projected unit credit method using contract. Contract liabilities are recognized as sales as actuarial principles. Service cost and the net interest soon as the promised goods or services have been on the net defined benefit liability are recognized transferred to the customer. under personnel expenses with an impact on net income. Gains and losses from remeasurements of the Lease liabilities include fixed payments defined in the net defined benefit liability are disclosed under other lease (less any lease incentives to be provided by the comprehensive income. Assets held to provide lessor), variable lease payments that depend on an benefits for employees are measured at fair value. index or a rate and amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees. In addition, Deferred taxes are calculated on temporary payments on the basis of purchase or extension differences between the book values of assets and options must be taken into consideration if the lessee liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial is reasonably certain to exercise that option. In the position and their tax bases, taking into account the case of termination options, penalties for terminating applicable national income tax rates valid on the date the lease are only to be included if the lease term of realization and already in force on the statement of reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate financial position date. In addition, deferred tax assets the lease. Lease payments must be discounted using are recognized for tax losses carried forward if the interest rate implicit in the lease if that rate can be sufficient taxable income will be available in the future. readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only set off determined, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate against each other in cases where the income taxes must be used. This is normally the case with concerned are levied by the same tax authority and Freudenberg. The specific incremental borrowing rate concern the same period. In the case of deferred tax for a lease is determined on the basis of an interest assets which are not impaired following the offsetting, matrix. This matrix is based on interbank rates and it is assumed that future taxable income will be takes into consideration the term and currency of the sufficient to allow the realization of the deferred tax lease as well as a risk premium. assets formed. Put options granted to the holders of non-controlling interests for the sale of their shares are recognized as 119 forward purchases. The item recorded in equity for sales are recognized as a practical expedient in the these shares is de-recognized and a liability measured amount of the consideration which Freudenberg has a at fair value, which corresponds to the net present right to invoice. value of the price at the time of exercise, is recognized. As at each statement of financial position date, the Invoices are normally issued following the physical liability is remeasured. Any resulting changes in book delivery of goods to the customer or the performance value are recognized with an effect on net income. of the service promised in the contract. Payments by customers under fixed-price contracts are based on a Sales are measured at the fair value of the contractually agreed payment plan. There are no consideration received or to be received. Sales are material contracts with customers under which the recognized when control of the promised good or time between the transfer of a promised good or service is transferred to the customer. service and payment in connection with such transfer exceeds one year. The delivery of goods normally represents a performance obligation that is satisfied at a specific In the event that the service performed by point in time. In determining the timing of satisfaction, Freudenberg exceeds the payments received or to be the transfer of significant risks and rewards of received by Freudenberg, a contract asset is recognized. ownership of the asset is taken as the main criterion. As soon as the right to receive the consideration from Normally, this is the time when the goods are the customer becomes unconditional, the contract physically delivered to the customer. asset is reclassified to trade receivables. If the payments received from the customer exceed the Sales from the delivery of customer-specific products service performed by Freudenberg, a corresponding are recognized over time, provided Freudenberg has an contract liability is recognized. enforceable right to payment from the customer in an amount that at least compensates Freudenberg for The performance obligations entered into by the performance completed to date plus a reasonable Freudenberg under contracts with customers profit margin. The amount of revenue is based on the normally have an expected original duration of one progress towards complete satisfaction of a year or less. In the case of longer terms, Freudenberg is performance obligation and measured on the basis of normally entitled to consideration corresponding the units produced. directly to the performance of services completed to date. Accordingly, the performance obligation Sales from the performance of services are recognized contracted but not yet (fully) fullfilled on the reporting in the accounting period in which the services are date are not disclosed. performed. Revenue is recognized in the amount which Freudenberg has a right to invoice, as this The consolidated statement of cash flows is broken amount of consideration corresponds directly to the down into cash flows from operating, investing and value to the customer of Freudenberg’s performance financing activities. Effects arising from changes in the completed to date. Customers are normally invoiced consolidated group and the effects of exchange rate monthly. differences have been eliminated from the consolidated statement of cash flows. The influence of Sales in connection with customer-specific these effects on cash and cash equivalents is indicated development projects are realized over time. In the separately. case of fixed-price contracts, the amount of sales is measured based on the cost incurred to date related to the total expected cost to be incurred in connection with the full satisfaction of the performance obligation. In the case of customer-specific development projects for which Freudenberg has a right to consideration from a customer in an amount that corresponds directly to the value to the customer of Freudenberg’s performance completed to date, 120 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The exercise of judgment and estimates in the Any changes in the parameters used may lead to application of accounting and measurement changes in statement of financial position values. methods Further details are given in note (11). In some cases, it is necessary to apply accounting The determination of the settlement amount of methods based on estimates or the exercise of provisions for restructuring, environmental risks, discretion in connection with the establishment of the guarantees and litigation is normally connected with consolidated financial statements. Normally, these estimates and uncertainty. For the measurement of methods include complex, subjective assessments such values, the assessments of local independent and the use of uncertain assumptions which may be experts are used in some cases. In the future, subject to change. It is therefore conceivable that deviations between actual events and the actual amounts in the future and future events may assumptions made may necessitate adjustments to deviate from the forecasts made as estimates for the the Group’s provisions. More detailed information on same reporting period could have been made provisions is given in note (12). differently for equally understandable reasons. Such accounting methods based on estimates and the The measurement of leases is based in part on exercise of discretion may therefore have a material estimates and assessments concerning the term of the impact on the net assets, financial position and results lease. Extension and termination options must be of operations in the consolidated financial statements taken into consideration in the determination of the and may also change over the course of time. The term if it is reasonably certain that the lessee will estimates used for the establishment of the exercise an extension option or not exercise a consolidated financial statements and the underlying termination option. In assessing whether the lessee is assumptions are regularly reviewed and any changes reasonably certain to exercise an option to extend the are taken into consideration as soon as better lease or not to exercise an option to terminate the lease, information is available. all relevant facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive for the lessee to exercise or not The composition of a cash-generating unit and the exercise the option concerned must be taken into determination of the recoverable amount for the consideration. Such aspects may include penalties, performance of impairment tests is connected with fixtures installed on the leased asset by the lessee and assessments made by management concerning the opportunity cost of exercising or not exercising the future developments and experience gained in the option concerned. Information on leased assets is given past. The cash flows predicted on the basis of these in note (2). assessments may be affected by factors including volatility of capital markets, exchange rate The measurement of certain derivative financial fluctuations and expected economic development. instruments without an active market such as put or The WACCs used for discounting take into account the call options and earn-out clauses is based on market risk and the capital structure of companies probability predictions and the best possible estimates comparable to the applicable group of cashof the expected settlement amount, taking into generating units. Changes in these factors may have consideration recognized mathematical finance significant impact on the existence or amount of a methods. The same applies to the determination of value impairment. Further details are given in note (1). expected credit losses recognized as loss allowances in connection with financial instruments measured at The actuarial assessments for the determination of amortized cost. Further information on financial provisions for pensions and similar obligations are instruments is given in note (13). based on major assumptions and estimates with respect to the discount rates used and expected future When determining whether sufficient taxable income adjustments to salaries and pensions as well as life will be available in the future for assessing the value of expectancy. All the parameters used are regularly deferred tax assets and the usability of losses carried reviewed as of the statement of financial position date. forward, various estimates, including the development of tax planning strategies, must be made. Deviations between the actual results and the estimates made 121 may have an effect on the assets, liabilities and Fair value is determined on the basis of input factors in earnings situation. Further details are given in note 3 defined categories. Determination is based on (26). estimates and assumptions associated with uncertainty. The following fair value measurement The determination of the amount and timing of hierarchy is applied: revenue from contracts with customers is affected by a number of estimations. Sales are recognized in the Level 1: Use of quoted prices (unadjusted) in active amount of the consideration to which Freudenberg markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity expects to be entitled. Especially in the case of the can access at the measurement date. delivery of goods the amount of consideration may vary as a result of variable consideration. The amount Level 2: Determination of fair value using measureof variable consideration is based on estimates and is ment procedures based on observed input factors for determined upon the inception of the contract and similar assets or liabilities in active markets or for reassessed at the end of each reporting period. The identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not variable consideration is estimated either by using the active. expected value method or by using the most likely amount method. This depends on which method Level 3: Measurement of assets and liabilities using Freudenberg expects to better predict the amount of measurement methods based on unobservable inputs consideration to which it will be entitled. Sales are only as adequate observable market data are not available recognized to the extent that it is highly probable that for the measurement of fair value. a significant reversal will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Amounts which have been received (or are to be received) and which will probably have to be refunded are recognized as refund liabilities and disclosed under other liabilities. For the recognition of sales from customer-specific development projects, estimates need to be made concerning the degree of completion or the total cost of the contract. A change in these estimates may lead to an increase or reduction in sales in the reporting period. 122 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Currency translations The financial statements of almost all companies • Statement of profit or loss items are translated at included in the consolidated financial statements average annual exchange rates. which are not located in the eurozone are drawn up in the national currencies concerned. This is the currency • Differences arising from the use of different of the primary economic environment in which the exchange rates are recognized in equity without an companies concerned operate (concept of functional effect on net income. currency). The same principles are used in the case of In the accounts of individual companies, foreigninvestments in joint ventures and associated currency receivables and liabilities are translated at the companies consolidated by the equity method. exchange rates as of the date of the statement of financial position. The annual financial statements of companies located in hyperinflationary countries are translated in Goodwill created as a result of acquisitions on or after accordance with IAS 29. Gains or losses as a result of March 31, 2004, is carried as an asset of the the adjustment of the carrying amounts of noneconomically independent foreign companies monetary items to reflect inflation are recognized in concerned in their respective functional currencies. other income or other expenses. From the point of view of the Group, current inflation adjustments on In the consolidated financial statements, the financial the basis of historic acquisition and production costs statements of all companies not located in the had no material impact on the net assets, financial eurozone are translated in accordance with the position or results of operations of the Group as at following principles: December 31, 2019. • Statement of financial position items are translated at the exchange rate as of the date of the statement of financial position. 123 The exchange rates of currencies used for currency conversion which are material to the annual financial statements developed as follows: Country Currency Closing rate Average rate 1 euro = Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 2018 2019 United Kingdom GBP 0.8945 0.8508 0.8860 0.8759 Japan JPY 125.8500 121.9400 130.0060 121.9590 Mexico MXN 22.4921 21.2202 22.6526 21.6082 Russian Federation RUB 79.7153 69.9563 74.1711 72.2182 Turkey TRY 6.0588 6.6843 5.6835 6.3577 USA USD 1.1450 1.1234 1.1793 1.1195 Differences arising from the use of different exchange tangible assets with respect to non-current assets and rates compared with the previous year are shown in in the consolidated statement of comprehensive the statement of changes in intangible and income with respect to equity. 124 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (1) Intangible assets Changes in intangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2018: ConcesIntangible Internally sions, Payments assets in generated licenses and made course of [€ million] software others1 Goodwill on account construction Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2018 3.9 1,718.1 1,567.6 2.4 12.7 3,304.7 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 36.3 41.7 0.0 0.0 78.0 Exchange rate differences 0.2 13.6 10.1 0.0 0.0 23.9 Additions 0.0 14.0 0.3 2.0 2.9 19.2 Disposals -0.1 -18.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -18.7 Reclassifications2 0.4 2.5 -4.0 -1.4 -11.8 -14.3 Status Dec. 31, 2018 4.4 1,765.9 1,615.7 3.0 3.8 3,392.8 AMORTIZATION Status Jan. 1, 2018 3.1 670.8 99.9 0.0 0.0 773.8 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Exchange rate differences 0.1 9.5 1.3 0.0 0.0 10.9 Additions systematic 0.3 108.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 108.7 Impairment losses 0.0 6.8 44.4 0.0 0.0 51.2 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -0.1 -17.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -18.0 Reclassifications2 0.0 -9.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -9.2 Status Dec. 31, 2018 3.4 768.5 145.6 0.0 0.0 917.5 Book value Dec. 31, 2018 1.0 997.4 1,470.1 3.0 3.8 2,475.3 1 Intangible assets identified in connection with purchase price allocations mainly concern customer lists/relations, technologies and know-how. 2 The reclassifications also include transfers to other statement of financial position items. 125 Changes in intangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2019: ConcesIntangible Internally sions, Payments assets in generated licenses and made course of [€ million] software others1 Goodwill on account construction Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2019 4.4 1,765.9 1,615.7 3.0 3.8 3,392.8 Changes in consolidated group 0.3 113.5 270.4 0.0 0.0 384.2 Exchange rate differences 0.1 11.6 7.0 0.0 0.0 18.7 Additions 0.1 12.8 0.5 0.7 2.8 16.9 Disposals -0.3 -3.4 -1.0 0.0 0.0 -4.7 2 Reclassifications 0.0 4.1 0.0 -1.5 -2.4 0.2 Status Dec. 31, 2019 4.6 1,904.5 1,892.6 2.2 4.2 3,808.1 AMORTIZATION Status Jan. 1, 2019 3.4 768.5 145.6 0.0 0.0 917.5 Changes in consolidated group 0.1 5.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.9 Exchange rate differences 0.1 7.9 2.4 0.0 0.0 10.4 Additions – systematic 0.4 110.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 111.1 Impairment losses 0.0 1.8 77.8 0.0 0.0 79.6 Write-ups/revaluations 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -0.4 -3.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 -3.7 Reclassifications2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Status Dec. 31, 2019 3.6 891.4 225.8 0.0 0.0 1,120.8 Book value Dec. 31, 2019 1.0 1,013.1 1,666.8 2.2 4.2 2,687.3 1 Intangible assets identified in connection with purchase price allocations mainly concern customer lists/relations, technologies and know-how. 2 The reclassifications also include transfers to other statement of financial position items. Goodwill was subjected to an impairment test in the On this basis, an impairment of goodwill was 2019 financial year. Apart from the expected recognized only for the group of cash-generating units developments in sales and profit as well as net of Freudenberg Medical. This was the result of investments of the Business Groups concerned, the unfavorable conditions in a challenging market basic assumptions used for determining the value in environment. On the basis of a WACC of 7.6 percent use of the groups of cash-generating units included a (previous year: 9.2 percent) and the growth rate stated growth rate of 2.0 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent) above, the carrying amount following impairment was and pre-tax WACCs ranging from 4.6 percent to 8.3 €62.3 million. percent (previous year: ranging from 8.0 percent to 10.9 percent). 126 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The two significant goodwill items are assigned to the The business plans for 2020 of the group of cashgroups of cash-generating units Vibracoustic and generating units of Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Freudenberg Sealing Technologies. The WACCs used are based on slightly weaker market developments for the impairment test were 7.9 percent (previous following a significant fall 2019. Despite differences year: 8.0 percent) for Vibracoustic and 7.8 percent between the various regions and sectors, a slight decline (previous year: 10.9 percent) for Freudenberg Sealing is expected in the sealing segment. This applies both to Technologies. The assumed sustainable growth rate the automotive sector and to the general industry was 2.0 percent (previous year: 2.0 percent). The book market segments. Rising costs are to be mitigated by values of these goodwill items are shown in the the implementation of capacity adjustment projects, following table: productivity increases, leaner processes in administration, and a selective price policy. The [€ million] Goodwill transformation to e-mobility is proceeding rapidly. In traditional seal business, the share of components for eDec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 mobility applications is to be significantly increased. Vibracoustic 835.9 835.9 Sales in the battery sector are almost to double and Freudenberg Sealing development activities in the field of the fuel cell will be Technologies 180.7 220.5 significantly expanded. Freudenberg Sealing Technologies is providing considerable resources for this purpose. The operative planning for the group of cash-generating units of Vibracoustic assumes a sales growth rate. This In the case of a variation in the WACC of up to +1.0 is slightly above the expected development of the global percentage points, it would have been necessary to automobile production derived from external studies. recognize further impairments in the amount of The main areas of growth will be in the regions of North €35.4 million for the group of cash-generating units of America and Europe. As in previous years, it is planned Freudenberg Medical. There would have been no need to compensate for cost increases by productivity for impairment with respect to the major goodwill improvements. items. 127 (2) Tangible assets Changes in tangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2018: Other fixtures, Machinery fittings and Payments ConsLand and and office made on truction in [€ million] buildings equipment equipment account progress Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 2018 1,469.0 3,375.2 866.1 40.7 169.1 5,920.1 Changes in consolidated group 9.3 8.0 5.3 0.0 0.4 23.0 Exchange rate differences 15.5 36.3 4.7 0.4 3.0 59.9 Additions 31.8 88.5 52.1 38.8 153.6 364.8 Disposals -14.4 -153.6 -38.6 -2.5 -2.3 -211.4 Reclassifications1 28.2 109.0 -92.7 -46.6 -144.0 -146.1 Status Dec. 31, 2018 1,539.4 3,463.4 796.9 30.8 179.8 6,010.3 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1, 2018 668.5 2,438.9 648.9 0.0 0.2 3,756.5 Changes in consolidated group 3.7 5.7 3.9 0.0 0.0 13.3 Exchange rate differences 7.4 32.0 4.5 0.0 0.0 43.9 Additions – systematic 47.3 159.2 63.0 0.0 0.0 269.5 Impairment losses 0.2 3.1 0.5 0.0 0.0 3.8 Write-ups 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -9.2 -140.6 -36.4 0.0 0.0 -186.2 Reclassifications1 -12.9 0.3 -81.9 0.0 0.0 -94.5 Status Dec. 31, 2018 705.0 2,498.6 602.5 0.0 0.2 3,806.3 Book value Dec. 31, 2018 834.4 964.8 194.4 30.8 179.6 2,204.0 1 The transfers also include reclassifications to other statement of financial position items. 128 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in tangible assets from January 1 to December 31, 2019: Other fixtures, Machinery fittings and Payments ConsLand and and office made on truction in [€ million] buildings equipment equipment account progress Total ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1, 20192 1,835.5 3,463.4 854.1 30.8 179.8 6,363.6 Changes in consolidated 130.0 98.3 3.8 0.1 10.6 242.8 group Exchange rate 18.4 35.3 4.8 0.3 3.2 62.0 differences Additions 61.7 88.0 74.1 31.3 163.8 418.9 Disposals -25.0 -82.7 -42.6 -0.8 -1.0 -152.1 Reclassifications1 13.9 131.4 18.4 -30.9 -166.9 -34.1 Status Dec. 31, 2019 2,034.5 3,733.7 912.6 30.8 189.5 6,901.1 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1, 2019 705.0 2,498.6 602.5 0.0 0.2 3,806.3 Changes in consolidated 18.2 66.6 2.1 0.0 0.0 86.9 group Exchange rate 6.7 25.7 3.4 0.0 0.0 35.8 differences Additions – systematic 106.6 171.6 87.0 0.0 0.0 365.2 Impairment losses 0.0 2.2 0.1 0.0 0.1 2.4 Write-ups 0.0 -0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.9 Disposals -9.7 -74.2 -36.4 0.0 0.0 -120.3 Reclassifications1 -5.1 -12.4 -0.1 0.0 0.0 -17.6 Status Dec. 31, 2019 821.7 2,677.2 658.6 0.0 0.3 4,157.8 Book value Dec. 31, 2019 1,212.8 1,056.5 254.0 30.8 189.2 2,743.3 1 The transfers also include reclassifications to other statement of financial position items. 2 The opening balances were in some cases adjusted due to the effects of the first-time application of IFRS 16. As in the previous year, Freudenberg received government grants of an insignificant amount. The grants mainly concerned investment promotion. 129 Additional disclosures on leased assets – Right-ofuse assets Following the introduction of IFRS 16, Freudenberg has ment of changes in tangible assets under the category recognized right-of-use assets in respect of leased “Land and buildings” (land and buildings) or “Other assets since January 1, 2019. In the year under review, fixtures, fittings and office equipment” (passenger the following amounts were recognized in the state cars, forklift trucks and IT infrastructure): Land and Passenger Forklift IT [€ million] buildings cars trucks infrastructure Total Acquisition/Production cost 339.9 56.4 20.6 6.9 423.8 Of which: additions 44.1 22.4 8.0 2.2 76.7 Depreciation 59.9 19.2 5.7 2.2 87.0 Book value Dec. 31, 2019 280.0 37.2 14.9 4.7 336.8 In the 2019 financial year, the interest expense for There were no significant direct operating expenses in leased assets amounted to €8.6 million. In addition, the year under review or in the previous year. expenses for leased assets of low value were recognized in the statement of profit or loss in the In the reporting year, real property rented to the amount of €19.2 million. The total cash outflow for Freudenberg IT Business Group, which was sold with leasing in 2019 was €118.1 million. effect from February 28, 2019, was included in investment properties for the first time. Some of these properties are entirely non-owner occupied while (3) Investment properties others are partly owner-occupied. The land and buildings shown as investment properties in the Details of land and buildings held by Freudenberg as previous year were entirely non-owner occupied. investment properties are shown in the table below: There are no restrictions on the saleability of [€ million] 2018 2019 investment properties. There are no contractual obligations to purchase, build or develop investment Rent income 3.9 4.9 properties. Furthermore, Freudenberg is not under any contractual obligations to repair or maintain such investment properties going beyond its statutory obligations. 130 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in investment properties from January 1 to December 31: [€ million] 2018 2019 ACQUISITION/PRODUCTION COST Status Jan. 1 46.0 43.3 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 Exchange rate differences 0.0 0.0 Additions 0.0 0.0 Write-ups/revaluations 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications -2.7 13.0 Status Dec. 31 43.3 56.3 DEPRECIATION Status Jan. 1 33.3 33.0 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 Exchange rate differences 0.0 0.0 Additions systematic 1.3 1.8 Impairment losses 0.0 0.0 Write-ups/revaluations 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 0.0 Reclassifications -1.6 3.4 Status Dec. 31 33.0 38.2 Book value Dec. 31 10.3 18.1 The fair value of investment properties was €50.6 million (previous year: €36.7 million) and was calculated on the basis of discounted cash flows (level 3 inputs). 131 (4) Investments in joint ventures The joint venture agreement with NOK Corporation, The summarized financial information of this joint Tokyo, Japan, is of major importance for Freudenberg. venture company is set out below: NOK-Freudenberg Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore, is a 50:50 joint venture between the Japanese NOK Corporation and Freudenberg SE with the objective of serving the high-growth Chinese and Indian markets with locally-produced and imported sealing products. NOK-Freudenberg Singapore [€ million] Pte. Ltd. Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Current assets 257.1 243.6 Of which: cash and cash equivalents 77.7 61.5 Non-current assets 226.0 269.5 Current liabilities 181.0 166.4 Of which: current financial liabilities 75.8 53.2 Non-current liabilities 0.8 6.8 Equity without non-controlling interests 301.3 339.9 Freudenberg share 50.0 % 50.0 % Pro-rata share in equity 150.6 170.0 At-equity measurement 150.6 170.0 2018 2019 Sales 375.3 418.7 Profit or loss from continuing operations 42.9 28.9 Other comprehensive income -3.9 -0.9 Total comprehensive income 39.0 28.0 Of which: depreciation and amortization -19.0 -22.4 Of which: interest income 0.6 1.3 Of which: interest expenses -1.0 -2.7 Of which: income tax expense or income -12.6 -14.3 As in the previous year, Freudenberg did not receive any The pro-rata share of the profit or loss from continuing dividend from NOK-Freudenberg Singapore Pte. Ltd. operations of all individual joint ventures classed as not material was €-0.1 million (previous year: €0.5 The total carrying amount of interests in all individual million) and the pro-rata share in other comprehensive joint ventures which are not material was €13.8 income was €0.1 million (previous year: €0.5 million). million (previous year: €16.7 million). 132 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (5) Investments in associated companies For Freudenberg, its most important investment in The NOK Group manufactures and supplies sealing associated companies is its participation in the products, flexible printed circuits, roll products for Japanese company NOK Corporation with its office equipment and further products such as registered office in Tokyo, Japan. NOK Corporation specialty lubricants. applies Japanese GAAP. Adjustment to the financial reporting requirements of Freudenberg was effected This major associated company gave the following on the basis of the information published by NOK figures in its consolidated interim financial statements Corporation. as at December 31: [€ million] NOK Corporation Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Current assets 2,763.9 2,748.8 Non-current assets 3,621.8 3,742.0 Current liabilities 1,600.9 1,533.7 Non-current liabilities 813.0 988.3 Treasury shares -1.8 -1.9 Non-controlling interests 326.6 338.4 Equity without treasury shares and non-controlling interests 3,647.0 3,632.3 Freudenberg share 25.1% 25.1 % Pro-rata share in equity 915.4 911.7 Goodwill 7.1 7.1 At-equity measurement 922.5 918.8 2018 2019 Sales 5,322.6 5,159.6 Profit or loss from continuing operations 213.9 -85.0 Other comprehensive income -220.0 30.5 Total comprehensive income -6.1 -54.5 The increase in the other comprehensive income of The total carrying amount of interests in all associated NOK Corporation is chiefly due to effects from the companies classed as not material was €25.9 million change in the value of securities available for sale. (previous year: €25.3 million). Freudenberg received dividends in the amount of €17.9 The pro-rata share in the profit or loss from continuing million (previous year: €16.9 million) from NOK operations of all individual associated companies Corporation. classed as not material was €6.5 million (previous year: €0.2 million) and the pro-rata share in the other As at December 31, 2019, the market value of the comprehensive income of these companies was shareholding in NOK Corporation was €584.8 million €0.8 million (previous year: €1.2 million). The pro-rata (¥71,313.8 million) (previous year: €530.4 million; share in the total comprehensive income was therefore ¥66,750.7 million). €7.3 million (previous year €1.4 million). 133 (6) Inventories (7) Receivables Inventories break down as follows: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Trade receivables 1,467.5 1,482.1 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Of which: Residual term Raw materials and up to 1 year 1,467.5 1,482.1 consumables 352.1 376.8 Of which: Residual term Work in progress 150.9 162.8 more than 1 year 0.0 0.0 Finished goods and merchandise 561.7 621.7 Other assets 337.9 459.4 Customer-specific tools in Of which: Residual term construction 59.9 53.5 up to 1 year 265.8 376.3 Payments made on account 3.2 3.5 Of which: Residual term more than 1 year 72.1 83.1 1,127.8 1,218.3 After adjustment for effects resulting from changes in Inventories rose by €90.5 million compared with the the consolidated group and exchange rate effects, previous year. After eliminating the effects of changes trade receivables fell by about 2 percent. in the consolidated group and exchange rate effects, inventories rose by about 4 percent. The increase in the other assets compared with the previous year was mainly due to a payment deposited in Write-downs of inventories totaling €29.4 million an escrow account in connection with the offer for the (previous year: €31.3 million) were recognized as acquisition of Low & Bonar PLC, London, UK. expenses in the reporting year. Since the 2019 financial year, contract assets have not Write-ups totaling €17.3 million (previous year: €13.1 been disclosed as a separate item but under other assets million) were effected on inventories as the reason for in the statement of financial position, because the the impairment losses concerned no longer existed. amount concerned is not material. As at December 31, 2019, contract assets amounted to €23.1 million The inventories shown are not subject to any (previous year: €60.0 million). Changes in contract significant restrictions on title or disposal. assets are mainly the result of the satisfaction of performance obligations laid down in contracts with customers. The fall in contract assets compared with the previous year was the result of the fact that fewer contracts met the requirements for the realization of sales over time in the year under review. The other assets for the year under review include pension plan assets in excess of the corresponding pension obligations amounting to €4.5 million (previous year: €5.6 million). 134 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The other assets also include other tax receivables in In the previous year, the assets held for sale and related the amount of €88.0 million (previous year: €73.6 liabilities mainly concerned the disposal group million) and liability insurance claims totaling €5.1 Freudenberg IT. This Business Group was sold with million (previous year: €5.2 million). effect from February 28, 2019 (see “Acquisitions and disposals”). Furthermore, land and buildings with a The claims for reimbursement in connection with carrying amount of €4.3 million which were not recognized provisions, which are included in other regarded as necessary for the business of Freudenberg assets, are shown in the other provisions under were disposed of in the year under review. note (12). The assets and liabilities of the disposal groups break down as follows: (8) Securities and cash at bank and in hand [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Intangible and tangible Securities 180.9 201.7 assets 57.3 5.5 Checks and cash in hand 4.1 2.4 Inventories 1.1 2.3 Cash at banks 799.7 913.2 Trade receivables 27.1 0.9 984.7 1,117.3 Other assets 19.4 0.4 Securities and cash at bank and in hand 3.4 1.9 Non-current assets held for The increase in securities mainly concerns a rise in the sale and disposal groups 108.3 11.0 amount of commercial papers and other short-term Provisions for pensions and investments. similar obligations 15.4 0.0 Other provisions 20.6 0.4 Trade payables 19.3 0.2 (9) Assets and groups of assets held for sale Other liabilities 12.0 0.0 In December 2019, the Freudenberg Performance Liabilities in connection with non-current assets Materials Business Group signed a contract for the sale held for sale and disposal of its South American business with nonwovens for the groups 67.3 0.6 hygiene industry to the Brazilian nonwoven specialist Fitesa Não Tecidos S.A., Porto Alegre, Brazil. The Business Group has therefore completed its departure As at the date of the statement of financial position, from the hygiene segment, which is no longer part of the cumulative other comprehensive income of the its core business. As at the statement of financial disposal group recognized directly in equity amounted position date, the assets and liabilities of the disposal to €0 million (previous year: €4.4 million). group were classified as held for sale. As at the reclassification date, the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities concerned was in each case lower than their fair value less costs to sell. The sale took effect in February 2020. 135 (10) Equity The subscribed capital in the amount of €450.0 milIn the reporting year, income (+) and expenses (-) which lion (previous year: €450.0 million) consists of 450 had previously been recorded without an effect on net million no-par-value registered shares. The sole income with respect to the following components of shareholder of Freudenberg SE is Freudenberg & Co. other comprehensive income were reclassified to the Kommanditgesellschaft, Weinheim (hereafter: statement of profit or loss: Freudenberg & Co. KG). [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 The reserves break down as follows: Exchange rate differences -1.0 -0.8 Derivative financial [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 instruments -0.1 -0.1 Capital reserves 50.2 50.2 -1.1 -0.9 Retained earnings 4,452.9 4,902.1 4,503.1 4,952.3 In the 2019 financial year, tax effects (income (+) / expenses (-)) recorded without effect on net income are The capital reserves consist of contributions in kind attributable to the various items of other made by the shareholder. comprehensive income as follows: The retained earnings include net income earned by [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 the Group in the past and not distributed as well as Remeasurement of defined reserves of companies included in the consolidated benefit plans -2.2 34.6 financial statements including expenses and income Securities and other items -3.5 -1.4 recorded without effect on net income. -5.7 33.2 The profit distributed in the reporting year amounted to €106.1 million (previous year: €118.5 million). This corresponded to a profit per share of €0.24 (previous year: €0.26). The Board of Management proposes that the 2019 net retained profit in the amount of €2,719.1 million (previous year: €2,371.2 million) should be carried forward to new account. 136 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Non-controlling interests The change in non-controlling interests in the equity of This affiliated company is included in the consolidated consolidated affiliated companies from €359.0 million financial statements with the following values: to €417.2 million is mainly the result of the full consolidation for the first time of XALT Energy, LLC, [€ million] Midland, Michigan, USA, the allocation of profit for the Freudenberg-NOK General year and exchange rate differences. Furthermore, Partnership Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 dividends also resulted in a reduction in nonCurrent assets 313.7 299.7 controlling interests. Non-current assets 309.1 296.0 Current liabilities 90.4 79.0 In the case of the following affiliated company, the Non-current liabilities 31.7 45.2 consolidated financial statements include significant non-controlling interests in the amount of 25 percent of the shares: 2018 2019 Sales 638.2 647.7 [€ million] Profit (+) / loss (-) 59.7 57.2 Total comprehensive Freudenberg-NOK General income 80.8 66.6 Partnership, Plymouth, USA Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Profit (+) / loss (-) attributable to noncontrolling interests 12.9 17.5 Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership paid dividends Total amount of nonin the amount of €24.5 million (previous year: €1.2 controlling interests 127.6 127.9 million) to the holder of the non-controlling interests. Other non-controlling interests especially concern the EagleBurgmann Business Group, where they arise especially as a result of the contractual agreements with the partner Eagle Industry Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan. 137 (11) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The Freudenberg pension scheme consists of both Apart from pension obligations, this item also includes defined contribution and defined benefit pension obligations similar to pensions, such as amounts paid plans. Defined benefit plans include both fixed salary to employees upon the termination of their and final salary plans. The provisions for pensions and employment which do not constitute termination similar obligations include obligations arising from benefits. These benefits vary in accordance with the current pensions and future pension entitlements. legal, tax and economic conditions in the countries concerned. The pension plans at Freudenberg Group mainly concern German, Japanese and British companies. The All defined benefit schemes of the Freudenberg Group pension obligations of the German companies are are subject to typical actuarial risks, especially commitments financed by provisions. These investment and interest risks. obligations are subject to the rules of the pension plan concerned and the applicable statutory provisions. The Current service cost and net interest on the net defined plans include benefit commitments dependent on benefit liability are disclosed in the statement of profit service periods and on salaries and provide for or loss under personnel expenses in the relevant disability benefits and benefits for surviving functional areas. dependents as well as for retirement benefits. In the case of the defined contribution plans, there are The pension plans of British companies are managed no additional obligations apart from the payment of by third party pension funds. The representatives of contributions. Contributions paid are expensed under the pension funds are legally obliged to act in the personnel expenses and amounted to €81.2 million in interest of all participants in the plan. In cooperation 2019 (previous year: €84.3 million). with investment advisers, they are responsible for the development and regular review of investment The defined benefit obligations were calculated on strategies for the plan assets. Commitments based on actuarial principles by the projected unit credit method. age and years of service include both retirement The calculation was based on the following discount benefits and certain forms of survivor benefits. Most rates as major actuarial assumptions: of these plans are frozen and future entitlements can no longer be earned by plan participants. The pension Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 obligations of these companies are mainly financed by Germany 1.95 % 1.05 % plan assets, funded chiefly by employers’ Japan 0.52 % 0.42 % contributions. United Kingdom 2.82 % 1.97 % The pension plans in Japan consist of benefit commitments based on age and years of service. These pension plans are managed by a third-party In the case of the other foreign companies, the pension fund. The pension obligations of the Japanese discount rates ranged from 0.1 to 3.1 percent companies are mainly financed by plan assets, funded (previous year: 0.9 to 4.2 percent). solely by employers’ contributions. As a result of the pension plan regulations, the assumed trend in salaries and pensions only has an effect on the value of pension obligations in exceptional cases. 138 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Net obligations are shown in the following items of the statement of financial position: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 718.1 842.3 Other assets 5.6 4.5 712.5 837.8 Net obligations are calculated as follows: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Present value of funded obligations 266.7 277.2 Fair value of plan assets -247.1 -256.2 Surplus (-)/deficit (+) 19.6 21.0 Present value of unfunded obligations 692.9 816.8 712.5 837.8 139 Defined benefit obligations developed as follows: United Miscella[€ million] Germany Japan Kingdom neous 2018 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Jan. 1, 2018 639.2 121.7 129.0 114.2 1,004.1 Current service cost 14.4 3.8 0.0 4.8 23.0 Interest cost 11.6 0.7 2.6 2.5 17.4 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations -4.2 0.8 -5.7 -1.7 -10.8 Gains (-) and losses (+) on settlements 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 Past service cost 0.2 0.0 0.5 0.5 1.2 Contributions by plan participants 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.7 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 0.0 -25.8 -7.6 -33.4 Benefits paid -19.8 -4.4 -7.4 -6.2 -37.8 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other changes -15.1 0.0 0.0 0.5 -14.6 Exchange rate differences 0.0 8.9 -1.1 1.7 9.5 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Dec. 31, 2018 626.4 131.5 92.1 109.6 959.6 United Miscella[€ million] Germany Japan Kingdom neous 2019 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Jan. 1, 2019 626.4 131.5 92.1 109.6 959.6 Current service cost 14.8 4.4 0.0 4.7 23.9 Interest cost 12.0 0.7 2.6 2.5 17.8 Gains (-) and losses (+) from remeasurement of defined benefit obligations 108.3 1.6 16.0 9.3 135.2 Gains (-) and losses (+) on settlements 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 Past service cost 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 Benefits paid -19.4 -4.8 -7.2 -20.3 -51.7 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.8 Other changes 0.1 0.0 0.0 -1.9 -1.8 Exchange rate differences 0.0 4.2 4.7 1.4 10.3 Present value of defined benefit obligations, Dec. 31, 2019 742.2 137.6 108.2 106.0 1,094.0 140 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The plan assets of funded pension plans developed as follows: United Miscella[€ million] Japan Kingdom neous 2018 Fair value of plan assets, Jan. 1, 2018 98.7 127.7 49.0 275.4 Interest income 0.5 2.6 1.1 4.2 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement of plan assets -0.3 -5.7 0.4 -5.6 Contributions by employer 6.2 2.2 5.2 13.6 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.6 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 -25.8 -7.7 -33.5 Benefits paid -4.1 -7.4 -3.0 -14.5 General plan administration costs 0.0 -0.2 -0.3 -0.5 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other changes 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Exchange rate differences 7.2 -1.0 1.4 7.6 Fair value of plan assets, Dec. 31, 2018 108.2 92.4 46.5 247.1 United Miscella[€ million] Japan Kingdom neous 2019 Fair value of plan assets, Jan. 1, 2019 108.2 92.4 46.5 247.1 Interest income 0.6 2.7 0.8 4.1 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement of plan assets 1.5 12.2 0.5 14.2 Contributions by employer 6.7 2.4 3.2 12.3 Contributions by plan participants 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 Liabilities extinguished on settlements 0.0 0.0 -0.5 -0.5 Benefits paid -4.3 -7.2 -16.9 -28.4 General plan administration costs 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Changes in consolidated group 0.0 0.0 -0.4 -0.4 Other changes 0.0 0.0 -1.5 -1.5 Exchange rate differences 3.5 4.7 0.9 9.1 Fair value of plan assets, Dec. 31, 2019 116.2 107.1 32.9 256.2 141 The fair value of plan assets with quoted prices in In the reporting year, gains and losses from the active markets was as follows: remeasurement of the defined benefit obligations and plan assets recognized in retained earnings developed [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 as follows: Equity instruments 80.4 93.7 Interest-bearing securities 55.8 59.1 [€ million] 2018 2019 Other assets 81.9 78.4 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement, Jan. 1 -305.1 -288.6 218.1 231.2 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement of defined The fair value of plan assets without quoted prices in benefit obligations 10.8 -135.2 active markets was as follows: Of which: as a result of changed financial assumptions 17.9 -133.4 [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 Of which: as a result of Equity instruments 0.7 1.2 changed demographic assumptions -6.5 -1.6 Interest-bearing securities 0.4 1.0 Of which: as a result of Other assets 27.9 22.8 experience-based 29.0 25.0 adjustments -0.6 -0.2 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement of plan assets -5.5 14.2 Reclassifications/other changes 10.7 -1.8 Exchange rate differences 0.5 -2.3 Gains (+) and losses (-) from remeasurement, Dec. 31 -288.6 -413.7 In the following year, contributions in the amount of €11.6 million (previous year: €11.5 million) will probably be made to plan assets. The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations as at the end of the reporting year was 17.6 years (previous year: 16.4 years). The possible changes in the defined benefit obligation as a result of changes in the discount rate, a major actuarial assumption, were calculated on the basis of the projected unit credit method. If the discount rate as at the statement of financial position date had been 0.50 percentage points lower, the present value of defined benefit obligations as at the statement of financial position date would have been €102.2 million (previous year: €83.2 million) higher. If the discount rate as at the statement of financial position date had been 0.50 percentage points higher, the present value of defined benefit obligations as at the statement of financial position date would have been €90.4 million (previous year: €74.3 million) lower. 142 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (12) Other provisions Warranties Personnel and Onerous [€ million] obligations guarantees contracts Miscellaneous1 Total Status Jan. 1, 2019 340.0 70.6 25.5 244.9 681.0 Increases 240.2 26.4 22.6 160.5 449.7 Unwinding of discount and effect of change in discount rate 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.9 1.0 Amounts used -236.5 -8.1 -14.6 -103.4 -362.6 Reversal -18.8 -22.3 -5.1 -39.2 -85.4 Exchange rate differences 2.0 0.2 0.1 0.9 3.2 Changes in consolidated group 9.3 0.2 0.0 15.2 24.7 Other changes 1.2 -0.3 5.0 -5.1 0.8 Status Dec. 31, 2019 337.5 66.7 33.5 274.7 712.4 Of which: long-term 66.6 1.3 0.9 46.4 115.2 Of which: short-term 270.9 65.4 32.6 228.3 597.2 Reimbursement claims connected with provisions and shown in the statement of financial position under other assets 0.4 2.0 0.0 0.1 2.5 1 The opening balances were in some cases adjusted due to the effects of the first time application of IFRS 16. The provisions for personnel obligations mainly The miscellaneous provisions include the following include provisions for other short-term employee items: benefits such as bonuses and commissions, provisions for vacation not taken and other long-term employee [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 benefits such as long-term remuneration components Restructuring 33.4 58.6 as well as provisions for termination benefits. Environmental protection 21.6 21.5 Legal action 24.1 19.9 The provisions for guarantees and warranties concern Other 165.4 174.7 products supplied and services rendered. The provisions for onerous contracts include unrealized Total 244.5 274.7 losses from contracts which have not been performed or not been fully performed. 143 (13) Liabilities Residual term Residual term [€ million] Short-term Long-term Dec. 31, 2018 Short-term Long-term Dec. 31, 2019 Liabilities to banks (= financial debt) 133.5 282.4 415.9 243.5 170.1 413.6 Cash pool Liablilities 101.9 0.0 101.9 134.7 0.0 134.7 1 Other finanical debt 11.5 0.0 11.5 28.3 81.5 109.8 Lease Liabilities 0.7 5.6 6.3 87.8 254.3 342.1 Shareholder’s loans 375.0 300.0 675.0 372.0 300.0 672.0 Accounts of Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners 179.9 299.6 479.5 186.5 326.4 512.9 Financial debt 802.5 887.6 1,690.1 1,052.8 1,132.3 2,185.1 Trade payables 883.0 0.0 883.0 914.0 0.0 914.0 Contract liabilities 33.5 0.0 33.5 26.9 0.0 26.9 1 Miscellaneous liabilities 282.6 132.3 414.9 231.4 167.3 398.7 Other liabilities 316.1 132.3 448.4 258.3 167.3 425.6 2,001.6 1,019.9 3,021.5 2,225.1 1,299.6 3,524.7 1 Compared to the previous year, there was a reclassification from miscellaneous liabilities to other finanical debt. The average interest rate on long-term liabilities to The interest payable on the certificates of banks is 0.91 percent (previous year: 1.00 percent). For indebtedness included in the liabilities to banks is the first time, the other financial debt includes loans based on variable and fixed components. Cash flows by third parties with an interest rate between 1.00 and for variable and fixed interest and repayment of 6.00 percent on the long-term portion. principal will probably be as follows from 2020 to 2023: [€ million] Book Value Cash Flows Dec. 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022-2023 Certificates of indebtedness 214.5 160.3 0.9 58.2 Liabilities in connection with leasing in the previous loans at rates between 1.00 and 3.35 percent (previous financial year resulted from finance leases in year: between 1.00 and 3.35 percent). accordance with IAS 17, with an average interest rate of 3.18 percent. Additional lease liabilities were The interest rates applicable to accounts of recognized as at January 1, 2019 as a result of the firstFreudenberg & Co. KG Partners vary between 1.00 and time application of IFRS 16. As at December 31, 2019, 4.00 percent depending on the individual agreements possible future cash outflows in the amount of €21.4 (previous year: between 1.00 and 4.00 percent). million were not included in lease liabilities because a lease had been concluded but not yet incepted as at the Miscellaneous liabilities include liabilities for date of the statement of financial position or because it outstanding wages and salaries, holiday pay and special was not assessed as reasonably certain that an bonuses and liabilities for other taxes, as well as extension option would be exercised. liabilities in connection with social security and other refund liabilities. The loans granted by the shareholder were extended during the reporting year. Interest is payable on these 144 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Bills of exchange 0.1 0.0 Guarantees 15.8 4.2 Warranty agreements 0.2 10.2 Collateral for third-party labilities 0.1 0.0 Miscellaneous 0.4 2.2 16.6 16.6 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Commitments arising from leasing contracts 370.3 0.0 Purchase commitments in connection with intangible assets 1.4 0.5 Purchase commitments in connection with tangible assets 47.7 74.5 Purchase commitments in connection with the delivery of goods and services 92.7 178.4 Miscellaneous 23.4 9.9 535.5 263.3 In addition, the following contingent liabilities and other financial commitments concern joint ventures: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Guarantees 5.6 0.0 Warranties 0.4 8.5 6.0 8.5 OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Commitments arising from leasing contracts 4.7 0.0 Purchase commitments in connection with the delivery of goods and services 0.0 0.0 4.7 0.0 Additional information on financial instruments event of loss of control over the contractually agreed rights to a financial asset, the asset concerned is The term “financial instrument” is used to refer to any derecognized. Financial liabilities are derecognized on contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one the statement of financial position when the enterprise and a financial liability or equity instrument commitment is discharged or cancelled, or expires. of another enterprise. A distinction is made between primary and derivative financial instruments. Primary According to IFRS 9, financial instruments are divided financial instruments in the case of the purchase or into the following categories: sale of assets are recognized at the settlement date, i.e. the delivery of the asset concerned. Derivative financial • Measured at amortized cost instruments are recognized as of the trade date. In the 145 This category includes debt instruments with cash • Measured at fair value through profit or loss flows consisting solely of principal and interest payments. They are held by Freudenberg in a This category includes both debt and equity business model whose objective is achieved by instruments. Debt instruments are to be assigned to collecting the contractual cash flows. this category in the event that the cash flows associated with such instruments do not consist • Measured at fair value through other comprehensive solely of principal and interest payments or if the income business model is based mainly on short-term trading intentions. Equity instruments must also be This category includes both debt and equity assigned to this category if there are trading instruments. Debt instruments are to be included in intentions. If there are no trading intentions, there is this category if the cash flows associated with these an option to classify equity instruments as measured instruments consists solely of principal and interest at fair value through profit or loss. In addition, both payments and the business model has the objective debt and equity instruments are classified in this of both collecting contractual cash flows and selling category if such classification prevents an financial assets. Amounts recognized in other accounting mismatch between assets and liabilities. comprehensive income for those debt instruments The same applies to partnership shares. Those shares are reclassified to the statement of profit or loss are not considered to be equity instruments and also upon the later disposal of such instruments. Equity do not meet the condition that the cash flows instruments not held for trading may be assigned to associated with them consist solely of principal and this category. The amounts recognized in other interest payments. Derivative financial instruments comprehensive income for those equity instruments that do not meet the requirements for hedge are not reclassified to the statement of profit or loss accounting are also measured at fair value through in the event of the later disposal of such instruments. profit or loss. Freudenberg does not hold any financial assets or liabilities for short-term trading purposes. 146 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial instruments Financial instruments are assigned to categories on the basis of the relevant items in the statement of financial position. The allocation to the categories unambiguously defines the accounting and measurement of the instruments. At fair value through other At fair value At amortized comprehensive through profit Book value [€ million] cost income or loss Dec. 31, 2018 ASSETS Other financial assets 6.6 57.0 55.0 118.6 Trade receivables 1,467.5 1,467.5 Other assets 132.6 27.3 159.9 Securities and cash at bank and in hand 984.7 984.7 2,591.4 57.0 82.3 2,730.7 LIABILITIES Financial debts 1,690.1 1,690.1 Trade payables 883.0 883.0 Other liabilities 293.5 0.4 293.9 2,866.6 0.4 2,867.0 At fair value through other At fair value At amortized comprehensive through profit Book value [€ million] cost income or loss Dec. 31, 2019 ASSETS Other financial assets 15.7 52.3 70.5 138.5 Trade receivables 1,482.1 1,482.1 Other assets 262.0 40.7 302.7 Securities and cash at bank and in hand 1,117.3 1,117.3 2,877.1 52.3 111.2 3,040.6 LIABILITIES Financial debts 2,185.1 2,185.1 Trade payables 914.0 914.0 Other liabilities 276.7 2.7 279.4 3,375.8 2.7 3,378.5 Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost. whose objective is achieved by collecting the The cash flows arising from these financial assets contractual cash flows. The fair values of financial consist solely of principal and interest payments and assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized they are held by Freudenberg within a business model 147 cost are approximately equal to the carrying amounts are measured at fair value through profit or loss (see of such assets and liabilities. information on hedging transactions). The other financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income as at the Information on credit risks statement of financial position date consist solely of equity instruments not held for trading purposes. The In accordance with IFRS 9, expected credit losses are greater part of these financial instruments, in the the key factor in measuring impairment losses. amount of €47.4 million (previous year: €53.3 million) Impairment losses are recognized in accordance with were measured on the basis of active markets for IFRS 9 for all financial assets measured at amortized identical assets (level 1 input factors). For the cost, for debt instruments measured at fair value remaining equity instruments, in the amount of €4.9 without effect on net income, and for contract assets. million (previous year: €3.7 million), the amortized cost IFRS 9 provides for a three-stage procedure. Loss represents the best estimate of the fair value. The allowances are measured either on the basis of the 12amounts recognized in other comprehensive income month expected credit loss (stage 1) or on the basis of for equity instruments are not reclassified to the the lifetime expected credit loss if there has been a statement of profit or loss upon the later disposal of significant increase in credit risk since initial such instruments. In the reporting period, there were recognition (stage 2) or a credit impairment has been no disposals of significant equity instruments in this identified (stage 3). category. Securities and cash at bank and in hand are debt The other financial instruments measured at fair value instruments that are measured at amortized cost. Such through profit or loss are debt instruments with an assets held by Freudenberg mainly have a low credit amount of €2.9 million (previous year: €2.5 million) risk and are due in the short-term. Such assets must with cash flows not consisting solely of principal and therefore be assigned to stage 1 of the impairment interest payments, investments for which another model. The loss allowance as at the date of the measurement would lead to an accounting mismatch statement of financial position was €1.0 million. The with an amount of €9.4 million (previous year: impairment losses were not adjusted in the reporting €9.0 million) and shares in partnerships with an period. amount of €58.2 million (previous year: €43.5 million). In the case of shares in partnerships, the amortized For trade receivables, the simplified approach in cost represents the fair value, unless there is sufficient accordance with IFRS 9 is adopted. In this approach, the recent information available for the measurement of loss allowance is always calculated on the basis of the fair value. In the event that later information becomes lifetime expected credit losses. In order to determine available, measurement changes are recognized in fair the expected credit losses, customers are assigned to value with an effect on net income. The other financial groups with similar credit risks. In the case of assets measured at fair value through profit or loss are appropriate individual circumstances and risk measured on the basis of active markets for identical indications, individual impairment losses are assets (level 1 inputs). The income recognized in the recognized. Information related to the past and to the reporting period for financial instruments in this future is taken into consideration in the measurement category was €14.8 million (previous year: loss of €1.9 of impairment losses. million). The other assets in this category solely include derivative financial instruments. These chiefly concern In order to determine the expected credit losses for a option rights for the acquisition of shares in companies group of receivables, Freudenberg applies two factors. with a value of €40.6 million (previous year: €26.7 The first factor takes the country risk into account and million). The fair value of these assets is measured on the second factor accounts for the customer-specific the basis of developed, unobservable input factors default risk. (level 3 input factors). The other assets and other liabilities include derivative financial instruments used The centrally defined country risk factor covers factors for hedging currency risks but do not meet the such as transfer or convertibility risks, moratoriums, requirements for hedge accounting. Such derivatives and capital or currency regulations which would 148 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements prevent a company from converting its local currency The customer-specific risk is based on shared credit risk into a foreign currency and/or transferring foreign characteristics of receivable groups. It takes into currency to creditors in other countries. This specifically consideration specific business models, customer includes circumstances such as war, confiscation, experience, differences in local payment cultures and revolution, insurrections, flooding and earthquakes. In market knowledge. If there is a major difference addition the model considers forward looking between different due date ranges, impairment loss information regarding the financial and economic rates are calculated separately for the different due situation. The financial information includes mediumdate ranges. term financial solvency indicators such as overall foreign debt and total payments in connection with To a large extent (between 70 and 90 percent), trade external debts. These figures are typically connected receivables are covered by credit insurance. Credit with indicators such as the gross domestic product insurance is taken into account in the calculation of the and/or foreign exchange revenues. Economic impairment losses. Otherwise, the carrying amount information includes long-term structural indicators represents the maximum credit risk. that measure the growth potential such as income levels, savings rates or economic growth rates achieved Trade receivables are de-recognized if, on the basis of an and vulnerability, such as export diversification, appropriate estimate, it is not to be expected that the dependence on subsidies or the size of economies. receivable may be realized in whole or in part. In this context, the information concerned must indicate that a debtor has financial problems and that there is no realistic prospect of the receipt of payments, for example if a debtor has been placed under liquidation or is subject to insolvency proceedings. As at the statement of financial position date, derecognized receivables in the amount of €1.5 million (previous year: €1.3 million) were still subject to enforcement activity. 149 The risk profile of trade receivables is summarized in the table below: Gross carrying amount [€ million ] Dec. 31, 20181 Weighted average loss rate2 Loss allowance Current (not past due) 1,259.4 1% 12.0 1 – 60 days past due 196.0 2% 4.3 61 – 180 days past due 43.8 9% 3.9 181 – 360 days past due 12.7 18% 2.3 More than 360 days past due 9.6 46% 4.4 1 The figures include assets and groups of assets held for sale. 2 The weighted average loss rate was rounded to full percentage values. Gross carrying amount [€ million ] Dec. 31, 20191 Weighted average loss rate2 Loss allowance Current (not past due) 1,220.2 0% 4.7 1 – 60 days past due 218.1 3% 7.6 61 – 180 days past due 50.0 14% 7.2 181 – 360 days past due 15.2 28% 4.2 More than 360 days past due 11.3 72% 8.1 1 The figures include assets and groups of assets held for sale. 2 The weighted average loss rate was rounded to full percentage values. Loss allowance to trade receivables developed as As at the statement of financial position date, loss follows: allowance to other assets amounted to €0.5 million (previous year: €0.7 million). No significant impairment losses to contract assets were recognized in the year [€ million] 2018 2019 under review. Loss allowance Jan. 1 26.3 26.9 Changes in consolidated group 0.1 0.7 Exchange rate differences -0.4 0.2 Additions (expenses for impairments) 9.6 16.5 Amounts used -2.9 -8.4 Reversals (write-ups) -5.8 -4.1 Loss allowance Dec. 31 26.9 31.8 150 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Hedging transactions Freudenberg SE is responsible for all financing Derivative financial instruments for hedging activities and also coordinates the cash management recognized assets or liabilities (fair value hedges) are system for the entire group of companies. Group shown in the statement of financial position at fair companies obtain the financing they require via cash value. Changes in the fair value are recorded in the pools or internal loans or, in some countries, in the form statement of profit or loss. of bank loans guaranteed by Freudenberg SE. Financial instruments for hedging future cash flows The limits of action, responsibilities and control (cash flow hedges) are also included in the statement procedures in connection with derivative financial of financial position at fair value, but changes in the fair instruments are laid down in a binding form in internal value of such instruments are recognized without directives for Group companies. Freudenberg does not effect on net income under retained earnings, taking expose itself to additional financial risks through into consideration the applicable income taxes and speculation with derivative financial instruments but recognized in the statement of profit or loss when uses such instruments only for hedging purposes and future cash flows are realized. Ineffective portions of therefore reducing risks in connection with transhedge transactions are always recognized in the actions. Future transactions are only hedged if there is statement of profit or loss. The effectiveness of a high probability of occurrence. As a general principle hedging transactions is determined regularly by Freudenberg uses derivative financial instruments for prospective assessment upon the inception of the hedging interest rates and foreign exchange risks. transaction. For hedging currency risks, the main Open risk items are primarily hedged via transactions hedging transactions concluded are based on contract within the Group. External hedging transactions are terms that are congruent with the underlying only concluded after consultation with the responsible transaction. Ineffectiveness may arise if parameters corporate function. such as the timing of a planned transaction change compared with the original estimate. The interest rate risk represents the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments may Derivative financial instruments are used solely for fluctuate as a result of changes in market interest rates. hedging purposes. However, if the derivatives do not As in the previous year, there were no derivatives meet the requirements for hedge accounting, they entered into for the purpose of interest rate hedging as must be assessed as “held for trading” for accounting at December 31, 2019. purposes. Such instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Freudenberg is active internationally and is subject to exchange rate risks resulting from transactions in foreign currencies. Currency risks arise from future business transactions and recognized assets and liabilities concluded in a currency which is not the functional currency of the relevant Group company. The objective of hedging transactions is to reduce the volatility resulting from foreign currencies. For this purpose, currency futures and currency swaps are concluded. 151 As at December 31, the Group held the following currency futures: [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CASH FLOW HEDGES Other assets – book value (assets) 0.4 0.1 Other liabilities – book value (equity and liabilities) 0.3 0.0 Notional amount 31.7 3.0 Maturity date 1 / 2019 – 12 / 2019 1 / 2020 – 7 / 2020 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in exchange rate of outstanding hedging instruments 0.1 0.1 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR VALUE HEDGES Other assets – book value (assets) 0.0 0.1 Other liabilities – book value (equity and liabilities) 0.2 0.2 Notional amount 3.6 17.1 Maturity date 2 / 2019 – 9 / 2020 1 / 2020 – 12 / 2020 Hedge ratio 1:1 1:1 Change in exchange rate of outstanding hedging instruments -0.2 -0.1 Change in value of hedged item 0.2 0.1 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS HELD FOR TRADING Other assets – book value (assets) 0.6 0.1 Other liabilities – book value (equity and liabilities) 0.4 2.7 Notional amount 131.8 240.1 Maturity date 1 / 2019 – 12 / 2019 1 / 2020 – 12 / 2020 In the reporting year, value changes in the case of Derivatives to hedge currency risks in connection with currency futures (cash flow hedges) are recognized in the US dollar represent a large part of the notional equity in the amount of €0.1 million (previous amount. year: €0.1 million). [€ million] Dec. 31, 2018 Dec. 31, 2019 The fair values of currency futures were determined on Notional amount the basis of the quoted currency future prices for currency pair USD/EUR 60.2 63.3 similar financial instruments (level 2 inputs). Weighted average hedged rate for the year USD/EUR 1.14 1.12 152 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Risks in connection with financial instruments Freudenberg is exposed to risks resulting from changes Currency risk: in exchange rates and interest rates and, as a general principle, uses conventional derivative instruments The primary financial instruments are chiefly held in such as interest rate swaps, caps and currency futures the functional currency. to hedge risks in connection with business operations and financing to a limited extent. The use of these Exchange rate differences caused by the conversion of instruments is governed by Freudenberg directives financial statements into the Group currency are not within the risk management system which lay down taken into consideration. limits on the basis of the value of the underlying transactions, define approval procedures, exclude the If the value of the Euro against major currencies held at use of derivative instruments for speculative purposes, the date of the statement of financial position (USD, minimize credit risks and govern internal reporting and GBP and JPY) had been 10 percent higher as at the separation of functions. Compliance with these December 31, 2019, the profit before income taxes directives and the proper handling and measurement would have been €17.2 million (previous year: of transactions are regularly verified, observing the €10.4 million) lower. If the value of the euro against principle of separation of functions. Furthermore, risk major currencies held (USD, GBP and JPY) had been 10 management for financial instruments is integrated in percent lower as at December 31, 2018, the profit the Freudenberg Group risk management system. before income taxes would have been €21.0 million (previous year: €12.7 million) higher. The risks which are hedged are chiefly as follows: Liquidity risk: Interest rate risk: Risks connected with cash flow fluctuations are In the case of fixed-interest loans or investments, there identified by the cash flow planning system already is a risk that changes in the market interest rate will existing. As a result of Freudenberg‘s good rating (“A3”) affect the market value of the item concerned (market and the credit lines granted by banks on a binding basis, value risk contingent on interest rates). In contrast, Freudenberg can access ample sources of funds at all variable interest loans and investments are not subject times. to this risk as the interest rate is adjusted to reflect changes in the market situation with a very short delay. However, there is a risk with respect to future interest Credit risk: payments as a result of short-term fluctuations in market interest rates (cash flow risk contingent on Specific loss allowances are recognized to take account interest rates). of identifiable risks not covered by credit insurance. In addition, a loss allowance is recognized for expected Risks associated with interest rate changes mainly credit losses. Otherwise, the book value represents the affect long-term items. If market interest rates had maximum credit risk. been 0.5 percentage points higher or lower, on average, as of December 31, 2019, this would have had only an Freudenberg only concludes derivative financial insignificant impact on net income. instruments with national and international banks of investment grade rating. Credit risks are largely limited by distributing between several banks and a policy of applying caps to individual banks. 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS (14) Sales (16) Selling expenses [€ million] 2018 2019 Selling expenses, amounting to €1,298.3 million Sales from sales of goods 9,077.1 9,217.6 (previous year: €1,297.2 million), include all expenses incurred in the sales area, for example personnel, Sales from services 153.7 37.4 advertising, carriage and packaging expenses. Sales from research and development / research and development licenses 92.5 87.2 (17) Administrative expenses Sales from productionrelated licenses 1.2 0.8 In 2019, administrative expenses amounted to Other sales 130.9 124.8 €638.6 million (previous year: €633.5million). 9,455.4 9,467.8 Administrative expenses include all expenses which cannot be allocated to production, sales or research and development and concern, inter alia, personnel Other sales include, inter alia, sales from the sale of expenses and miscellaneous administrative expenses. customer-specific tools, sales from rental and lease contracts and sales from support and supplementary operations. A breakdown of sales by sectors and (18) Research and development expenses regions is given in the management report. Apart from personnel and material expenses, research In the 2019 financial year, sales in the amount of €28.6 and development expenses chiefly include the cost of million (previous year: €25.5 million) were recorded licenses and patents occurring in the course of which had been recognized as contract liabilities at the development projects. beginning of the financial year. (15) Cost of sales Cost of sales, amounting to €6,480.5 million (previous year: €6,395.6 million), indicates the cost of goods and services sold. Apart from individual directly attributable costs, such as personnel expenses and material expenses, also overheads including depreciation/amortization as well as development expenses for customer-specific development projects are shown under cost of sales. 154 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (19) Other income (21) Income from investments in joint ventures [€ million] 2018 2019 The income from investments in joint ventures Currency and exchange amounted to €14.3 million (previous year: €22.0 gains1 7.9 6.8 million). Income from other secondary business 2.2 2.3 Income from the change in (22) Income from investments in associated status of investments companies previously consolidated atequity 0.0 39.0 Income from disposals of The fall in income from investments in associated non-current assets 29.4 164.9 companies from €46.9 million to €-15.9 million is a Income from recharges 10.9 10.5 result of the reduced pro rata profit of the associated Miscellaneous income 84.9 90.4 company NOK Corporation, Tokyo, Japan. 135.3 313.9 1 After offsetting of exchange rate losses. (23) Other investment result The increase in other investment result from The increase in other income is chiefly due to higher €-9.5 million to €33.9 million was chiefly the result of income from disposals of non-current assets. This increased income from investments and increased includes the sale of Freudenberg IT. The increase in income from the re-measurement of financial assets income from the change in status of investments measured at fair value through profit or loss. previously consolidated at equity is a result of the increase in the stakes held in XALT Energy, LLC, and Cambus Teoranta. (24) Other interest and similar income The other interest and similar income amounted to (20) Other expenses €20.8 million (previous year: €13.3 million). [€ million] 2018 2019 (25) Interest and similar expenses Losses resulting from disposals of non-current assets 7.3 8.4 In 2019, interest expenses amounted to €55.0 million Miscellaneous expenses 76.2 110.9 (previous year: €44.0 million). This item chiefly includes interest on shareholder’s loans in the 83.5 119.3 amount of €13.4 million (previous year: €13.4 million) and interest payable to the Partners of Freudenberg & Co. KG in the amount of €14.3 million (previous year: The miscellaneous expenses mainly include the €13.1 million). impairment loss on the goodwill of the group of cashgenerating unit Freudenberg Medical in the amount of €77.8 million. 155 (26) Income taxes The amount of deferred tax income related to changes in tax rates was €1.1 million (previous year: This item shows German corporation tax (plus €0.9 million). Deferred tax income includes income in solidarity surcharge) and municipal trade taxes as well the amount of €30.9 million (previous year: €14.5 as similar taxes on income payable in other countries. million) resulting from the development or elimination of temporary differences. In the reporting year, The figure also includes deferred taxes on temporary impairment losses with respect to deferred tax assets differences between the tax balance sheets and on temporary differences were recognized in the commercial balance sheets of individual group amount of €9.0 million (previous year: €6.1 million). companies, on adjustments to consistent measurement within the Freudenberg Group and on In the reporting year, deferred taxes related to the consolidation procedure. transactions recognized directly in equity resulted in an increase in equity of €33.2 million (previous year: Deferred taxes are calculated at the tax rates applicable reduction in equity of €5.7 million). in the respective countries. As of December 31, 2019, tax losses carried forward Income taxes break down as follows (expense (-) / amounted to €624.5 million (previous year: income (+)): €388.2 million). Deferred tax assets were recognized in respect of tax losses carried forward totaling [€ million] 2018 2019 €28.2 million (previous year: €37.7 million). Deferred tax assets were not recognized in respect of tax losses Current taxes related to the reporting period -242.2 -240.7 carried forward with a total amount of €596.3 million Current taxes related to (previous year: €350.5 million) as it is not expected that prior periods -6.6 -7.7 these losses will be usable. Of the tax losses carried Deferred taxes 15.9 30.5 forward, €21.0 million (previous year: €19.5 million) -232.9 -217.9 will be forfeited in the period up to 2029 if they are not used. In the reporting year, tax losses carried forward totaling €27.2 million (previous year: €14.7 million) for which no deferred tax assets had been recognized were used. 156 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred taxes concern temporary differences and tax losses carried forward in the following amounts: Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, [€ million] 2018 2018 2019 2019 Intangible assets 18.1 287.7 19.3 275.3 Tangible assets 11.1 119.3 10.0 123.5 Financial assets 1.3 2.0 1.1 2.0 Inventories 42.7 0.7 50.7 1.0 Receivables 19.3 8.4 16.6 9.0 Other assets 3.0 8.6 4.6 7.1 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 119.8 0.3 150.9 0.2 Other provisions 54.0 2.2 71.8 3.3 Liabilities 28.4 11.5 28.3 17.8 Balance of rights of use assets and liabilities from leasing 0.0 0.0 2.5 2.4 Other liabilities 0.1 4.2 0.6 5.7 Tax losses carried forward 6.8 0.0 5.4 0.0 304.6 444.9 361.8 447.3 Offsetting -96.1 -96.1 -99.9 -99.9 Recognized in statement of financial position 208.5 348.8 261.9 347.4 No deferred tax items were set up on temporary differences arising from shareholdings totaling €43.1 million (previous year: €44.5 million) as shortterm dividend payments are not expected. No deferred tax liabilities were recognized in respect of differences in the retained earnings of affiliated companies amounting to €2,317.5 million (previous year: €1,974.7 million) as it is intended to use these funds for maintaining the substance and expanding the business of the companies concerned. 157 Reconciliation of expected income tax with actual [€ million] 2018 2019 income tax expense Profit before income taxes 835.3 828.5 Expected income tax Freudenberg SE and its German subsidiaries are expense (-)/ income (+) -250.6 -248.6 subject to corporation tax (plus solidarity surcharge) Different tax rates: and the municipal trade tax on income. Income In Germany 0.6 0.3 realized in other countries is taxed at the rates In other countries 44.3 44.8 applicable in the respective countries. The tax rate of Tax portion of: 30.0 percent (previous year: 30.0 percent) used for Non-taxable income 46.9 51.5 calculating the expected tax expense is based on the Non-deductible expenses -64.1 -59.7 structure of Freudenberg relevant for taxation. It is calculated as the weighted average of the tax rates for Current taxes related to prior periods -3.6 -2.6 the regions in which Freudenberg realized its main Tax portion of new tax losses income. Non-taxable income includes, inter alia, the carried forward for which no profit after tax of participations consolidated by the deferred tax assets were equity method, dividends received from nonrecognized -12.4 -13.0 consolidated companies and income from the reTax portion of tax losses measurement of financial assets measured at fair carried forward and used for which no deferred tax assets value through profit or loss. were recognized 0.6 2.8 Other taxation effects 5.4 6.6 Actual income tax expense -232.9 -217.9 Effective tax rate (percent) 27.9 26.3 (27) Profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests [€ million] 2018 2019 Profit 55.9 62.4 Loss -6.7 -22.8 49.2 39.6 158 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (28) Cash flow from operating activities (29) Payments to shareholders/non-controlling interests The cash flow from operating activities takes into account dividends received from joint ventures totaling Payments to shareholders and non-controlling €0.3 million (previous year: €0.3 million) and dividends interests include dividends paid to the shareholder, to received from associated companies totaling €24.6 the Partners of Freudenberg & Co. KG and to holders of million (previous year: €21.7 million). non-controlling interests in Group companies. (30) Reconciliation of financial debt The table below shows the reconciliation of financial debt: With effect [€ million] 2018 on payments Without effect on payments 2019 Acquisitions/ Exchange rate Additions Disposals effects Others1 Liabilities to banks 415.9 -18.3 0.0 10.4 5.6 0.0 413.6 Liabilities from cash pool 101.9 6.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 26.7 134.7 Leasing liabilities 6.3 -89.4 62.5 3.8 3.5 355.4 342.1 Other financial debt 11.5 0.1 0.0 60.5 -5.8 43.5 109.8 Shareholder’s loans 675.0 -3.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 672.0 Accounts of Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners 479.5 31.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.5 512.9 Financial debt 1,690.1 -72.6 62.5 74.7 3.3 427.1 2,185.1 1 Includes the changeover effect from IFRS 16 in the amount of €353.1 million. (31) Changes in cash and cash equivalents with effect on payments Freudenberg recognizes checks, cash in hand, cash at The funds subject to restrictions on use by Freudenberg bank and short-term securities with an original term of largely concern cash and cash equivalents held by up to three months as cash and cash equivalents. Cash affiliates which can only be used by Freudenberg with and cash equivalents include funds with an amount of restrictions as a result of exchange controls. €2.5 million (previous year: €1.8 million) subject to restrictions on use. 159 FURTHER NOTES Material expenses Research and development [€ million] 2018 2019 In the year under review, research and development activities amounting to €480.9 million (previous year: Raw materials, consumables and merchandise purchased 3,824.3 3,880.4 €444.3 million) were performed. Sales from research and development and research and development Services purchased 267.2 252.1 licenses amounted to €87.2 million (previous year: 4,091.5 4,132.5 €92.5 million). In the reporting year, government grants for research and development projects totaling €3.9 million (previous year: €3.4 million) were received. Workforce and personnel expenses In the year under review, an average of 49,108 (previous year: 48,894) persons were employed in the following functions: Other 2019 Germany countries Total Production 6,484 26,041 32,525 Sales 2,018 6,481 8,499 Research and development 1,806 1,978 3,784 Administration 1,345 2,955 4,300 11,653 37,455 49,108 [€ million] 2018 2019 Wages and salaries 2,134.9 2,146.5 Social security contributions and costs of pensions and assistance 515.0 531.1 Personnel expenses 2,649.9 2,677.6 160 Consolidated Financial Statement – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Related party disclosure Relations with related parties concern the parent Other related parties include other participations of company Freudenberg & Co. KG, joint ventures, the parent company and companies that are not associated companies and other related parties. included in the consolidated financial statements for reasons of materiality. Transactions with these parties in the course of the company’s ordinary business were as follows: Receivables Payables Residual Residual Residual Residual term up to term more Dec. 31, term up to term more Dec. 31, [€ million] Sales 2018 1 year than 1 year 2018 1 year than 1 year 2018 Parent company 4.6 3.8 0.0 3.8 482.6 300.0 782.6 Joint ventures 54.9 61.8 0.0 61.8 2.2 0.0 2.2 Associated companies 17.1 5.7 0.0 5.7 7.5 0.0 7.5 Other related parties 3.7 7.3 0.0 7.3 44.0 0.0 44.0 80.3 78.6 0.0 78.6 536.3 300.0 836.3 Receivables Payables Residual Residual Residual Residual term up to term more Dec. 31, term up to term more Dec. 31, [€ million] Sales 2019 1 year than 1 year 2019 1 year than 1 year 2019 Parent company 3.1 6.0 0.0 6.0 477.6 300.0 777.6 Joint ventures 42.9 47.0 0.0 47.0 5.3 9.2 14.5 Associated companies 16.5 5.2 0.0 5.2 10.3 0.0 10.3 Other related parties 3.9 2.4 0.0 2.4 50.3 0.0 50.3 66.4 60.6 0.0 60.6 543.5 309.2 852.7 Related parties also include the members of the Board A current service cost of €3.9 million (previous year: of Management and the Supervisory Board. The €3.1 million) was incurred with respect to company members of these bodies are listed under “Company pensions for Board of Management members. An Boards”. amount of €52.8 million (previous year: €45.1 million) was assigned to provisions for pension obligations to The total remuneration of members of the Board of former members of the Board of Management. Management, including expenditure for short-term payments for members of the Board of Management Under a service agreement, Freudenberg SE paid an amounted to €8.7 million (previous year: €8.6 million). amount of €1.2 million (previous year: €1.2 million) to its parent company for the performance of key management functions. 161 Fees of the Auditor Major events after the date of the statement of financial position The auditor, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, performed the following The pandemic spread of the new coronavirus at the services in the 2019 financial year: beginning of 2020 had an adverse impact on economic development. Should the current situation persist or [€ million] 2019 become more severe over the coming months, there will probably be negative consequences. In view of the Auditing services 1.5 dynamic developments, it is currently not possible to Other assurance services 0.1 make a well-founded quantitative estimate of the Other services 1.0 possible impact on the assets, financial position and 2.6 results of operations of the group of companies. Apart from this development, there were no other events of major significance for the net assets, financial position and results of operation of the group of companies up to March 20, 2020. Weinheim, March 20, 2020 Freudenberg SE The Board of Management 162 Consolidated Financial Statements – Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Shareholdings SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2019 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg SE Weinheim Germany I. AFFILIATED COMPANIES Germany Blaesus Grundstücksverwaltungsgesellschaft mbH & Co. Vermietungs KG Mainz Germany 82.24 Burgmann International GmbH¹ Wolfratshausen Germany 100.00 Capol GmbH¹ Elmshorn Germany 100.00 Carl Freudenberg KG Weinheim Germany 100.00 Chem-Trend (Deutschland) GmbH¹ Maisach-Gernlinden Germany 100.00 Corteco GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 CT Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Dichtomatik Vertriebsgesellschaft für technische Dichtungen m.b.H Hamburg Germany 100.00 DS Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 DS Verwaltungs-GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 EagleBurgmann Atlantic GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Espey GmbH Moers Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Germany GmbH & Co. KG¹ Wolfratshausen Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Germany Verwaltungs-GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 75.00 EagleBurgmann Middle-East GmbH Wolfratshausen Germany 60.00 Externa Handelsund Beteiligungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 FCS-Munich GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 FFT Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 FHP Export GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Freudenberg DS Tooling Center GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Haushaltsprodukte Augsburg GmbH¹ Augsburg Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Medical Europe GmbH¹ Kaiserslautern Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Apparel SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Holding SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Logistics SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Service SE & Co. KG¹ Kaiserslautern Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Process Seals GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Real Estate GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies GmbH¹ Hamburg Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies GmbH & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Technology Innovation SE & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 163 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 Freudenberg Wohnbauhilfe GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 FV Beteiligungs-GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Hanns Glass GmbH & Co. KG¹ Meuselwitz Germany 75.00 Hanns Glass Immobilienverwaltung GmbH & Co. KG¹ Paderborn Germany 75.00 Hemoteq AG Würselen Germany 87.49 Integral Accumulator GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Japan Vilene Europe GmbH Meuselwitz Germany 75.00 JUBA Jutta Baumgartner GmbH Meuselwitz Germany 75.00 Kaul GmbH Elmshorn Germany 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Deutschland SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Klüber Lubrication GmbH¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG¹ Munich Germany 100.00 Lederer GmbH¹ Öhringen Germany 100.00 OKS Spezialschmierstoffe GmbH¹ Maisach-Gernlinden Germany 100.00 PTFE Compounds Germany GmbH¹ Bördeland Germany 100.00 Schneegans Freudenberg GmbH & Co. KG¹ Emmerich am Rhein Germany 100.00 SF GmbH Emmerich am Rhein Germany 100.00 SurTec Deutschland GmbH¹ Zwingenberg Germany 100.00 SurTec International GmbH¹ Bensheim Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic AG¹ Darmstadt Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic AG & Co. KG¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic Asia Holding GmbH Weinheim Germany 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs GmbH Hamburg Germany 65.07 Vibracoustic Europe GmbH¹ Darmstadt Germany 100.00 Vileda Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung¹ Weinheim Germany 100.00 Other Countries Freudenberg S.A. Telas sin Tejer Buenos Aires Argentina 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Argentina S.A. Buenos Aires Argentina 100.00 Chem-Trend Australia Pty Ltd Thomastown Australia 100.00 E.D. Oates Pty. Ltd. Broadmeadows Australia 100.00 EagleBurgmann Australasia Pty. Ltd. Ingleburn Australia 25.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (Aust) Pty. Ltd. Braeside Australia 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Pty. Ltd. Broadmeadows Australia 100.00 Freudenberg Pty. Ltd. Thomastown Australia 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Pty. Ltd. Brendale Australia 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Australia Pty. Ltd. Thomastown Australia 100.00 EagleBurgmann Belgium B.V.B.A. Sint-Job-in-'t-Goor Belgium 75.03 FHP Vileda S.C.S. Verviers Belgium 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Belgium Netherlands S.A. Dottignies Belgium 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Benelux S.A./N.V. Dottignies Belgium 100.00 Chem-Trend Industria e Comercio de Produtos Quimicos Ltda. Valinhos Brazil 100.00 EagleBurgmann do Brasil Vedacoes Ltda. Campinas Brazil 75.00 164 Consolidated Financial Statements – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg Hygiene Brazil LTDA. Jacareí Brazil 100.00 Freudenberg Nao-Tecidos Ltda. Jacareí Brazil 100.00 Freudenberg Servicos Corporativos da America do Sul Ltda. Barueri Brazil 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK-Componentes Brasil Ltda. Diadema Brazil 75.00 Klüber Lubrication Lubrificantes Especiais Ltda. Barueri Brazil 100.00 SurTec do Brasil Ltda. Valinhos Brazil 100.00 Vibracoustic South America Ltda. Guarulhos Brazil 100.00 Hänsel Textil Bulgaria ood Rousse Bulgaria 100.00 Freudenberg Productos del Hogar Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Chile Ltda. Santiago de Chile Chile 100.00 Burgmann Dalian Co. Ltd. Dalian China 40.00 Changchun Integral Accumulator Co., Ltd. Changchun China 100.00 Chem-Trend (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Chem-Trend Chemicals (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Dichtomatik (China) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 EagleBurgmann Shanghai Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 40.00 EagleBurgmann Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 50.00 EagleBurgmann Technology (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. Tianjin China 50.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Interlinings (Nantong) Co. Ltd. Nantong China 87.50 Freudenberg & Vilene International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 87.50 Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens (Suzhou) Co. Ltd. Suzhou China 87.50 Freudenberg Apollo Filtration Technologies Co., Ltd. Foshan China 75.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions (Ningbo) Co., Ltd. Ningbo China 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Suzhou China 100.00 Freudenberg Management (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Freudenberg Medical Plastic & Metal Manufacturing (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Shenzhen China 100.00 Freudenberg Politex Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Freudenberg Real Estate (Yantai) Co. Ltd. Yantai China 100.00 Freudenberg Spunweb (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 67.69 Freudenberg Vilene Filter (Chengdu) Co. Ltd. Chengdu China 87.50 Klüber Lubrication (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 SurTec Metal Surface Treatment Technology Co. Ltd. Hangzhou China 100.00 Tianjin VIAM Automotive Products Co., Ltd. Tianjin China 75.00 Trelleborg Automotive Design (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Vibracoustic (Chongqing) Co. Ltd. Chongqing China 100.00 Vibracoustic (Shanghai) Sales & Trading Co., Ltd. Shanghai China 100.00 Vibracoustic (Wuxi) Vibration Isolators Co., Ltd. Wuxi China 100.00 Vibracoustic (Yantai) Co., Ltd. Yantai China 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs (Yantai) Co., Ltd. Yantai China 65.07 Freudenberg Medical srl. San José Costa Rica 100.00 Chem-Trend A/S Søborg Denmark 100.00 EagleBurgmann KE A/S Ringkøbing Denmark 75.00 Klüber Lubrication Nordic A/S Skovlunde Denmark 100.00 165 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] SurTec Scandinavia ApS Kopenhagen Denmark 100.00 OÜ Merinvest Mullutu Estonia 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Finland Oy Naantali Finland 100.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Oy Espoo Finland 100.00 Chem-Trend France S.A.S.U. Entzheim France 100.00 Corteco SAS Nantiat France 100.00 Dichtomatik S.A.S Mâcon France 100.00 EagleBurgmann France S.A.S. Sartrouville France 75.00 FHP Vileda S.A. Asnières Sur Seine France 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies SAS Villebon-sur-Yvette France 100.00 Freudenberg Immobilier SAS Chamborêt France 100.00 Freudenberg Joints Elastomères SAS Langres France 100.00 Freudenberg Joints Plats SAS Chamborêt France 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials S.A.S. Colmar France 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies SAS Langres France 100.00 Klüber Lubrication France S.A.S. Valence France 100.00 SurTec France S.A.S. Toulouse France 100.00 Vibracoustic France SAS Carquefou France 100.00 Vibracoustic Nantes SAS Carquefou France 100.00 FHP Hellas S.A. Kifissia, Athens Greece 100.00 Aquabio Ltd. Worcester United Kingdom 100.00 Capol (U.K.) Limited Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 Chem-Trend (UK) Ltd. Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 Dichtomatik Ltd. Derby United Kingdom 100.00 EagleBurgmann Industries UK LP Warwick United Kingdom 75.00 EagleBurgmann Industries UK Ltd. Warwick United Kingdom 75.00 Filtamark Ltd. Crewe United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies UK Limited Crewe United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products LP Rochdale United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Limited Littleborough United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Ltd. Port Talbot United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials LP Littleborough United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Limited North Shields United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Vileda Ltd. Rochdale United Kingdom 100.00 KE-Burgmann UK Ltd. Congleton United Kingdom 75.00 Klüber Lubrication Great Britain Ltd. Huddersfield United Kingdom 100.00 Techlok Limited Port Talbot United Kingdom 100.00 Freudenberg Textile Technologies, S.A. Guatemala City Guatemala 100.00 APEC (Asia) Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Int. Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 87.50 Freudenberg Household Products Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Freudenberg Trading (Hongkong) Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Japan Vilene (Hong Kong) Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 75.00 Jump (Asia) Distributors Ltd Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 166 Consolidated Financial Statements – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Klüber Lubrication China Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Vibracoustic Hong Kong Holdings Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong 100.00 Chem-Trend Chemicals Co. Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 Dichtomatik India Seals Private Limited Kancheepuram India 100.00 EagleBurgmann India Pvt. Ltd. Pune India 50.00 EagleBurgmann KE Pvt. Ltd. Chennai India 75.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies India Private Limited Pune India 100.00 Freudenberg Gala Household Product Pvt. Ltd. Mumbai India 60.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials India Pvt. Ltd. Chennai India 100.00 Freudenberg Regional Corporate Center India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 Gimi India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 90.00 SurTec Chemicals India Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore India 100.00 Vibracoustic India Pvt. Ltd. Mohali India 100.00 Vibracoustic Noida Pvt. Ltd. New-Delhi India 100.00 PT EagleBurgmann Indonesia Cikarang Selatan Indonesia 24.98 PT Klüber Lubrication Indonesia Jakarta Indonesia 100.00 Cambus Teoranta Spiddal Ireland 90.00 VistaMed Ltd. Carrick-on-Shannon Ireland 90.00 Chem-Trend Italy del Dr. Gian Franco Colori S.a.s. Milan Italy 100.00 Corteco S.r.l. (a socio unico) Pinerolo Italy 100.00 Dichtomatik S.a.s. di Externa Italia S.r.l. Genoa Italy 100.00 EagleBurgmann Italia S.r.l. Vimercate Italy 75.00 Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100.00 Externa Italia S.r.l. Pinerolo Italy 100.00 FHP di R. Freudenberg S.A.S. Milan Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Italia S.a.s. di Freudenberg S.p.A. Milan Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Apparel S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100.00 Freudenberg S.p.A. Milan Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies S.a.s. di Externa Italia S.r.l.u. Pinerolo Italy 100.00 Freudenberg Tecnologie di Filtrazione S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Milan Italy 100.00 Hänsel Textil Italia S.a.s. di Externa Holding S.r.l. Rho Italy 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Italia S.a.s. di G. Colori Milan Italy 100.00 Politex S.a.s. di Freudenberg Politex s.r.l. Novedrate Italy 100.00 Chem-Trend Japan K.K. Kobe Japan 100.00 EagleBurgmann Japan Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 25.00 Freudenberg Spunweb Japan Company, Ltd. Osaka Japan 67.69 Japan VIAM Co., Ltd. Moriyama Japan 75.00 Japan Vilene Company Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75.00 Oshitari Laboratory, Inc. Sayama Japan 75.00 Oyama Chemical Co., Ltd. Oyama Japan 75.00 Pacific Giken Co., Ltd. Yasu Japan 75.00 SurTec MMC Japan KK Tokyo Japan 56.00 Vibracoustic Japan KK Yokohama Japan 100.00 167 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Vilene Create Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75.00 VIS Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 75.00 Freudenberg Vileda Jordan Ltd. Amman Jordan 51.00 Capol Inc. Saint-Hubert Canada 100.00 Dichtomatik Canada, Inc. Markham Canada 100.00 EagleBurgmann Canada Inc. Milton Canada 75.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Inc. London Canada 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Inc. Laval Canada 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Canada Inc. Nisku Canada 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK Inc. Tillsonburg Canada 75.00 TOO Freudenberg Oil & Gas Atyrau Kazakhstan 100.00 EagleBurgmann Colombia, S.A.S. Cota, Cundinamarca Colombia 75.00 EagleBurgmann (Malaysia) SDN. BHD. Shah Alam Malaysia 25.00 Freudenberg Household Products (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Petaling Jaya Malaysia 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies Sdn. Bhd. Kuala Lumpur Malaysia 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK St Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Petaling Jaya Malaysia 75.00 Klüber Lubrication (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Shah Alam Malaysia 100.00 Chem-Trend Comercial, S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 100.00 Dichtomatik de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 95.50 EagleBurgmann Mexico S.A. de C.V. Cuautitlán Mexico 75.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies, S.A. de C.V. Silao Mexico 100.00 Freudenberg Productos del Hogar, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City Mexico 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK Sealing Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Cuautla Mexico 75.00 Klüber Lubricacion Mexicana S.A. de C.V. Querétaro Mexico 100.00 VIAM Manufacturing Mexico S.A. de C.V. Aguascalientes Mexico 75.00 Vibracoustic de México, S.A. de C.V. Lerma Mexico 100.00 Vibracoustic Nevado, S.A. de C.V. Toluca Mexico 100.00 Vibracoustic Toluca, S.A. de C.V. Toluca Mexico 100.00 Vitechmex Nonwovens S.A. de C.V. Aguascalientes Mexico 75.00 Dichtomatik B.V. Zwolle Netherlands 100.00 EagleBurgmann Netherlands B.V. Veenendaal Netherlands 75.00 Freudenberg Household Products B.V. Arnhem Netherlands 100.00 SurTec Benelux B.V. Reuver Netherlands 100.00 EagleBurgmann Norway AS Skedsmokorset Norway 75.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions AS Skedsmokorset Norway 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Technologies AS Drammen Norway 100.00 Vestpak AS Sandnes Norway 100.00 Dichtomatik Handelsgesellschaft mbH Vienna Austria 100.00 EagleBurgmann Austria GmbH Salzburg Austria 75.00 EagleBurgmann Production Center Judenburg GmbH Judenburg Austria 75.00 Freudenberg Austria GmbH Kufstein Austria 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Austria GmbH & Co. KG Kufstein Austria 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Austria Ges.m.b.H. Salzburg Austria 100.00 SurTec Produkte und Systeme für die Oberflächenbehandlung GesmbH Salzburg Austria 100.00 168 Consolidated Financial Statements – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] EagleBurgmann Philippines, Inc. Dasmarinas, Cavite Philippines 25.00 Chem-Trend Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100.00 Chem-Trend Polska sp. z o.o. spólka komandytowa Kobylnica Poland 100.00 EagleBurgmann Poland sp. z o.o. Warsaw Poland 75.00 FHP Vileda Sp. z o.o. Warsaw Poland 100.00 FIM Polska Sp. z o.o. Środa Śląska Poland 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Sp. z o.o. Śnieciska Poland 100.00 Freudenberg Vilene Sp. z o.o. Lodz Poland 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100.00 SurTec Polska Sp. z o.o. Kobylnica Poland 100.00 Vibracoustic Polska Sp. z o.o. Środa Śląska Poland 100.00 ST Ibérica Sociedade Unipessoal, LDA Albergaria-a-Velha Portugal 100.00 Chem-Trend Romania s.r.l. Sibiu Romania 100.00 Freudenberg Management Imobiliar SRL Braşov Romania 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials Apparel srl Bukarest Romania 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials SRL Braşov Romania 100.00 Klueber Lubrication Romania s.r.l. Sibiu Romania 100.00 SurTec Romania s.r.l. Braşov Romania 100.00 Vibracoustic Romania SRL Dej Romania 100.00 EagleBurgmann OOO Moscow Russian Federation 75.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies OOO Nizhniy Novgorod Russian Federation 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Eastern Europe OOO St. Petersburg Russian Federation 70.00 Freudenberg Politex OOO Zavolzhye Russian Federation 100.00 Freudenberg Vileda Eastern Europe OOO Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 Klüber Lubrication OOO Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 OOO Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 OOO SurTec Moscow Russian Federation 100.00 Vibracoustic Volga OOO Sawolschje Russian Federation 100.00 AlMozn National Co. For Home Appliances Limited Jeddah Saudi-Arabia 75.00 EagleBurgmann Saudi Arabia Ltd. Al-Khobar Saudi-Arabia 51.00 Dichtomatik A.B. Landskrona Sweden 100.00 EagleBurgmann Sweden AB Norrköping Sweden 75.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions AB Norrköping Sweden 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies AB Stockholm Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic China Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic Forsheda AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic Sweden Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 Vibracoustic Wuxi Holding AB Forsheda Sweden 100.00 EagleBurgmann (Switzerland) AG Höri Switzerland 75.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies AG Zurich Switzerland 100.00 Klüber Lubrication AG (Schweiz) Zurich Switzerland 100.00 SurTec Cacak d.o.o. Čačak Serbia 100.00 Chem-Trend Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100.00 EagleBurgmann KE Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 75.00 EagleBurgmann Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 25.00 169 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] EBI Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 25.00 EBI Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 50.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100.00 Klüber Lubrication South East Asia Pte. Ltd. Singapore Singapore 100.00 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies Slovensko, s.r.o. Potvorice Slovakia 90.00 Freudenberg Immobilienmanagement Slovakia, s.r.o Potvorice Slovakia 100.00 SurTec SK s.r.o. Vráble Slovakia 100.00 FILC tovarna filca d.o.o. Škofja Loka Slovenia 100.00 Freudenberg Gospodinjski Proizvodi d.o.o. Limbuš Slovenia 100.00 NELINTA podjetniško in poslovno svetovanje d.o.o. Mengeš Slovenia 100.00 SurTec Adria d.o.o. Ljubljana Slovenia 100.00 EagleBurgmann Ibérica S.A. Madrid Spain 75.00 Freudenberg Espana S.A. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Freudenberg Espana S.A., Telas sin Tejer, S.en C. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Iberica, S.L.U. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, S.L.U. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Klüber Lubrication GmbH Ibérica S.en C. Parets del Vallès Spain 100.00 Vibracoustic Cascante S.A.U. Cascante Spain 100.00 Vibracoustic Spain Holding S.L.U. Martorell Spain 100.00 Vibracoustic Spain S.A.U. Martorell Spain 100.00 Freudenberg & Vilene International Lanka (Private) Limited Colombo Sri Lanka 87.50 Hänsel Textil Lanka PVT Ltd. Colombo Sri Lanka 87.50 Modderfontein/ EagleBurgmann Seals South Africa (Pty) Ltd. Johannesburg South Africa 55.50 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies (Pty) Ltd. Cape Town South Africa 100.00 Freudenberg Nonwovens (Pty.) Ltd. Cape Town South Africa 100.00 Klüber Lubrication (Pty.) Ltd. Alrode Alberton South Africa 100.00 SurTec South Africa Pty. Ltd. Alrode Alberton South Africa 100.00 Vibracoustic-Ikhwezi (Pty) Ltd. East London South Africa 70.00 Chem-Trend Korea Ltd. Anseong-si South Korea 100.00 EagleBurgmann Korea Co., Ltd. Osan South Korea 25.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions Korea Ltd. Seoul South Korea 100.00 Freudenberg Vilene Filtration Technologies Korea Co., Ltd. Seoul South Korea 87.50 Korea Vilene Co., Ltd. Pyeongtaek-si South Korea 87.50 SurTec Korea Co., Ltd. Changwon-si South Korea 100.00 Vibracoustic Kunhwa Co. Ltd. Gyeongsan-si South Korea 51.00 EagleBurgmann Taiwan Co., Ltd. Kauohsiung Taiwan 25.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Nonwovens (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. Taoyuan Taiwan 87.50 Freudenberg Far Eastern Spunweb Comp. Ltd. Taoyuan Taiwan 67.69 Chem-Trend Trading (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 100.00 EagleBurgmann (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Rayong Thailand 25.00 Freudenberg & Vilene Filter (Thailand) Co. Ltd. Chonburi Thailand 87.50 Jump Distributors (Thailand) Co Ltd Nonthaburi Thailand 100.00 Klüber Lubrication (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Bangkok Thailand 100.00 170 Consolidated Financial Statements – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Lucky Gecko Co Ltd Bangkok Thailand 100.00 VIAM Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Prachin Buri Thailand 75.00 Vibracoustic (Thailand) Ltd. Sriracha Thailand 100.00 Accu-Tech s.r.o. Chrastava Czech Republic 49.00 EagleBurgmann Czech s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 75.00 Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100.00 Opatovice nad Freudenberg Sealing Technologies s.r.o. Labem Czech Republic 100.00 Hanns Glass CZ s.r.o. Cheb Czech Republic 75.00 Klüber Lubrication CZ, s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100.00 SurTec CR s.r.o. Prague Czech Republic 100.00 TPE správni s.r.o. Melnik Czech Republic 100.00 Vibracoustic CZ s.r.o. Melnik Czech Republic 100.00 Beltan Vibracoustic Titresim Elemanlari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 100.00 Eagle Burgmann Endüstriyel Sizdirmazlik Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Şirketi Istanbul Turkey 75.00 Freudenberg Household Products Evici Kullanim Araclari Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Bursa Turkey 100.00 Freudenberg Vilene Tela Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100.00 Klüber Lubrication Yaglama Ürünleri Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Istanbul Turkey 100.00 Vibracoustic Çerkezköy Oto Parçaları Dış Ticaret A.S. Çerkezköy Turkey 100.00 Vibracoustic Çerkezköy Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Çerkezköy Turkey 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs Otomotiv Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S. Gemlik Turkey 65.07 Vibracoustic CVAS Turkey Trading Otomotiv A.S. Bursa Turkey 65.07 Dichtomatik Kft. Budapest Hungary 100.00 EagleBurgmann Hungaria Kft. Budapest Hungary 75.00 Freudenberg Háztartási Cikkek Kereskedelmi BT Budapest Hungary 100.00 Freudenberg IM Hungária Kft. Nyíregyháza Hungary 100.00 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies Kft. Kecskemét Hungary 100.00 Freudenberg Tömítés Ipari Kft. Lajosmizse Hungary 100.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs Magyarország Kft. Nyíregyháza Hungary 65.07 Capol LLC Deerfield USA 100.00 Chem-Trend Limited Partnership Howell USA 100.00 Dichtomatik Americas, L.P. Shakopee USA 100.00 EagleBurgmann Industries Inc. Houston USA 75.00 EagleBurgmann Industries LP Houston USA 75.00 Filc USA LLC Dayton USA 99.50 Freudenberg Filtration Technologies LP Hopkinsville USA 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products Inc. Aurora USA 100.00 Freudenberg Household Products LP Aurora USA 100.00 Freudenberg Medical, LLC Gloucester USA 100.00 Freudenberg North America Limited Partnership Plymouth USA 100.00 Freudenberg Oil & Gas, LLC Houston USA 100.00 Freudenberg Performance Materials LP Durham USA 100.00 171 Share of Company Location Country capital [%] Freudenberg Real Estate LP Plymouth USA 100.00 Freudenberg Texbond L.P. Macon USA 100.00 Freudenberg-NOK General Partnership Plymouth USA 75.00 Freudenberg-NOK Holdings, Inc. Wilmington USA 75.00 Intpacor Inc. Plymouth USA 100.00 Klüber Lubrication NA LP Tyler USA 100.00 Pellon Corporation Plymouth USA 100.00 SurTec, Inc. Brunswick USA 100.00 Tobul Accumulator Incorporated Bamberg USA 100.00 Upper Bristol Ramp, LLC Wilmington USA 75.00 VIAM Holding, Inc. Manchester USA 75.00 VIAM Manufacturing, Inc. Manchester USA 75.00 Vibracoustic CV Air Springs USA, Inc. Wilmington USA 65.07 Vibracoustic North America Holdings, Inc. Plymouth USA 100.00 Vibracoustic North America LP Plymouth USA 100.00 Vibracoustic USA, Inc. South Haven USA 100.00 VICAM Inc. Manchester USA 75.00 VITECH Manufacturing L.P. Hopkinsville USA 75.00 VITECH Manufacturing, Inc. Hopkinsville USA 75.00 XALT Energy, LLC Midland USA 50.10 XALT Energy MI, LLC Midland USA 50.10 United Arab EagleBurgmann Middle East FZE Dubai Emirates 60.00 United Arab Freudenberg Oil and Gas FZE Dubai Emirates 100.00 Chem-Trend Vietnam Company Limited Ho Chi Min City Vietnam 100.00 EagleBurgmann Vietnam Company Limited Ho Chi Min City Vietnam 25.00 SurTec Viet Nam Co., Ltd. Ho Chi Min City Vietnam 100.00 172 Consolidated Financial Statements – Shareholdings Share of Company Location Country capital [%] II.INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES (CONSOLIDATED BY EQUITY METHOD) Germany Other Countries Corfina s.r.l. Pinerolo Italy 50.00 NOK-Freudenberg Singapore Pte. Ltd.² Singapore Singapore 50.00 TETL Holdings, LLC Dover USA 41.25 TTKKE Holdings, LLC Dover USA 30.00 III. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES (CONSOLIDATED BY EQUITY METHOD) Germany Other Countries Hikotomi Industrial Co., Ltd. Hikone Japan 24.98 NOK Corporation Tokyo Japan 25.10 NOK Klüber Co., Ltd. Tokyo Japan 49.00 Shinwa Products Co., Ltd. Tsuzuranuki Japan 34.09 Klüber Lubrication Korea Ltd. Seoul South Korea 48.00 Dawson Manufacturing Company Benton Harbor USA 45.00 Ishino Gasket North America L.L.C. East Lansing USA 37.50 EagleBurgmann Venezuela, C.A. Caracas Venezuela 41.25 United Arab SurTec Middle East (L.L.C.) Sharjah Emirates 35.00 1 Application of Sec. 264 (3), HGB (Handelsgesetzbuch, “German Commercial Code”) and Sec. 264b, HGB. 2 Consolidated financial statements including Changchun NOK-Freudenberg Oilseal Co., Ltd., Changchun, China Corteco China Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Corteco India Private Limited, Neu-Delhi, India Freudenberg-NOK Pvt. Ltd., Neu-Delhi, India NOK-Freudenberg Group Sales (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China NOK-Freudenberg Group Trading (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China NOK-Freudenberg Hong Kong Ltd., Hong Kong, Hong Kong PT NOK Freudenberg Sealing Technologies, Kota Batam, Indonesia Taicang NOK-Freudenberg Sealing Products Co., Ltd., Taicang, China Wuxi NOK-Freudenberg Oilseal Co., Ltd., Wuxi, China 173 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To Freudenberg SE Opinions Basis for the opinions We have audited the consolidated financial We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Freudenberg SE, Weinheim, and its statements and of the group management report in subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and in compliance with consolidated statement of financial position as at German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial 31 December 2019, the consolidated statement of Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der profit or loss, the consolidated statement of Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities under those cash flow, the consolidated statement of changes in requirements and principles are further described in equity for the fiscal year from 1 January to the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the 31 December 2019, and notes to the consolidated consolidated financial statements and of the group financial statements, including a summary of management report” section of our auditor’s report. significant accounting policies. In addition, we have We are independent of the Group entities in audited the group management report of accordance with the requirements of German Freudenberg SE for the fiscal year from 1 January to commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled 31 December 2019. our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and in the audit, appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group • the accompanying consolidated financial management report. statements comply, in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the additional Other information requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315e (1) HGB and, in compliance with these The supervisory board is responsible for the report of requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, the supervisory board in the annual report. In all other liabilities and financial position of the Group as at respects, the executive directors are responsible for the 31 December 2019 and of its financial performance other information. The other information comprises for the fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December 2019, and • the presentation of the company boards, the executive council and the management of the • the accompanying group management report as a business groups in the annual report, whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all material respects, this group • the foreword of the board of management in the management report is consistent with the annual report and consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately • the section “responsibility for society” in the annual presents the opportunities and risks of future report. development. Our opinions on the consolidated financial statements Pursuant to Sec. 322 (3) Sentence 1 HGB, we declare and on the group management report do not cover the that our audit has not led to any reservations relating other information, and consequently we do not to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial express an opinion or any other form of assurance statements and of the group management report. conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the other information 174 Independent Auditor’s Report • is materially inconsistent with the consolidated The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the financial statements, with the group management Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. • otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the Responsibilities of the executive directors and the consolidated financial statements and of the group supervisory board for the consolidated financial management report statements and the group management report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance The executive directors are responsible for the about whether the consolidated financial statements preparation of the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of management report as a whole provides an German commercial law pursuant to Sec 315e (1) HGB appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all and that the consolidated financial statements, in material respects, is consistent with the consolidated compliance with these requirements, give a true and financial statements and the knowledge obtained in fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and the audit, complies with the German legal financial performance of the Group. In addition, the requirements and appropriately presents the executive directors are responsible for such internal opportunities and risks of future development, as well control as they have determined necessary to enable as to issue an auditor’s report that includes our the preparation of consolidated financial statements opinions on the consolidated financial statements and that are free from material misstatement, whether due on the group management report. to fraud or error. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in executive directors are responsible for assessing the accordance with Sec. 317 HGB and in compliance with Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der matters related to going concern. In addition, they are Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material responsible for financial reporting based on the going misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or concern basis of accounting, unless there is an error and are considered material if, individually or in intention to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible this group management report. for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the We exercise professional judgment and maintain Group’s position and is, in all material respects, professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and • Identify and assess the risks of material appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of misstatement of the consolidated financial future development. In addition, the executive statements and of the group management report, directors are responsible for such arrangements and whether due to fraud or error, design and perform measures (systems) as they have considered necessary audit procedures responsive to those risks, and to enable the preparation of a group management obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and report that is in accordance with the applicable appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The German legal requirements, and to be able to provide risk of not detecting a material misstatement sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting group management report. from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, 175 intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the and on the group management report. We are override of internal control. responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant responsible for our opinions. to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangements and measures (systems) • Evaluate the consistency of the group management relevant to the audit of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its report in order to design audit procedures that are conformity with law, and the view of the Group’s appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the position it provides. purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of these systems. • Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive directors in • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies the group management report. On the basis of used by the executive directors and the sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in reasonableness of estimates made by the executive particular, the significant assumptions used by the directors and related disclosures. executive directors as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of • Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive the prospective information from these assumptions. directors’ use of the going concern basis of We do not express a separate opinion on the accounting and, based on the audit evidence prospective information and on the assumptions obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable related to events or conditions that may cast risk that future events will differ materially from the significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue prospective information. as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to Sec. 315e (1) HGB. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express opinions on the consolidated financial statements 176 Independent Auditor’s Report We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. Mannheim, 20 March 2020 Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Prof. Dr. Wollmert Matischiok Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer [German Public Auditor] [German Public Auditor] 177 EDITORIAL INFORMATION Freudenberg Group Hoehnerweg 2 – 4 69469 Weinheim, Germany PUBLISHED BY: Freudenberg & Co. Kommanditgesellschaft Corporate Communications Phone: +49 6201 80 0 CorporateCommunications@freudenberg.com www.freudenberg.com April 2020 Item No. FRE1052EN PHOTOS: amenic181/stock.adobe.com (p. 36) Fritz Kopetzky (p. 61) Andrey/stock.adobe.com (p. 28) Michaela Kuhn/LICHT FORM ARTE studio für fotografie (p. 80) Gin Angri (p. 20) mooshny/stock.adobe.com (p. 32) auremar/stock.adobe.com (p. 24) Mike Roberts with Electra Studios (p. 64) Lisa Bahnmüller (p. 66) Gerald Schilling (p. 83) Beyond Basics (p. 30) Marco Schilling (p. 16, 31, 47, 74) Andre Forner//people for brands (p. 13) Rainer Stratmann (p. 33) Matthias Haslauer (p. 22, 68) TinPong/stock.adobe.com (p. 18) Craig Hensley (p. 35) Johannes Vogt (p. 27, 34, 39, 70, 78) Martin Joppen (p. 2, 3, 6, 8) Jessica Vollmer (p. 41) Gaurang Khastiya (p. 29) Kazuyoshi Yatsu (p. 76) PROJECT TEAM: Corporate Communications: Cornelia Buchta-Noack (Lead) Andreas Baldauf Angela Gerhardt Katrin Jacobi DESIGN: Corporate Controlling m&s communication, Düsseldorf, and Accounting: Germany Marco Altherr (Lead) GreenwoodFinch Corporate Laura Brüning Communications, Elmstein, Katrin Fanenbruck Germany Tobias Feldrappe Realization with firesys GmbH Ina Fütterer Dr. Frank Multerer PRODUCTION: Bodo Peisch ABT Print und Medien, Weinheim, Frank Raetzer Germany Daniel Schwarz Define Yalcinkaya To improve readability, registered trademarks are Markus Ziegler omitted in this Annual Report.
