2019 Corporate Sustainability report 2019 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • UN Global Compact © 2019, POLYECO S.A., All Rights Reserved. www.polyeco.gr Contents Introduction Our Value To Society Letter from the Vice President Sustainable Development Strategy About This Report Social Contribution Methodology Polyeco Contemporary Art Initiative (PCAI) Data Collection Responsibility Towards Our Employees Corporate Identity Working at Polyeco Company Overview Human Rights Important milestones Basic Employment Data Global Presence Disclosure Management Approach Main Activities Equal opportunities Facilities Benefits Our mission, vision and values Health & Safety Sustainability Management Health and Safety Policy Our approach to Sustainable Development Integrated Management System How we create value Health & Safety Indicators Stakeholders Engagement Materiality Process Value chain Environmental Impact Memberships in Associations & Organizations Against Corruption Our Approach Environmental Policy Environmental Management Compliance with environment-related laws and regulations Performance in 2019 Introduction 2 Letter from the Vice President Athanasios Polychronopoulos V ice President of Global Development Dear Stakeholders, We are pleased to share this year’s Corporate Sustainability Report with you. In 2019, Polyeco was once again able to build on the successful financial and operational perfor mance of recent years. We have enhanced our competitiveness in the new economic environment and ensured the conditions that allow us to provide innovations and services that improve quality of life and create value for the benefit of all stakeholders. We pursued further inter national expansion by undertaking waste management and oil spill response projects in new markets across the globe. In addition to growing our long-ter m Company value, we also expanded the implementation of our Sustainable Development Program, to the new countries we have entered. We continued to contribute to the strengthening of local communities with the recruitment and remuneration of local personnel, without discrimination based on race, nationality, social origin, caste, birth, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political opinions or age. Through our local activities we have identified issues related to the countries and communities in which we operate, and then evaluated the impact we are making as we strive to address these issues. Throughout 2019, Polyeco’s highest priority was to enhance its focus on sustainable business operations. Sustainability will be vital to economic and Athanasios Polychronopoulos industrial development in the next decade and it has long been on our agenda. As a leading environmental company we have an important responsibility, but Vice President of Global Development also an opportunity to use our leverage to lead the development of sustainable solutions. So this fiscal year, we designed pioneer circular economy programs and initiatives that will enable societies to reduce their environmental footprint. Our goal is clear: To contribute positively to the environment and support a sustainable future. We hope this report will demonstrate our commitment to that future. About this Report Since 2012, POLYECO S.A. has declared its continued support to the United Nations Global Compact initiative and its commitment to uphold the 10 Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. POLYECO issues its Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Report with a view to provide fully information for all stakeholders workforce, customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, creditors and local communities, about company’s business performance, in the sustainable development areas of economy, environment and society. The present Communication on Progress Report is created as a continuity of our previous COP, covering the time period from December 2018 to December 2019, confirming Polyeco’s constant commitment and respect to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and how we apply them in our day-to-day work. Methodology The structure of the Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 describes the progress we have made on strategy, organization, initiatives, programs, management systems and goals for ensuring sustainability during fiscal 2019. The report has been prepared in accordance with: The UN Guiding Principles (UN GP) Reporting Framework, The criteria of the Greek Sustainability Code The criteria of ISO 26000 International Standard on Corporate Social Responsibility This year we have chosen to report our work according to the current GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards for sustainability reporting. A GRI Report adds a new dimension to our sustainability work, supporting dialogue with stakeholders and helping us to further develop our sustainability work. Data Collection The 2019 Sustainability Report has been edited and compiled by a dedicated project team composed of representatives from all involved Divisions of the Company: Group's Marketing & Communications, Human Resources, Health & Safety, Business and Corporate Social Responsibility Department. The necessary information and data published in this Report is collected through various internal reporting systems and indicatively include: aggregated financial and personnel data, environmental indicators, units of measurement, quantities and data that are in accordance with the best available practices and international standards. The data collection and presentation was based on our Company’s Corporate Responsibility pillars of relations with customers and suppliers, economy, society, human resources and environment and essentially respond to the need to measure economic, environmental and social performance. This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Polyeco SA on 30 November 2020. Our Commitment regarding the United Nations goals on Sustainable Development Corporate identity Company Overview The investment and implementation of such a venture in Greece was based on the successful outcome of research undertaken by the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, with the participation of the University of Patras, University of Crete, Demokritos National Center for Scientific Research, Titan S.A. Cement Industry, as well as the mother company, Environmental Protection Engineering S.A. A leader amongst the most prominent waste management companies in SE Europe, Polyeco has strong presence in the Balkans, Middle East, Africa, Central Asia, Latin America and countries of the Indian Ocean, implementing some of the most challenging waste management projects across the Globe. Experienced personnel work closely with clients to tailor solutions that meet their business requirements and organization’s goals always in compliance with health, safety and environmental regulations. Since its establishment, Polyeco S.A. constantly strives on improving environmental management performance and competitiveness for its clients. Through continuous training, research & development in the fields of recovery, decontamination, reclamation and rehabilitation, Polyeco provides integrated sustainable waste management solutions for the industrial sector. Polyeco’s vast field of expertise encompasses licensing, decontamination, transport, treatment, recovery and disposal of all types of hazardous and non-hazardous industrial waste. RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT At Polyeco we constantly invest in research and development and strive for continuous improvement of our processes, as well as the development of new methods for sustainable and total waste management. In practice, we prove our orientation towards sustainable development and “ environmental enhancement, through the recovery and final disposal of increasing quantities and different types of industrial waste in our facilities in Greece. POLYECO has established a state-of-the-art laboratory, fully equipped with the latest technology and equipment, staffed with specialized scientific personnel. All waste analytical parameters are analyzed in the laboratory, determining the best available waste management process. These analyses are performed either for waste identification or for research and development purposes. In addition, POLYECO ‘s laboratory is accredited by the Hellenic Accreditation System (ESYD), according to ELOT EN ISO/IEC 17025, to fulfill chemical analyses according to international standards, for all industrial production sectors and for numerous parameters. Polyeco serves over 800 corporations and more than 1000 industrial sites and other facilities. Important milestones In the context of International Development, Polyeco has established an extensive network of companies (Polygreen) undertaking major environmental projects, making it one of the largest International Hazardous Waste Management and Oil Spill Response companies worldwide. In 2008, POLYECO S.A. was founded in Greece In 2008, POLYECO BALKANS D.O.OEL. was founded in Skopje and in 2009 POLYECO ALBANIA SH.P.K. & POLYECO D.O.O. were founded in Tirana and Beograd. In 2015 Polyeco expanded its network of companies with the establishment of Polyeco B.V. based in The Netherlands, Polyeco Gulf Ltd. in Sultanate of Oman and Ecorecovery S.A. and Nordeco S.A. in Greece. In 2016 Polyeco Group International DMCC was established in Dubai Free Zone. In 2017 Polyeco SA undertook the Operation, Management and Maintenance of the Interim Storage Facility for Hazardous Waste Management (IHWSF), at La Chaumière in Mauritius. In 2019 Green Evolution was founded in Sharjah. In 2019 Green Evolution was Polyeco Group founded in Sharjah. International DMCC was established in Dubai Free Zone Polyeco Gulf LLC was founded in Muscat and Polyeco B.V. in The Netherlands 2019 Polyeco ALBANIA Sh.p.k 2016 was founded in Tyrana and Polyeco D.o.o in 2015 Belgrade. 2009 2017 POLYECO BALKANS D.O.OEL. was founded in Skopje Polyeco SA branch was established in 2008 Mauritius Global Presence Polyeco offers the most extensive range of environmental services available and is also able to process and treat any volume of waste. In-depth market and sector knowledge allow Polyeco to provide these services, combined or independent, regardless of location. Our extensive knowledge of waste policies and inter national regulations and conventions enable us to secure the necessary per mits and consents for waste recovery, as well as the issuance of transboundary licenses and documentation for disposal at licensed facilities in EU and worldwide. Our professionally trained experts who excel in specific sectors of our business meet the rigorous inter national standards and provide our clients with efficiencies in time, cost and resources. Polyeco excels in inter national tenders, conducted by reputable organizations such as the United Nations, the World Bank, etc. “Given our extensive inter national experience, providing solutions across the globe has become second nature to Polyeco” Global presence in all our current and potential markets is an essential element of our business strategy. Having undertaken over 100 waste management projects in remote to urban areas all across the world, we have achieved a strong presence both in mature and emerging markets in more than 20 countries. Main Activities Polyeco’s portfolio includes a wide range of services addressing hazardous/non-hazardous waste management, oil/chemical spill prevention, preparedness and emergency response; and ancillary environmental services. An integrated worldwide network of facilities, stockpiles and personnel enables Polyeco to provide superior worldwide service. W ithin each division, Polyeco is a global leader in the development of advanced solutions to restore the natural balance of affected ecosystems and to process har mful substances. By utilizing standard operating procedures, best management practices and applying effective custom solutions for each project, Polyeco Group provides safe operating practices to prevent pollution incidents and to minimize and remediate environmental damage should an event occur. POLYECO focuses on the provision of sustainable, complete waste management services, by undertaking the design, treatment and safe final disposal of all kinds of industrial waste streams, covering reliable, cost-effective and environmental friendly solutions to industries. The company has treated over 400.000 tons of industrial waste, and has produced secondary liquid and solid fuels, secondary raw materials and additives for pollution prevention. Industrial wastes that cannot be recovered or disposed of in Greece are exported to licensed facilities within the European Union for final disposal. WASTE MANAGEMENT & ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES OIL & HNS SPILL RESPONSE SERVICES • Industrial Waste Management • Emergency Spill Response Services • Hazardous Waste Field Services • Risk Assessments & Analysis • Soil, Water & Site Remediation • Contingency Plan Development & Implementation • Equipment Rental, Commissioning & Maintenance • Chemical/Hazardous Material Emergency Response • Oil Spill Response/HNS Training • Production of Alternative Fuels • Response Drills & Exercises • Production of Raw Materials • Damaged & Distressed Cargo Services • Laboratory Services Polyeco also offers a complete range of emergency response services for oil & chemical spills, & is prepared to respond to the needs of all types of onshore/offshore facilities, including oil ter minals, production platfor ms, refineries, shipyards, oil recovery plants, power stations, chemical industries, ports, harbours & marinas. Other services include oil/chemical spill response, protection/preparedness for ports/installations, management of distressed cargo, design & production of marine equipment & tank cleaning. Facilities The company’s premises in Greece are located in Athens in the industrial area of Aspropyrgos refineries, in Mandra and in Salonika in a proprietary land within the industrial area of Sindos. The design of the facilities and the selection of equipment are in compliance with the IPPC Directive of the European Parliament concer ning integrated pollution prevention and control from various industrial sources throughout the European Union. POLYECO facilities in Aspropyrgos, Thessaloniki, Mandra, Mauritius, Oman and Sharjah are designed to operate according to the strictest European Environmental Regulations. The company’s branches in Skopje, Tirana, Beograd, Muscat, UAE and Mauritius offer environmental protection and restoration services, whilst having as a priority the compliance with the European Standards and the improvement of life standards in environmentally impaired regions. Quality Management System certified as per EN ISO 9001 Environmental Management System verified according to EMAS III (EU Regulation 1221) Occupational Health & Safety Management System certified as per OHSAS 18001 Quality Control Laboratory accredited under the ter ms of ELOT EN ISO/IEC 17025 Security Management System for the supply chain certified as per EN ISO 28000 ASPROPYRGOS The headquarters of Polyeco are located at private owned grounds of 35,000 m2 next to the Greek Oils Refinery in Aspropyrgos, Attica. The premises house the main factory activities, the accredited laboratory as well as the Administrative and Financial Services. THESSALONIKI The headquarters of Polyeco are located at private owned grounds of 35,000 m2 next to the Greek Oils Refinery in Aspropyrgos, Attica. The premises house the main factory activities, the accredited laboratory as well as the Administrative and Financial Services. MANDRA In an area of 11,000 m2 at Xiropigado in Mandra of Attica, the new Polyeco factory provides the following services: • Production of Ammonia Solutions • Management of used lamps and batteries • Production of Ferrous Sulphate • Manufacture of Floating Dams MAURITIUS In 2017, Polyeco S.A awarded the Operation, Management and Maintenance of the Interim Storage Facility for Hazardous Waste Management (IHWSF) in Mauritius. The Facility comprises inter-alia: Chemical laboratory, administrative buildings and three separate hazardous waste storage buildings, in one of which, waste is recycled and prepared for storage until export. The Interim Storage Facility for Hazardous Waste is located at La Chaumière, Bambous and the main objectives of the IHWSF are to: • Analysis, collection and acceptance of hazardous wastes • Facilitate bulking, regrouping and reconditioning of hazardous wastes as deemed necessary and repackaging and labelling of hazardous wastes for storage and subsequent shipment to licensed facilities for recovery/treatment/disposal • Store the hazardous wastes safely before shipment to licensed recovery/treatment/disposal facilities • To rationalize logistical costs through the collection, storage and shipment of the maximum quantity of hazardous wastes Polyeco Gulf LLC’s premises in the Sultanate of Oman are located outside of Muscat, within the rapidly developing industrial area of Samail. The fully licensed temporary storage facility for hazardous wastes of Polyeco Gulf is designed according to the highest modern standards, in full compliance with the Ministry of Environment and Climate Affairs, as well as European Union, requirements. Polyeco Gulf storage facilities enables Polyeco to provide up-to-date environmental protection and restoration services within the Sultanate of Oman, as well as the wider GCC area. OMAN SHARJAH FACILITY for the PRODUCTION of ALTERNATIVE RAW MATERIALS from INORGANIC HAZARDOUS WASTE STREAMS IN UAE. The Facility of Green Evolution Environmental Services LLC, member of Polygreen, is located in the industrial area of Emirate of Sharjah in UAE. The main objectives of this state of the art plant are: • Analysis, collection and acceptance of inorganic hazardous waste streams. • Store the hazardous waste safely before treatment. • Treat waste streams by transforming them to alternative raw material for cement plants following the principles of circular economy. • Follow process under special zero waste technology . Laboratory Polyeco’s quality control, ISO 17025 certified laboratory is one of the most vital parts of the industry. The laboratory determines various environmental parameters to industrial waste, ensures quality at the production process and contributes to the selection of the most effective treatment and/or recovery methods. Analysis for third parties is also conducted. The laboratory is equipped with moder n analytical systems, including ICP – AES, Mercury Analyzer based on Cold Vapor Atomic Absorption technique, Total Organic Carbon Analyzer, Ion chromatography for anions and cations, GC – ECD, GC – FID, GC – MS, automated Kjeldahl apparatus, automated Soxhlet apparatus, automated Calorimeter, FTIR, spectrofluorometer, spectrophotometer, EOX – AOX analyzer, Flash point (open cup), Flas h point (closed cup), microwave oven and various other equipment necessary for sample pretreatment. Most of the instrumentation is fully automated (accompanied by autosamplers), resulting in the capability to handle up to 20 samples per day for time consuming analyses, e.g. metals, and even more samples for less time consuming analyses. In the course of years of operation, different methods were developed based on ISO, ASTM, APHA or EPA standards, covering the deter mination of a wide range of parameters. Other analyses such as BOD, COD, flash point deter mination, AOX deter mination in water samples, identification of unknown compounds by GC – MS, photometric methods etc. are also conducted periodically. Laboratory perfor mance and quality is assured via ISO 17025 Quality System, ISO 9001 and EMAS 14000. In accordance with ISO 17025, specific guidelines are established for the frequent maintenance and upgrade of instrumentation, as well as the accuracy of analyses results. Distinctive liquid waste unit Hazardous waste transfer station The unit is capable of perfor ming programmed or manual treatW ithin its facilities Polyeco operates a separate Hazardous ment steps of liquid waste including acidification, reduction, Waste Transfer Station (HWTS). chemical oxidation, coagulation/flocculation & filtration. It is, at last, the industrial realization of the laboratory theory conThe HWTS was designed and built in confor mance with the sisting of having a current pass through waste-water to make highest safety standards. Automatic fire detection and the suspended solids and most dissolved salts react as nor mal fighting system is installed throughout the store area and flocculated sludge. suitable HDPE (High Density Polyethylene) liner is placed on the ground to prevent potential leakages. The purpose Tank Farm of the HWTS is to offer temporary storage capabilities for various types of hazardous waste (flammable, toxic, corroSix holding tanks are used for the temporary storage of the sive etc.), which cannot be treated within the facility, so received liquid waste. Each tank or group of tanks is dedicated that they can be immediately removed from the producer’s for the storage of specific liquid streams. site minimizing risk to health or the environment. The waste is then transferred according to the EU law to certiFollowing laboratory analysis of the stored liquid waste one of fied European disposal facilities. the following treatment lines is selected for the treatment of the waste: • Electro-coagulation and Electro-flotation • Physicochemical Treatment • Evaporator Mission, vision and values Mission Dedication to our customers, establishment and maintenance of long-term relationships give us the ability to provide the most innovative, reliable and cost-effective solutions in the field of our activities. Goal Our goal is to develop innovative waste treatment and valorization methods, by constantly combining the high-level training and expertise of the personnel with advanced technological processes. Vision Our vision is the improvement of the society’s quality of life, by offering solutions for the sustainable and viable environmental protection and waste management. Our Principles “Our Guiding Principles drive everything we do, the way we think, our decision making process. These four words sum up the key attributes leading us to success and help us fulfill our mission.” INNOVATION We always think about how we can make improvements, identify new opportunities and meet requirements to provide better solutions to our clients existing needs or anticipating their future needs. Innovation is a necessity for us. Our future success depends on the creativity of our individuals and teams and a willingness to keep thinking and acting on the possibilities for innovation in all that we do. CREATIVITY Creativity is the necessary element in every stage of the innovation process. It is the ability to make connections that result in ideas. Creativity help us scale a barrier to implementation, improve margins, speed up a process, find solutions in every aspect of our daily work. INTERGRITY We succeed by doing things the right way, with respect to ethics, laws, standards of quality, and each other. We keep our promises and build trust and loyalty with our clients, our partners, our suppliers, our people. AGILITY We are flexible, adaptable and responsive. Our ability in using a combination of balance, coordination, speed, reflexes, strength, and endurance helps us take advantage of change. Whether in business or in technology, we move with speed and dexterity to adapt and adjust to emerging client and project requirement. Sustainability management Our approach to Sustainable Development Being by definition a company having sustainability at the heart So, the high priority’s objective of our policy is ‘’Making of our business and servicing blue chip clients, NGO’s, UNIDO, More from Waste: Recovery/Recycling/Reuse’’. At our UNEP, UNPD and the World Bank, Polyeco’s main focus is in main hazardous waste treatment facility we treat hazardleveraging the dynamics and structured synergies between the ous waste preventing their release into the environment affiliated companies of our group to persevere the promotion and provide environmentally friendly methods of managand implementation of a management approach coherent with ing hazardous materials according to the Circular Econoall the UN Global Compact principles. my Principles. Moreover, one of the biggest business themes in a global economy geared towards the Global Our company’s sustainable development strategy is guided by a Goals is the minimization of waste, through resource continuous perfor mance improvement plan. The plan defines saving and energy recovery. yearly priorities and objectives whose progress is regularly monitored and evaluated. This plan plays a key role in deterAn important distinction for Polyeco is its inclusion in mining and validating Polyeco’s commitments with regard to the Most Sustainable Companies in Greece, as well as social responsibility, environmental management, gover nance, its signage by QUALITY NET FOUNDATION as SUSTAINhuman rights, labour and ethics. ABLE COMPANY 2019 and SUSTAINABLE GREECE 2020/ SUSTAINABILITY REPRESENTATIVE 2019, as a sustainReporting on social and environmental perfor mance is based in able company, with a top recognition of its business peran integrated inter nal system developed and updated by Polyefor mance in Sustainable Development and Responsible co which facilitates the process of collecting, compiling, reportEntrepreneurship. ing its non-financial perfor mance throughout the Company plants, in accordance to Polyeco’s sustainability strategy and commitments and more specifically to UNGC COP criteria and WBCSDWorld Business Council for Sustainable Development/CSI-Corporate Social Investment Guidelines. Our company's strategy is also based on the EU Action Plan for the Circular Economy adopted from the European Commission, as an industrial economy that is not producing waste and pollution, which includes revised legislative proposals on waste to stimulate Europe's transition towards zero waste generation, and measures covering the whole cycle from production and consumption to waste management and the market for secondary fuels and secondary raw materials. How we create value Our purpose is to create and deliver value in an efficient way, so that our activities generate profit after cost. Our role as an environmental company is to create value for our stakeholders by providing products and services that contribute to socio-economic growth, environmental benefits and technological advances. The need to protect, sustain, & heal the environment is of paramount importance as the ecological footprint of society increases. For an environmental solution provider such as Polyeco Group, this need calls for the evolution & development of comprehensive services combined with an increased global presence to provide integrated waste management solutions for the industrial sector. Through services such as Waste collection We Combine To Deliver Employees Treatment + Integrated waste Expertise management + solutions Technology Recycling Disposal Providing complete solutions that deliver environmental sustainability is only part of the story. We are integrating sustainability more deeply into our business to create greater impact across our value chain. Doing business the right way enhances our reputation and ability to create sustainable value. We strive to make an effective contribution to Sustainable Development and Progress in the Values of Professionalism, Research and Innovation, as well as Social Responsibility, fully integrated within a healthy and sensitized society. The success of our efforts should be measured by the total economic, social and environmental effects of our actions on all stakeholders. Stakeholders Engagement Stakeholder engagement is the process of involving and interacting with people who may be affected by the decisions that the company makes or can influence the implementation of its decisions. Polyeco recognizes that requirements, expectations, perceptions, personal agendas and concer ns of its stakeholders have a direct impact and influence on the company’s sustainable development and the outcomes that can be achieved. Successful stakeholder engagement is therefore a vital requirement for the company’s professional project management. As it is essential to keep up an open and unrestricted dialogue with stakeholders, we implement a stakeholder management system which includes a systematic identification, analysis, planning and implementation of actions designed to engage with stakeholders, such as consultation, communication, negotiation, compromise, and relationship building. COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS The sustainability management conducted by Polyeco holds up the responsibility and aims to provide desirable values to each stakeholder. For this reason, we have built up various communication channels to identify stakeholders’ interest and have made every effort to ensure the prevention of risks and creation of new opportunities. Polyeco has identified the following stakeholders with whom it interacts in the course of its business: customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, regulators and wider society. Polyeco’s communication channels and interaction with its stakeholders is illustrated in the diagram/table below. STAKEHOLDERS ENGANGEMENT COMMUNICATION SOCIAL PARTNER IDENTITY Cooperation Framework COMMUNICATION CHANNELS FREQUENCY Employee Satisfaction Survey • Work & life balance Staﬀ evaluation procedure • Training & self development opportunities Comprehensive training programme and Development on APPRENTICES • Fair Assesments & rewards waste management and other subjects of general interest PROFESSIONALS EMPLOYEES MIDDLE & JUNIOR MANAGERS • Protection of human rights & interests Disclosure of policies & open communication with all Periodic • Communication with a view to continuously promote employees through Dialogue,brieﬁngs, scheduled meetings, INTERNALS SENIOR MANAGERS skills acquisition and development visits to Group facilities and social events Health and Safety Publications, newsletters, social platforms, speeches • Financial Results / Brand Value • Information and making decisions regarding the company's performance and strategy. • Voting on company issues and the selection of the company's board of directors Annual General Meeting (AGM) • Checking and making approvals of the ﬁnancial INDIVIDUALS SHAREHOLDERS LEGAL ENTITIES statement of the company Regular Shareholders Meeting Annual, Biannual Monthly • Decisions on Sustainable economic, ecologic and social IR Activities development of Polyeco SA Conference calls Annual Reports Customer satisfaction survey CRM system customer service • Responsible information, customer service and Customer feedback INDUSTRIES provision of products and services with a sense of Customer Privacy Policy HOSPITALS respect and transparency Meetings / Conferences / Dialogue Daily, Monthly, Quarterly, MARIN • Solutions to customers grievances CUSTOMERS REFINERIES • Product quality & safety Annual and on a case by case basis WORLD BANK • Systematic monitoring, recording and evaluation of Newsletters/ Press Releases UNDP complaints Participation in Exchibitions and specialised conferences Marketing company websites, social media, newsletters, portals, android & IOS applications. Training/ events Advertising campaigns Supplier satisfaction survey EXTERNALS • Mutual growth with suppliers CEMENT & STEEL INDUSTRIES • Fair trade Supplier convention FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITIES • Environmental management SHIPPING/TRANSPORT/AVIATION • Cooperation based on transparent procedures and Periodic and on a case by SUPPLIERS COMPANIES speciﬁc criteria to achieve mutually beneﬁcial outcomes CEO/Commercial department suppliers meetings case basis EQUIPMENT AND CONSUMABLES • Consistency and cooperation with suppliers. Evaluation procedure based on speciﬁc criteria • Adopting international practices and systems for each Meetings, dialogue beneﬁcial cooperation Newsletters/ Press Releases • Communication to ensure full compliance with the REGULATORS regulatory and legislative framework LOCAL GOVERNMENTS • Environment Friendly Management Periodic and on a case by POLICY MAKERS ENVIRONMENT ASSOCIATIONS • Financial, environmental and social responsibilities & Meetings, partnership and consultations with Authorities case basis PUBLIC AUTHORITIES obligations • CSR • Contribution to Local communities CSR Activities • Creating jobs LOCAL • Community activities Supporting local organisations and institutions through Monthly, Yearly and on a case targeted actions COMMUNITIES • Environment Friendly Mangement Activities by case basis • Active commitment in social issues Sponsorships Newsletters, collaborations Materiality analysis In Polyeco, we assess our corporate responsibility by analyzing our impact on the SDG’s through the materiality analysis. Materiality is about identifying the most critical economic, environmental and social issues, related to Polyeco’s activities, which may reflect a significant impact, positive or negative, on the company’s business perfor mance and influence the decision-making of our stakeholders. The Materiality process is the backbone of our report. It is implemented within the company on an annual basis and involves reaching out to inter nal and exter nal stakeholders to get their input. The 2019 Sustainability Report refers to the Sustainable Development Topics, emerged from the process as most critical: Environmental Compliance Authorities Environmental Investments Waste Management Shareholders ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions Customers MANAGEMENT Energy & Water Consumption Suppliers Employees Climate Change Community Circular Economy Profitability Authorities ECONOMIC Presence in the Local Market Shareholders PERFORMANCE Global Growth Expansion Customers Corporate Governance Suppliers Employee health, Employees safety and wellness Authorities EMPLOYMENT Education and Training Customers Responsible Labor Practices Community Equal and Fair employment Improvement of products MARKET and services Shareholders Customers PERFORMANCE Emergency Response Quality of Products and Suppliers Services Product Safety Regulatory and Legislative Authorities Compliance Shareholders COMPLIANCE & Responsible competitiveness Customers BUSINESS ETHICS Transparency Suppliers Anticorruption Employees Procurement Practices Community Data security and privacy PEOPLE AND Local Economic Contribution Environmetal Awareness Community SOCIETY Educational Programms Value Chain When we talk about our value chain, we mean the full range of activities it takes for us to provide our services to the market – from waste collection and treatment to final disposal. Polyeco is a moder n and dynamic enterprise providing integrated sound waste management, with products and services that relate to protection of the environment addressed to various business sectors and industries. The overall activity of the company is to identify and understand the hazards inherent to the activities we undertake and effectively assess, control and manage those risks. We also provide on-site hazardous and non-hazardous integrated waste management solutions, decontamination and site remediation, to client’s facilities. Our value chain is connected to a variety of companies, people, communities, ecosystems and other businesses around the world. Through its operations POLYECO S.A. promotes environmental protection, conserves natural resources, fauna and flora, public health and public interests. We take reasonable steps to preserve the environment through responsible practices to minimize the environmental impact of our operations by complying with all applicable laws, guidelines and waste management industry standards. The infographic below shows an overview of the different stages of our value chain: “We aim to create maximum positive impact, focusing on the protection of the environment along our value chain.” WASTE TREATMENT WASTE MANAGEMENT FINAL DISPOSAL PRODUCERS Inventory, Identification, chemical Recycling analysis and categorization of waste Licensing for safe transfrontier Composting movement under Basel Convention Collection/Packaging and Production of alternative fuel labelling of waste Road and/or Maritime Transportation in Other disposal methods accordance to ADR/IMDG codes Memberships in Associations & Organizations Collaboration between different types of organizations is one of the keys for unlocking sustainability. Polyeco takes the challenge of sustainability seriously and in this context, supports and cooperates with gover nments, investors, local communities, nongover nmental organizations (NGOs), local, national and inter national organizations and associations which cultivate dialogue and promote best business practices. European Association for Co-processing represents companies Since 2013, Polyeco is a member of the world's largest corpoactive in pre-treatment operations of (mainly) hazardous waste rate sustainability initiative, the United Nations Global Comstreams. Being involved in the waste treatment in order to pact, actively supporting and promoting its Ten Principles on transfor m it into waste-derived fuels, Polyeco provides a Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment and Anti-corsustainable solution for the treatment of hazardous waste ruption, by implementing and integrating those principles in streams and enhances the EUCOPRO mission to promote the the decision making procedure. recovery of waste as an alter native to traditional waste disposal. Polyeco is an active member of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas) since 2013. CSR Polyeco is a corporate member of ENA since April 2019. Hellas is a non-profit organization that promotes the meaning Consequently, Polyeco contributes but it also has access to of Corporate Social Responsibility to both the business the European expertise in the field of NORM and to the community and the society. management of natural radiation sources. Polyeco is an ISWA Silver Member since 2015 and is actively Polyeco is an associate member of The Inter national Salvage involved in the Association's work and activities, thereby Union, the trusted and unified global voice of its members helping the Association to promote sustainable waste who facilitate world trade by providing marine services which management across the world. save life, protect the environment, mitigate risk and reduce loss. Since 2014, Polyeco is an ambassador for the Sustainable Greece 2020, an Initiative that aims to create a development Polyeco is a member of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises model that ensures a Sustainable Economy and Society. (SEV), an independent not-for-profit association that aims to advance entrepreneurship in Greece, by promoting conditions that foster entrepreneurship and the competitiveness of Greek enterprises. Mr. Athanasios Polychronopoulos, V ice President of Global Development of Polyeco S.A., is a member of the Since 2019, Polyeco is a member of ICC, the world business Board of the Hellenic Federation of Enterprices Council for organization, enabling business to secure peace, prosperity Sustainable Development. and opportunity for all. ICC represents business interests at the highest levels of intergover nmental decision-making, whether at the World Trade Organization, the United Nations or the G20 – ensuring the voice of business is heard. ICC Polyeco also participates in the following organizations: plays a vital role in scaling widespread action on Sustainable Development Goals and has a long history of for mulating the • The Greek Association of Environmental Protection Companies (PASEPPE) voluntary rules by which business is conducted every day. • Hellenic Management Association (EEDE) • Hellenic Solid Waste Management Association (HSWMA) • Association of Greek Chemical Industries Against Corruption Our approach Polyeco applies an anti-fraud and bribery policy, which sets the company's strong commitment to preventing, deterring and detecting fraud and corruption. It summarizes the responsibilities of the Board, management and employees, defines the fraud and corruption investigation and reporting processes, and describes related disciplinary actions. All the employees have a key role to play in preventing and detecting fraud and bribery and must report their concer ns promptly, using the relevant reporting channels. In an effort to increase our awareness on anti-corruption, to promote compliance, effective inter nal controls and ethics, we participate in anti-corruption workshops organized by OECD. Anti-Corruption Laws Each employee and director of Polyeco, as well as all agents and representatives, must comply with all applicable anti-corruption laws. The laws of many other countries we operate in prohibit payments or offers to make payments of any kind, including the giving or offering of anything of value to foreign gover nment officials, including officials of public inter national organizations, office seekers, political parties, or party officials to influence business in any way or obtain an improper advantage. Polyeco perfor ms an Evaluation of Legal Compliance for all activities placed in foreign countries. In each fraud alert, details are given on the proposed remedies, so that no such incidents occur. There is also a constant reminder, about the submitting updates and communication that are keys to avoiding fraud. Perfor mance in 2019 Our HSSEQ Manager is our BIO (Business Integrity Officer) as of 2019, in order to ensure compliance and/or the Anti-bribery Company Policy. Through the inter nal auditing process, the BIO oversees the inter nal controls that have been carried out and recommends measures to improve controls and mitigate risks. The risk assessments that are perfor med by the inter nal audit lay the foundations for developing the audit plans and testing the inter nal controls. Inter nal Audits can act both as a deterrent and detection mechanism. In case possible fraud or bribery is detected through an Inter nal Audit, the authorized Representative should immediately notify the CEO of the suspected breaches. In 2019, no issues of fraud or corruption were identified in Polyeco. Our value to society Our approach The world is changing rapidly. To meet the challenges we are all facing bold ambitions and urgent action are required. This is the reason why Polyeco SA since its foundation in 2001, has adapted to serve the needs of a changing world, with a sense of responsibility to social progress, well-being and environmental protection. In order to ensure its sustainable development, POLYECO implements programs, initiatives and practices that reflect its values and define its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), voluntarily incorporating social and environmentally friendly targets in everyday business activities, both in Greece and the countries across the globe where the company implements waste management projects. POLYECO is a founding member of the Hellenic Foundation of Enterprises Board for Sustainable Development and has committed to implementing the “Code of Sustainable Development Principles” and to integrate those principles in the decision making procedure. POLYECO is also a member of the United Nations Global Compact, the greatest global initiative on Corporate Responsibility. As a member of the UN Global Compact our company has committed to align its principles with ten globally approved principles in the field of human rights, labor, environment and fighting corruption. But for all of us in Polyeco, CSR is not limited to compliance with legal and business obligations but extends to substantial contribution to society and the environment with respect to the principles of sustainability and prosperity. “Sustainability” for us, is building our business for the long ter m by balancing social, environmental and economic considerations in the decisions we make. POLYECO does not just perfor m waste management projects. We build relationships based on trust, which in tur n contribute to environmental protection by linking Contemporary Art to the Environment and Sustainable Development, drawing high moral satisfaction as it is not limited to business development but reinforces the local communities achieving the recovery of man's relationship with nature. Now more than ever, there is a need to develop the skills, business innovation and best environmental practices in order to ensure the long-ter m prosperity of our planet. For POLYECO, these are the key elements of sustainable development which we can influence. Social Contribution Corporate Social Responsibility constitutes of systematic voluntary integration of activities in a social, environmental and cultural dimension in our every-day practices which, though cannot be categorized as sheer charity or public relations, significantly contribute to sustainable development fir mly founded on the principles of ecological, financial and social sustainability. Since its foundation in 2001 Polyeco implements programs, initiatives and practices that reflect its values and define its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), incorporating social and environmental friendly targets in its everyday business activities. Over the years, POLYECO has been supporting both local and broader community, focusing on the following key points: SUSTAINABLE PLANET & ENVIRONMENT, CULTURE, EDUCATION, RESEARCH & INNOVATION, SPORTS & HEALTH, VULNERABLE SOCIAL GROUPS. Highlights 2019 • On the occasion of the World Environment Day on June 5th 2019, Polyeco participated in the environmental festival organized by the Metropolitan Environmental Awareness Park Antonis Tritsis”, 8-10 June 2019. Polyeco sponsored and implemented the creation of a unique mural with ecological content at the central fountain of the Park, with the participation of the public attending the event. Along with the project, a street art workshop was conducted by the artist Leonidas Giannakopoulos, the curator of the project. • Polyeco sponsored and participated in the very successful 12th National Chemical Engineering Conference, organized by the National Technical University of Athens and the other chemical engineering schools of Greece. The conference offers the opportunity to new scientists to relay their results to the other scientists and the general public and provides a platform where the Universities and the industrial sector can discuss and cooperate. • Polyeco was a sponsor to the UnderPressure car team during the Chem e Car competition that took place during the 12th National Chemical Engineering conference organized by the National Technical University of Athens. The Chem E Car competition is an international student chapter contest designed to improve student creativity in chemical engineering through the design of a chemically propelled toy car. • Polyeco is proud for supporting the athletic preparation of the sailing athlete Nancy Fakidi, a member of the Hellenic National team in the series Laser Radial, for the Tokyo Olympic Games in 2020 • Financial support at the Eco Observatory, an initiative of the Ecological Recycling Society. Ecorec is a non-profit, non-governmental organization with over 25 years of experience in implementing sustainable waste management projects in Greece. • Financial support at the Corporate Responsibility Awards 2019 in Greece. The Awards were instituted in 2000 by the Association of Advertisers of Greece (SDE). • Sponsorship at the 2019 SEV Industrial Conference “Industry 4.0: A growth opportunity Greece should not miss”, held in Athens on 19 December 2019. The Conference emphasized the need to mobilize all available resources (government, private sector, academia, R&D community) towards a common objective: enhancing competitiveness of Greek industry and manufacturing, by integrating technological and digital advancements into production processes. In our 2014 Report we had the pleasure to announce the launching of Polyeco’s ambitious Contemporary Art Initiative, PCAI, which primarily aims at raising environmental awareness through a unique art program inspired by the crucial issue of waste management, which is not only technical, but also environmental and social. Since then, Mr. Athanasios Polychronopoulos, Executive Chair man of Polyeco Group, Director of PCAI and driving force behind the company’s art initiative, decided to implement a sprinting strategy towards the implementation of PCAI’s objectives. His genuine belief that art is the best tool to stimulate dialogue about waste management was complimented by his wish to share this assumption with the company’s employees, clients and the general public. The objective has been to create a framework that will allow Polyeco to implement its unique environmental awareness raising program. W ithin three years PCAI has accomplished to finalize its structure and to begin the implementation of its vision. Polyeco Contemporary Art Initiative (PCAI) Since its foundation in 2001 Polyeco implements programs, initiatives and practices that reflect its values and define its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), incorporating voluntarily social and environmental friendly targets in its everyday business activities. For Polyeco, CSR is not just resolved to simple compliance with legal and business obligations but extends to substantial contribution to the society and the environment with respect to the principles of sustainability and prosperity. In our 2014 Report we had the pleasure to announce the launching of Polyeco’s ambitious Contemporary Art Initiative, PCAI, which primarily aims at raising environmental awareness through a unique art program inspired by the crucial issue of waste management, which is not only technical, but also environmental and social. Since then, Mr. Athanasios Polychronopoulos, Executive Chair man of Polyeco Group, Director of PCAI and driving force behind the company’s art initiative, decided to implement a sprinting strategy towards the implementation of PCAI’s objectives. His genuine belief that art is the best tool to stimulate dialogue about waste management was complimented by his wish to share this assumption with the company’s employees, clients and the general public. The objective has been to create a framework that will allow Polyeco to implement its unique environmental awareness raising program. W ithin three years PCAI has accomplished to finalize its structure and to begin the implementation of its vision. A statement about Polyeco’s ethos and identity reﬂecting the company’s energy and sense of commitment. STRUCTURE PCAI has become part of an inter national trend in the corporate collecting sphere that goes beyond purchasing art works. It implements its objectives though three areas of activity: its Collection, its Projects and its Support THE PCAI COLLECTION The PCAI Collection is based on special commissions mainly of moving image art. PCAI provides mid-career and emerging artists with the means and resources to create an artwork inspired by urgent environmental issues in their broader relation to current sociocultural, economic, philosophical concer ns. The Collection invites artists to reflect on the concept of waste and related processes in a free and innovative way; to create art that challenges the limits of previous views and representations; to imagine new for ms and use radical tactics while addressing our changing world. The PCAI Collection includes commissioned works by artists such as Mika Rottenberg (Kurt Schwitters Prize 2018), Sophia Al-Maria (inaugural winner of the Dunya Contemporary Art Prize), Wu Tsang (Sharjah Biennial), Angelo Plessas (documenta 14) and George Drivas (57th Venice Biennale) amongst others. In 2017 PCAI's first commissioned only exhibition, Paratoxic Paradoxes (curator Nadja Argyropoulou), took place in the Benaki Museum in Athens. In 2018, in the context of the Resilient Futures exhibition (curator Syrago Tsiara), PCAI collaborated with the State Museum of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki and the Contemporary Art Center of Thessaloniki. A series of events related to the PCAI Collection took place in 2018: 1) PCAI Collection per manently exhibited in the PCAI and Polyeco Group Offices in Piraeus Works from the PCAI Collection are exhibited in the headquarters of Polyeco Group and PCAI in Piraeus, a concept that focuses on the integration of contemporary art into the daily work environment and the employees’ interaction with video art inspired by the company’s environmental activity. The new offices were designed by architect Margarita Hatzakou with respect to the environment and the company’s philosophy and were recently captured through Yiorgis Yerolymbos' lens. 2) PCAI organized the first inter national Inter national Association of Corporate Collections of Contemporary Art IACCCA meeting in Athens ©IACCCA The 2019 autumn meeting of IACCCA was organized in the Polyeco offices and the PCAI headquarters welcoming the directors and curators of some of the most important corporate collections of contemporary art in the world for the first time in Greece. PCAI was the first Greek collection to be included in IACCCA and during the meeting the two organisations set up a VIP programme of talks, discussions, lectures and visits and tours to museums, cultural institutions and collections in Athens.IACCCA is an inter nation3) PCAI received Bravo Sustainability Award & Corporate Responsibility al association that brings together the Award for its collection, programme and activities world's largest corporate collections of contemporary art, including Deutsche Bank, Gazprom Bank, Fidelity Investments, HSBC and others. In addition to meetings, the IACCCA also hosts symposia around contemporary art open to artists, curators, artists and the general public. PCAI awarded in Bravo 2019 and the Corporate Responsibility Awards 2019 In 2019, a few years after its foundation and after having organised and supported a series of successful exhibitions and events, PCAI received number of inter national awards. Polyeco and PCAI received two awards during the 8th Corporate Responsibility Awards Ceremony of the Hellenic Association of Advertisers, held on Wednesday, 27 November 2019 at 7pm. at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center SNFCC. Its first award was on the category Synergies – Strategic Partnerships and PCAI was awarded on its successful sunergies with other companies and cultural institutions with specific reference and praise on its collaborations with the MOMus – Metropolitan Organisation of Museums of V isual Arts of Thessaloniki, the French Institute in Athens, the Thessaloniki Port Authority, and the Oman Oil Refineries and Petroleum Industries Company (ORPIC). Additionally, PCAI was awarded on the category Environment for its innovative educational platfor m PCAI Junior and its widely screened educational and animated films. Polyeco company and PCAI were also awarded during the Bravo Sustainability Dialogue & Awards 2019 on Wednesday, December 18th, 2019, at the Megaron Mousikis – Athens Concert Hall. PCAI was awarded for its series of educational programs in the Environment category and the award was receive by Mr. Athanasios Polychronopoulos, Polyeco Group Executive Chairman and PCAI Founder and Director. 4) PCAI added new artworks to its Collection and launched new commissions Ariana Papademetropoulos, Unititled (2019), PCAI Collection In 2019, PCAI acquired a number of new artworks, including pieces by Ariana Papademetropoulos and Danai Stratou, and started working on a series of new commissions. PCAI Projects PCAI Projects are all the cultural activities and events, i.e. artist residence programmes, special commissions, talks, conferences, exhibitions, publications, educational programs and workshops, organized by PCAI within the organization’s foundational aim. Such activities and events develop beyond the Collection, yet are often in dialogue with issues raised through its content. Ιn 2017 PCAI launched PCAI its innovative educational platfor m focusing on environmental awareness through film and art, a programme that has been travelling since then to schools and institutions all over the world. A series of extremely succesful cultural events related to the PCAI Projects took place in 2019: 1) PCAI launched its first inter national Artist Residency open call that received more than 400 applications In 2019, PCAI launched its Artist-in-Residence programme focusing on the interaction between contemporary art and environmental consciousness. Believing that art is the best way to stimulate dialogue about sustainable thinking and the crucial matter of toxic waste PCAI invited artists from all over the world to reside for a week in Athens, get inspired and create a video work on the topic. The selection process had been quite painstaking and demanding due the truly impressive and humbling quality and amount of entries PCAI received. PCAI’s selection committee, consisting of Hans Ulrich Obrist, Serpentine Galleries Artistic Director, Krist Gruijthuijsen, KW Institute for Contemporary Art Director, Athanasios Polychronopoulos, PCAI Director and Founder and Kika Kyriakakou, PCAI Artistic Director, selected artists Rindon Johnson and Lito Kattou to participate in the programme. 2) PCAI’s innovative educational program continued in SNFCC and the Athens Science Festival. © Athens Science Festival In 2019, PCAI continued the collaborative education programme with SNFCC. Revolving around the open-air, sunny Mediterranean Garden, PCAI’s environmental education programme in the SNFCC was structured into three sections (exploration, solution and storytelling), featuring activities that encouraged children to explore, solve problems and tell stories, discovering the flora of the Park in each season, familiarizing themselves with the arts of animation, illustration and scriptwriting, and creating a short film. PCAI received a grant from the SNF for the implementation of the programme. Further more, PCAI participated in the 2019 edition of the Athens Science Festival. On this occasion it organised a workshop on environmental awareness and moving image for children along with a series of screenings of its educational films. Since its introduction to the people of Athens in 2014, Athens Science Festival has collaborated with more than 5,000 scientific associates, 590 speakers, 250 artists and 1,400 volunteers. The Festival is repeatedly justifying its social impact having exceeded initial expectations and having reached out to more than 107,000 visitors over the past 5 years. As such, the Athens Science Festival is righteously considered as one of the largest science and technology festivals in Greece. The Athens Science Festival is organized annually by the educational organisation “Science Communication – SciCo”, the British Council, the Technopolis of the City of Athens, the Onassis Foundation Scholars’ Association and the General Secretariat for Research and Technology with the invaluable contribution from a plethora of academics, research and educational institutions. 3) PCAI’s educational films traveled to inter national kids and animation festivals Throughout 2019, PCAI presented its short educational films, the outcome of its educational programmes on several festivals including the Children’s Book Festival of Astypalea, the Animarte Brazil, the Bar nes Festival in London and New Earth Film Festival in Krakow. The Municipality of Astypalea and the Books Play team jointly organized the 2nd Children's Book Festival of Astypalea, from June 5 to 10, 2019, that included a series of educational, visual and recreational activities along with book presentations, screenings and workshops. PCAI was invited to present its animated films that contibute to the aim of developing environmental awareness, protection of the environment and the understanding of the principles of recycling. In 2019, PCAI participated with its film Refuse Reduce Reuse Recycle in Bar nes Film Festival in UK, a festival that celebrates diversity, passion and creativity, and in Animarte Brazil with its short film, The Boy that Saw The Ocean. On November 2019, PCAI participated in New Earth Film Festival, an important platfor m for young and professional filmakers that insist on finding ways to build awareness of the damage caused to the environment but also to convey awareness to children and young people. 4) PCAI partnered with LOOP Barcelona and Loop Discover video awards V iviana Silva Flores, Pescando Incertezas, 2018, Loop Discover and PCAI screenings in Athens In 2019, Loop Barcelona and Loop Discover video art awards partnered with PCAI in the context of a series of screenings in Athens. On May 2019 the ten shortlisted videos of Loop Discover 2018, along with the most voted video on Loop Barcelona’s online cannel, were presented at the historical cinema Aavora in Athens in a screening event co-curated by PCAI. For this edition Loop Discover established alliances between ecology and video art presenting works that infor m inspire, denounce, propose, raise awareness, engage, hold accountable, confront… In short, works that helped people imagine and bring forth a more sustainable future. 5) PCAI partnered with the Institut Français de Grèce on the occasion of their collaborative programme Plateau Media on Art & Ecology. Taking place from February to September 2019, PCAI and IFA launced a series of talks, discussions, workshops and networking events focusing on the exploration of the relationships that link art to ecology, in the context of Plateau Media on Art & Ecology. The programme invited everyone to come and meet inspired personalities and art professionals from Greece and France and to explore the relationships that link art to ecology. Designed by Vincent Cavaroc as a TV platfor m, Plateau Media is streamed live on the Inter net so people can participate from anywhere. Following the Plateau Media, PCAI’s Artistic Director was invited to participate ©IFA in the Art Focus programme in Paris as an IFA delegate along with curators and cultural managers from all over the world. 6) PCAI started its partnership with TBA21’s Ocean Archive PCAI partcipated in the Climate Justice for a Living Ocean event organised by TBA 21’s Ocean Archive. A series of free PCAI animated screenings took place in IFA on the occasion of the 3rd Plateau Media on Art and Ecology; the programme was part of the Ocean Archive’s inter national launch programme. Initiated by the TBA21–Academy, Ocean Archive is being developed by User Group in collaboration with Across the Cloud and Lucid. Climate Justice for a Living Ocean event was prompted by the release of the forthcoming Special Report on the Oceans and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate, to be issued by the United Nations Intergover nmental Panel on Climate Change. The event at the Ocean Space in Venice, Italy, convened a network of artists, activists, scientists, policy experts, and frontline community leaders to critically examine the implications of the report. It reviewed the report’s dire statistics to emphasize the urgency of coordinated climate action. But, the event also focus ed on current initiatives, ongoing and future actions, and localized responses to ask: how would the state of the ocean change if existing conservation efforts were amplified and expanded? How can bolder politics and policies ensure meaningful commitments to ocean health? What cultural practices, literacies, and imaginaries can be shared and fostered across oceans to avert climate catastrophe? ©Ocean Archive PCAI SUPPORT PCAI Support refers to PCAI’s engagement in other artistic initiatives and in supporting artists that share its vision and concerns. 1) PCAI supported Wu Tsang on the occassion of Sharjah Biennal 14 In 2019 PCAI supported Wu Tsang's new work, One emerging from a point of view, (2019) that has been presented in Sharjah Biennial 14 titled Leaving the Echo Chamber, in the 6th Onassis Fast Forward Festival in Athens and at the Teatrino di Palazzo Grassi in Venice on the occasion of Pinault Collection's show Luogo at Punta della Dogana. Wu Tsang, One emerging from a point of view (2019), Sharjah Biennial 14 © Wu Tsang 2) PCAI supported Serapis Maritime installation titled Liquid Soul in the Piraeus Tower Liquid Soul was an in situ installation created by Serapis Maritime on the occasion of the All Souls Day II exhibition in Rodeo gallery in Piraeus. The video documentation of the work was sponsored by PCAI and produced by Rodeo and 8 ½ Pausilypon Films. In collaboration with the Municipality of Piraeus and the Days of the Sea festival Rodeo inaugurated the iconic outdoor installation on the central monument of the city of Piraeus. An homage to the history of the port and in relation to the liquid element and all the Serapis, Liquid Soul (2019), Piraeus Tower, All Souls Day || exhibition © Rodeo workforce that define the power this port used to be and still is somehow through the changes it is subjected to. 3) PCAI supported Tavros, Locus Athens new cultural space PCAI supported Locus Athens’ newly opened cultural space called Tavros. After years of curating a constellation of projects in and around Athens, curatorial duo Locus Athens decided to explore a new format: founding a home in the area of Tavros. A welcoming, open, shared space for the arts where notions such as democracy, equality and ecology are explored. Locus Athens’ Tavros, photograph by Dimitris Parthimos ©Locus Athens 4) PCAI supported Midnight Express Film Club In 2019, PCAI supported Midnight Express Film Club in Athens on the occasion of a series of screenings of films focusing on ecology and environmental awareness. The Club was established in 2017 and takes place in various historical cinema houses and open air cinemas in Athens including the Aavora Art cinema. It includes thousands of members consisting mainly of young cinephiles aging from 18 to 25 years old. From the very beginning Midnight Express screening events were met with overwhelming success receiving a lot of press coverage and often being sold out. Every so often film critics, directors, scriptwriters and actors are invited to the events to present films and discuss with the audience. Midnight Express Film Club screeing in Aavora Art cinema, Athens PARTICIPATION OF EMPLOYEES Polyeco’s employees play a crucial part in the implementation and the dissemination of the initiative, actively helping the artists in both research and the creation of their projects, using all the means in their disposal. They also act as ambassadors of PCAI in their areas of activity. Polyeco Project Managers are in a continuous dialogue with PCAI’s Director exchanging infor mation and narratives about past, current and future projects. The benefits from employee involvement have been recorded to be so substantial that through this growing new collaboration PCAI wishes to communicate to Polyeco employees that their participation in the Initiative through a number of different actions will eventually expose them to numerous different and creative ways of thinking. AFFILIATIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS Since its establishment PCAI has supported, collaborated or been connected with various inter national festivals and organisations including: Aisxylia Festival Eleusis Inter national association of Corporate Collections of Contemporary Art (IACCCA) Art Athina Inter national Art Fair Inter national Solid Waste Association (ISWA) Athens Concert Hall Kino der Kunst Inter national Festival Munich Athens Inter national Airport Kuala Lumpur Eco Film Festival Athens Inter national Film Festival Kunsthalle zu Kiel Benaki Museum Athens Mu.ZEE Ostend Berlinale Inter national Film Festival National Museum of Contemporary Art (EMST) Climate Change Conference Athens Panorama of Ecological Films Contemporary Art Center of Thessaloniki (CACT) Posidonia Events Corporate Art Awards Pulitzer Arts Foundation Design Overview In Tirana (DOIT) Rotterdam Film Festival European Independent Film Festival Paris Sea Days Piraeus (European Maritime Day) Festival du Nouveau Cinema of Montreal Thessaloniki Inter national Film Festival (TIFF) Glasgow Short Film Festival Thessaloniki Port Authority SA Greek Company of Environment and Culture Tilt Platfor m Greek Ministry of Education Triple COPs Geneva State Museum of Contemporary Art of Thessaloniki Venice Biennale House of Cyprus (Cultural Centre of the Cyprian Embassy) Institut Français de Grèce Inter national Short Film Festival Oberhausen TARGET AUDIENCE Having as an ultimate goal the creation of environmental consciousness and culture, PCAI does not address a specific audience. On the contrary, it wishes to connect audiences through art. Adopting the principle that environmental protection is a common responsibility and can only be achieved with collective effort, our initiative addresses each and every one, trying to communicate through art the challenges that threat nature and the consequences that are caused by the over exploitation of natural resources and human intervention, when there is no respect for the environment. However, special emphasis is given to the creation of environmental awareness among young people, which on the one hand will suffer more from the consequences of environmental degradation and on the other hand will be called to disseminate their culture to future generations. WORK IN PROGRESS PCAI is destined to mirror Polyeco’s growth. Its activities are on par with the success of the company. For the next year we wish to: Develop an increasing activity around our growing Art Collection. In 2020 we are planning to commission new works related to environmental awareness Design and Implement an inter national artist-in-residence program that would invite contemporary artists to stay in Athens and create new works inspired by PCAI’s vision and goals. Present our Collection abroad and collaborate with renown museums, institutions, festivals and organisations that share our vision and goals Further our support to artists and art institutions and expand our affiliation programme and synergies. Expand our Collection and commissions’ programme Expand our educational programme in Greece and abroad and develop affiliations with, schools, organisations and institutions Expand our animated film library and promote our educational films to film and kids festivals. Attract support from other initiatives and institutions. In 2018 PCAI received its first grant on the occasion of it educational program. Our aim is to be able to generate more financial support in order to expand our inter national programme and activities Involve more of our employers; enhance our engagement program promoting the role of art in the workplace stimulating productivity, innovation and open-mindedness Commission and engage local artists in countries where Polyeco operates and further address our stakeholders and the local communities we offer our services to, especially those in parts of the world who are experiencing a for m of cultural isolation. PCAI wishes to engage them in a creative dialogue and in some cases promote their artistic voices Enhance our social impact and interaction with local communities and pose issues that concer n environmental policy in local, regional and national level Be recognized for our effort to make a lasting contribution to all the countries that trust its services CHALLENGES PCAI was inaugurated at a time of national financial tur moil and has managed to progress and establish strong foundations that ensure that it will stand in time in order to continue to benefit, support and inspire a number of different audiences; it has undertaken commitment programs that require time and effort from a great number of people. 2019 HIGHLIGHTS During 2019 PCAI had the opportunity to communicate its activities and mission to very diverse and interesting audiences. Our highlights include: • PCAI Collection’s per manent exhibition at the PCAI and Polyeco Group Headquarters in Piraeus • PCAI organized the first inter national IACCCA meeting in Athens • PCAI received Bravo Sustainability & Corporate Responsibility Awards • PCAI launched its first Artist Residency open call with an acclaimed selection comittee and received more thank 400 applications • New acquisitions were added in the PCAI Collection and a number of new commissions were launched • PCAI’s innovative educational workshops continued in SNFCC and in the Athens Science Festival • PCAI’s educational films traveled to inter national kids and animation festivals • PCAI partnered with Loop Barcelona and Loop Dicover awards • PCAI partnered with the Institut Français de Grèce on the occasion of its Plateau Media programme on Art & Ecology • PCAI started its partnership with TBA21’s Ocean Archive • PCAI supported a number of inter national artists, cultural organisations, festivals and biennales. Responsibility towards our employees Working at Polyeco At Polyeco, we value the relationship we have with our employees. The success of our business depends on every employee in our global enterprise. We are committed to fostering open and inclusive workplaces that respect human and workplace rights, where all employees are valued and inspired to be the best they can be. To meet this demand, we employ dynamic individuals, with credible experience and passion. Over the years, we have been fortunate to attract some of the most talented professionals in our industry. Our dedicated and highly educated personnel is our competitive advantage, the most valuable asset for achieving management initiatives and corporate growth. How we conduct business is fundamental to our success and achieving our results. We believe ethics and compliance is our shared responsibility. A commitment to integrity and ethical behavior is a critical factor in our decisions regarding professional advancement and compensation. The foundation of our approach lies in two key documents: our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and our Workplace Policy Handbook. Both are in full compliance with the UN Global Compact principles and Inter national Labour Organization (ILO) declarations. Human Rights Respecting human rights is a fundamental part of Polyeco’s responsibility as a company and is vital to operate our sustainable business. We are committed to respecting fundamental human rights in our operations, our value chain, and in the communities where we operate. We seek to avoid complicity in human rights abuses and to use our influence to promote the fulfillment of human rights. Our commitment to operating with respect for human rights is reflected in all aspects of Polyeco’s business operations and is integrated in our company policies and relevant procedures. We aim to identify, assess, and manage the human rights impacts of our business activities based on the operational context, our leverage and business relationships. In this context, Polyeco has developed and implements a human rights policy, according to which the company commits to align its operations and strategies with the universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights. Polyeco’s Human Rights Policy is integrated within the company’s standards of its Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. POLYECO HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY We respect the human rights of our employees, our contractors and community as established by the UN A/RES/3/217 Universal Declaration on Human Rights and in the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including non-discrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labour, and freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. There is no discrimination based on race, national or social origin, caste, birth, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political opinions and age. No discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, ter mination, and retirement. No use or support for forced or compulsory labour; no required ‘deposits’ financial or otherwise; no withholding salary, benefits, property or documents to force personnel to continue work; personnel right to leave premises after workday; personnel are free to ter minate their employment; and no use nor support for human trafficking. No interference with exercise of personnel tenets or practices; prohibition of threatening, abusive, exploitative, coercive behavior at workplace or company facilities; no pregnancy or virginity tests under any circumstances. We treat all personnel with dignity and respect; zero tolerance of corporal punishment, mental or physical abuse of personnel; no harsh or inhumane treatment. Basic Employment Data Type of Employment Age Range Workforce 2017 Empolyee Categories Level of Education Recruitments Resignations Disclosure Management Approach The foundation of our approach lies in two key documents: our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and our Workplace Policy Handbook. Both are influenced by the United Nations (UN) and Inter national Labour Organization (ILO) declarations. Together, they describe our high standards and expectations, addressing such subjects as child labour, forced labour, freedom of association, discrimination, health and safety, hours of work and Human Rights. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and our Workplace Policy Handbook, apply to all entities in which Polyeco owns a majority of interests. Implementing the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business, labour and human rights in our corporate context we use three primary components: A. Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, a key document used as a framework for respecting human rights in our business context influenced by UN A/RES/3/217 Universal Declaration B. Our Workplace Policy Handbook, influenced by the Greek Labour legislation, the UN A/RES/3/217 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Inter national Labour Organization (ILO) declarations C. A due diligence process to identify, prevent, mitigate and be accountable for labour and human rights abuses. Our company complies with the Greek Labour Legislation in all of its activities, as well as the local laws and legislations of all the countries in which we operate. Among other regulations, these forbid all for ms of forced and compulsory labour, give to employees the freedom and the right to resign from their work voluntarily and reward extra hours of work with additional payment. Equal opportunities Polyeco introduces measures to promote equality, being aware of the diversities of language, culture and family circumstances that may exist in the workforce. Managers and supervisory staff seek to develop an understanding of the different types of discrimination and how it can affect the workforce. Polyeco treats all employees fairly, ethically, respectfully and with dignity. Polyeco offers equal employment opportunities without any distinction based on age, gender, sexual orientation, disability, race, religion, citizenship, marital status, family situation, country of origin or other factors, in accordance with the laws and regulations of each country where it operates. The selection, recruitment and remuneration of our personnel are based on their qualifications, skills, work experience, and on personal interview without gender, age, family status or other discriminations. Wages offered by the company are equal or greater than the minimum rates applicable for each job position. It is our policy, in accordance with all applicable laws, to recruit, hire, train and promote persons in all job titles without regard to race, sex, religion age, disability, nation origin, or any other characteristic protected by applicable law. W ithin company operations and cooperation with other businesses, we ensure that employment contracts are provided to all employees stating the ter ms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment, the freedom to leave (including the appropriate procedures) and any penalties that may be associated with a departure or ter mination of work. Polyeco respects the freedom of association and the right of all employers and workers to freely and voluntarily establish and join groups for the promotion and defense of their occupational interests. Women in the workforce Distribution By Gender Polyeco looks to those human rights defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its two corresponding covenants, The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and The Inter national Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Additionally, we also look to children’s and women’s rights as outlined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. Polyeco’s approach to its business operations is in compliance with the ILO Inter national Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Children's Rights and Business Principles, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the United Nations Global Compact, to which we are signatories. Distribution By Gender Distribution By Gender 2017 2017 Child Labour Child labour is an essential concer n for Polyeco. In this context, we use adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification. We ensure the adherence of minimum age provisions of national labour laws and regulations, especially in countries with Low Human Development Index, where Polyeco executes many of its projects. We are against any for m of child labour in all of our operation in Greece and abroad, and the same we require from our contractors and supply chain. Discrimination The workplace is a strategic entry point for freeing society from discrimination. Combating discrimination at the workplace can help reduce disadvantages, such as in education, resulting from inequity that people may have suffered at earlier stages in life. When the workplace brings together workers of different races, sexes and ages, for example, and treats them equally, it helps build a sense of common purpose. By doing so, it defuses stereotypes and prejudices that are at the heart of discrimination. Benefits Our primary responsibility is the protection of all our employees, their corresponding salaries and fringe benefits in a time that most of our competitors are laying-off staff and decreasing salaries. We ensure that our employees are paid well, at the least legal minimum wage; sufficient to meet basic needs, have access to affordable benefits, and work in a safe environment. Wages and benefits are clearly communicated to workers; paid in convenient manner -cash or bank deposit; overtime paid at premium rate; all employees receive a wage receipt with an analysis of their payment that include, any overtime payment, tax and social security deductions. We do not make use of false apprenticeship schemes to avoid legal obligations to personnel. Employee wellbeing The wellbeing of our employees is a key component of our corporate values and sustainability. We have strengthened and expanded support initiatives for employees offering them benefits beyond the statutory minimum, to help them cope with balancing work and family commitments. In 2018, Polyeco signed a Private healthcare and life insurance program for all its employees. We also actively protect motherhood and parenthood in our company through flexible labour regime, without any loss of benefits, for up to 12 months, as well as to our employees caring for elderly family members or family members with serious sickness. We have also established a leave/short working hour system for employees caring for family members with special needs rated over 80%. Occupational Health and Safety Management We are measured by our ability to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our people. Polyeco is committed to achieving excellence in providing a healthy and safe working environment and to supporting environmentally sound practices in the conduct of its activities. Recognizing the social and economic dimension of the occupational accidents Polyeco has developed and applied a comprehensive and effective Safety & Health Management System according to OHSAS 18001 standard and The Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1 974 requirements. Employee Εducation, Training & Development Our primary responsibility is the protection of all our employees, their corresponding salaries and fringe benefits in a time that most of our competitors are laying-off staff and decreasing salaries. We ensure that our employees are paid well, at the least legal minimum wage; sufficient to meet basic needs, have access to affordable benefits, and work in a safe environment. Wages and benefits are clearly communicated to workers; paid in convenient manner -cash or bank deposit; overtime paid at premium rate; all employees receive a wage receipt with an analysis of their payment that include, any overtime payment, tax and social security deductions. We do not make use of false apprenticeship schemes to avoid legal obligations to personnel. 2019 Health and safety Health and Safety Policy Polyeco recognizes its responsibility towards the Environment, the Health, Safety and well-being of its personnel and people affected by its activities. Also aware of its responsibilities and duties towards its shareholders and stakeholders, POLYECO is committed to inter nationally recognized health, safety and environmental standards. POLYECO acts in an ethical and socially responsible manner with the ambition to avoid negative impacts enhance positive effects and contribute to sustainable development. This HSE policy applies to all activities of POLYECO from conceptual design to operations; its principles apply to all personnel working on behalf of POLYECO, whether as employees, contractors or suppliers. POLYECO IS COMMITTED TO: Integrating HSE aspects in business perforHave an ongoing focus on improving Ensuring safe operations that protect mance strategy and demonstrating the HSE HSE perfor mance people, the environment, communities and importance through hands-on leadership and assets. behavior Base Principles √ Safety ﬁrst Safety comes first. Facilities and operations will be developed, planned and maintained such that robust barriers are in place to prevent accidents. All employees have the right and the duty to stop any works if adequate systems to control risks are not in place. √ Full Compliance with applicable Laws and Regulations Comply with national laws and regulations and respect relevant inter national laws, regulations and conventions. Disciplines over violations will be treated according to applicable legislation and the respective rules and regulations established within the company. Therefore disciplines may vary from single verbal or written notice to immediate dismissal/end of contract. √ HSE is a common responsibility All personnel acting on behalf of POLYECO are responsible for ensuring that the HSE policy and principles are understood and implemented at all levels of the organization. All personnel will be held accountable for HSE perfor mance. √ HSE Risk Management Polyeco works systematically to understand and manage risk and undertake improvement processes based on surveys and risk assessments. HSE hazards and impacts are identified and related risks are reduced to As Low As Reasonably Practicable (ALARP). √ Attitude towards personnel Health and well-being of personnel is of high importance for POLYECO. The company monitors occupational risks of personnel and takes appropriate actions; aiming for a safe and attractive working environment characterized by respect, trust and cooperation.All personnel will have necessary qualifications and training for their tasks. Training needs will be evaluated regularly and relevant training programs will be established. No action or measure against any person who reports an HSE violation is neither per mitted nor accepted at all levels of hierarchy. √ Contractors and Suppliers HSE management of contractors and suppliers shall act in line with this policy. In addition, POLYECO expects its contractors and suppliers to follow these HSE principles while having in place an objective HSE Perfor mance Evaluation System. √ HSE performance improvement incident investigation, audits and inspections Polyeco investigates incidents and implements mitigation measures to ensure that they will not be repeated. All individuals, whether contractors or staff, shall therefore report all incidents and near misses. Incident will be investigated to identify actions to be taken to prevent their recurrence. Regular audits will be conducted to verify implementation of this HSE policy. Polyeco has set in place an awarding system to promote high HSE perfor mance. √ Emergency Response Polyeco maintains an emergency response and preparedness procedure to identify the potential risks and to respond to accidents and emergency situations. This procedure is also meant to prevent and/or mitigate associated environmental, safety and health impacts. POLYECO establishes appropriate systems and trained personnel for emergency response in place for all its activities. Should an accident occur, emergency preparedness routines and resources will be available to limit the consequences and restore safe operations. Integrated Management System (IMS) An integrated IMS manual has been developed to ensure product and service quality continue to meet the highest standards demanded by Polyeco and expected by its customers; ensure products, processes and services are carried out in an environmentally responsible and protective manner; provide a safe and healthy work environment for its workforce and other interested parties; and ensure confor mity with legal and other requirements applicable to POLYECO’s Operations. The manual is structured in three levels as demonstrated below: • Level 1 IMS Manual and Polyeco Policies • Level 2 IMS Procedures and Plans, Safety Procedures & Standard Operating Procedures • Level 3 For ms, Appendixes and Risk Assessments Polyeco implements and maintains a process for periodically evaluating compliance with legal requirements and other requirements of each country where operational activities are taking place. These requirements related to the environmental, health, safety and quality aspects of its processes, products and services and are applicable to all persons working for or on behalf of the organization. Results of evaluation are recorded and reported to management for review and direction of actions when required. Specific Management Procedures have been developed and cover the following: • Policy Handbook • Documents & Records control • Inter nal Audit • Management review • Management of change • Incident investigation • Complaints, Corrective actions & Non confor mity products • Statistical Analysis • Objectives, targets • Training & Competency • Waste Management plan The H&S provisions are integrated in the IMS manual, describe the H&S Management System of Polyeco and provide linkage to all management system documents. The integrated manual covers the following documentation and H&S procedures:ocedures: • Objectives of the H&S system, field of coverage, general requirements • H&S Policy • Planning for Risk Assessment, Legal requirements • Requirements by clients • Organization chart, structure and responsibilities allocation • Appointment of Quality, H&S and Environmental Officer • Appointment of Dangerous Goods Safety Advisor • Appointment of Technical Safety Officer • Competence, Training & Awareness • Documents & Records Control, Subcontractor management • Special Health & Safety guidance on: maintenance activities, fire protection,manual movement of loads, machinery operation, chemical substances, safety signs, PPE • Control, monitoring, corrective actions • First aid, medical inspection of personnel Planning: Review & improvement: Task risks and environmental impacts HSEQ management review assessment Legal, business and customer requirements Objectives, targets and programs Implementation & operation: Checking: Structure and responsibilities Performance monitoring and measurement Training, awareness and competence Evaluation of compliance Communication, participation and consultation Complaints, Nonconformities & corrective and preventive actions Document & record control Control of records Operational control Internal audits Emergency planning and response Further more, the applicable Integrated Management System (IMS) of Polyeco provides linkage to all management system documents, aims to assist Polyeco confor m to the requirements of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. OHSAS 18001 is the foundation for the health and safety elements of the Polyeco IMS, enabling the organization to control occupational health and safety risks and improve perfor mance. IMS is a series of interrelated processes that focus on establishing and achieving the HSSEQ Policy and objectives of the company. Polyeco’s management system is modeled on the continual improvement cycle consisting of four system phases and supporting elements as below: Risk Assessment The Risk Assessment for ms the basis of the Health and Safety Management System and provides a systematic approach in order to identify potential health and safety hazards and appropriate control measures to ensure a safe place of work. All information arising from the Risk Assessment of each task are placed on file and communicated to all members of staff related to the task. The following is fully considered to undertake and complete the risk assessment: • Identify and where possible quantify hazards. • Identify those people who might be affected whether employees or 3rd parties and how that could happen. • Evaluate the risks (likelihood and intensity), identify precautions and control measures and assess if current precautions are adequate. • Brief project staff and infor m them of any revisions. • Investigate methods and/or strategies to reduce or eliminate risks. • Record all findings and brief staff accordingly. • Constantly review the assessment during tasks implementation and ensure assessments and assumptions are valid (supervision). Standard Operating Procedures Similar work activities produce a basic 'model' risk assessment reflecting the core hazards and risk associated with these activities. Such 'model' risk assessments for m the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and are applied in every workplace, when they are appropriate to the specific type of work. The SOPs are adapted to the actual work situations of the current project. These SOPs for m part of the Health and Safety Plan and are communicated to all personnel on site. Training and induction sessions Apart from its personnel Polyeco conducts training sessions to representatives of client on several aspects depicted in the following table. The training sessions are both theoretical and practical. The scope of the training includes the following concepts which are included in the training program: • Understanding of the project’s safety and environmental requirements and their implementation on site by the staff • Understanding of the procedures to be followed in improper situations • Reporting principals and understanding rule • Understanding how to act in case of unexpected environmental accidents An indicative training matrix with the subjects covered is presented. Table 1: Training matrix Each contractor or subcontractor is responsiTraining subject Polyeco staﬀ Subcontractors ble for infor ming their respective employees Introduction to POLYECO’s Code of Conduct, principles and values X X of Polyeco HSSEQ rules and any other appliInformation about the hazards of waste and contaminated materials X X cable health and safety rules. This acknowlTransboundary movement of hazardous waste/substances X edgement will nor mally be accomplished on Site management and control X the site specific health and safety plan or Health, Safety and Environmental plan X X Toolbox talk document. Monitoring and supervision of operations X X Task Based Risk Assessment and Standard Operating Procedures X X Emergency procedures, including spill response, ﬁrst aid and ﬁre ﬁghting X X Site set up and zoning X X Selection, use and maintenance of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) X X Waste management including: Drainage and packaging of waste; Labelling and safe storage of waste; Loading and stowing of waste on X X trucks and shipping containers; Decontamination procedure. Transport of waste in accordance with ADR and IMDG regulations X Induction A Site Induction is held to all Polyeco employees, as well as any subcontractor employees and other parties with site access prior to works commencement. The Induction describes all significant hazards on the site including contamination. The Induction notifies employees and others involved of the site rules, including hygiene rules, and Standard Operating Procedures. H&S protection measures and performance improvement Polyeco investigates incidents and implements mitigation measures to ensure that they will not be repeated. . All individuals, whether contractors or staff shall therefore report all incidents and near misses. Incidents are investigated to identify actions to be taken to prevent their recurrence. Regular audits are conducted to verify implementation of this HSE policy. Polyeco commits to comply with all the applicable HSE legislation and welfare of its employees, or any other person in or near the site of the works and of members of public throughout the duration of the works. European best practices are always applied as minimum requirement. In order to achieve effective HSE protection, the co-operation of all POLYECO employees, as well as subcontractors, involved in the project is required. Our staff is encouraged to demonstrate a continuous commitment to HSE perfor mance, as well as compliance with all statutory HSE requirements. Toolbox talk Toolbox talks are an easy way for foremen and supervisors to supplement the Safety training efforts of POLYECO GROUP, and to keep safety in our workers' minds. These short pre-written safety meetings are designed to heighten employee awareness of workplace hazards and POLYECOGROUP regulations. Site Management and Responsibilities Prior to commencement of work on the site, Polyeco establishes the management organization for all H&S aspects relating to employee activities and the works to be undertaken. Polyeco will be fully responsible for the activities and the safe conduct of all employees on site and will ensure the H&S rules are implemented. Management of Hazardous Waste Polyeco demonstrates professional waste management services, in line with current legislation. Polyeco accepts responsibility for: • The care of the waste while they hold it • Packing waste to prevent its escape in transit • Use of a registered and licensed carrier • Ensuring waste is loaded securely for transport and ends up at legitimate destination • Ensuring that transfer notes are completed, signed and retained In order to reduce potential risks from waste all involved personnel will be trained in the health and safety aspects related to handling and processing of hazardous wastes and an every-day toolbox talk will be discussed. Responsibilities with regards to PPE It is within the Field Supervisor’s responsibilities to: • Ensure that each member of staff has a full set of safety clothing in reasonable condition. The clothing will include high visibility jackets, safety helmet and safety boots with cap and sole protectors; • Provide replacement clothing as required; • Keep suitable records of any PPE provided; • Use best endeavours to ensure that PPE is wor n by all personnel. • Ensure the availability of safety helmets, high visibility waistcoats and safety shoes for the sole use of visitors and ensure that all visitors wear the appropriate protective clothing when on site. Detailed instructions on the usage of PPE during different project activities will be providing during the training course and will be incorporated in the EWP Plan. Site rules The following rules will be applied in all working sites: • Smoking and eating will be prohibited in the working areas. • Littering and lighting of fires will be prohibited. • Site speed limit will be 15 km/h. • Only authorized and trained personnel will be per mitted to enter the working areas. • No member of staff shall use any machine, equipment, dangerous substance, transport equipment, means of production or safety device other than in accordance with instruction and training provided. Electrical Safety Polyeco shall ensure that the responsibilities, demarcations, and safety procedures, of all parties regarding electrical danger are clearly identified and documented. The detailed arrangements shall be communicated to the Field Supervisor and his employees. First Aid A nominated first aid officer shall be on site at all times. The officer shall be a fully competent person with experience of working on sites of a similar nature. Suitable facilities will be designated for the provision of first aid where applicable. All emergency phones (nearby hospitals etc.) will be available and clearly designated on site. Personal Protective Equipment The appropriate level of personal protective equipment (PPE) is specified in the Risk Assessment. Where applicable the equipment will confor m to appropriate standards such as EN or BS. The equipment will be supplied, maintained and disposed of accordingly. Polyeco ensures that each member of staff has a full set of safety clothing in reasonable condition; Provides replacement clothing as required; Keep suitable records of any issued PPE; Use best endeavours to ensure that PPE is wor n by all personnel. Loading, unloading and Storage Areas Unloading of all waste and materials shall be within the dedicated areas. Passages shall not be obstructed during the unloading / loading of waste and equipment while the waste will be labelled and maintained in good condition and stored away from surface drainage. Liquids including fuels will be stored in appropriate, fully labelled containers on low per meability areas. Inspections of the area shall be undertaken. The Field Supervisor shall be responsible for providing sufficient traffic / pedestrian routes on site. Traffic Management POLYECO shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that no mud or other material is deposited on the local road network. POLYECO will provide directions for cleaning the local road network in the event of any material getting onto the public highway. The emergency response plan shall include appropriate measures for dealing with such events including spillage of solid or liquid wastes either as a result of inappropriate loading of vehicles or a road traffic accident. Visual inspections will be undertaken to the vehicles to identify emissions with the potential to cause significant environmental impact. Necessary emergency response equipment will be accompanying transportation. All drivers of the vehicles carrying the hazardous wastes will be appropriately trained to carry their duties and responsibilities. Training will include: • General requirements for the carriage of dangerous goods including style of driving and hazards associated with use of mobile phones and alcohol/drugs; • Infor mation on environmental protection concer ning the transport of hazardous wastes; • First aid and emergency procedures; • Use of PPE. Site Safety Inspections Audits Throughout the duration of the task/project, resources shall be allowed for scheduled Site Safety Inspections, to ensure that the obligations on site are fulfilled. The frequency and extent of such inspections is appropriate for the duration, risks and size of the task/project and will be deter mined upon award of the project. The Site Manager will ensure that any actions arising from the site safety inspections are addressed and any necessary amendments to the H&S Plan are recorded. Possible findings of inspections and audits shall be taken into consideration and relevant actions and measures shall be taken immediately in the context of Continual Improvement. Safety observation cards Safety observation cards are to be filled in mainly from H&S experts but all involved personnel is encouraged to contribute by providing pictures and infor mation of unsafe behaviors. Additionally, this for m is used for any HSEQ related observation including, Safe Actions, Near Misses, HSE Concer ns, System Improvements, Recommendations, Document Changes etc. Health and Safety Indicators Health and Safety indicators are developed and incorporated in the IMS in order to identify and grade our main waste management activities on the site and to follow-up and communicate our Health and Safety improvements in a group level. Polyeco group has established KPIs regarding incidents, accidents, near misses in our facilities and in all sites we operate worldwide. Accordingly, we record the possible safety precautions that need to be implemented in order to avoid risk for safety at work. Some of the most important safety indicators are presented in the table below. Safety meetings and H&S inspections have been increased through the last five years in Polyeco facility and in other Polyeco group facilities and working sites around the world. Polyeco is constantly collecting H&S data so as to assess and understand the problematic tasks/projects and to implement accordingly new correction measures which will lead to minimization of the risks and consequently the incidents at the working areas. Lost time incidents and Lost time incident rate 1 There were no lost time incidents recorded in 2018 while the lost time incident rate was zero. The target for both indicators for 2019 will be set to zero as well. 1: LTIR=LTI*200.000/WHRs Recordable incidents and Recordable incident rate 2 There were 2 recordable incidents in 2019 while the total recordable incident rate was 1.22. The target for recordable incidents for 2020 will be set to one or zero and accordingly the target for TRIR will be set to 1. or less. According to the downward trend (slope) below, Polyeco is targeting to minimize to zero the recordable incidents within a two-year timeframe. Targets for 2020 Through the correct implementation of the IMS and our employees’ contribution we can achieve year-on-year improvements to health and safety and meet our targets. Zero fatalities Zero lost hour incidents Zero road traffic accidents < 3 Recordable incidents Environmental Impact Our Approach In the context of the implementation of its products and services, Polyeco is committed to act in a way that protects the Health, Safety and well-being of its personnel, third parties, customers and people affected by its activities. Also aware of its responsibilities and duties towards its shareholders and stakeholders, Polyeco is committed to inter nationally recognized health, safety and environmental standards. Polyeco acts in an ethical and socially responsible manner with ambition to avoid negative impacts enhance positive effects and contribute to sustainable development. We aim at sustainable development combined with environmental protection, building on high expertise, giving its services of excellent quality characteristics and outstanding advantages, with special emphasis on environmental protection, in application of the European Directive 2010/75 / EU on Industrial Emissions (Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control) . Consequently, Polyeco is committed to continuously improving its energy and environmental perfor mance while respecting the environment, its legality, its employees, its customers, its shareholders and society in general, with the main aim of preventing accidents and occupational hazards in the workplace and creating a safe working environment, along with the reduction of its environmental footprint and the provision of high quality products and services. In this regard, based on its strategy and vision, Polyeco operates with the application of the Best Available Techniques in accordance with the Sustainable Development Standards, under AGENDA 2030 of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Objectives, promoting environmental investments. Environmental Policy The HSE policy applies to all activities of Polyeco from conceptual design to operations; its principles apply to all personnel working on behalf of Polyeco whether as employees, contractors or suppliers. For Polyeco, Quality and Environmental Management, requires the following goals to be achieved: • Ensuring the quality of its products and services through efficient planning and monitoring of its operation. • Being recognized as a company which respects the environment • Application and monitoring of appropriate quality and environmental practices. • Continual service improvement and fully satisfied customers. • Minimizing environmental and risk impacts associated to company’s operation (including stakeholder needs and expectations) In order to achieve the above objectives, Polyeco is committed to: • Implementing a Quality Management System in full compliance with the requirements of ISO 9001: 2015, Regulation 1221/2009 / EC (EMAS) and ISO 14001: 2015. The Integrated System of Quality Management and Environmental Quality Management requires: Commitment that applies to all members of the staff, as well as Management Communication and feedback of experience to all company’s levels Provision of adequate training and guidance in general and specialized issues of quality and environmental management, to all employees. Defining, monitoring and reviewing measurable quality and environmental management objectives, targeting continuous improvement, minimizing risks, customer’s protection, meeting customer needs and expectations, continuously deliver compliant products and services to the customer, knowledge of the company in depth. Monitoring, documentation and evaluation of company perfor mance on quality and environmental management. Implementation and verification of corrective actions Regular inspection of procedures • Compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements that company is subject to and which are related to the implementation of its services, environmental and occupational health and safety risks • Constantly seeking to exceed customers’ expectations • Providing the necessary means for the safe operation and continuous improvement of the Integrated System • Constantly seeking new ways to enhance business processes • Continual improvement of company’s perfor mance on quality and environmental management The policy is periodically reviewed for its continuous adequacy and effectiveness, its response to customer requirements and to legislation, the orientation towards the company’s continuous improvement and the general management meetings that are held at least on an annual basis. This Policy is communicated to the entire company and is strictly binding for all employees, suppliers and subcontractors. The responsibility of all employees involved in the operation of the Quality Management and Environmental Management System, starting with Company’s Administration, is not only to comply with the Integrated System, but also to actively contribute to the improvement of the implemented procedures. The Policy is available to all interested parties in the context of company's commitments. Environmental Management We have developed an Environmental Management System in full compliance with the requirements of the inter national standard 1221/2009/EC (EMAS) through which it is documented that products and services provided by Polyeco contribute to the protection of the environment. The scope of the system is the sound management of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. The Quality and Environmental Management System (QEMS) of Polyeco, is described in detail in the order of the documents of the QEMS substantiation, which have been drawn up to ensure that all activities included in the system are documented and controlled. The documentation of the QEMS is appropriate for the size and activities of the company, the complexity and interaction of the processes and the capabilities of the personnel. The structure of the QEMS documentation is hierarchical for reasons of clarity, confidentiality and flexibility in revisions. The Quality and Environmental Management System (QEMS) of Polyeco is structured in four levels as shown in the figure below: The Quality and Environmental Management Manual is the top of the documentation pyramid and includes the Quality Policy, Environmental Policy as well as a brief QEMS description of the QEMS and its procedures. MANUAL Procedures describe in detail all critical activities for QEMS operation, the responsibilities of the personnel involved and the related documents necesPROCEDURES sary for the implementation of the QEMS. Operating Instructions describe all necessary details for the successful operation of a job position, critical to quality assurance OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS and management of significant environmental issues. The documents include the data and the results DOCUMENTS OF related to the implementation of the QEMS. DOCUMENTS EXTERNAL ORIGIN The below chart presents the main System Processes. Processes describe the way that the company operates in order to run the business effectively. Through the correlation of processes, the Departments work together in order to ensure better communication for business execution. 03. HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT HEALTH & SAFETY (OHSAS) 07. QUALITY CONTROL LABORATORY (17025) 01. BUSI05. PROJECT MANAGEMENT NESS PLANING & 09. SALE & MARKETING CONTROL FINANCIAL 04. PRODUCTION 10. RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT 08. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 11. QUALITY, PROCESS MANAGEMENT (EMAS) 02. KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT Compliance with environment related laws and regulations Polyeco ensures that it adheres to inter national best practices and is focused improving its perfor mance and adhering to the provisions of its operational license, according to the SDG6, SDG7, SDG15, SDG17. Polyeco participates in industry bodies, in employment bodies, in thematic stakeholder forums and public events, in order to promote the compliance with Inter national and European standards, Decisions, Directives & laws. The Polyeco Quality Manual is under amendment, to effectively capture Polyeco’s needs to cover the sustainability performance criteria, beyond the standard conditions of quality of products, services, environmental legislationaspects, and legal compliance with respect to environmental protection, health and safety. In addition, Polyeco’s operations aim to reduce its environmental footprint, while respecting inter national, EU and national legislation. In order to continue its successful course at an inter national, European and national level, Polyeco adapts the requirements of its projects to provide innovative solutions with state-of-the-art equipment, making our company one of the largest waste management companies inter nationally, with hundreds of successful projects around the world. Performance in 2019 In full compliance with EMAS Regulation, Polyeco constantly monitors the basic environmental indicators measuring: water consumption, electricity consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and total annual emissions of air pollutants (NOx, SO2, and particulate matter) that arise from the company’s activity. Polyeco also monitors the levels of Environmental Noise within its facilities and conducts Liquid Waste Measurements. The company has developed environmental programs, setting specific goals, invests in environmental projects and implements the best available environmental techniques and practices for achieving continuous improvement. Indicatively, Polyeco monitors the Consumption of Resources within its facilities and takes appropriate measures in an effort to reduce the effects that arise from the use of electrical and electronic equipment, toners/inks, lamps, batteries, lubricants and packaging materials. Environmental Key Perfor mance Indicators (KPIs) The calculation of key indicators of environmental & safety perfor mance is based on consolidated data from alter native fuels & alter native raw materials production and the waste management plants and their attached facilities. Emissions and consumption of natural resources are avoided due to (1) the strict application of environmental per mit measures and conditions, as well as (2) the implementation of the provisions of Directive 2010/75/EU (On Industrial Emissions Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control). The social perfor mance indicators are calculated according to the integrated Polyeco’s data management system, which includes an inter nal CSR software platfor m for all data collection and consolidation processes, which are the basis for calculating social perfor mance data. ENERGY CONSUMPTION ANNUAL CONSUMPTION 2019 In 2019 there was a slight fluctuation Bensin light-duty truck LPG of energy consumption related to (passenger vehicles) the productivity of the company. 32.568 (lt) The losses within the Power Substation at the Facilities of Athens were almost zero. 11.430 (lt) At Thessaloniki facilities, energy consumption increased compared to 2018, with total consumption at 2.627 72.784,80 KWh. This is due to the million (kwh) new productive activities and tests 241.064 (lt) carried out within the reference Diesel (heavy load year. vehicles and machinery) Electricity ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION ATHENS FACILITIES ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION THESSALONIKI FACILITIES ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION MANDRA FACILITIES FUEL USAGE GAS CONSUMPTION (LTR) 2017 2019 30.390,84 ltr. 29.058 28.248,25 ltr. 2018 ltr. WATER MANAGEMENT Water is used for the needs of staff in the office changing room laboratory, for watering the flower beds and for firefighting needs (for Aspropyrgos and Thessaloniki) A percentage of total water consumption is also used for the needs of the urea production line. In 2019 there is no production of urea solution. In the context of reducing water consumption, vacuum toilets have been installed in the office changing room laboratory, which consume 1/10 of the amount of water used by conventional toilets. 2019 NOISE dB(A) February April June August October December Σ1 59 62 62 58 55 69 Σ2 57 63 63 58 58 64 Σ3 58 62 62 60 59 61 Σ4 60 60 60 63 52 62 Σ5 58 57 57 64 58 56 Σ6 59 56 56 55 61 56 Σ7 61 63 63 62 61 56 Σ8 56 60 55 62 56 58 Σ9 57 62 63 60 60 55 AVG 58,33 61,00 60,11 60,22 58,89 58,56 Typical 1,49 2,05 3,07 2,70 2,23 2,99 declination AIR POLUTION To achieve our commitment to UN GC Principles and stabilize carbon emissions and environmental footprint to the lowest possible level, Polyeco funded a significant investment to create a solar power station consisting of 1000 photovoltaic panels that have been installed, on the roof of our main industrial facilities in Aspropyrgos, Greece. This Green Energy Solar Station has a total surface of 3300m2, and a generating capacity of 250 kW. The conversion of direct current to alter nating current generator is carried through 12 inverters DELTA (Ger many), while for the connection of the unit to the Medium Voltage Power Network a privately owned Low Medium Voltage Substation of 250kVA was built. The commercial operation of this power station started after successful completion of the connection of the unit to the medium voltage network of the Hellenic Electricity Distribution Network Operator S.A. (HEDNO) in February 2013. Five years later, Polyeco S.A. continues the operation of its solar power station, which produces approximately 320.000kWh « green » electricity annually, which is enough to supply about 80 midsize households and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 270 tons of CO2 and a total of nearly 6 tons of SO2, CO, NOx and PM10 emissions This section presents the Key Environmental Perfor mance Indicators as defined at the Annex IV of EMAS Regulation (annually total water consumption and energy as well as greenhouse gases and NOx, SO2 and particles emissions from each of Polyeco’s facilities): Annual consumption 2019 The total air emissions are: ANNUAL CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION ANNUAL EMISSIONS Kg Electricity 2.627.317 (kwh) CO2 2,65E+06 Diesel (heavy load 241.064 (lt) CH4 104,93 vehicles and machinery) Bensin light-duty truck 32.568 (lt) N2O 249,63 (passenger vehicles) LPG 20.782 (lt) SO2 140,06 For the calculation of CO, NOx, HC (Non Methane VOCs) and PM emissions is used the ‘EMEP/EEA emission inventory guidebook 2009, updated May 2012, ΑΝΝΕΧ Ι, Τable 9.12’. Consequently, the selected factors are: Emission factors Emission factors Emission factors (diesel HDV) (g/kg fuel) (gasoline) (g/kg fuel) (LPG) (g/kg fuel) CO 8,49 69,4 120 ΝΟx 35,6 6,99 37 HC 2,8 10,53 25 PM 1,24 0,03 The total annual CO, NOx, HC (Non Methane VOCs) and PM emissions based on the fuel consumption under 2019 are: ANNUAL EMISSIONS Kg (diesel) Kg (gasoline) Kg (LPG) Kg (TOTAL) CO 1698,7 1695,2 1371,612 4765,5 ΝΟx 7123,0 170,7 422,9137 7716,6 HC 560,2 257,2 285,7525 1103,2 PM 248,1 0,73 248,8 WASTE MANAGEMENT Οur vision is based on the EU's environmental policy as well as on the principles of the circular economy, aiming to reduce the health and environmental impacts of waste, in order to improve European resource efficiency, and to use unavoidable waste as resources. It is common knowledge that proper waste management is a key element in ensuring resource efficiency, energy recovery and the sustainable growth of European Member States Economies. Laboratory waste The waste resulting from laboratory activities (EWC 16 05 06 *) is packed in suitable containers and stored at the EA storage facility of Polyeco, before being shipped to licensed facilities abroad for final disposal or managed within the facility. In 2019approximately 10.000,00 kg of laboratory waste were exported to licensed facilities in the EU. Solid wastes Any solid industrial waste generated from production at Polyeco facility is converted into alternative fuel. Metal packaging and various scrap metals from waste packed in metal packaging are recycled. Once the packaging are emptied, they are cleaned and compressed and the clean metal is sent to an approved waste collector for recycling. Recyclable waste from staff activities is collected separately and recycled within the facility as a raw material for the production of secondary fuel. The waste that cannot be recycled is collected by the Aspropyrgos Municipality and taken to the Ano Liossia Landfill. Their quantity is about 11 tn / year for the Aspropyrgos plant and about 3 tn / year for the Thessaloniki plant. Liquid waste There are 2 different liquid waste streams at Aspropyrgos facility; industrial liquid waste and urban waste water. It is worth mentioning that the proposed changes have been integrated to the existing industrial liquid treatment plant and it is not expected to be associated with the discharges to the water recipient as facility’s liquid waste is being treated at Tank Farm. SOIL & GROUNDWATER There is no imminent risk of soil or groundwater contamination when the facility operates under normal conditions. Potential risk may occur in the event of a leak in the pumping station, tanks or in the repackaging area and the area of HW storage. To avoid such a risk, appropriate soil protection measures have been taken in the respective areas. In addition, soil is being tested periodically which entails chemical sampling every 6 months at various points around the site for elements and compounds as defined at the corresponding environmental condition of the Decision of Approval of Environmental Terms. Groundwater’s control entails sampling at 3 boreholes, once every 6 months. CIRCULAR ECONOMY Polyeco produces alternative fuels and alternative raw materials using a variety of hazardous & non-hazardous waste streams, by applying best available techniques as defined in IED Directive 2010/75/EU. Alternative raw materials are recovered in the cement industry for the production of clinker, substituting natural resources and contributing to the circular economy. Furthermore, alternative fuels are substituting conventional fuels. The EU Circular Economy Strategy announced on 2 December 2015 aims to meet the major challenges of the modern economy: saving resources, strengthening competitiveness, creating jobs and promoting growth, in relation to the protection of the environment and public health. Specifically, substitution of fossil fuels with alternative fuels contributes to the protection of the environment and public health by reducing carbon dioxide emissions and energy costs as well as waste management costs, limiting the need for landfills. Polyeco, using resources to increase its efficiency, offers economic benefits such as job creation and support for the country's economic development as well as more effective environmental protection and mitigation of climate change. Climate change has a visible impact on all sectors of the economy, the environment and society in general. Addressing climate change requires coordinated efforts at a global level under the Paris Agreement and based on the principles of the circular economy. The socio-economic transformation required by the transition to a low-carbon economy gradually improves production and consumption models, creating and enforcing modern technologies and practices. Therefore, we support the circular economy and we have a positive impact by re-using and recovering the waste, because Innovation is key to supporting closed-loop thinking, according to SDG12, SDG17. Eco-Friendly Activities Polyeco contributes to the conservation of natural resources, reducing operating expenses and raising employee environmental awareness. “Reduce, Reuse and Recycle” is one of Polyeco’s fundamental principles, implementing longstanding and active waste reduction and recycling programs. Specifically, our top priority is to reduce waste generation in the first place and the second priority is the reuse and recycling of materials, whenever this is possible. We implement measures and actions in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the main cause of climate change. Except for the use of energy efficient products, we have established a solar power station at our facilities in Aspropyrgos. We are also conducting efforts in order to reduce water usage by establishing monitoring and targeting system. In this content, the company focuses on green product advantages and eco-friendly business practices in marketing messages and strategies. All the corporate stationery, such as brochures, flyers, business cards, gift bags and notebooks, is printed on recycled paper. We choose Eco-friendly gift products for healthier living, like bamboo usb flash drives, conference folders and pens from cork, wooden ecocubes containing dirt and seeds which develop into flowers. It should be mentioned that for the achievement of the targets set in the field of environmental protection the company strongly encourages the participation of its employees and ensures their constant education in the practices that can be applied for the conservation of resources. The training programs are conducted by external partners or by the company’s executives. The educational themes cover all the aspects of environmental management of the existing Quality and Environmental Management System. Furthermore, the employees are informed about the environmental policy applied by the company, the environmental goals and targets, the applied environmental programs, as well as the environmental effects of the company’s operation. ZERO WASTE OFFICE This year, Polyeco with a deep awareness of current environmental problems and many years of experience in waste management and sustainability practices, implemented the Zero Waste Office action initiative in all its facilities. The Zero Waste Office program, one of the most recent and absolute environmental concepts, aims to prevent the production of waste as much as possible, to utilize the generated waste as a resource and to minimize the amount of waste sent to landfills. The above objectives are in line with European legislation, the Waste Framework Directive and the waste management hierarchy. Living with zero waste is not easy in itself, as it means making many changes in a person’s life, even giving up some of the luxuries he/she is used to having. Together with its employees, Polyeco has implemented the following measures as new daily habits in the workplace, within the premises of its facilities and which all employees follow: Paper Recycling Office supplies, electronic devices and batteries Εvery office produces large amounts of waste We buy refillable pens, and the stationery along with paper. Ignorance of the resources needed to further materials that are no longer useful are deposited in a manage recyclable materials, combined with poor special bin for further recycling or production of management due to haste and a lack of paper-savsecondary fuel at Polyeco. The same tactic is followed ing practices, creates quite large amounts of waste for printing equipment. The printer inks are collected in that are thrown away in municipal landfills. special bins and taken to partner companies for refilling. At Polyeco, we avoid reckless use of paper and print only when needed, as all files are transferred The batteries are first collected in a special battery via storage devices (usb sticks, hard-discs). All doccollection bin and then transferred to the Polyeco uments are printed on both sides of the sheet of household battery treatment plant. Electronic device paper. Any sheets of paper that are not used are recycling bins have been installed on all floors, as they stacked in a special place next to the printer to be are the most frequently discarded electronic and techused as note paper by employees. All fully used nological equipment available to modern companies sheets are deposited in a special paper recycling bin. RECYCLINGCOMPOSTING Polyeco has purchased special separation and collection bins for various streams of materials (paper, plastic, glass, aluminum). We have invested in complete kitchen equipment so as to avoid ordering coffee or food through delivery (reduction of carbon footprint due to the elimination of transport & required packaging) and to enhance the consumption of homemade food in order to accurately manage meal portions and avoid food waste. Those who use the kitchen area are obligated, after cleaning the packaging, to separate and deposit them in the appropriate bins. In the kitchen there are also buckets for collecting used coffee grounds (filter and espresso with a separate collection of coffee capsules). For the large packages of ground coffee that the company supplies to the employees, there is a special area where they are cut and deposited to be given as raw material to artists (up cycling). In the case of unavoidable food waste, there is a state-of-the-art dryer in the kitchen area, where the collected bio-waste is placed for further treatment at Megaeco and their conversion into either compost or alternative fuel (through composting and anaerobic procedures). We have procured a special bin for collection of cigarette butts, which will be forwarded for alternative fuel production or recycling. In case it is necessary to order coffee or juice, the company has informed in writing the cooperating coffee shops not to bring plastic straws for any order made by the company's offices. All employees use their own coffee and water thermoses and their own straws which are made from sustainable bamboo and offer an environmentally friendly alternative to plastic straws as they are reusable and biodegradable. For each visitor the company has supplied disposable wheat straws made from natural wheat 100% biodegradable and compostable. The Zero Waste Office program, started in the offices of the facilities at the beginning of 2019 and was warmly accepted by both the management and the employees, as well as by the external partners-visitors of our company. Environmental awareness is a way of life for Polyeco and all its employees. The implementation of this initiative is the beginning of a new future.
