Sustainability A sustainable business operation is the key to long-term success. NOTE works continuously on issues affecting the environment, social conditions and its human resources, human rights and anti corruption. This work is conducted with the aid of applicable legislation, standards and other regulations. NOTE’s connection to UN Global Sustainable UN Global Compact, Development Goals, page references in the Principle 1, page 17. Annual Report UN Global Compact, Social conditions and Principle 1, page 17. human resources, page 16. UN Global Compact, Principle 1— 6 and 10, page 17—19. Share data and owners, page 26—27. Social conditions and UN Global Compact, human resources, page 16. Principle 6, page 18. Human resources, page 20 —23. UN Global Compact, Principle 1, page 17. UN Global Compact, Environmental policy and Principle 1, page 17. working methods, page 15. UN Global Compact, Principle 7— 9, page 18—19. Social conditions and UN Global Compact, human resources, page 16. Principle 1—10, page 17—19. UN Global Compact, Human resources, page 20 —23. Principle 6, page 18. Customer satisfaction survey, page 12. Human resources, page 20 —23. Timeline of NOTE’s sustainability work 1997 2002 2004 2006 2010 2011 The plant in Norrtälje, The plant in Torsby, The plant in Lund, Code of conduct The plants in UK and NOTE joins UN Global Sweden, ISO 14001 Sweden, ISO 14001 Sweden, ISO 14001 produced. China ISO 14001 Compact. certification. certification. certification. certification. 14 Global Goals for Sustainable Development NOTE has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2011, and supports its ten principles on human rights, labour law, the environment and anti corruption. We have also analysed which of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals NOTE can contribute to through its operations. The connections between these goals and NOTE’s activities, targets and strategies are reported on the pages stated in the contents to the left. NOTE and sustainability NOTE’s sustainability objective The group’s manufacturing units hold A growing number of stakeholders The objective is to contribute to, and ISO 14001 environmental certification expect NOTE to make a contribution improve, the societies where NOTE and are audited by internal and external to sustainable development. These operates, by developing sustainable resources. In 2018, NOTE acquired a expectations apply to responsible initiatives in our business. The group’s plant in Windsor, UK, which had already business, transparency and good shared values and policies are intended been working on environmental issues business ethics, but also to NOTE to lead, influence and direct the pursuant to ISO 14000 for many years developing environmentally adopted group’s activities. NOTE complies with and was certified in January 2020. production processes. NOTE’s international standards and directives in NOTE was one of the earliest companies sustainability work involves all group the sustainability segment. in its sector to receive ISO 14000 companies, covering everything from environmental certification, back in 1997. appropriate conduct towards the Environmental policy and Despite differences in environmental company’s stakeholders and helping working methods legislation between countries, NOTE has customers choose components and NOTE endeavours to achieve longthe consistent ambition of all its plants technologies with good environmental term, sustainable development by following a consistent line of environand quality performance, to locating manufacturing with the minimum mental work. Its manufacturing units manufacture close to final markets, and possible environmental impact. NOTE exchange best practice, best-in-class limiting the environmental impact of endeavours to comply with, or exceed, actions and proposals for improvement. transportation as far as possible. applicable environmental legislation, Manufacturing units sort the waste In tandem with improving our impact and pursues continuous improvement from consumables at source and monitor on the environment and wider society, in the environmental segment. NOTE’s energy consumption continuously. NOTE NOTE endeavours to act responsibly environmental work complies with also applies environmental consideration on those markets where it is active. international ISO guidelines, under in other parts of its business, through Sustainability issues are included in our the ISO 14000 family of standards. channels including discussions with its yearly customer satisfaction surveys, to identify segments that customers consider important to focus on. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 2018 The plant in Finland The plant in Estonia For the fifth consecutive The plant in Finland Equality policy produced. Privacy policy ISO 14001 certification. ISO 14001 certification. year, the plant in Estonia OHSAS 18001 The plant in Norrtälje, produced in order The plant in Estonia OHSAS 18001 is awarded the Silver certification. Sweden, nominated for to handle personal receives sustainability implemented at the plants Sustainable Business Samhall’s Visa vägen data in accordance award from the Estonian in Estonia and China. Index Award by the (‘Show the Way’) award. with GDPR. Chamber of Commerce Human rights and Anti Responsible Business & Industry. corruption policies produced. Forum. 15 customers on sourcing materials and satisfaction survey, and in 2019, the Gender division group production setups. response frequency was 80% (82% in Electronic scrap, glass, plastic and 2018). paper are recycled. NOTE conducts % improvement projects to reduce waste, Respect for human rights 100 energy consumption and CO2 emissions. and anti corruption Corrugated board and combustible waste NOTE respects human rights and its 75 are compacted to minimise the amount conduct prevents them being infringed. of waste transports, which affect the In addition to responsibility for its 50 environment. In its transport, NOTE also own operations, this also implies a coordinates its freight agreements to responsibility for respecting human rights 25 optimise transportation, and thus limit in business relations with the company’s energy consumption and CO2 emissions. stakeholders. NOTE’s Human Rights 0 NOTE conducts regular environmental policy has principles and standpoints 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 audits of strategic suppliers. that apply in labour law and equal Women Men opportunities, for example. Social conditions and NOTE’s Code of Conduct formalises human resources how the company expects its suppliers NOTE endeavours to be an employer to conduct themselves within human offering everyone equal opportunities to rights, labour law, child labour, corruption work and develop. The group’s collective and the environment. This is conveyed competence is based on diversity, through the supply chain and monitored Gender division managers which helps bring dynamic and different in supplier audits. perspectives to work. NOTE’s Anti Corruption policy includes 34% women 66% men NOTE is opposed to all forms of principles stating the group’s standpoint discrimination. One tool for working on on corruption. The policy also reviews this and other issues is its whistleblower segregation of duties, how internal function, which had one reported case controls are conducted, and stipulates a resulting in action being taken in the year. whistleblower procedure. NOTE implemented a Privacy policy in Within the auspices of its internal 2018, which regulates the management controls, NOTE has a documented Gender division Board of Directors of personal data. This policy is written process for evaluating risk and compliaccording to the EU GDPR (General Data ance with policies. In 2020, NOTE intends 43% women 57% men Protection Regulation). to continue policy work and encourage All NOTE employees are entitled to positive social progress in the locations collective bargaining agreements, and where NOTE has a presence. to form and join trade unions. Collective Full versions of NOTE’s Code of bargaining agreements are in place at Conduct, Human Rights, Equality and most NOTE plants. Three plants also Anti Corruption policies are available use OHSAS 18001 to guide their work. at www.note.eu. This far-reaching, global and verifiable For more information on NOTE’s standard in occupational health and business model and risk management, safety involves with external auditing and see the operational review on pages 8 certification. 14 work-related incidents and 13. were reported in 2019, and 2 work injuries, which resulted in a total of three and a half days’ sick-leave. NOTE conducts an annual employee 16 UN Global Compact NOTE has been a member of the Global Compact, which was started on a UN initiative, since 2011. LABOUR LAW The Global Compact’s NOTE conducted follow-up audits on 24 suppliers (35 in 2018) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of ten principles Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The Global Compact has formulated ten The form used for supplier audits included questions regarding human rights. principles affecting human rights, labour The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE law, the environment and anti corruption. suppliers is approximately 56% (55% in 2018). FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGIn 2019, NOTE supported WaterAid, an organisation NITION OF THE RIGHTS TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Member companies have undertaken to whose mission is to improve living conditions for the comply with these principles. world’s poorest and most marginalised people by improving access to clean water, toilet and hygiene APPROACH Each year, NOTE reports its COP facilities. Access to clean water is critical to reduce NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports (Communication on Progress) to the UN. poverty. It increases equality by freeing up time for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. women for work and education. It also reduces infant All NOTE employees are entitled to collective This is a framework that defines how mortality and improves public health by improving the bargaining and to form, and join, trade unions. Collective sustainability work is conducted within prospects for maintaining good hygiene. bargaining agreements are in place in most NOTE plants. NOTE’s Human Rights policy states the group’s internal the group, and towards external stakeGOALS 2020 standpoints on this principle. holders. The COP reviews its actions, Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct and Three plants also use OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 as encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN Global guidance for their work. This is a far-reaching, global and approach and goals. NOTE has been at Compact or support its ten principles. Continuously follow verifiable standard in occupational health and safety, the Participant level since 2019. Each up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten principles of with external auditing and certification. the UN Global Compact in supplier audits. year, NOTE makes a sales-based donaIncrease the share of sourcing from strategic and RESULT 2019 tion to the UN Global Compact. contracted suppliers by two percentage points. NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure Work to help children and uphold their rights, by compliance with its Code of Conduct. NOTE’s Code of Conduct is based on donating to development organisations. In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new the Global Compact’s ten principles and customers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact by communicating the importance of the full version is available on its website. PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENSURE these issues. THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN A summary of our plants’ executed and RIGHTS ABUSES A fourth plant has decided to affiliate to the updated health & safety standard ISO 45001 (previously OHSAS forward-looking work on Global Compact 18001) and will begin the certification process in 2020. principles follows. APPROACH NOTE signed agreements with another three strategic NOTE has been applying its Code of Conduct, which or contracted suppliers (three in 2018), who accepted supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent since 2006. code. NOTE’s Human Rights policy has been implemented NOTE conducted follow-up audits on 24 suppliers (35 HUMAN RIGHTS in all plants’ business systems. in 2018) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. RESULT 2019 The results of audits indicate that suppliers are NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure complying with relevant laws and regulations. compliance with its Code of Conduct internally. Internal The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted audits were conducted to ensure compliance with suppliers is approximately 56% (55% in 2018). relevant policies, laws and ordinances. In the year, NOTE continued its work on reducing the In the year, NOTE’s customers demanded for materials usage of conflict minerals. analysis, and continued its work on reducing the usage of conflict minerals by helping customers select materials, GOALS 2020 PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND to avoid this type of material. Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS GOALS 2020 Global Compact or support its ten principles. Continue to promote human rights internally and towards One plant secured ISO 45001 certification, and those the company’s stakeholders. plants with OHSAS 18001 certification will continue APPROACH their work on converting to the new, updated ISO 45001 NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which standard. supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and since 2006. NOTE endeavours to develop business with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier companies that have the corresponding ethical rules on audits. Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and accountability. contracted suppliers by two percentage points. RESULT 2019 NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD compliance with its Code of Conduct. THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new AND COMPULSORY LABOUR customers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact by communicating the significance of APPROACH these issues. NOTE signed agreements with another NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports three strategic or contracted suppliers (three in 2018), the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. who accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. 17 As part of its business principles, NOTE and its custoIn the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new customers NOTE encouraged existing and new customers and mers’ and suppliers’ employees should enter employment and suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact by and contracts of their own free will. by communicating the significance of these issues. communicating the significance of these issues. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 as NOTE signed agreements with another three strategic NOTE signed agreements with another three strategic guidance for their work. This is a far-reaching, global and or contracted suppliers (three in 2018), who accepted or contracted suppliers (three in 2018), who accepted verifiable standard in occupational health and safety, NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent with external auditing and certification. code. code. NOTE’s Human Rights policy stipulates that Follow-up audits were conducted on 24 suppliers (35 Follow-up audits were conducted on 24 suppliers (35 employment with the company should always be in 2018) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of in 2018) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of voluntary. Additionally, work should always be conducted Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. without compulsion or harassment, either physical or The results of these audits indicate that suppliers are The results of these audits demonstrate that suppliers are psychological. complying with relevant laws and regulations. complying with relevant laws and ordinances. The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted The share of purchasing from strategic and contracted RESULT 2019 AND GOALS 2020 suppliers is approximately 56% (55% in 2018). suppliers is approximately 56% (55% in 2018). See principle 3. GOALS 2020 GOALS 2020 Conduct a group-wide employee satisfaction survey and Continued progress towards still more environmentally Samma som för5:Princip PRINCIPLE 3. BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE use its results in business processes. friendly production and environmental transportation. EFFECTIVE PROHIBITION OF CHILD LABOUR Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct Continue to reduce waste volumes. and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN ISO 14001 certification of the Windsor plant. Global Compact or support its ten principles. Implement Grön El (‘Green Power’) from solar, wind, Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and hydro and biogas. APPROACH the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports audits. and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and Global Compact or support its ten principles. NOTE complies with relevant laws and ordnances on child contracted suppliers by two percentage points. Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and labour. NOTE does not employ children and does not the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier collaborate with companies that use children as part of audits. their workforce. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 as ENVIRONMENT Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and contracted suppliers by two percentage points. guidance for their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiable standard in occupational health and safety, with external auditing and certification. The group’s standpoints on this principle are stated in PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE NOTE’s Human Rights policy. PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO RESULT 2019 AND GOALS 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES APPROACH See principle 3. NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. APPROACH NOTE’s plants hold ISO 14001 certification and PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports undergo internal and external audits. THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. The group works actively on developing guidelines and OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION NOTE’s manufacturing units hold ISO 14001 certificamethodologies designed to minimise the group’s negative tion and undergo internal and external audits. environmental impact. Employees are encouraged to APPROACH NOTE’s plants run improvement projects in the enviparticipate in this process. NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports ronmental segment and measure a series of environmenNOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of sourcing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. tal factors such as electronic scrap, energy consumption from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE has a good NOTE believes in a workplace where all employees have and transport. All plants have environmental targets, understanding of these suppliers’ environmental work and equal opportunities to work and progress. NOTE sees and which are monitored regularly. can help them to develop and improve in this segment. benefits from all employees’ specific competence and NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of sourcing developmental opportunities, regardless of sex, ethnicity, from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE has a good RESULT 2019 AND GOALS 2020 sexual orientation, disability, age and social background. understanding of these suppliers’ environmental work and See principle 7. NOTE’s Equality policy states the company’s principles can help them to develop and improve in this segment. governing equal opportunities and diversity, which are encouraged in all parts of its business. The company RESULT 2019 PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT endeavours to achieve equal opportunities in terms NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY of employment and working conditions, as well as compliance with its Code of Conduct. FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY developmental opportunities. The company pursues Selective soldering machines have been installed, diversity on recruitment. Its working climate should reducing tin slag, and enabling a more environmentally APPROACH feature respect and tolerance. If any instances of friendly process than previously. NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports harassment or bullying are reported, the group will take NOTE’s plants work on the basis of individual targets the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. action immediately. and circumstances in the environmental segment. A NOTE’s plants hold ISO 14001 certification. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 as variety of initiatives are ongoing, including work lights that NOTE takes a positive view of developing guidance for their work. This is a far-reaching, global and have been wholly or partly replaced with LED equivalents environmental technology and actively supports new verifiable standard in occupational health and safety, at manufacturing units to save energy. Timers have been manufacturing methods and components that are more with external auditing and certification. installed at certain plants to ensure lighting is not used environmentally friendly. NOTE conducts environmental unnecessarily. audits when introducing new equipment, technology and RESULT 2019 In 2018, NOTE acquired a plant in Windsor, UK, which logistics solutions. NOTE conducted a group-wide employee satisfaction had already been working on environmental issues Experience is shared between the group’s plants. survey in the year, whose results are utilised in NOTE’s pursuant to ISO 14001 for many years and was certified An environmental perspective is considered jointly forward planning and development work. in January 2020. with customers when tailoring product manufacture. In 2019, one whistleblower case resulted in action NOTE’s complete REACH-EU Regulation policy, stipulaA database for identifying RoHS, Reach and conflict being taken. ting how NOTE works to comply with this EU regulation for minerals in components is being used. NOTE works continuously to ensure compliance with its handling chemicals, is available at its website. NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of sourcing Code of Conduct. from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE has a 18 good understanding of these suppliers’ environmental GOALS 2020 SHARE OF SOURCING FROM STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS work, and can help them to develop and improve in this Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct segment. and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN % Global Compact or support its ten principles. RESULT 2019 AND GOALS 2020 Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and 60 See principle 7. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier audits. 50 Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and contracted suppliers by two percentage points. 40 ANTI CORRUPTION 30 20 PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, 10 INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY 0 APPROACH 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. NOTE has an Anti Corruption policy, as well as a Whistleblower policy and procedure, which has been implemented in all plants’ business systems. NOTE encourages employees to resolutely counter all forms of corruption, extortion and bribery. Simultaneously, NOTE expects the corresponding attitudes from its customers and suppliers. NOTE does not accept any gifts, whether to customers or from suppliers, other than items of low value. NOTE’s Purchasing policy prohibits of bribery and corruption, with sourcing managed according to ethical rules. NOTE has group-wide and local authorisation procedures expedient for its business. RESULT 2019 NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliance with its Code of Conduct. No instances of suspected corruption were reported through the whistleblower procedure. In dialogue with our stakeholders, we’re endeavouring to In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new customers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN create a more sustainable business environment. Applying Global Compact by communicating the significance of these issues. the UN Global Compact and its ten principles guides us in our NOTE signed agreements with another three strategic or contracted suppliers (three in 2018), who accepted operations, as described in our Communication on Progress. NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. Johannes Lind-Widestam, CEO and President Follow-up audits were conducted on 24 suppliers (35 in 2018) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. The results of these audits demonstrate that suppliers are complying with relevant anti corruption laws and ordinances. The share of purchasing from strategic and contracted suppliers was approximately 56% (55% in 2018). 19 Human resources NOTE’s employees are the key to our successes. Their commitment, inventiveness and desire to help customers creates the strength of our global business. NOTE possesses a global organisation Employee of the Month examples of how our employees conduct with operations in Sweden, Finland, the Achieving the goal of being the best themselves when they perform at their UK, Estonia and China. Consequently, collaboration partner in the sector, with best, for customers or colleagues. developing the interaction between leading delivery precision and quality for A winner is selected each year, and plants is important. This work is done a competitive overall cost, demands a lot in 2019, the Employee of the Year was through channels including a number of from everyone involved. To recognise the awarded to the production team at functional forums, in segments including people that have contributed something Stonehouse, UK. quality, sourcing, accounting and sales. really special, NOTE has an Employee of Johnny Goncalves received a special NOTE works continuously on harmonising the Month award. This might be someone award for his efforts for NOTE’s business. its working methods and monitoring who has ‘gone the extra mile,’ or been Meet some of NOTE’s employees in tools, as well as clarifying guidelines. Its a great ambassador for NOTE. Another the next section. improvement and development processes ambition of this award is to make an involve many employees group wide. extra contribution to a stronger feeling of NOTE continuously monitors businesssolidarity within the group and share real related key performance indicators such as ongoing central and local improvement projects. The workforce was upsized and Average number of employees 1,070 downsized in the year to cope with demand fluctuations and to implement rationalisation. The average number of employees was 1,070 in 2019. Staff turnover was 20.7% in the group overall, of which 12.0% was in the European plants. Training Average number of employees by country To assure quality and competence in the electronics assembly process, several 350 NOTE plants maintain long-term collaborations with external partners in soldering 300 and electronics assembly training. 250 Usually, these programmes involve 200 practical work and the certification of 150 qualified electronic assemblers. 100 NOTE offers opportunities for university and college students to write 50 their dissertations and serve internships. 0 Sweden Finland UK Estonia China 20 Division between blue collar Employee satisfaction survey NOTE’s 20-year anniversary and white collar workers As in previous years, an employee NOTE celebrated its 20-year anniversary 312 white 758 blue collar workers satisfaction survey was distributed to in 2019. A journey that has involved intercollar workers the group’s staff, who responded. It is national expansion, and now, a presence important that every employee feels in five countries with eight plants. that they can deliver value-added to customers, understand how to achieve this, and why. Plans of activities, with a schedule for execution, based on responses was created. The results are We’ve gradually expanded our global presence, maturing as a busialso utilised for NOTE’s future planning ness. Now, we have plants that are strong individually, and interact and development work. well. We’ve improved our diversity. I’m also delighted to see that For more information on human resources, refer to page 42 of the formal based on the results of our employee satisfaction survey; our people annual accounts. think we’re continuing to improve as an employer. Johannes Lind-Widestam, CEO and President 21 Supak Andersson SMD/Prototype Operator, Lund, Sweden Supak joined NOTE 22 years ago, and over the years, her duties have become increasingly advanced, which has been a contributor to her personal development. “What I like most about my job is the opportunity to develop, and the variation of duties,” she says. Her duties include programming/optimisation and operation of AOI (automated optical inspection), and inspecting, soldering and repairing PCBs in batch production and prototyping. Supak maintains high quality and efficiency, and is always looking to satisfy customer needs, which was a contributor to her winning Employee of the Month in the year. Supak really appreciates her colleagues, and views them as an important reason that NOTE is a good employer. “NOTE is also a stable company offering a lot of opportunities, such as continuous development,” she concludes. Monika Lille In-house trainer, Pärnu, Estonia The role as an in-house trainer includes training employees, meaning that Monika develops the programmes for workers, the production of training materials and then manages the training of employees. “I coordinate a job-based training mentoring programme within my competencies. For example, this includes occupational safety, health and a complete training programme for electronics product developers”, she says. Monika’s teaching skills have made her a valued colleague. She has worked at NOTE for 15 years. According to Monika, NOTE has many good qualities as an employer. “NOTE has a competent management team, which helps the employer to become better. A good employer like NOTE values and recognises its employees, by enabling them to develop and grow within the company. A safe working environment is prioritised, which contributes to the employees’ health and security”, Monika says. What she likes most about her job is the variety in her work, communicating with different people and supporting the employees in their professional development. Eini Andersson Production Supervisor, Hyvinkää, Finland “No two days are alike. Production planning means a lot of work in a short time, so my days are busy. That’s what I like most about my job,” Eini says. The role involves everything after the SMD process including Through Hole Assembly, Hand Soldering, box build, testing and packing. One of Eini’s most appreciated qualities is that she is not afraid to solve a problem, which is an important part of her role. New computer systems have changed her job. The learning process involves a lot of thinking, and Eini views it as a part of her development. “We’ve gained new customers during my 4.5 years at NOTE, and I’ve grown with our customers in my role,” she says. According to Eini, NOTE is a good employer. It’s a stable company, offering their employees good benefits and flexible working hours. “My colleagues are nice, and the atmosphere is open. NOTE is so good that I drive 43 km each way every day to come here,” she concludes. 22 Johnny Goncalves Technical Project Manager, Norrtälje, Sweden Johnny has brought his exceptional personal commitment to help one of NOTE’s medtech customers to continue development of its product and NOTE’s production process to support it in the NPI phase. Johnny has ensured that we stuck to demanding schedules and critical processes through the project, with his efforts vindicated by an order of some SEK 25 million from the customer. Management wants to say a big thank-you to Johnny for his efforts. Neville Whitham Managing Director, Stonehouse, UK Neville has, in a meritorious and competent way, upgraded the plant in Stonehouse to a level that we as management for NOTE can be proud of. The work has been carried out in an engaging and enthusiastic way with the entire group in Stonehouse being involved in the transformation. The response from our customers during the relaunch of the plant in September reinforces the image that the upgrade has all the prerequisites to lead to more business, both with new and existing customers. As a result, the entire production team was named employee of the year. Johnny Goncalves Eini Andersson Supak Monika Lille Andersson Neville Whitman NOTE is a stable company offering a lot of opportunities for continuous personal development. Supak Andersson, NOTE Lund 23
