T H U L E G R O U P A N N U A L R E P O RT 2019 Contents The year in brief 4 This is Thule Group 6 CEO’s statement 9 Business environment and market 12 Business concept and strategy 16 The Thule Brand 20 Product categories and regions 24 Targets and achievement 28 Thule Group Sustainability Initiatives 32 Products and consumers 38 The Sustainability Report is on pages Manufacturing 42 32–52 and 138–146. Sourcing and logistics 47 Employees 49 Risks and risk management 53 The Thule Group share 58 Information to shareholders 59 Board of Directors’ Report 60 Corporate Governance Report 72 The Annual Report encompasses pages Consolidated Income Statement 82 60–137 and is published Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 83 in Swedish and English. The Swedish version is Consolidated Balance Sheet 84 the original and has been audited by Thule Group’s Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 85 auditor. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow 86 Parent Company Income Statement 87 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income 87 Parent Company Balance Sheet 88 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity 89 Parent Company Cash Flow Statement 90 Notes 91 Assurance 133 Auditor’s Report 134 GRI Index 138 GRI Appendix 142 Auditor’s Report on the Statutory Sustainability Report 146 Definitions 147 Board of Directors 148 Group Management 149 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 Bring your life. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H E YEA R I N BRI EF 4 The year in brief Our long-term focus on strengthening the Group’s core brand, Thule, in all channels, has resulted in the brand now accounting for 83 percent of the Group’s sales. The brand is well-known throughout the world and is visible in ever-more product categories for living an active life. Q1 Q2 Thule Landmark was launched, a series of travel backpacks that can Thule Group was one of 2019’s winners of “Sustainable Company of be used for long weekends as well as months-long adventures. With the Year,” Carnegie Investment Bank’s new sustainability prize. The detachable daypacks, built-in safety features and a comfortable carry, it competition included 173 companies on the Swedish stock market, which soon won favor with consumers all over the world. were analyzed in terms of environmental impact, social commitment and corporate governance. The goal is to stimulate sustainable investments and We also launched our first hard-sided luggage collection, Thule Revolve. a long-term sustainability perspective that creates shareholder value and, Manufactured in our own plant in Poland with durable construction, by being a good example, inspires others to become more sustainable. four wheels (including extra large rear wheels) and a premium feel, this broadens our luggage offering. The hydration backpack offering was expanded after demand for Thule Vital, which was launched in 2018. The best-selling Thule Rail for New, ambitious sustainability goals for Thule Group based on the UN’s down-hill mountain bikers and Thule Uptake, an affordable series for family 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development are presented. To clarify and adventures (available in youth sizes) all include the popular and patented focus our sustainability efforts after a new shareholder dialogue and the ReTrakt tube system. survey we conducted to identify the extent of our impact, the following focus areas were defined: Gender equality (Goal 5), Reduced inequalities In Seymour in the US, production began in a new components production (Goal 10), Clean water and sanitation (Goal 6), Affordable and clean facility, which is directly connected to the region’s largest assembly facility. energy (Goal 7), Decent work and economic growth (Goal 8), Responsible Automated laser cutting and welding makes more internal production consumption and production (Goal 12) and Climate action (Goal 13). possible, increases efficiency and simplifies material flows while also increasing safety and creating a more comfortable work environment. Q3 Q4 Thule Group’s third stroller model was revealed to media and stores at the The new premium rooftop cargo carrier Thule Vector was launched before international leading trade fair Kind+Jugend in Germany. Thule Spring the winter season. With aerodynamic design, smart solutions like interior – a light, compact stroller that is easy to maneuver or fold up with one lighting and typical Thule user friendliness, the Thule Vector complements hand and that takes up minimal space and is easy to store. Thule Spring is the best-selling Thule Motion XT in the mid-price segment and the entry launched in retail in the first quarter of 2020. model Thule Force XT. For the fifth year in a row, Thule was named the best brand for awnings Thule Group supplemented the acquisition of Tepui Outdoors, a leading and bike racks for RVs in the reader survey conducted by the prestigious manufacturer of rooftop tents, with the acquisition of the niche company European trade journal ReiseMobil. Denver Outfitters, North America’s leading player in roof rack mounted fishing rod vaults. In combination with a broader offering of awnings for SUVs, this Thule Group hosts a popular media and consumer event at Suria KLCC, has created a growing product portfolio in adventure camping. Malaysia’s most popular shopping mall, where we showcase new luggage collections together with a local fashion brand and the department store Ground broken for a SEK 100m investment in Thule Group’s world-leading chain Isetan. product development. A new building with a planned opening for spring 2021 will feature an optimized work environment for an expanded work force in design and construction as well as an expansion of our advanced global test center. The expansion includes just over 5,000 square meters of office and manufacturing space for the test center as well as a prototype and tool department and an additional 3,000 square meters for a park-like test track for the Active with Kids product category. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T HE YEA R I N BRI EF 5 Net sales Underlying EBIT and margin Net sales per geographical area SEKm SEKm – Margin, % 8 000 8,000 1,600 1 600 20 Sweden, 4.4% (5.1) Other Europe, 63.2% (61.9) 6 000 6,000 1 200 1,200 15 North America, 26.1% (26.4) ROW, 6.3% 4,000 4 000 800 10 (6.6) 22,000 000 400 5 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 + 8.5% Sales for Thule Group increased 8.5 percent in 2019, corresponding to a currency-adjusted growth of 3.9 percent. Strong growth, primarily in the categories Active with Kids and RV Products in Region Europe & ROW, was the largest driving factor behind the increased sales. 83% Thule Group’s core brand Thule grew more than 6 percent during the year and accounted for 83 percent of sales at year end. We continued to broaden the brand in terms of product offering during the year and also strengthened our brand communication in the internationally recognized lifestyle brand. Thule Sleek T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H I S I S TH U LE G ROU P 6 This is Thule Group At Thule Group, everything we do is based on customer-driven innovation and a long-term sustainability perspective in developing, manufacturing and marketing products that make it easier for people across the globe to live an active life. A dream of a Innovative products Sustainable Products for an more active life with smart solutions processes active lifestyle Thule ProRide Thule Group is an international Group with sales of SEK Products of the moment 7,038m in 140 countries. We have had a long-term focus on Active experiences that are shared with family and friends result sustainable growth since we were founded in 1942. We in more enduring happiness than anything else. Physical outdoor continuously make major strategic investments with the future activities are attracting ever-more people throughout the world, in mind, with a focus on financial performance as well as who live in stressful urban environments with sedentary jobs, societal and environmental goals. and more time and money is being spent in pursuit of such We are a global market leader in several product categories, experiences. The positive feelings created by such experiences such as roof racks, rooftop cargo carriers and bike racks for also spill over to the products that are used, which in turn build vehicles, as well as in certain child-related products, such as the brand, brand loyalty and sales growth. bicycle trailers. We are leaders in the European market for our Our markets are supported by several positive trends: a niche categories for RVs and caravans. In the past few years, rapidly expanding urban middle class with a great interest in we have also grown rapidly in product categories that were new health and well-being, the growth of new sports and an older to us, such as technical packs and luggage, as well as strollers. generation who are both interested in and able to dedicate T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H I S I S TH U LE G ROU P 7 themselves to a more active lifestyle, and customers of every The investment is expanding our product offering, strengthens age who will make sustainable choices. Regardless of where the relationship with our users and is the key to capturing in the world our products are found – hydration backpacks profitable market shares. on mountain-bike trails outside Cape Town, rooftop cargo During the last decade we have, in addition to continuously carriers at the ski lift in Sälen, bike trailers outside preschools developing several fantastic products, worked strategically and in Cologne or carry-on luggage at Singapore’s airport – all of systematically to strengthen our largest brand, the core brand which share our principle of offering solutions that allow you to Thule. With the motto Bring your life as a foundation, we are conveniently bring along everything you care about and need strengthening the emotional connection to the Thule brand for an active life. through relevant consumer communication in social media and inspiring concepts in both physical and digital environments. A lifestyle brand built on quality and design The brand’s share of the Group’s sales is increasing, amounting Our business concept is to offer well designed, high-quality to 83 percent in 2019. products with smart features and a sustainable design that make it easy for people across the globe to live an active life. Focus on continuous improvements Our employees are genuinely passionate about utilizing their Continuously improving the way we develop, manufacture and competence to develop, manufacture and market sustainable distribute our products is not only better business for us and and innovative high-quality products with superior functionality. our clients, but results in a more sustainable world, through During the last few years, we have increased investments in rigorous ethical standards and responsible business practices, product development and in 2019 that investment reflected climate-friendly and resource-efficient materials, processes and 6 percent of sales. transportation, and sustainable innovations. Sales per brand Sales per product category Thule, 83% (82) Sport&Cargo Carriers, 63% (64) Other brands, 8% (8) RV Products, 15% (14) OEM, 7% (7) Packs, Bags & Luggage, 12% (12) Private label, 2% (3) Active with Kids, 10% (10) Five-year overview Sales by region Europe & ROW Americas 72% 28% SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 7,038 6,484 5,872 5,304 5,018 Underlying EBIT 1,245 1,164 1,069 935 835 Operating income (EBIT) 1,195 1,163 1,067 922 809 (71) (29) Cash flow, operating 1,030 606 972* 878* 662* activities * Based on total operations, meaning both continuing and discontinued operations. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H I S I S TH U LE G ROU P 8 Thule Vector Investments in sustainable long-term growth and solid profitThule Group develops and manufactures ability generate value for all our stakeholders. products that simplify an active life. This can be everything from a full-packed roofOur Code of Conduct is based on our core values: Shared top cargo carrier for a diverting ski trip with Passion for Smart Solutions that Enable an Active Life. The your best friends to the practical backpack with room for your work computer as well Code applies to the entire value chain. It offers guidance about as your yoga clothes when you travel to how we should conduct ourselves in relation to each other and the important meeting in the big city. our stakeholders and describes the directives and principles we follow in our operations. Together, we are building a sustainable life cycle Sustainability is a natural part of our business, because we are dependent upon our employees, customers and consumers being able to enjoy an active life in the living outdoors. In the beginning of the year, we announced our updated longterm sustainability goals in line with the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our focus areas within climate and environment are based on a life-cycle concept: from how we design and manufacture our products to how they reach our consumers, and how the products are used and cared for, so that their components and materials can be recycled in the best possible way. In terms of social responsibility, we aim to be an active, committed partner in long-term business relationships, where we place stringent requirements on ethics and anticorruption. We aim to offer a safe and stimulating work environment where everyone is treated equally, and where we all contribute to Thule Subterra identifying smarter ways to work. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CEO’S STATEMEN T 9 “An OK year – but with several cornerstones in our platform for continued growth.” After the reporting period, the covid-19 pandemic has erupted around the world and much of what we all take for granted have suddenly been challenged. Uncertainty about the coming economic impacts of the spread of the corona virus means that at I, at this point in time, cannot make a more specific assessment of the impact on Thule Group in the short term. But I can assure you that the management has taken a number of actions to protect the company’s operations and, of course, follow the local directives that exist in relation to health and safety. We entered 2019 with several strategic initiatives in the end Stable trend in Sport&Cargo Carriers and RV Products phase of their implementation. Major layout and efficiency Our largest product category, Sport&Cargo Carriers, posted programs were close to completion at six of our nine assembly stable growth of 1 percent in local currency during the year, plants. We also prepared for the launch of several new, exciting despite the decision to phase out a large OE contract for products in all four of our product categories. pick-up truck accessories and a challenging bike market in the Our investments to create a broad and stable platform for US. The new sub-category rooftop tents, which was added long-term profitable growth continued during the year. I would through the acquisition of Tepui Outdoors in the end of 2018, like to highlight the 6 percent of sales we invested in product grew quickly in the North American market and these products development. Driven and focused product development will be sold under the Thule brand starting in the first quarter is core to our company and the foundation for our future of 2020. In December 2019, we also carried out a minor, competitiveness. supplementary acquisition through the purchase of North This enables us to increase the lead over our competitors America’s leading manufacturer of roof mounted fishing rod within traditional product categories, while creating opportunities vaults. The acquisitions expand our growing product portfolio for growth within our newer categories, such as strollers and with a focus on an active lifestyle in the outdoors and adventure luggage. camping segment. Region Europe & ROW continued to post healthy growth of Even more important for long-term growth were the 6.1 percent, after currency adjustment, while sales declined 1.2 launches in roof racks and rooftop cargo carriers. Our new percent in local currency in Region Americas. This was primarily generation of roof racks, which is being launched in three due to the phaseout of low-margin OE contracts, but also to phases, from 2018 to 2020, is setting entirely new standards a challenging market for bikes and bike-related accessories, in terms of safety and user-friendliness and has been well with increased import duties and uncertainties regarding trade received in the market. The same is true for the new premium agreements between the US and China. rooftop cargo carrier Thule Vector, which was launched in We delivered growth of 8.5 percent, had strong cash flow stores in the end of 2019. and continued to maintain very healthy profitability. Operating RV Products delivered another year of very strong growth of income increased SEK 81m, to a total of SEK 1,245m. We 13 percent. We were also helped by the European RV market, reached an operating margin of 17.7 percent, compared with which performed better than expected, with market growth of 18.0 percent for the preceding year. around 8 percent. A strong product portfolio focused on the The effects of the US–China tariffs and a somewhat lower quickly growing category of smaller RVs for younger users and capacity utilization in our own facilities were the factors that new products, such as the innovative bike rack Thule VeloSlide, impacted most. Our long-term ambition to achieve an operating combined with a high level of service to our major customers, margin of at least 20 percent remains. contributed to growth that far exceeded the market’s. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CEO’S STATEMEN T 10 During the third quarter, we initiated a recall of two models meant that after several years of limited sales, growth in the of motorized awnings for RVs. No serious accidents were category was 2 percent during the year. reported and efforts to upgrade the products in the markets are Our decided phaseout of some of the low-margin product ongoing. We are confident that the financial provisions made categories in the consumer electronics category and certain during the year will cover the costs of the recall. OEM customers, primarily in the US market, was completed in 2019. At the same time, sales of camera bags, tablet cases A growing portfolio within children’s products and bags and cases for smaller consumer electronics continued to Strong growth, primarily in the Benelux countries, Germany decline at the same rate as the market. and the Nordic region were behind the positive trend in On the other end of the scale, we delivered strong growth Active with Kids and we grew 15 percent after currency in luggage. We launched the hard sided luggage series adjustment in Region Europe & ROW. We look forward to the Thule Revolve during the spring and our new soft luggage launch of our third stroller model, the compact and convenient collection, Thule Crossover 2, in the autumn. Growth in smaller city stroller Thule Spring, which will be launched in stores during backpacks and bags for everyday use, as well as sports bags the first quarter of 2020. and luggage, also strengthened the category. The weak bike market affected child bike seat and bike trailer sales in Region Americas. In the US, the leading competitor Thule is a global lifestyle brand within sport strollers offered major discounts and our decision We have always worked systematically with quality and design, to not lower our prices meant that our largest product in the and for several years we have put additional emphasis on region dropped in volume. establishing stronger emotional ties with our consumers throughIn Packs, Bags & Luggage we continued to see major out the world using the brand’s motto Bring your life. Our journey differences between different types of bags. The new product to make the Thule lifestyle brand the natural choice for the mix, with a larger share of sales in future growth categories outdoor life as well as urban environments continued in 2019. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CEO’S STATEMEN T 11 Seeing a 20-year-old, well-functioning rooftop cargo carrier majority of our greenhouse gas emissions are known as Scope 3 parked at the ski lift, a stylish backpack in a trendy clothing – the effects of the logistics required to bring products to store in Tokyo, a young couple running with their kid in a sports consumers all over the world. To that end, we are continuing stroller or two surfers on Instagram living their #vanlife – of to improve how we pack and transport products and to ensure course that instills pride and a connection to lifestyle. more complete emission data from our partners. This was confirmed when Thule won two Red Dot Awards When it comes to work environments, unfortunately, we have in November: ”Best of the Best for Brands & Communication to acknowledge that work-related injuries increased for the Design” and ”Best Outdoor Brand.” second consecutive year. We have addressed the problems We received the awards for a brand promise that is clear locally at the sites and during the second half of the year, the and attractive as well as through consistent and engaging trend turned around. We will continue to work for continuous brand and communication efforts. improvements during 2020. The Thule brand continues to grow in importance for Read more about our focus areas and our sustainability the Thule Group. Sales grew 6 percent during the year and efforts on pages 32–52. accounted for 83 percent of the company’s sales at year end. Ready for 2020, but the covid-19 outbreak Investments for growth casts a dark shadow During the year we continued our investments to create Several of the investments that began in 2018 and intensified efficiency gains and enhanced automation our assembly during 2019 have not yet gone into full effect. We continue to plants, including the introduction of phase two of three phases build the Thule lifestyle brand and increased investments in at the roof rack plant in Hillerstorp, Sweden. In addition, we our market-leading product development, modernized and completed lay-out changes of parts of our sites in Connecticut, streamlined our production facilities and distribution centers as USA, and Menen, Belgium, as well as relocation of parts of the well as broadened our base of retailers. 2019 was an OK year. business to nearby premises. Now, with several cornerstones in place, I am convinced that In November, we broke ground for a major expansion in we are starting 2020 on a very stable platform for long-term Hillerstorp, where the company was founded 78 years ago. profitable growth. The SEK 100m investment is focused on product development, I would like to thank all of our 2,400 employees in 35 countries with a larger dedicated building that will be completed in spring for all their hard work and enthusiasm. Your energy and skills 2021 and that includes 5,000 square meters of office and are the key to our success. manufacturing space, expanded test center, prototype and tool I would also like to take the opportunity to thank our inspiring department, as well as another 3,000 square meters for a ambassadors in Thule Crew, old and new suppliers, all of our park-like test track for the product category Active with Kids. retail partners and all the shareholders who continue to place their trust in us. The journey toward our Sustainable It is obvious that uncertainty about the future financial impacts Development Goals for 2030 continues of the spread of the covid-19 pandemic means that we will need As a business, we aim to contribute to a more sustainable world to implement a lot of measures to continue to successfully run by offering innovative, high-quality products that inspire people the business in the short and long term. Even though I cannot, to live an active life outdoors, and which are manufactured at present, make a more specific assessment of what these will responsibly with the least possible impact on the climate and be. Our over-arching strategy holds true, we continue our focus environment. I am very pleased that we took several important on consumer-driven innovation with the launch of many new, steps this year towards the long-term Sustainable Development exciting products and a focus on long-term sustainable growth. Goals, based on the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable All with the goal of creating added value for all our stakeholders. Development, that we presented in 2018. To satisfy the greater demands placed by stores on Malmö, March 2020 short lead times and delivery precision while achieving our sustainability goals is a challenge and we must continuously challenge and optimize our entire supply chain. Despite rising production volumes, we reduced the volume of greenhouse emissions generated by our own production Magnus Welander, facilities by 13 percent, compared with the last year. The CEO and President, Thule Group T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B USI N ESS EN V I RON M ENT AND MARKET 12 Thule Force XT B USI N ESS EN V I RON M ENT AND MARKET 13 Positive macro trends strengthened all categories, but challenges in international retail remain Strong international macro trends create growth opportunities for Thule Group all over the world when people want to live an active life with their loved ones. High-quality products that are manufactured sustainably and that are used during positive experiences create a strong emotional bond with the brand. Our products are used in both urban environments and the and that create a strong connection to their consumers – so outdoors by people at different stages of life and with different called lifestyle brands – have greater possibilities of being interests. All of our products are designed and manufactured long-term winners in a world of information shared on according to our values and they make it easier to live an active social media and online product comparisons. At the same life full of experiences. time, there are more demands to live up to expectations on Several strong global macro trends are helping Thule Group all levels – everything from product quality and sustainability, to grow. Increased leisure time and greater awareness of the to the possibility of shopping whenever and wherever they benefits and joy of living an active life are resulting in people of want, and to choose the level of service they are prepared to all ages spending more money and time than ever before on pay for. Brands that represent truly great products that are sports and outdoor activities. This trend is also supported by also perceived as being an important part of the emotion that a growing middle class in growth markets and better health customers are seeking can fetch higher prices. later in age, which leads to a more active life. This means good potential for continued growth in our classic product categories Locally tailored global omnichannel strategy (roof racks, rooftop cargo carriers and bike racks for cars). In Brands that can effectively meet consumer’s needs on the local our newer product categories, such as luggage and strollers, level are the winners in a more competitive world. If they can we have the opportunity to create growth by capturing market also build a strong and sustainable international supply chain, shares, not to mention a growing market in general. they can achieve scalability and thereby free up resources for further investments. Consumers demand more from their favorite brands The global retail industry has been undergoing major People all over the world are exposed to an increasing number changes for several years, with new purchasing patterns seen of brands and products through digital and physical channels. in both digital and physical channels. In both of these channels, Even though, or perhaps because, we live in an increasingly retailers are increasingly expected to create added value. This stressful urban, digital environment, travel and physical outdoor can be everything from the cheapest price, broadest offering, activities are attracting evermore people throughout the world most knowledgeable employees and the quickest delivery to and more time and money is being spent in pursuit of such the most sustainable total experience. experiences. This applies both to extreme experiences and the In a quickly changing world, retail chains are demanding mundane, like the extra lap in the city park with their daughter shorter lead times, improved delivery precision, efficient marketwhile she sleeps in the stroller. The positive feelings created by ing support, simplified online sales and smart store concepts. such experiences spill over to the products that are used, which Brands that understand and work with all parts of a global in turn builds the brand, brand loyalty and sales growth. omnichannel strategy, or who clearly focus on certain aspects Brands that aim to be more than just a product to consume to become the best within their chosen niche, are winners. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B USI N ESS EN V I RON M ENT AND MARKET 14 Thule Omnistore 5200 New barriers for international trade Sport&Cargo Carriers. Thule Group accounts for about 50 In 2019, the world saw how new barriers for international percent of the global market in this category, and we are driving trade, particularly increased tariffs between China and the growth through innovative product launches and a clear focus US, affect the market. In addition to up to 25 percent higher on supporting retailers with store concepts and online tools, import tariffs on products and components manufactured in and through PR initiatives. The market is influenced by the China, the uncertainty over when, how and the extent to which global sports and outdoor trend, as well as the need for people the tariffs would be implemented led to a challenging time to bring new products with them when traveling, such as in US retail in particular. Unexpected forms of trade barriers heavier e-bikes that require new, smart solutions. were even introduced during the year in other markets, such as In the US, bike sales – and thus the market for bike racks – Turkey, which create short-term challenges for growth in these were negatively affected by the tariffs introduced during the year. markets before they regain equilibrium. In 2019, Sport&Cargo Carriers accounted for 63 percent (64) of the Group’s sales and by our assessment, the market is Four product categories and international sales growing 2–4 percent annually. Thule Group offers a broad range of valued products that make it easier for people across the globe to live an active RV Products – European market remains positive life. Overall, our markets are growing 2–5 percent each year, In RV Products, we are focusing on the European market, with greater variations in different product categories and which accounts for 95 percent of sales in this category. We geographic markets, depending on factors such as market are market leaders in terms of awnings and bike racks for maturity, standard of living, urbanization, the competitive motorhomes and caravans in the European market, which landscape and brand recognition. again posted very strong growth of 8 percent during the year. The German market in particular was very positive, with growth Sport&Cargo Carriers – stable market of more than 10 percent, while the market declined in Sweden development, except in the US and the UK, and was only slightly positive in southern Europe. With the best products in the market for bringing the family’s The trend with the greatest impact on the industry is the sale sports equipment on a winter vacation by car, or surfboards of smaller motorhomes. A new generation of young consumers to the beach on a Saturday morning, Thule Group has appreciates the sense of freedom that a holiday in an RV can achieved market leadership in our largest product category, offer, and in parallel, the growing demographic of people aged T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B USI N ESS EN V I RON M ENT AND MARKET 15 50+ wish to continue living an active and sporty life. As this sector is also impacted by access to financing for such a large capital purchase as a motorhome or caravan, and our products are essentially mounted in connection with their purchase, RV Products is our most sensitive product category to the economic cycle. The underlying annual growth in the European market is estimated at 5 percent, on average, for the next five years. Active with Kids – stable and growing category We are an international market leader in bike trailers, which remain the largest sub-category in Active with Kids. We are also one of the three leading players in child bike seats. Increased daily commuting with bikes, primarily in central Europe, the Netherlands and Scandinavia, where our bike products are used to bring kids to and from daycare and preschools, mean that we expect these categories to continue to grow around 5 percent per year. In the beginning of 2019, we launched our third stroller model, and in this sub-category our primary focus is on growth through Thule Crossover 2 increased market share. At the same time, it is encouraging that more and more studies show that the premium segment, which is our focus area, is growing around 5 percent per year, cases for small consumer electronics to carry-on luggage for somewhat faster than the market as a whole. business travelers. At the same time, the bag industry is highly fragmented and includes local players with geographically Packs, Bags & Luggage – growth in focus categories limited brands as well as strong global players, usually with a We offer a wide range in the product category Packs, Bags & product range that encompasses several categories. Luggage. In 2019, we sold everything from relatively simple In the last few years, Thule Group has focused on backpacks for daily use in urban environments as well as luggage. In 2019, we launched our first hard sided luggage collection, Thule Revolve. Together with Thule Crossover 2, launched in the autumn, this complements the successful Thule Subterra series launched in 2017. During the last five years we have also expanded our luggage offering to include different forms of sports bags, such as hiking backpacks and bike bags. Sales in the traditional product categories under the Case Logic brand, such as camera bags and cases for tablets, continue to decrease in a shrinking market, and there is no sign that the negative trend will turn around. The phaseout of several low-margin products on the North American market continued during the year. The historically large exposure to the rapidly declining sub-categories decreased, accounting for 29 percent (34) of sales in the category in 2019. Our assessment is that the market for our prioritized sub-categories is growing about 3–5 percent annually, driven by increased international travel and a growing interest in an active lifestyle. Thule Chariot Sport T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B U SI N ESS CO N CEPT AND STRATEGY 16 Business concept and strategy Our business concept is to offer high-quality products with smart features and a sustainable design that make it easy for people across the globe to live an active life. An active life. The customer’s Shared Quite simply. first choice. passion. We offer a range of products; everything By this we mean that consumers who Our employees, customers and from luggage and strollers to rooftop look for products that make it easy to consumers all play a major role in our cargo carriers and bike racks on cars, all bring everything they need for their development and success. of which make it easy to bring everything active lives opt for products from Thule. you need to live an active life. Our They trust that the brand stands for Our shared passion, which is about products are developed based on the sustainability and quality, and they always trying to exceed users’ insights garnered from our varied users appreciate our smart solutions. expectations, means that everyone from – from extreme sports enthusiasts to the assembly staff in our factories to families – and on our expertise on various Our customers should see Thule Group our sponsored Thule Crew members materials and the products’ total impact as their obvious choice of partner, are always coming up with smart on the climate and environment. since we supply innovative products suggestions on how we can improve that are manufactured with a long-term our products or advance our production All our products are tested in our own sustainability perspective and because and sales processes one step further. facilities so that you can have full we understand how the products are confidence in their function and used in the local market. Customers and performance and you and your family consumers can rely on us. can enjoy an active and sustainable life together. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B USI N ESS CON CEPT AND STRATEGY 17 Thule Group is an innovative company that sustainably development and solid skills in manufacturing and marketing develops, produces and markets high-quality practical products over a long period. A new store concept was presented in 2017, in 140 markets for people who want to live an active life. With with a focus on both online and physical stores, and the rollout more than 78 years of experience in developing smart, well is continuing successfully across the globe, in close partnership designed products focused on customer benefit, and a deep with our local retailers. In parallel, we are broadly focusing understanding of current trends in the sports and outdoor sector, on being proactive in social media and PR contexts. Taken we have established Thule Group as a leading global player. together, these factors allow us to be very effective in supporting In the past few years, Thule Group has undergone a strategic our retailers in helping consumers choose the right products. realignment to become a focused lifestyle product company By way of sales growth and sustainable, cost-efficient that supplies products for an increasingly modern lifestyle in operations, we create opportunities for our users to enjoy an which people live an active life with their friends and family. active life, enhanced profitability for our customers, inspiring Through our long-term approach to finance and a genuine and secure workplaces for our employees and lasting value for interest in sustainability, we have built up world-leading product our shareholders. This is our business model. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B USI N ESS CON CEPT AND STRATEGY 18 Strategy Our strategy is based on creating long-term value through consumer-driven innovation, focused efforts in branding, a global omnichannel approach and efficient processes. Thanks to a well-communicated strategy that our employees are passionate about achieving, we will continue to build upon our strong position as a leading global lifestyle company. Innovation Brands Growth Our long-term success is built on Our brand strategy is primarily focused We firmly believe that a focus on growth consumer-driven innovation. We develop on the growth and diversification of our drives an organization to perform better sustainable and innovative products that biggest and best-known brand, our core and creates a winning culture. Thule Group make it easier for users to live an active brand Thule, which is used within all four has a growth goal of more than 5 percent life. With deep insights into consumers’ product categories. organic growth in local currency every priorities and with a focus on sustainability, year. Growth is driven by our continuous quality and design, we ensure that our investments as the market leader in our product portfolio is attractive to thoughtful The Thule brand largest category, Sport&Cargo Carriers, consumers all over the world. and our niche segment in RV Products, as Product development 83% well as by our focus on capturing market share in newer categories, such as strollers and luggage. In 2019, the Thule brand accounted for 6% 83% of the Group’s net sales, an increase of 1 percentage point over the previous year. Sales of products under the Thule brand Organic growth (currency-adjusted) + 2.9% During the last few years, we have grew 6% after currency adjustment. continuously invested heavily in product development and in 2019 that investment corresponded to 5.9% of sales. Thule Group – own brands In 2019, we achieved a total growth of 8.5% (3.9% after currency adjustment), 91% corresponding to 2.9% organic growth, after currency adjustment. In 2019, the Thule Group own brands accounted for 91% of the Group’s net sales, Region Europe & ROW, organic an increase of 1 percentage point over the growth (currency-adjusted) + 6.1% previous year. The increase was due in large part to the deliberate decision made in 2017 to phase out several OE contracts in the American market from 2018 to 2019. In 2019, Region Europe & ROW was once again the fastest growing region, with growth of 6.1 percent after currency adjustment. We grew in all product categories in the region and in nearly all markets. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B USI N ESS CON CEPT AND STRATEGY 19 Objective To be the leading company in selected categories in the sports and outdoor sector, by offering sought-after products that make it easier for people to enjoy an active life while minimizing the waste and CO2 generated by our operations. Thule Revolve Efficiency Stable finances Sustainability We continuously strive to enhance Our strong financial position allows a longWe strive to ensure our entire value chain process efficiency through continuous term and flexible approach when pursuing is characterized by sustainability thinking improvements, giving customers and growth. In terms of the leverage ratio, our and good ethics. In 2018, we set new consumers added value while we aim is to be within the range of 1.5 to 2.5 sustainability targets in accordance with strengthen our competitive ability. times EBITDA, and we aim to secure a the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable flexible loan structure. Development, which are presented in more In 2019, Thule continued to work with detail on pages 33–34. modernizing its assembly facilities. The roof rack plant in Hillerstorp, Sweden Profitability +17.7% and the rooftop cargo carrier plants in Emissions and sales, tons of Neumarkt, Germany and Haverhill, the UK, CO2e per SEKm of sales are examples of facilities that have been modernized by automating difficult and tiring tasks. The underlying EBIT margin for 2019 was 17.7%. 3.9 tons Some parts of production at our One of our most important environmental RV Products plant in Menen, Belgium, goals established in 2018 was to reduce and at our bike rack plant in Seymour, in Leverage ratio our emissions in relation to our sales. the US, were relocated to new close-by In 2019, CO2e emissions decreased locations, with the aim of enhancing efficiency and improving the working conditions of these plants. 1.5x 0.6 tons per SEKm in sales. In December 2019, the company’s leverage ratio was 1.5 times EBITDA*. * Adjusted for items affecting comparability. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H E TH U LE BRA N D 20 Thule — a lifestyle brand The Thule brand accounted for 83 percent of the Group’s sales in 2019. A long-term and systematic focus on strengthening the brand, in combination with the brand’s visibility on new types of products and in new channels, has established it as an international lifestyle brand. Strong international brands create a good platform for We also communicate directly with consumers through our profitable growth. Since 1942, we have built our core brand social channels, where we continued to expand on the brand’s Thule by developing innovative products that win product motto Bring your life, reminding our customers that Thule is tests as well as design prizes and that are appreciated by both an urban and an outdoors brand through inspirational users all over the world. That work has expanded over the images, both our own and from our passionate customers. In last decade: we support retail chains in their efforts to spread the autumn we accepted two prestigious brand communication understanding of what the brand represents, and we take awards at the Red Dot gala. The international jury named in user demands and viewpoints through modern and open Thule Group the winner in the Best Outdoor Brand category communication channels, which strengthens their loyalty and and awarded us Best of the Best. feeling for the brand. The Thule brand drives our growth The Thule brand accounted for 83 percent of the Group’s sales – an increase of 1 percentage point year-on-year. After currency adjustment, sales of the Thule brand grew 6 percent in 2019. It all starts with high-quality products that users appreciate and speak highly of. Using deep insights into how consumers use and experience our products, we build the Thule brand’s DNA on safe, user-friendly and well-designed products. Given that we currently sell products both for an active daily life in urban environments and for an adventurous outdoor life on weekends and holidays, more users come into contact with our brand. A practical stroller for going out with the kids to the park, hydration backpacks for the weekend’s mountain bike ride, smart packing solutions for bringing along sports equipment on the RV, or a stylish carry-on case for a business trip to a big city – these are examples of some of the categories where the brand can be found. The foundation of our branding activities is always awardwinning design and the appreciation from of our users. Furthermore, we invest extensive efforts to support stores all over the world, online as well as physical, with solutions and training in our Thule Retail Partner program. This broadened offering in the bags category and the launch of new juvenile products means several new Thule Shop-in-Shops, with a specific focus on these categories, were established during the year. Not least in countries like Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Japan, Italy, the Netherlands, South Africa and Brazil. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H E TH U LE BRA N D 21 The Red Dot jury’s decision: ”The Swedish premium outdoor manufacturer Thule convinces with a brand image that has been implemented in a highly consistent and engaging manner. All categories, from the website to the product design and packaging, as well as the commercials in particular, are infused by the company’s clear and appealing brand message. This not only results in a visually distinctive and easy-to-recognize appearance, it also brings the image of this premium yet down-to-earth and thus typically Nordic company to life in a highly credible manner.” Consumers all over the world can find our bike racks in trendy bike shops, roof racks at Thule specialists, stylish strollers in their local stroller store, our bags in luxury department stores and international airports – and the full offering of winter products on the niche online store. We support the stores with concepts and solutions that live up to the brand’s premium feel to provide a positive store experience that consumers will connect to the Thule brand. Thule AllTrail T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H E TH U LE BRA N D 22 Category-specific own brands developed differently We are using the Group’s second largest brand, Case Logic, in the Packs, Bags & Luggage product category. Due to historic exposure to declining sub-categories of camera bags, cases for tablets and other small consumer electronics, the brand’s share of total sales decreased to 5 percent (6). This was despite good growth in smaller backpacks for daily use. The acquisition of Tepui Outdoor was completed in December 2018, and we have decided to introduce rooftop tents under the Thule brand for the 2020 season. As a result of the positive sales growth of rooftop tents under the Tepui brand in 2019, the Group’s other brands reached a total of 8 percent of sales, same share as in 2018. Case Logic Era We also sell a small number of Sport&Cargo Carriers products to a limited number of major retailers who market the products under their own brands, known as “private label.” In 2019, sales in this channel decreased, driven by reduced sales to a large American retail chain, and accounted for 2 percent of Thule Group’s sales. Thule Tepui A different customer base and reduced exposure to OEM Sales per brand and Private Label OEM sales, where products are sold under the customer’s Thule, 83% (82) brand, grew more or less in line with other sales and accounted Other brands, 8% (8) for 7 percent of the Group’s sales in 2019. OEM, 7% (7) Behind the unchanged total, however, lie divergent trends. Private label, 2% (3) During the last two years, we phased out several low-margin categories on the North American market in both Sport&Cargo Carriers and Packs, Bags & Luggage, which entailed SEK 50m drop in sales in 2019. At the same time, sales increased, primarily of roof racks and certain smaller accessories in RV Products to Europe’s leading premium car and RV manufacturer. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 @schusler @lovedaphnemae @asap2 T H E TH U LE BRA N D T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 @zivot_s_bambulkama @mkpellerin @backpackingandmountaneering @schusle @steve.b8.5 @jussioksanen @schusler @jussioksanen #bringyourlife 23 P RO D U CT CATEG ORI ES AND REGIONS 24 Growth in all four product categories Our sales are managed and continuously followed up in two regions, Region Europe & ROW and Region Americas, which altogether represent 140 markets. Region Europe & ROW grew well during the year, while the American market trend was negative. Sales were also grouped in four product categories, which all grew in 2019. A challenging market in the US and the phaseout of particularly robust. The growth drivers comprised our broad certain low-margin OE contracts meant that we did not achieve product portfolio with several award-winning products, efficient our international growth goal for the year of at least 5 percent delivery with high service levels for our customers and our organic growth after currency adjustment. Although Thule Group investment in meeting consumers in inspiring manners, both has shared global processes for product development, online and in physical stores. purchasing, manufacturing, logistics and marketing, sales are managed in two regions: Region Europe & ROW, which rose Sport&Cargo Carriers, 59 percent of 6.1 percent, after currency adjustment, and Region Americas, sales, 2 percent growth which declined 1.2 percent, after currency adjustment. We continued the positive trend during the year, if somewhat Sales for the Group increased SEK 554m to SEK 7,038m, weaker than the last few years. Roof racks sales were corresponding to an increase of 8.5 percent, 3.9 percent after weaker in the first half of the year, since distributors and retail currency adjustment. stores chose to sell older generation models that they had in inventory. The second of three phases in the program We are active in four product categories: introducing an entirely new generation of roof racks was • Sport&Cargo Carriers – roof racks, rooftop cargo carriers, launched during the second half of the year and we anticipate rooftop carriers for transporting bike, water and winter better performance in 2020. sports equipment and, since 2019, rooftop tents – grew Rooftop cargo carriers also posted weaker sales than the 1.1 percent after currency adjustment. preceding year, as 2018 was boosted by a major one-time • RV Products – awnings, bike racks and tents for RVs and transaction for a major international car brand. The year ended caravans – grew 13.2 percent after currency adjustment. a on strong note, driven by the enthusiastic reception of the • Packs, Bags & Luggage – luggage, backpacks and laptop new premium model Thule Vector, which was launched in the bags for everyday use, hiking backpacks, camera bags, fourth quarter. and cases for consumer electronics – grew 2.4 percent Bike racks continued to post stable growth, mainly driven by after currency adjustment. our very strong portfolio of tow bar mounted bike racks, which • Active with Kids – bike trailers, child bike seats and are well suited for the quickly growing e-bike category. This strollers – grew 11.1 percent after currency adjustment. sub-category performed especially well during spring 2019. RV Products, 21 percent of sales, 13 percent growth Region Europe & ROW RV Products, dominated by awnings and bike racks for motorcontinues to deliver growth homes and caravans, grew 13 percent and we continued to capture market shares in the region. The European motorhome In Region Europe & ROW, we achieved 6.1 percent growth after and caravan market grew around 8 percent, with a slight downcurrency adjustment, driven by substantial growth in the vast turn during the summer due to difficulties RV manufacturers in majority of our markets. The performance in Germany, France, the region had acquiring chassis with environmentally certified South-East Asia and Eastern Europe (except Russia) was engines according to the new Euro 6d regulation. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 P RO D U CT CATEG ORI ES AND REGIONS 25 Sport&Cargo RV Packs, Active Carriers Products Bags & Luggage with Kids 2019 Share of sales Thule Group 63% 15% 12% 10% By region Europe & ROW Americas Europe & ROW Americas Europe & ROW Americas Europe & ROW Americas 59% 71% 21% 1% 8% 21% 12% 7% Growth after currency +1% +13% +2% +11% adjustment 2019 vs 2018 Europe & ROW Americas Europe & ROW Americas Europe & ROW Americas Europe & ROW Americas +2% -1% +13% +9% +7% -2% +15% -3% The underlying consumer market remained very strong during Active with Kids, 12 percent of sales, 15 percent growth the year in Germany, the largest market in Europe, and several The largest sub-category of design-winning bike trailers and other countries posted modestly positive growth. Some the fastest-growing stroller category both performed very well. countries, like Sweden and the UK, saw reduced demand for Growth in bike trailers was due to positive market trends in RVs due to new local regulations. Germany, the Benelux countries and the Nordic region, where During the summer, we received reports that certain more parents are biking with their kids to preschool, as well models of awnings, on a limited number of occasions, opened as to the continued capture of market shares thanks to our unexpectedly. No serious accidents were reported, but we award-winning products. prioritize safety and ordered a product recall in collaboration The expanded offering, including the launch of our third with our partners, RV manufacturers and retailers to secure stroller model, Thule Spring, in the first quarter 2020 created that customers can upgrade the product. good growth opportunities in strollers. We also continued to capture market shares, thanks to In child bike seats, we saw reduced sales in the important close collaboration with major customers and the market’s Benelux countries during the year, since a major competitor best product offering within our niche. We expect the market chose to price its products very aggressively. to remain modestly positive in 2020. Packs, Bags & Luggage, 8 percent of sales, Region Americas impacted by category 7 percent growth phaseouts and uncertainty over tariffs Sales in the Packs, Bags & Luggage category increased 7 percent. The products that will account for long-term growth In 2019, sales in Region Americas declined 1.2 percent after within this product category – smaller bags for everyday use, currency adjustments. Excluding the planned phaseout of two luggage and sports bags – reached double-digit growth with a low-margin categories in the US, sales in the region increased broader portfolio and new customers. Sales within categories 1.4 percent. linked to consumer electronics, such as camera bags, cellUncertainty regarding new trade barriers and tariffs for phone and tablet cases, continued to decline this year as well. imports from China caused substantial concern among T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 P RO D U CT CATEG ORI ES AND REGIONS 26 retailers. We continued to note rapid gains in our own internet Nor did sales of the Thule Sleek stroller meet our expectations sales directly to consumers in the US. and we therefore chose to make a number of major changes The region was also impacted by the weak economies and in our sales force before the launch of the new Thule Spring sweeping currency depreciations in countries such as Argentina, stroller in the first quarter of 2020. Colombia and Mexico. The other two major markets in the Sales of bike trailers and child bike seats were adversely region, Canada and Brazil, continued to trend favorably. affected by the tough market conditions for bikes. Sport&Cargo Carriers, 71 percent of sales, 1 percent decrease in sales The product category was negatively affected by the phaseout of low-margin OE contracts for pick-up truck accessories. Excluding these products, sales in the category increased 2.3 percent. Growth was primarily driven by a positive trend in the rooftop tent category acquired in 2018 and the ongoing Sales by region successful rollout of our updated rooftop cargo carriers. Bike-related sales were negatively impacted in the US due Europe & ROW, 72% (71) to the large tariffs introduced in the peak season, which also Americas, 28% (29) impacted sales of bike racks. Uncertainty led to retail chains in the US, which have been under pressure over the last few years, focusing on things other than more consumer-focused sales. RV Products, 1 percent of sales, 9 percent growth Trends for the niche products we offer in the American market were positive, despite an overall weak RV market in the region. The awnings and accessories we offer are sold specifically to small vehicles purchased by the typical active Thule consumer. Packs, Bags & Luggage, 21 percent of sales, Sales by product category 2 percent decrease in sales The sub-categories where we are making strategic investments Sport&Cargo Carriers, 63% (64) in the forthcoming years – that is luggage, backpacks, bags for RV Products, 15% (14) everyday use and sport-specific bags – grew 8 percent during Packs, Bags & Luggage, 12% (12) the year, after currency adjustment. Growth was driven by Active with Kids, 10% (10) successful launches of new luggage and sports bags. The general market decline in the previously large legacy categories (primarily camera bags and tablet cases), together with the phaseout of certain low-margin OE contracts for simpler cases, brought sales down by SEK 29m, mostly in the US. In 2019, these declining sub-categories accounted for 38 percent (44) of the product category in the region. Active with Kids, 7 percent of sales, Change, % 3 percent decrease in sales Sales by region 2019 2018 Reported Adjusted* Stroller sales were a disappointment in the region during the Thule Group net sales, SEKm 7,038 6,484 8.5% 3.9% year. After strong growth and capturing market shares for – Region Europe & ROW 5,057 4,632 9.2% 6.1% several years, sales of our award-winning Thule Urban Glide 2 – Region Americas 1,980 1,852 6.9% -1.2% sport stroller decreased after the largest competitor offered very aggressive discounts for the entire season. * Adjusted for changes in exchange rates T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 P RO D U CT CATEG ORI ES AND REGIONS 27 Product categories – development and long-term aims Moving forward, the ambition levels for our four product categories remain firm. Sport&Cargo Carriers RV Products Packs, Bags & Luggage Active with Kids 63 percent of the Group’s sales 15 percent of the Group’s sales 12 percent of the Group’s sales 10 percent of the Group’s sales in 2019. in 2019. in 2019. in 2019. Long-term ambition Long-term ambition Long-term ambition Long-term ambition Sustained stable growth by way To perform better than the overall Stable growth by establishing the Rapid growth driven by an of a strengthened market-leading market. This is the Group’s only Thule brand within the luggage expanded product range, with the position. product category that is clearly category and growth in terms of aim of becoming a major player also related to economic fluctuations smaller backpacks and sports in premium strollers. Performance in 2019 (see also Risk section, pages bags. Stable growth of 1 percent in 53–57). We have consistently Performance in 2019 constant currency, from an already reported stronger performance Performance in 2019 Rapid growth of 11 percent in strong position as the market than the market for a number of Sales increased 2 percent in local local currency. leader (2 percent excluding the years, driven by new products and currency. Growth (+10 percent) in planned phaseout of pick-up truck a close collaboration with major RV focus categories was, for the first Highlights in 2019 accessories reported under this manufacturers. time, larger than the decreased category since the divestment of the sales in the traditional categories The continued positive growth in Specialty segment in 2017). Performance in 2019 (-12 percent). Europe, with several new retail Growth of 13 percent, clearly customers in the category. Highlights in 2019 above the trend of the European Highlights in 2019 motorhome and caravan market, Bike trailers Bike racks which grew 8 percent by our Luggage Continued healthy growth with Continued to perform well in Europe assessment. Continued positive development a market-leading portfolio in the with market-leading tow bar mounted for the Thule Subterra collection major bike commuting countries racks. Growth in the premium Highlights in 2019 and positive reception of our in Europe. segment of hitch-mounted racks in first hard sided luggage collection, the US, despite a tough bike market. Our relationships with major Thule Revolve, and our second Strollers European manufacturers and soft luggage collection, Healthy growth in Europe, Rooftop cargo carriers distributors continued to Thule Crossover 2. because we now offer three The in-store launch of the new strengthen, thanks to successful different models and more premium rooftop cargo carrier product launches and close Smaller bags for everyday use retailers. Thule Vector in the fourth quarter of collaboration on logistics and Increased sales, primarily in South2019 and continued stable growth planning. East Asia, for Thule backpacks for of other models. work and school. Growth in our niche premium Roof racks products in an overall weak Sports bags The positive reception of our new market in the US. Growth in the Thule AllTrail series innovative generation of roof racks of hiking backpacks and an is setting a whole new standard expanded offering of bike bags. within the industry. Two of the three phases in the launch are complete and the final phase is planned for winter 2020/2021. Rooftop tents: Good growth in the acquired Tepui. In 2020, the products will be offered under the Thule brand. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 TA RGETS A N D A CH I EVEMENT 28 Targets and achievement Financial targets Organic growth EBIT margin Sustainable, long-term growth is at the core of the company’s value As a brand-driven lifestyle company, our growth must drive profitability creation. A focus on growth drives an organization to perform better and strengthen our financial results. and creates a winning culture. Long-term target Long-term target +5% >20% Annual organic growth after currency adjustment. Underlying EBIT margin. % % 10,0 10.0 20,0 20.0 7,5 7.5 17,5 17.5 5,0 5.0 15,0 15.0 2,5 2.5 12,5 12.5 0 10,0 10.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Result for 2019 Result for 2019 +2.9% 17.7% Annual organic growth after currency adjustment. Future focus Future focus • Sport&Cargo Carriers (63% of sales in 2019): With our market• Sustained focus on utilizing economies of scale in a supply chain backed leading position and strong product focus on several major launches by strong investments, when the new categories targeted for rapid and proactive support for retailers, we target to generate continued growth, primarily luggage and strollers, achieve greater sales volumes. growth exceeding 5%. • Continuous focus on profitability enhancing initiatives. • RV Products (15% of sales in 2019): Strengthen our leading position in European niche markets by means of new products and close • A focus on growth in categories with high margins. collaboration with OEM manufacturers and retail organizations, so as to maintain our above-market-average growth. • Packs, Bags & Luggage (12% of sales in 2019): Continue to drive growth within the growth categories (luggage, smaller backpacks and sports bags) that accounted for 71% of the category’s sales in 2019. • Active with Kids (10% of sales in 2019): Continued rapid growth through an expanded offering of products. Growth primarily driven by successful investments in the stroller category and a strenghtened retailer segment. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 TA RGETS A N D A CH I EVEMENT 29 We create the prerequisites for continuous improvement by methodically following up and evaluating our operations against the business targets and our strategy. At the overall Thule Group level, we evaluate the achievement of targets in three areas: financial, environmental and social responsibility. In 2019, we established new long-term targets for the environment and social responsibility, which are described in detail on pages 30–31. Capital structure Dividends We intend to maintain an efficient long-term capital structure that Our intention is for at least 50% of consolidated net income enables continued investments in profitable growth. to be paid as dividends over time. Long-term target Long-term target 1.5–2.5x >50% Net debt in relation to Proportion of annual net income EBITDA (adjusted for items to be distributed. affecting comparability). x SEK/share % 3 12.5 12,5 100  rdinary dividend, O SEK/share 10,0 10.0 80 E  xtraordinary 2 dividend, SEK/ 7.5 7,5 60 share – Ordinary dividend 5.0 5,0 40 as percentage of 1 net profit, % 2.5 2,5 20 0 00 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Result for 2019 Result for 2019 1.5x 0% Uncertainty about the future economic impact of the spread of the Future focus covid-19 (the corona-virus) means that management at the present time cannot make a more specific assessment of the impact on the company •A n efficient, flexible long-term capital structure that creates in the short and long term. The Board therefore decided on March 22, opportunities for acquisitions and investments. 2020, to withdraw the previously communicated proposal for a dividend of SEK 7.50 per share, totaling approximately SEK 774 million. Future focus • Our intention is for at least 50% of consolidated net income to be paid as dividends over time, while considering the capital structure, future profits, investment requirements, liquidity, development opportunities and general economic and business conditions. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 TA RGETS A N D A CH I EVEMENT 30 Environmental goals Greenhouse-gas emissions Energy We aim to reduce our environmental impact by reducing our emissions of We aim to reduce our environmental impact by reducing our energy direct and indirect greenhouse gases. consumption and increasing the proportion of renewable energy. 2020 target 2020 target -65% 100% Direct and indirect emissions of greenAll electricity at all of our facilities is house gases are to decline 65% in relative to originate from renewable sources produced quantities at our production by 2020. facilities by the end of 2020, compared to the base year of 2014. Reduction of CO2 emissions, % Electricity from renewable sources, % 0 100 -20 75 -40 50 -60 25 -80 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Result for 2019 Result for 2019 -68% 94% Compared to the base year 2014. Future focus and new long-term targets Future focus • To ensure improved monitoring of greenhouse-gas emissions throughout • Reduce energy consumption in our plants. our value chain, we aim to have our long-term climate targets approved • Increase the proportion of energy derived from renewable sources. by no later than 2020 by the Science Based Targets initiative, a scientific method of ensuring that our targets are in line with the global Paris Agreements on the climate. New long-term targets • Our target is for more than 75% of all the energy (previously only electricity, see above) used at our facilities to originate from renewable sources by no later than 2025 (currently at 65%). T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 TA RGETS A N D A CH I EVEMENT 31 Societal goals Recycling Health and safety Other We aim to reduce our waste and to increase the recycling rate by Our goal is to reduce the number of accidents at long-term identifying efficient and practical solutions for sorting waste. our facilities. targets in accordance with the 2020 target 2020 target UN’s 2030 >96% <30 Achieve >96% The number of workplace Agenda for recycling rate by 2020. accidents resulting in more than 8 hours of absence by Sustainable no later than 2020. Development Recycling rate, % Number of accidents leading to at least In 2018, the Board eight lost hours of Directors established new sustainability goals 100 70 for Thule Group. We are 60 participating in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 50 Development and have 95 40 identified seven SDGs to guide our sustainability 30 efforts. Read more on 90 pages 33–34. 20 10 85 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Result for 2019 Result for 2019 96.9% 62 Number of workplace accidents resulting in more than 8 hours of absence. Future focus Future focus • We strive to reduce our waste and ensure increased recycling in • Sustained focus on pursuing our Safety First our manufacturing processes. initiative at all units. • Implement the investments decided on, as well New long-term targets as procedural changes defined at the plant in Menen, Belgium, which accounted for most of the • Maintain a recycling rate of more than 98%. accidents in 2019. • 0% of our waste going to landfills by 2030. New long-term targets • No workplace accidents resulting in more than 8 hours of absence by no later than 2030. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES 32 Thule Group sustainability initiatives Thule Group aims to contribute to a more sustainable world by offering innovative, high-quality products that inspire people to live an active life, and which are manufactured responsibly with the least possible impact on the climate and environment. Thule Stir T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES 33 It is from the perspective of social, environmental and financial We have also introduced a new digital reporting tool, the responsibility that Thule Group can contribute to lasting and Worldfavor platform, which has further strengthened the quality responsible, sustainable development. of our analyses. We work strategically and with a long-term approach in Our dialogues with investors, experts, consultants and accordance with the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable consumers in 2019 focused on how we approach sustainability. Development. Our sustainability initiatives encompass the Questions that were discussed in 2019 primarily concerned entire value chain and are governed by our Code of Conduct the environment, but labor conditions at our suppliers and and policies. The Code is integrated into both our strategic anti-corruption issues were also addressed. and day-to-day work, and permeates the entire operations. Our sustainability efforts received extra attention when This is all based on continuous improvements. We have a Carnegie Investment Bank named Thule Group Sustainable deep respect for the impact of our products and operations on Company of the Year in its category for 2019. We shared the environment and climate. second place in the consumer goods category when business Our consumers should feel confident that our products are daily Dagens Industri and sustainability news Aktuell Hållbarhet, safe, and we strive for transparency with regard to how they together with the School of Economics and Management at are developed and manufactured. Our employees must be Lund University, declared the Swedish stock exchange’s most able to conduct their work in a healthy and safe workplace, and sustainable companies. the same applies for suppliers and sub-suppliers. Our owners should feel that their investment is sustainable in the long-term. Sustainability targets for 2030 Our sustainability efforts conform to the Global Reporting We have continued our efforts to lead the world towards Initiative’s (GRI) principles and guidelines. In 2018 we reported peaceful and sustainable development through the UN’s 2030 according to GRI Standards. This year we took an additional Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). step by reporting several new parameters and indices so we are In our GRI reporting, which we have expanded with several in line with GRI Standards: Core option. indices this year, we also follow up on our contributions to the Thule Group has been a member of the UN Global areas of greatest importance to our operations and where we Compact since 2017, and our policies are deeply rooted in the have the greatest potential impact. ten principles on human rights, labor, the environment and The target and outcome for each area are presented in more anti-corruption. In 2019 we reviewed our Code of Conduct, detail on pages 28–31. refined our Anti-Slavery Statement, updated our anti-corruption policy and resolved on a new anti-discrimination and harassment policy. We also implemented a new web-based training module for all policy documents. We follow up to ensure that all employees have read and understood guidelines and Focus areas for our long-term Thule Group’s core values, and the Code of Conduct in particular. sustainability efforts Progress in the UN Global Compact initiative is reported in our Proceeding from our stakeholder dialogues and the identification of annual Communication on Progress. our impact potential within the UN’s 2030 SDGs, Thule Group has decided on the following focus areas: A continuing, deeper dialogue Goal 5: Gender equality and Goal 10: Reduced inequalities In 2018, we conducted a trend and business environment Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy analysis together with our most important stakeholders. The Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth dialogue has continued through 2019 in order to better underGoal 12: Responsible consumption and production stand the expectations and requirements our stakeholders Goal 13: Climate action have for us as a company, as an employer and as a brand. We participate in ESG surveys, which evaluate our sustainability agenda compared to what other companies do and provide insight and knowledge about how and what we These focus areas have been defined to create a structure for our can do better in our sustainability efforts. This year we also long-term sustainability efforts. The target and outcome for each allowed South Pole, a well-established player in evaluating area are presented in more detail on pages 28–31. greenhouse gas emissions, to conduct an independent review of all of our sustainability data. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES 34 Continuous employee dialogues Our contributions to the 2030 At Thule Group, it is important to maintain a continuous Agenda for Sustainable Development dialogue with employees, to ensure that we are in accord with our core values. Thule Group is one of many companies contributing to the 2030 Agenda. There is a deep commitment and interest regarding Our sustainability efforts primarily contribute to the following goals: sustainability throughout the Group. Our values and how we Environmental responsibility work with sustainability are also important to those who apply to work for us. Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation No employee survey was conducted in 2019 and a new one • We strive to continuously reduce water consumption at all of our facilities is planned for early 2020. and, where possible, are replacing drinking water with rainwater to an ever-increasing extent. • We use closed water systems in manufacturing, in order to minimize the Responsibilities and governance discharge of hazardous chemicals and substances. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for our sustainability efforts, and sets our long-term sustainability Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy targets as part of the Group’s strategic goals. Responsibility • Our target is for 100% of the electricity used at our plants to originate from renewable sources by no later than 2020. for monitoring these Group targets is delegated in some • Our target is for more than 75% of all the energy used at our plants to respects to the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee originate from renewable sources by no later than 2025. (who report directly to the Board) as well as to the Compliance Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production Committee, which ensures fulfillment of target-based require• We strive to reduce our waste and ensure increased recycling in our ments and reports to the Thule Group CEO. This ensures there manufacturing processes. Our goal is to achieve a recycling rate of more is a link to Thule Group’s overall business goals and integrates than 98% and to ensure that 0% goes to landfills by no later than 2030. • We strive to continuously monitor and expand the list of materials the responsibility into the commercial managers’ tasks. and chemicals that may not be used in our products, to increase the The commercial and functional managers’ responsibilities, use of recycled materials in our products, and to use more ecobesides monitoring Group targets, also include legislation, friendly packaging. rules and regulations in areas such as the work environment, Goal 13: Climate action environmental protection, environmental licenses, the use of • We strive to reduce our climate impact by reducing emissions of natural resources, the management of hazardous waste and greenhouse gases. emissions to air and water. • Our goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at our plants by 65% (compared with the base year of 2014), by no later than 2020. Group management regularly checks on the progress of • To ensure improved monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions throughout sustainability efforts. Plans, activities and the achievement of our value chain, we aim to have our long-term climate targets approved objectives are monitored through consistent dialogues, annual by no later than 2020 by the Science Based Targets initiative, a scientific method of ensuring that our targets are in line with the global Paris follow-up reviews, and internal and external audits. Various Agreement on the climate. steering groups conduct in depth analyses of compliance with legislation and regulatory frameworks, policies and other Social responsibility governance documents, the achievement of Group goals, and how key figures have trended over the year (see also Goal 5: Gender equality and Goal 10: Reduced inequalities Corporate Governance Report). •G ender equality and allowing everyone equal opportunities for developThe Group’s sustainability director is responsible for ment and actual participation, as well as equal opportunities for leadership coordinating and monitoring tangible issues, while the Group’s at all decision-making levels, are all part of Thule Group’s core values. • We conduct continuous assessments of our employees’ remuneration Compliance Committee ensures compliance with monitoring to ensure an equitable pay structure. issues. For further information about the sustainability risks • Our internal target is to secure a gender-equal company with genderand risk management, refer to pages 56–57. equal leadership by 2030, with no gender having less than 40% representation. Legislation and regulations Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Our operations are subject to environmental legislation, • Thule Group strives to protect workers’ rights and to counteract modern regulations and provisions governing areas such as the handling slavery, human trafficking and child labor by conducting CSR audits of suppliers, providing courses on human rights to employees and by of hazardous or undesirable substances in our products. The continuously evaluating the equitability of pay structures. Thule Group Prohibited & Restricted Substances List (P&R) is updated continuously. It contains both legal requirements and T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES 35 Thule Group’s own requirements and we strive to go beyond The environmental management system ISO 14001 is one of what the law requires. The P&R list is also published on our the tools we employ to ensure that we adhere to applicable website. legislation and continuously implement improvements relating This way we can ensure that our requirements for undesirable to the environment. Our goal is for all of our production sites materials and substances are always updated and available to become certified in accordance with ISO 14001 by the end for employees and suppliers as well as externally, to our of 2020. Currently, eight of our nine production units are ISO customers. A variety of methods are used to check compliance, 14001 certified. depending on the type of product and material. Some examples During the year, Thule Group did not receive any fines or are materials declarations and materials specifications from sanctions for breaching environmental or work environmentsuppliers, International Material Data System (IMDS) analyses related legislation and provisions. and third-party chemical analyses. Thule Group is also a system partner to bluesign®, which Internal governance documents is an international standard for environmentally certified Four governance documents regulate the principles and textile production. The focus on materials and manufacturing values that guide our operations generally and in particular our processes leads to more responsible use of resources through sustainability initiatives. the elimination of substances that pose a risk to humans and the environment from the outset. Memberships and collaborations Thule Group is a member of or partner in several organizations that undertake various initiatives to increase sustainability Participant in the and ensure positive developments in the sports and outdoor industry, as well as sustainable societal development in general. UN Global Compact SYSTEM PARTNER bluesign® is a certification system for The European Outdoor Conservation The Conservation Alliance works to The UN Global Compact is an sustainable textile production. Our Association (EOCA) works to protect wilderness areas in North initiative which companies are ambition is to eliminate hazardous protect wilderness areas in Europe America by preserving rivers, creeks invited to support and respect substances from the manufacturing by preserving rivers, creeks and and other wetlands. ten principles in the realm of process by establishing standards other wetlands. We collaborate with human rights, labor standards, for environmentally friendly and safe several players involved in the sport the environment and antiproduction, bluesign® also offers and outdoor industry via EOCA to corruption. As a member, we training for staff of member preserve sensitive natural areas. commit to publishing a report on companies. Not only does this how we have contributed to and ensure that the final textile product how we are developing in relation fulfills stringent requirements to the ten principles. relating to consumer safety, but it also creates confidence among consumers who value sustainable products. The system is based on five principles: resource productivity, The Outdoor Foundation, established Leave No Trace is a non-profit consumer safety, occupational health by the Outdoor Industry Association organization that informs and and safety, water emissions and (OIA) in North America, encourages educates people about how they air emissions. young people to get involved in can spend time in nature in a outdoor activities and aims to inspire responsible manner. and raise the interest of young people in outdoor pursuits. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES 36 Thule Chariot Cross Strategic annual plan In 2019, we replaced the Thule Group Compliance Tracking The strategic annual plan includes business and financial System, which gives all employees access to current policy sustainability plans for at least the next three years, and in many documents, with a new web-based solution, the Thule Group cases much longer. It also includes climate, environment and Online Academy. recycling goals, as well as health and safety initiatives. The platform is an interactive system for tools like training, review and documentation. The system also hosts obligatory Thule Group Code of Conduct training courses, including the Code of Conduct and an entirely The Code of Conduct is a common thread throughout our new interactive training in anti-corruption, that all employees operations and reflects our values. The Code applies to the and Board members must undergo. As of December 2019, 90 entire value chain. It offers guidance in how we should conduct percent of our permanent employees had undergone relevant ourselves in relation to our stakeholders, and describes the training. The whistle-blowing function was also updated in 2019. directives and principles we should follow. The Code assumes Employees and other external stakeholders are encouraged compliance with legislation and regulations and is based on to report any suspicions of improprieties, breaches of the international standards such as the UN’s Declaration of Human Code of Conduct or other policies, and any other irregularities. Rights, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and No improprieties or irregularities were reported through the the guidelines of the ILO and OECD. The Code of Conduct whistle-blowing function in 2019, but two breaches of the applies to Thule Group Board members, employees, suppliers, Code of Conduct were reported through other channels. One business partners and sub-contractors. case led to termination of employment. Thule Group Corporate Compliance Program Thule Group Corporate Governance Manual (TCGM) The Thule Group Corporate Compliance Program describes The Thule Group Corporate Governance Manual (TCGM) has the overall structure of the Group’s legal and ethical obligations been produced to support and guide the Group’s various in terms of issues such as anti-corruption, competition, the units in terms of applying and living up to core values and a GDPR, trade sanctions and other policies. Furthermore, the shared standard in relation to legislation on health and safety, Compliance Program clarifies the distribution of responsibility environment, product recalls, risk management and working within the organization and refers to the more detailed policy and employment conditions. TCGM’s steering group conducts documents to which the Group adheres. an annual review of the local units’ self-assessment of how they T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES 37 are living up to the shared standard, and carries out internal and Scope 1 comprises direct emissions from sources which we external audits with a focus on risks. Supplier audits in the area control – principally from burning fossil fuels in our factories, of sustainability are also reviewed for decisions to be taken. A refrigerants, and our vehicles’ fuel consumption. new procedure for self-assessment of compliance with TCGM Scope 2 represents indirect emissions from our own was conducted in September 2019. Internal TCGM audits operations – primarily from purchased electricity and energy were conducted in our facilities in Neumarkt, Germany and for heating our premises. Today, we mainly obtain our electricity Menen, Belgium. External safety and environmental audits were from solar, wind or hydropower sources. conducted by Willis Towers Watson at our production sites in In terms of Scope 3, we report emissions from logistics and Forest Park and Seymour in the US. business travel, which are indirect emissions from sources not controlled by Thule Group. Continued focus on emissions that impact More details about how various factors have developed in the climate and environment relation to our climate impact can be found on pages 44–45. Our work to reduce our climate impact by optimizing the In 2019 we conducted a pre-study in Science Based Targets: efficiency of our energy consumption for lighting, heating, how it would affect us as a company and which goals we would machinery and equipment continued. We are approaching the need to reach to meet the requirements that commitment target of using 100 percent electricity from renewable sources would entail. The pre-study demonstrated that we primarily and are also focused on reducing energy consumption related need to work more closely with our supplier base, specifically to heating. We evaluate our climate impact in line with the guidewith transportation, to reduce our Scope 3 CO2 emissions. We lines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol on three levels (“Scope”). are planning to move forward with this work in 2020. Emissions and sales, tons of CO2e per SEKm Climate impact, tons of CO2e tons tons/SEKm tons 30 30,000 000 6 E  missions, tons of 30 000 30,000 Business travel CO2e Facilities –Emissions, tons of Logistics CO2e per SEKm 20 20,000 000 4 20 000 20,000 10 10,000 000 2 10 000 10,000 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018* 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018* 2019 Emissions, tons of CO2e 2015 2016 2017 2018* 2019 Direct emissions (Scope 1) 5,077 4,463 3,324 3,394 3,112 Indirect emissions, facilities (Scope 2) 2,806 1,436 1,169 292 278 Total Scope 1 & 2 7,883 5,899 4,493 3,686 3,390 Indirect emissions, external (Scope 3) 15,429 17,572 20,881 25,712 24,137 Total 23,312 23,471 25,374 29,399 27,527 * Thule Group’s total emissions from 2018 were recalculated based on improved input data, in accordance with recommendations from the external sustainability consultant South Pole. This recalculation resulted in an increase of total emissions for 2018, primarily related to Scope 3 logistics emissions. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES PR ODUCT S AN D C O N S U M E R S 38 Products for an active life The company’s success is built on our ability to develop well-designed products that make it easier for users across the globe to enjoy an active life. Our entire product development is based on four foundations: a deep understanding of how the products are used, a sustainable approach to design, advanced skills in development and production and a high level of quality demonstrated by extreme tests. Thule Global Test Center T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES PR ODUCTS AN D C O N S U M E R S 39 Thule Crossover 2 During the year we continued our investment in developing The overall sustainability focus within product development is placed on climate new smart products in all four of our product categories. and environmental impact, and can be In all, we invested SEK 413m (382), or 6 percent (6) of the divided into four parts: Group’s sales, in product development. We conducted several Reduced climate impact of important projects in newer categories, Active with Kids and manufacturing and logistics Packs, Bags & Luggage. This included launching the new through, for example, a conscious choice luggage collections Thule Revolve, which was launched in of materials, increased use of recycled materials and easily recycled materials, retail in spring 2019, and Thule Crossover 2, which was in energy-efficient manufacturing methods, stores last autumn, as well as launching the new city stroller optimized packaging solutions, and efficient and climate-smart transportation. Thule Spring in February 2020. At the same time, we continued to deliberately strengthen our world-leading position in more Reduced environmental impact traditional categories, with important launches like our new in connection with use by reducing air drag on vehicle-related generation of roof racks, the new premium rooftop cargo products to reduce energy consumption and carrier Thule Vector and new awning models for RVs. facilitating attachment and removal to avoid products remaining on the vehicle when not To further strengthen our long-term investment in product in use. development, during the fourth quarter we began construction of a new building dedicated to product development and Extended lifespan through, for example, improved corrosion testing in Hillerstorp, Sweden, with opening planned for resistance and greater opportunities for spring 2021. This investment of approximately SEK 100m in repairing products by making it easy to Thule Group’s world-leading product development creates replace or repair key components. an optimal work environment for an expanded work force Increased recycling possibilities in design and construction as well as an expansion of our through increased use of recycled materials and materials that are easier to recycle, and advanced global test center. The new building includes 5,000 through designs that facilitate the separation square meters of office and manufacturing space, with an of the product into various material types. expanded test center, prototype and tool department, as well as another 3,000 square meters for a park-like test track for the product category Active with Kids. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES PR ODUCTS AN D C O N S U M E R S 40 Products that can be used for several years collaboration with leading manufacturers of cars and RVs, as A well thought-out product design with a focus on quality that well as sports and outdoor products, such as bikes, kayaks can hold up to several years of tough daily use is the basis of and skis, provides valuable input for our work creating the next our sustainability agenda. We also aim for our designs to be major product successes. timelessly modern. We are aware that the consumers who choose to purchase and use our products place great value in Smart solutions their responsible production and long lifespan. We use structured development processes to ensure that Our greatest opportunity to influence the products’ longmanufacturing is efficient and sustainable, and most of all, to term sustainability is during the development phase. By achieve our ambitious targets for user-friendliness and safety. analyzing the materials used, production methods, usage and Although we use various simulation tools and methods in recycling potential, we strive for our products to have as limited this work, it is our employees’ extensive experience and solid impact on the climate and environment as possible during their expertise with respect to how quality products should be lifecycle, without compromising on safety, quality, function or built, that ensures that we convert our insights into smart and lifespan. Thule Group has a robust skills platform in ecosustainable product solutions. design and lifecycle analyses are an integral part of all product Over the years, we have proven that we are good at development projects and encompass the entire chain, from identifying smart technical solutions that make life easier for choice of materials and functionality to repairs and recycling. our users. A few examples from this year: Our lifecycle analyses show that our environmental impact • The easy one-hand fast fold on our Thule Spring stroller, can be principally linked to inherent raw materials, particularly which makes the stroller self-standing and compact to aluminum, steel and plastic, and we strive consistently to use store. as little materials as is technologically possible. We also focus • The safe, intuitive way that the support legs for our new a great deal on the user phase. When developing roof racks, awning for smaller vans can be adjusted in uneven territory. for example, we include analyses of how the vehicle’s energy is • The many small, innovative solutions in the new carry-on impacted when the roof rack is attached, but also how easy the backpack Thule Landmark, with smart mounting for the rack is to mount and unmount, so that the conscious user can removable daypack on the larger bag’s comfortable easily limit their impact on the climate and the environment. shoulder straps, several built-in security features and protection for the back panel if you decide to check your Understanding how our products are used bag for the flight, which makes it possible for the adventurous How people use our products in their daily lives provide the explorer to travel both securely and comfortably. most important insights for successful development. Our product managers, designers and technical developers spend Tough tests inspire confidence a lot of time studying how the products are actually used. Valuable insights from our internal pilot programs are Combined with simulations and internal testing, this provides combined with more formal and structured tests in accordance detailed and immediate feedback during ongoing development with our Thule Test Program™, which comprises more than 25 projects. Many of us who work at Thule Group have a great Thule Group standards, to ensure that our products meet our interest in being outdoors and exercising, and also enjoy stringent requirements on function, quality and safety. The tests, participating in our internal pilot programs during product which include shock, collision, fatigue and environmental tests development. We use the deep user insights of our sponsored are carried out at the Group’s advanced and certified Thule Test Thule Crew members within the realm of their sports activities Center in Sweden. We also engage external testing institutes and are always present at major sporting events in order to such as the SP Technical Research Institute of Sweden in study how people use both our and our competitors’ products. Borås, Sweden for collision tests. All of these insights have a considerable impact on the design of the final products. Our products are sold in 140 markets worldwide and we collaborate with a large number of different retailers, which enables us to spot new trends at an early stage, both in terms of specific sports and changing behaviors. We attach great importance to following and evaluating the trends that could potentially impact our operations in the long run. Our close T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES PR ODUCT S AN D C O N S U M E R S 41 Lifecycle analysis (cradle to door) of Thule Edge Flush Rail roof rack We regularly conduct life cycle analyses (LCAs) on our products year, but they keep the roof rack mounted even when there is with the aim of learning more and continuously assessing no need for extra storage, even if the new roof rack is easy to and reducing climate impact moving forward. This shows an mount and unmount. LCA for a Thule Edge Flush Rail roof rack, all the way from the Since this product was manufactured at our plant in extraction of raw materials to usage and recycling. Hillerstorp, which only uses renewable energy and is located We based our analyses of the user phase on several close to subcontractors, the final assembly and transportation scenarios. In this example with the new roof rack model, we from the subcontractors to the assembly site have very little present the scenario that the analysis showed had the most impact on the climate. The recycling of primarily metals, but negative impact on the climate. Not only does the user drive also plastic, has a positive effect and therefore, the product has great distances with a larger, gasoline-powered car during the been designed to allow for the separation of material types. Transport from subsuppliers to Thule Group, 0.3% Aluminum components, 48.6% Transport from Thule Group to Distribution Center, 1.6% Packaging materials, 1.6% Thule Group production, 1.8% Steel components (iron, zinc/nickel), 14.3% User phase, extreme: 52 kg CO2 /year Cradle to door, 36 kg CO2 Metal recycling, steel, -18 kg CO2 Plastic components, 31.8% T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES MANUFACT U R IN G 42 Investments for a sustainable future In our nine production facilities and own distribution centers, we strive to create more sustainable, efficient and climate-smart operations. All of our employees are also to feel confident that they are working in a physically and mentally positive and safe work environment. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES MANUFACT U R IN G 43 In 2019 we continued to make major investments and changes to the Group’s manufacturing sites. Increased sales and expansion in our new product categories entailed investments to ensure affordable, efficient, sustainable and safe manufacturing. At our rooftop cargo carrier manufacturing site in Neumarkt, Germany, the entire production flow has been reorganized. We opened up the production floor, invested in better and more environmentally friendly lighting, lighter colored walls, automated difficult and dangerous tasks and installed a sprinkler system. In Seymour in the US, we have reorganized our production and opened a new, smaller, adjoining production facility for processing components. In this ultra-modern facility we have also invested in robotics technology, improved work methods and created an open, bright work environment in tandem with improving safety and providing a good overview. The new production site has also helped improve the flow in the old production facility, which led to a better and more comfortable work environment. The improvements also increased efficiency. At our facility in Menen, Belgium, we have also invested in new premises for production and storage, meaning more space in the large production facility and therefore a safer work worked rose from 121 to 157. The production site in Menen, environment, improved processes and increased efficiency. Belgium, accounted for most of the increase. In our production site in Hillerstorp, Sweden, the second We have continued to intensify efforts to meet the challenges of three phases was completed concerning energy-efficient within the framework of our safety program, Safety First. production lines for the new generation of roof racks. Safety First provides the basis for structural investments In November, a decision was made to invest SEK 100m in and thorough day-to-day work. Together, we are creating a an expansion of our global development center in Hillerstorp, work environment that not only promotes safety, but positive with just over 5,000 square meters of office and manufacturing collaboration, job satisfaction and a balance between work space and a large test track for products in the Active with Kids and leisure, as well as a genuine understanding of the product category. This investment will also mean a better work company’s vision and long-term goals. environment for our employees. Investments and restructuring are always preceded by an Overall, we not only continued to take major strides toward environmental and safety survey, through which we identify sustainable future operations from a purely commercial risks, decide on measures and implement training courses perspective, but also created the prerequisites for reducing and technical improvements. This pertains not only to the our climate and environmental footprint and improving our work environment from a physical perspective, but to an equal work environment. extent, a social and mental health perspective and we have included questions in these areas in all of our local Health & The negative workplace accident trend reversed Safety committees. We also developed an anti-discrimination during the second half of the year and harassment policy that all employees need to be familiar Thule Group offers comfortable, safe work environments, and with and sign. In 2019 we had two cases of harassment. One we aim for employees to form a strong team focused on high resulted in termination of employment and the other in a written quality and a comprehensive approach to sustainability, where warning. we all contribute to identifying smarter ways to work. In terms of the physical work environment, we had more The total number of workplace accidents for the Group rose, incidents than normal during the first and second quarters, however, from 76 to 100 and the number of accidents that primarily at our production site in Menen, Belgium. resulted in eight or more hours of absence increased from During the third quarter, the trend turned around and the 44 to 62. The number of lost working days per million hours decline continued throughout the fourth quarter. The decision T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES MANUFACT U R IN G 44 to move parts of production and storage to a new building, Efficiency Directive. We continuously reduce our climate a complete review of the workplace risks pertaining to all impact by way of investments in new and energy-efficient workstations and operations, and a more detailed action plan technology, for example the gradual transition to more energyto highlight safety issues at the workplace were positive factors. efficient machinery, modern LED lighting with light and motion An improved training program focused on health and safety sensors and the installation of solar thermal collectors to was also rolled out and employees are regularly trained in heat water. We are also investing in advanced measurement these issues. equipment that provides detailed real-time information to more efficiently identify opportunities for further energy savings. Reduced climate impact Continuous monitoring of electricity consumption, the share For several years now, we have invested heavily in improving of renewable electricity and the climate impact of electricity our energy efficiency and reducing our dependence on fossil consumption and heating forms part of the quarterly reporting fuels, in order to achieve our targets for 2020: to the Group Management of Thule Group. • 100 percent of our electricity is to come from renewable During the year we also further developed our climate sources, impact index (CII) calculation model as the basis for the • CO2 emissions from our facilities are to have decreased by design, development and manufacturing of our products. 65 percent, compared with 2014. This calculation model is used when the components include plastic, aluminum and steel. Over time, we will expand the All production facilities in Europe have received their electricity model with additional parameters. The purchasing function will from renewable sources since 2017. Our assembly and also use the model to help develop our supplier base. development facility in Hillerstorp uses biogas for heating, As we develop new products, we also develop new and and thereby renewable energy for both heating and electricity. more efficient ways to package and ship our goods. It is also Solar panels on the roofs of the manufacturing and office important that the customer receive the products easily and buildings in Connecticut, in the US, provide around 25 percent without unnecessary bulk. Our new generation of roof racks of their electricity needs. has more efficient packaging to reduce waste. Our new stroller In total, 94 percent of all our electricity came from renewable Thule Spring can easily and effectively fold up to save as much sources in 2019, the same as last year. Greenhouse gas space as possible, both during transportation and in use. emissions from our facilities have decreased by 68 percent so far (compared with 2014). Reduced water consumption Our operations are subject to the law on energy mapping in Water is one of the most important natural resources that we large companies, which in turn is based on the EU’s Energy need to preserve, and Thule Group’s objective is to reduce Energy (GWh) and energy intensity (GWh/SEKm) Electricity (GWh) and proportion from renewable sources, % GWh GWh/SEKm GWh % 40 0.008 0,008 Heating 20 100 Electricity, Electricity non-renewable (GWh) F  uel,  lectricity, renewable E 30 0.006 0,006 15 75 (GWh) non-renewable* Fuel, renewable** – Percentage of electricity from renewable 20 0.004 0,004 – Energy intensity 10 50 sources, % (GWh/SEKm) 10 0,002 0.002 5 25 0 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Non-renewable fuel includes diesel, gasoline, heating oil, LDP and natural gas. ** Renewable fuel includes biogas and ethanol. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES MANUFACT U R IN G 45 Water consumption, millions of liters water consumption at all production facilities. We install closed systems, which also reduces the amount of chemical waste, Million liters Million liters/SEKm and train our employees to increase their awareness of what 30 0,006 0.006 Rainwater each person can do to reduce the amount of water consumed. Municipal water We strive to collect rainwater and to use it in our toilets 25 0.005 0,005 – Million liters/SEKm whenever possible. Rainwater accounted for around 3 percent 20 0.004 0,004 of our water consumption during the year, though at the facility in Itupeva, Brazil, it accounted for an entire 68 percent of water 15 0,003 0.003 consumption. 10 0.002 0,002 Water consumption at our own plants and distribution centers is monitored by water meters or information from water 5 0.001 0,001 suppliers, and forms part of the quarterly reporting to the Group 0 0 Management of Thule Group. In 2019, Thule Group’s total 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 water consumption was 22.5 million liters. Waste and recycling We constantly strive to reduce waste and our long-term target Recycling rate, % is to achieve a recycling rate of 96 percent by the end of 2020. Our recycling rate for 2019 was 97 percent (98). The strong % commitment of our employees combined with our aim to find 100 innovative and practical solutions are both vital in terms of continually increasing the rate of recycling at our facilities. Local 80 initiatives are spread quickly through the Group-wide network by voluntary environmental ambassadors. 60 We collaborate with our subcontractors to reduce the 40 amount of waste from packaging materials used for incoming materials and components, for example. Working together 20 with local recycling companies enables efficient and profitable waste management, which also leads to a larger proportion of 0 materials being recycled or reused. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 All of our facilities have detailed procedures for management of hazardous waste. By altering processes and working methods, our plant in Forest Park in the US can now recycle Waste, metric tons and reuse all materials and waste, thereby certifying them as Zero Waste to Landfill*. tons The amount, type and management of waste at our own plants and distribution centers is monitored through our own 8 000 Hazardous waste measurements or information from recycling companies, and Non-hazardous waste forms part of the quarterly reporting to the Group Management 6 000 Hazardous waste: 3% of Thule Group. Non-hazardous waste: 97% Non-hazardous waste 4 000 reported has been handled as follows: Landfill: 3% Other recycling 2 000 (energy and materials): 73% Plastics reuse: 21% Compost: <0.2% 0 Plastics reuse: <0.2% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * Non-recyclable waste is used for energy recycling instead of being sent to a landfill. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES MANUFACT U R IN G 46 Production strategy per product category Category Production strategy Sport&Cargo Carriers Mainly in-house assembly with limited sourcing of finished goods RV Products Mainly in-house assembly with limited sourcing of finished goods Packs, Bags & Luggage Mainly sourcing of finished goods with limited in-house assembly Active with Kids Combination of in-house assembly and sourcing of finished goods Hillerstorp (Sweden) Assembly and component plant Malmö (Sweden) HQ Thule Group Pila (Poland) Assembly plant Haverhill (UK) Rooftop cargo carrier manufacturing Huta (Poland) Assembly plant Menen (Belgium) Distribution center Assembly and Chicago (IL, USA) component plant Rooftop cargo carrier manufacturing Seymour (CT, USA) Assembly plant Neumarkt (Germany) Rooftop cargo carrier manufacturing Itupeva (Brazil) Rooftop cargo carrier manufacturing T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P’S SU STAINABILITY INITIATIVES SOUR CING AN D LO G IS T IC S 47 Sourcing and logistics With 562 material suppliers, own manufacturing at nine facilities in seven countries, and sales to more than 35,000 stores in 140 markets, a sustainable supply chain and cost-effective, climate-smart distribution are high on our agenda. Every new supplier is scrutinized and undergoes a selfIn 2019 we updated our sustainability policy to expand assessment based on Thule Group’s Code of Conduct, the the focus on effective review of our suppliers and their P&R substances list, national laws and regulations with respect subcontractors. Based on our revised policy, we identified to labor law, health & safety, human rights and climate and 119 suppliers to prioritize in CSR audits in the next few years. environmental aspects. This is followed by our annual follow-up In 2019, 55 suppliers were audited in terms of sustainability on a selection of suppliers, using either third-party auditors or initiatives, of which seven were second-tier suppliers. Of the our own internal auditors, to ensure that our requirements are audits, 45 were conducted by our own internal auditors and complied with and to identify opportunities for improvement. 10 by third parties. We continuously evaluate our suppliers, with a special focus Although most of the social audits have historically been on high-risk categories such as dying fabric, handling PVC and conducted in Asia, in 2019 we decided to increase the number surface treatments as well as high-risk countries. of social audits in Europe to encompass suppliers in the T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P’S SU STAINABILITY INITIATIVES SOUR CING AN D LO G IS T IC S 48 most important subcontracting countries: Poland, Germany applied the “Top-up” concept, where lightweight products and Sweden. The audits have been positive overall and no like child bike seats are put on top of heavier products and deviations have been severe enough to warrant breaking loaded up to the roof of a trailer. This method reduced the off partnerships with any suppliers. The most serious social number of truck shipments in 2019, resulting in a 47 ton deficiencies pertained to: reduction in CO2 emissions. • Social: No day of rest following six days of work In 2019, logistics accounted for 75 percent (73) of the • Social: Lack of documentation for salaries and overtime pay Group’s total CO2 emissions. Our methods of analysis and the • Social: Lack of a management system to review and control reporting from our suppliers remain incomplete, as is the case labor issues like health and safety. for most global companies. Prior to 2019, we invested in a new reporting tool, the Worldfavor platform, that can help us to These audits contribute to both our own and our suppliers’ gather more accurate data. improvements and ensure a better and safer work environment Our general objective is to reduce the proportion of air for their employees. freight and replace bulk road freight with rail shipments wherever possible. Air freight accounted for 15 percent (17) Constant focus on logistics of total emissions from logistics in 2019. Air freight from Asia With increased sales in 140 countries, larger production to Europe has reduced, but air freight from Asia to North volumes and deliveries from suppliers in 32 different countries, America is at the same level as last year. The implementation product launches with new retailers in new categories and the of our global ERP-system in Region Americas, which will be growth of e-commerce, logistics still account for most of the completed in early 2020, will help us plan more sustainable Group’s emissions of greenhouse gases. This, in combination transportation and reduce our reliance on air freight. with fewer distributors and reduced inventory sizes at the retail level, results in more direct deliveries to stores and customers. Modern meeting culture reduces travel We have our work cut out for us when it comes reducing CO2 In global operations like ours, business travel is part of daily emissions from shipping. life. Face-to-face meetings with suppliers, customers and In 2019 we focused on impacting what we have the most colleagues are crucial, but should be well-planned and control over: reducing the number of shipments between our productive. With modern technology, such as video conferproduction facilities and our warehouses. For transportation ences and Skype meetings, we have created a meeting culture from our largest assembly plant in Huta, Poland, to our large that functions well. Today, a large number of internal meetings third-party warehouse in Venlo, the Netherlands, we have with employees in different countries are held this way, which reduces our requirements for business travel, even though we are a growing company with several contact points. When we do travel internationally, it still mainly involves long-distance flights. Business travel accounted for 13 percent Logistics – emissions, tons of CO2e (15) of our climate impact in 2019. We reduced the number of flights we took in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in North tons America as well. The climate impact from business related car 25 25,000000 Rail travel is being continuously reduced, through more employees Air choosing to drive hybrids or fully electric vehicles. 20,000 20 000 As of this year, we have started climate compensating the Sea Road effect of our business trips through a partnership with Gold 15,000 15 000 Standard*. At the same time, we are continuing to increase 10,000 10 000 the use of digital meetings to further reduce our travel. This is essential, since Thule Group is becoming an increasingly 55,000 000 international organization. 00 2015 2016 2017 2018* 2019 * Thule Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions for 2018 based on Logistics were recalculated after *G  old Standard is an international non-profit foundation that was started in 2003 by several improvements and corrections to data collection in line with recommendations from the external environmental groups, including WWF International, and sets a seal of approval on climate audit performed by the sustainability consultant South Pole to verify emissions for 2018. compensation projects. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES EMPL OYEE S 49 Our best ambassadors To continue developing as a leading global lifestyle company, it is vital for our skilled employees to feel content and able to develop in an equal and safe workplace. We also strive to create a stimulating work environment with a focus on sustainability and high quality, where everyone contributes to finding smarter ways to work. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES EMPL OYEE S 50 Our core values: Shared passions for smart solutions that Enable an Active Life, and our actions are critical to Our core values mean that in Thule Group’s long-term development. Our Code of Conduct daily operations, employees: specifies what is important to us and how we want our employees to act and behave toward each other, and toward • understand consumers’ needs our stakeholders. • develop smart products that make it easy for people to Thule Group conducts extensive international operations live an active life and has an extensive network of partners, which is why it is • continuously challenge development and production processes in order to deliver innovative products in a important for us to clearly communicate our values and guidecost-efficient manner lines, and what our company stands for. In 2018, we began an • ensure that all products are of the highest quality • ensure that our products are available in the right channels all-encompassing update of the Group’s website and intranet with the right products delivered at the right time to more effectively share our values and policy documents. • adopt a long-term and sustainable approach in their daily Improvements to the intranet continued during 2019, including decisions • ensure that the values and positioning of the company’s the launch of Thule Group Online Academy, where employees product brands are observed in all contexts. can receive interactive training in our values and policies. Now all employees have easy access to updated information about We are proud of our sustainable and innovative products. Together, we strive to find ways to work smarter, more what we represent and how we are to treat each other. A very efficiently and to appreciate and attend to all opportunities important aspect of sustainability at Thule Group is for all of for long-term sustainable development. our employees to understand our culture, value our brand and Percentage of employees by gender, Percentage of employees with collective and salaried employee or factory worker* bargaining agreement/employee representation* Salaried employees, Collective bargaining women, 19% (17) agreement/employee Salaried employees, representation, 72% (72) men, 29% (27) Not under collective Factory workers, bargaining agreement/ women, 23% (26) employee representation, 28% (28) Factory worker, men, 29% (30) Percentage of employees by region* Work related accidents and injuries Sweden, 21% (20) days number Other Europe, 56% (57) 400 120 L  ost days per million North America, 18% (18) hours worked South America, 2% (2) 90 – No. of accidents 300 Asia, 3% (3) – Number of accidents leading to at least 200 60 eight lost hours 100 30 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 * In the Sustainability section we report the actual number of employees broken down by gender, age, new hires, promotions and employee turnover. In the financial section of the Annual Report, the number of employees is given as the average in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. No major differences arose between the reporting methods. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES EMPL OYEE S 51 work based on what these represent. This becomes even more with a major focus on change and short decision-making important as we grow, become even more global and work pathways. We offer training and support, to ensure employees within new product categories. are able to face new challenges and develop as individuals. The guidelines in our Code of Conduct apply across our entire In 2019, we remained steadfast in our efforts with project value chain and are the same all over the world. Day-to-day management training, with training at several locations. The issues concerning employees and the working environment are investment has been ongoing since autumn 2017 and more decentralized and each subsidiary is responsible for managing than 240 participants have completed the program to date. these issues in a manner that is consistent with the Group’s In addition, we conducted courses on Corporate Social guidelines and with their own national legislation and regulations. Responsibility (CSR) for our new employees. Through Thule Group Online Academy, we can ensure that Our first 18-month trainee program with newly employed everyone receives information about the requirements and engineers from Sweden, Germany, the UK, the Netherlands opportunities for the entire Group and what applies to their and China continued as planned and concluded in December own workplace. 2019. We currently have no plans for another new trainee The average numbers of employees in 2019 was 2,422 (2,356). program in 2020. The increase was driven by major investments in product development and an increase in sales, followed by increased We believe in a strong connection between manufacturing volumes at most of our production facilities. a healthy life and strong performance Being active, both mentally and physically, and living a Motivated and skilled employees are the key to success healthy life has a strong connection to how we perform and Employees who are content and feel good, who are stimulated how we handle stress. For Thule Group, it is important that in their daily work and feel that they can make a contribution our employees are the best ambassadors for our products – and develop, are a prerequisite for maintaining our strong regardless of whether they are an active skier, love mountain market position. In 2019, 96 percent of salaried employees and biking, hike in the mountains or take their children to school in 77 percent of factory workers underwent an individual appraisal one of our strollers. By being an active user of our products, with their immediate manager under the Group’s Performance our employees can better understand our customers and Management Process (PMP) framework. their needs. As we operate in a global market with several different Through local initiatives like arranging races with strollers product categories, new purchasing behaviors and many (like the Göteborgsvarvet Half Marathon in Sweden), we can different sales channels, we encounter both challenges and have a close and honest interaction with users of our prodopportunities. We often work in cross-functional global teams ucts, while many of our own employees have the opportunity In autumn 2019, our product manager for Technical Backpacks, Graham Jackson, participated in a three-week hike in Nepal together with Apa Sherpa, a legendary mountain guide and a long-time member of Thule Crew. The trip was organized by the Apa Sherpa Foundation, a charity organization sponsored by Thule Group that ensures access to schools near Mount Everest. Hiking at high altitudes in difficult terrain provided many valuable experiences that will be very useful in our ongoing product development, and a good insight into how our support creates opportunities for children in the region to get an education. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H U LE G ROU P SU STA I NABILITY INITIATIVES EMPL OYEE S 52 to run the race while pushing their own kid in a stroller. Our with a well-defined strategy for increasing the ratio of female employees all over the world are active users of our products engineers and women within the sales organization. At the end and testify about the value of an active lifestyle. Many share of 2019, eight percent of the sales force and 22 percent of the their experiences with friends and acquaintances as well as on engineers were women. However, Thule Group is currently social media, like Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat. Ideas for equally appealing to women and men. This is a positive product improvements or new products are also submitted to development that has improved over the last two years. the company’s open internal idea database. We are very proud Diversity in our global operations is invaluable. The collective that our employees are our best ambassadors. strength of our skills and experiences are the basis for our success. Through our products, the active lives we represent, An equal and safe workplace our core values and how we communicate, we attract a variety We aim to offer everyone equal opportunities to develop at of potential employees all over the world. Our appeal is that the company and incorporate an equality-centric approach to many people can identify with us and our operations. recruitment, salary and career development. Skills, ambition We have a zero-tolerance policy toward all forms of and potential are to govern our employees’ opportunities, harassment and discrimination. During the year, there were regardless of gender, age and background. In 2019, women two cases of harassment, which were followed up by local comprised 43 percent of the company’s work force. The management and the Group’s HR function, and one of these management circle comprises 25 percent women and during cases resulted in termination. Our new anti-discrimination and 2018, new long-term targets for 2030 were also set in this area, harassment policy clearly specifies how we manage these to further improve the balance and achieve an equal distribution issues. All reported cases are handled by the local Health & of women and men in our workforce; read more on page 50. Safety committee. We created a plan for increasing the ratio of women within sections of the company where the ratio is currently lowest, A global company with local engagement Read more There is a deep local commitment among our over 2,400 employees in nine production facilities and over 35 sales locations. The company and local employees participate in local environmental projects and support initiatives for children, young people and other vulnerable groups in the regions where we operate. Below are some of the many activities that our employees participated in during 2019. Employees at the company’s facility in Neumarkt, Germany organized an activity day for 45 local young people with disabilities at the German Alpine Association’s local indoor climbing facility. Thule Group’s employees with climbing experience made sure that everyone had a fun – and safe – time, and after a long day each participant received their own Thule backpack. Forty employees at the company’s facilities in Menen, Belgium participated in the “Warmathon”in the nearby town of Kortrijk. Warmathons are an exercise event during a week in December that is In Hillerstorp, Sweden – where Thule was founded in 1942 – the connected to charity. Each company sponsors the local sports’ club youth activities, including Thule Group employee that organizing the Hillerstorp Adventure Race, which many employees participated could decide which also participate in. charity the company would sponsor. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 R ISK S A N D RI SK MA N AGEMENT 53 Risks and risk management Like all business operations, Thule Group’s operations are associated with different types of risk. Continuously identifying and evaluating risks is a natural and integrated part of the operations, thus enabling us to control, limit and manage prioritized risks in a proactive manner. The Group’s ability to analyze and prevent risk in turn describes the most significant risks, along with their counterreduces the risk of unforeseen events having a negative acting factors and management, to limit their potential impact impact on operations. The goal of risk management is not on operations. A description of how Group management necessarily to eliminate risk, but to safeguard our business evaluates and manages the primary risks in operations relate goals by way of a balanced risk portfolio. Mapping, planning to a time frame of 1–3 years. and management of identifiable risks all support management A more detailed compilation of financial risks can be found when taking strategic decisions. The risk assessment also in Note 4, on pages 103–107. Work environment risks are aims to increase risk awareness across the entire organization, described in more detail in the chapter on Sustainability for both operational decision-makers and Board members. efforts within manufacturing on pages 42–46. Thule Group has categorized identified risks according to industry and Organization market-related risks, business-related risks, sustainabilityThe Board of Directors of Thule Group bears ultimate related risks and financial risks. responsibility for the company’s risk management. Risks relating to business development and long-term strategic planning as Industry and market-related risks well as the Group’s work on sustainability and environmental Thule Group continually assesses and evaluates the risks that initiatives and their related risks are managed and prepared by the company may be and is de facto continuously exposed way of a prioritization proposal produced by Group management to. In our compilation of industry and market-related risks, and prioritized ultimately by the Board. we include the management of business environment risks, Group Management reports ongoing risk issues such as the both strategically through business and product development Group’s financial status and compliance with the Group’s finance as well as operationally through daily sourcing, sales and policy to the Board. The Group’s central finance department is marketing activities. responsible for the prioritization and management of financial risks, including exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. Operational risks Thule Group has a central function responsible for ensuring Operational risks are more important to the company in terms that the Group is appropriately protected by insurance for of the level of our potential impact. This is also one reason insurable risks, in line with the prioritization proposed by Group why risk management often involves internal regulations with management and resolved by the Board. The Group’s Code of policies, guidelines and instructions. Operational risks form Conduct and a number of more specific policies form the basis part of our day-to-day work and are managed by the operational of ongoing operational risk management undertaken at every units. Operational risks refer to risks relating to the brand, level of the organization. relocation of sourcing and production and insurable risks. Risk overview Sustainability-related risks A number of risk areas have been identified in Thule Group’s Thule Group pursues operations within an industry that has risk management process. The table on pages 54–57 briefly both a direct and indirect impact within the areas that the T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 R ISK S A N D RI SK MA N AGEMENT 54 company has identified as being important to sustainable Financial risks operations: environmental principles, social responsibility and Thule Group’s management of financial risks is centralized at corporate governance. the Group’s finance department, which manages its activities Thule Group pursues proactive environmental work within all within its established risk mandates and limits. Management of the Group’s units, to ensure that the operations are financially is conducted in line with the guidelines in the Group’s policies justifiable and conducted with the least practically possible and regulations governing specific areas. All policies and impact on the environment. By affiliating with the UN Global regulations within this area are updated and established Compact, we ensure compliance in such areas as human annually by the Group’s Board of Directors. Read more about rights, conditions of work and the rules on anticorruption. As a the accounting policies, risk management and risk exposure in part of corporate governance, all employees are trained in and notes 1 and 4 on pages 91 and 103–107 respectively. are to abide by the company’s Code of Conduct. Thule Group also requires that the company’s suppliers, consultants and other business partners apply the principles. The table on pages 54–57 briefly describes the most significant risks, along with their counteracting factors and management, to limit their potential impact on operations. A description of how Group management evaluates and manages the primary risks in operations relate to a time frame of 1–3 years. A more detailed compilation of financial risks can be found in Note 4. Industry and market-related risks Risk area Description Counteracting factors and management Business cycle • Changes in the business cycle that lead to reduced •T  hule Group has a low exposure to individual markets. and demand spending power may have a negative effect on •T  he sports and outdoor industry’s historically relatively Thule Group’s earnings. limited exposure to rapid fluctuations during the business • RV Products is the only cyclical product category. cycle allows time for adaptation. Demand for • Thule Group’s range is, in some cases, dependent •T  hule Group consistently monitors consumer trends and underlying on demand for other products. If such demand developments in adjacent industries to which the Group products should change, it could entail an adverse impact on has a link, and is accustomed to quickly adapting to new Thule Group’s earnings. trends and needs. Competition • Thule Group’s operations are exposed to competition • Activities such as product development, quality work and and if this competition should increase, it could have an prize-winning designs, are focused on strengthening the adverse impact on Thule Group’s earnings. company’s competitiveness. Competition •T  hule Group’s guidelines on competition legislation •C  ontinuous education of employees. legislation can be contravened. • Continuous internal audits. • Thule Group’s strong position in some markets may • In-depth legal support in cases of uncertainty. entail restrictions on acquisitions and other strategies. Taxes • Operations are pursued in accordance with Thule Group’s • Thule Group has resources in place to ensure continuous interpretation of applicable laws and tax regulations. If assessments in ample time prior to any changes. Requisite these interpretations should prove to be incorrect, they provisions to cover any disputes that may arise are made could have an adverse impact Thule Group’s earnings. in consultation with experts. T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 R ISK S A N D RI SK MA N AGEMENT 55 Operational risks Risk area Description Counteracting factors and management Reputation • Thule Group’s sales and results are dependent on • Thule Group conducts continuous preventative work the company’s reputation remaining positive. by providing training and information about the Group’s Code of Conduct. Procedures are in place for every aspect, from how the products are developed and tested to how we safeguard competition law and sustainability initiatives. The Group’s quality work is certified in line with ISO 9001. • Thule Group has an established product recall policy in place with clear rules and escalation procedures. Local business • Thule Group’s business is subject to local laws and • Thule Group’s Code of Conduct is comprehensive and risks in countries regulations in countries where the Group is active. regulates how we are to act, while Thule Group also with operations • Violation of laws and regulations could impede the implements various preventive measures to further Group’s investments and result in increased costs. reduce the risk. Dependency on • In order to be able to manufacture, sell and deliver • Thule Group conducts regular assessments of legal external suppliers products, Thule Group is dependent on external issues and the status of external suppliers, in order to suppliers. predict and prepare its business and production for any • If these suppliers are affected by financial, legal or potential changes. operations-related problems, they could in turn adversely impact Thule Group’s deliveries. Agreements with • Some agreements, depending on business practices, • Thule Group ensures that important parameters in local suppliers may be informal. Difference of opinions about the agreements are well-documented as far as possible and and customers content of such agreements could result in disputes, that resources are in place to make ongoing assesswhich could adversely impact the Group’s earnings. ments. The need for any provisions for potential disputes is determined with the help of the necessary expertise. Inability to retain • Being able to attract and retain qualified personnel and • By promoting career development and other development and recruit its executive management is vital to Thule Group’s future opportunities for employees while offering market-rate qualified operations. and competitive remuneration, we safeguard our ability to personnel and attract the right resources and ensure that employees stay executive with us for the long term because they are content and able management to develop in the environment provided by the company. T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 R ISK S A N D RI SK MA N AGEMENT 56 Sustainability-related risks Risk area Description Counteracting factors and management Deficiencies in • The confidence of society and the market in • Thule Group pursues comprehensive quality and sustainability sustainability Thule Group’s sustainability efforts is a prerequisite initiatives that impose requirements on both our own operations efforts for successful operations. and those carried out by subcontractors. • General sustainability targets relating to the environment, quality and social responsibility are monitored on a quarterly basis. Environmental • Regulatory compliance in relation to relevant •T hule Group conducts systematic work to ensure compliance impact environmental law and other provisions on the with laws and regulations, and to reduce the company’s environment are requisite to avoiding administrative general environmental footprint. fees and other sanctioning measures. •T hule Group pursues comprehensive quality and environmental • Known, as well as currently unknown, clean-up management initiatives that impose requirements on both our costs could impact Thule Group’s operations, own production and that carried out by subcontractors. earnings and financial position. •T hule Group works proactively to reduce environmental • Increased production leads to an increase in overall impact in all parts of the value chain, i.e. from the design of environmental impact related to the manufacture our products, through to the manufacturing and distribution and distribution of the company’s products. process, and finally, the end-consumer’s usage and waste management of our products. Energy • Increased production may lead to increased energy • Thule Group continuously measures the energy consumption consumption consumption. Any lack in the use of renewable at all of its facilities. energy, where this is available, could adversely • Energy efficiency is a crucial factor for investments. impact the environment. • When procuring energy, where possible, energy from renewable sources should be the first choice. Increased volume • Thule Group sells its products in 140 countries, • Thule Group works to optimize logistics flows. of shipments which entails the inevitable transportation of goods • When procuring transportation services, emissions and components. The direct and indirect use of requirements constitute a vital parameter. transportation services most frequently involves the use of fossil fuels. Deficiencies in •D  eficiencies in the implementation of and • Thule Group conducts recurring in-depth employee surveys gender equality, compliance with Thule Group’s core values could and actively follows up on these results. diversity lead to deficiencies in gender equality and diversity. • The work is conducted with full transparency in relation to and discrimination policies, employee manuals and the reporting of breaches related to discrimination. Deficiencies in • The work environment, health and safety are • Thule Group conducts systematic work to safeguard and health and safety central to Thule Group. Deficiencies in safety and improve the work environment. the work environment entail a greater risk of ill • Thule Group continuously monitors a number of parameters health and incidents for the company’s employees. within the health and safety. Opportunities for improvements are discussed in the central and local Safety Committees. Improvements are continuously implemented and debriefed. • Thule Group is a sports and outdoor company, where preventive healthcare activities are a natural part of the company’s continuous human resource work. Violation of • Thule Group is a global company. In some • Thule Group is a participating member of the UN Global human rights countries, insights into human rights may be Compact and therefore abides by its ten principles. limited. This entails a risk that the company • The company’s global Code of Conduct applies to all of could involuntarily contribute to violations of Thule Group’s Board members, executive management human rights. (including Group management), employees and, to the extent possible, suppliers, business partners, subsuppliers and customers. • Thule Group’s supplier strategy includes the company’s sustainability aspects. T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 R ISK S A N D RI SK MA N AGEMENT 57 Sustainability-related risks Risk area Description Counteracting factors and management Corruption • Corruption may exist to various extents in some countries • Thule Group applies zero tolerance to unethical business and in different sectors of society. Thule Group, as many practices. The company conducts obligatory courses other companies, runs a risk of becoming involved in on its Code of Conduct for employees, suppliers and unethical business transactions in areas encompassing business partners. In addition, courses are held on the sales and procurement processes. regulatory framework pertaining to anticorruption and other policies. Combined with the framework of internal control and monitoring, this provides the foundation for an ethical business approach and correct financial reporting. • Thule Group applies global and local authorization manuals in order to avoid conflicts of interest. • We apply procurement processes that ensure sound business ethics. • Thule Group provides suppliers with training on the company’s Code of Conduct, and conducts CSR audits, both inhouse and in partnership with the company Intertek, to monitor and audit compliance with Code of Conduct. Financial risks Risk area Description Counteracting factors and management Exchange rate risk • Thule Group is active internationally and exposed to • The central finance department is responsible for all exchange rate risk that arise from various currency hedging to reduce the effect of transaction exposure. exposures, mainly with respect to EUR/SEK, for which • The Group’s policy with regard to translation exposure, is the Group has a positive net inflow to hedge current net investments for each currency with • E xposure stems from transaction exposure as well as loans in the same currency to the extent possible. translation exposure. Interest rate risk • Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial • This interest rate risk is managed by the Group’s central instruments fluctuates due to changes in market interest finance department, which adheres to the company’s rates and the risk that changes in the interest rate level finance policy. The finance policy stipulates the use of lock-in will impact the Group’s borrowing costs. periods and the tool mainly comprises interest-rate swaps. Commodity • For the Group, it is primarily fluctuations in plastic, • The commodity price risk is managed through supplier price risk aluminum and steel prices that constitute a significant contracts and through financial contract hedges with terms commodity price risk. of up to one year. Refinancing and • Refinancing risk refers to the risk that Thule Group is • The central finance department continuously monitors liquidity risk unable to refinance its operations at the desired moment, whether Thule Group is fulfilling the binding key figures or that the cost of refinancing rises. linked to the company’s loan facilities. • Liquidity risk refers to the risk that Thule Group is unable • The Group has a rolling eight-week liquidity plan that to fulfill its payment commitments. includes all divisions of the Group. The plan is updated monthly. Credit risk • Credit risk is the risk that Thule Group’s counterparties • Customers undergo credit checks in accordance with are unable to pay their liabilities and thereby cause losses the Group’s credit policy and outstanding balances are for Thule Group. monitored continuously. T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H E TH U LE GROU P SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS 58 The Thule Group share and shareholders Thule Group’s share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm 2 000 At December 31, 2019, Thule Group’s share capital amounted 800 since November 26, 2014. At December 31, 2019, Thule Group to SEK 1,153,495.63. The number of common shares was had 14,120 1 750 shareholders, of whom 190 (82.9 percent of shares) 103,208,606. According to the Articles of Association, share 700 were financial and institutional investors, 13,433 (2.9 percent of capital may not amount to less than SEK 500,000 or more than shares)1 500 were private Swedish individuals and 494 shareholders SEK 2,000,000, divided between a minimum of 44,737,320 600 (3.3 percent of shares) were legal entities. The remaining shareand a maximum of 178,949,280 shares. 1 250 500 holders (11.0 percent of shares) cannot be classified. Foreign Thule Group’s Articles of Association contain a central owners accounted for 58.3 percent of the votes and capital. securities depository clause and the company’s shares are 400 1 000 The ten largest owners represented 43.0 percent of the registered with Euroclear Sweden AB, which means that votes and750 capital. The highest price paid during the period Euroclear Sweden AB administers the company’s share 300 between January 1 and December 31, 2019 was SEK 238.80 register. All shares carry equal rights to the company’s profits and the 500lowest price paid was SEK 153.00. During the period and shares of surpluses in the event of liquidation. 200 January 1 to December 31, 2019, Thule Group’s share price 250 100 rose 33 percent. 0 0 Share turnover (thousand) Share price (SEK) 2000000 2,000 300 300 1500000 1,500 225 225 1000000 1,000 150 150 500000 500 75 75 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 0 0 Turnover, Number of shares – Thule Group – OMX Stockholm Index T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 T H E TH U LE SH A RE A N D SHAREHOLDERS 59 Share of votes and capital, Swedish and international owners 10 largest owners No. of shares % AMF Försäkring & Fonder 11,484,992 11.1 International, 58.3% Nordea Fonder 4,918,882 4.8 Sweden, 41.7% Handelsbanken Fonder 4,039,074 3.9 Didner & Gerge Fonder 3,878,647 3.8 Lannebo Fonder 3,842,419 3.7 T. Rowe Price 3,835,396 3.7 SEB Fonder 3,570,179 3.5 ODIN Fonder 3,215,108 3.1 Vanguard 2,917,831 2.8 BlackRock 2,706,175 2.6 Total, ten largest owners 44,408,703 43.0 Total 103,208,606 Share turnover in Share of votes and capital, Sweden the largest market places No. of shares (million) % Nasdaq OMX 60.7 45.7 Institutions, 87.7% Cboe BXE 24.0 18.1 Private, 12.3% Cboe APA 18.8 14.2 Cboe CXE 5.0 3.7 Aquis 4.6 3.4 Other 19.9 14.9 Total 133 100 Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Thule Group AB (publ) will be held on Tuesday, April 28, 2020 at 11:00 a.m. at Quality Hotel View, Hyllie Share of votes and capital, five largest countries Stationstorg 29, Malmö, Sweden. Right to attend Sweden, 41.7% Shareholders who wish to attend the General Meeting must: USA, 21.9% • be recorded in the share register kept by Euroclear Sweden AB (the Norway, 5.5% Swedish Central Securities Depository) on Monday, April 20, 2020, and Finland, 5.4% • notify the company of their intention to attend the General Meeting by UK, 4.7% the same day – Monday, April 20, 2020 – preferably before 4:00 p.m. Other countries, 10.3% To participate in the AGM, shareholders with nominee-registered shares should request their nominee to have the shares temporarily owner-regAnonymous istered with Euroclear Sweden AB. This registration must be in effect by ownership, 10.5% Thursday, April 18, 2020. Shareholders are therefore requested to notify their nominees in due time before the said date. Notice of attendance Notice of attendance should be provided in writing to Thule Group AB, “Annual General Meeting”, c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, Box 191, 101 23 Stockholm, Sweden, by telephone to +46 8-402 93 95, or on the company’s website, www.thulegroup.com. The notice of attendance must state the name, personal identity number or Corp. Reg. No., shareholding, telephone number and name of any advisor. Shareholders represented by proxy should submit a power of attorney to the company prior to the AGM. A proxy form is available at the company and on the company’s website. Representatives of a legal entity shall present a copy of the certificate of registration or similar document of authorization. T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 60 Board of Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and President of Thule Group AB (publ), Corp. Reg. No. 556770-6311, hereby submit the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements for the 2019 fiscal year. Operations and organization to have any material impact on Thule Group’s total sales and Thule Group is a world leader in products that make it easy to earnings. Moving forward, the acquisition will be reported in the bring the things you need, and care about — easily, securely Sport&Cargo Carriers product category. and in style — when living an active life. Under the motto Active Life, Simplified. — the company offers products within these product categories: Sport&Cargo Carriers (e.g. roof racks, Performance of the Group’s operations, roof boxes, bikes carriers, water and winter sports equipment, earnings and position – Group and rooftop tents mounted on a car); Active with Kids (e.g. bike trailers, strollers and child bike seats); RV Products (e.g. Net sales awnings, bike racks and tents for RVs and caravans); and Net sales for the full-year 2019 amounted to SEK 7,038m Packs, Bags & Luggage (e.g. hiking backpacks, suitcases and (6,484), corresponding to an increase of 8.5 percent. Adjusted camera bags). for exchange rate fluctuations, net sales for the Group rose Thule Group has about 2,400 employees at nine production 3.9 percent. sites and 35 sales offices worldwide. The Group’s products A challenging market in the US and the phaseout of certain are sold in 140 markets and in 2019, sales amounted to low-margin OE contracts in that market resulted in us not SEK 7 billion. Thule Group is a public limited liability company meeting our global growth target of at least 5 percent for listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list. currency-adjusted organic growth. The head office is located in Malmö, Sweden. The development of our four product categories in 2019 can be summarized as follows: •S port&Cargo Carriers – Growth of 1 percent from an already Significant events after the fiscal year strong position as the global market leader (2 percent excluding the planned phaseout of pick-up truck accessories Acquisitions reported under this category since the divestment of the On December 30, Thule Group acquired the operations of Specialty segment in 2017). North America’s leading player in roof rack mounted fishing rod • Packs, Bags & Luggage – Growth of 2 percent – growth vaults, Denver Outfitters. in our focus categories was higher than the sales declines Thule Group is the long-standing global market leader in within traditional categories. enabling consumers to bring their outdoor gear to the trailhead, • RV Products – Growth of 13 percent, which was above the the mountain bike slope or the local lake. With the recent addition trend of the European motorhome and caravan market, at the end of 2018 of North America’s leading manufacturer of which grew 8 percent by our assessment. rooftop tents, Tepui Outdoors Inc., the portfolio of products • Active with Kids – The very positive trend in Europe that help consumers to live an active lifestyle outdoors has continued, resulting in growth of 11 percent. been broadened further. With this latest acquisition, roof rack mounted fly fishing rod vaults have been added to the product Operating income portfolio, and Thule can thus continue to grow the portfolio of Operating income totaled SEK 1,195m (1,163). Over the year, solutions to help consumers bring the things they care for – operating income was impacted by a cost for a reorganization, easily, securely and in style. primarily in North America, amounting to SEK 24m and In 2019, the company had sales of around USD 1m and the by an estimated cost of SEK 25m pertaining to a product purchase consideration amounted to USD 1m together with a recall. Underlying EBIT amounted to SEK 1,245m (1,164), potential maximum earn-out payment of USD 0.25m based on corresponding to an operating margin of 17.7 percent (18.0). revenue performance for 2020. The acquisition is not expected Changes in exchange rates had an overall positive impact of T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 61 SEK 83m on underlying EBIT, compared with the full-year 2018. gains in the vast majority of our markets. The performance in After currency adjustment, we recorded a margin decline Germany, France, South-East Asia and Eastern Europe during the year of 0.7 percentage points compared with the (except Russia) was particularly robust. The growth drivers preceding year. comprised our broad product portfolio, an efficient delivery The product recall is ongoing and the final cost has not yet with high service levels for our customers and our investment been established. In the second half of the year, we initiated in meeting consumers in inspiring manners, both online and in a recall within the RV products category of two models of physical stores. motorized awnings. During the summer we received reports In Sport&Cargo Carriers, which accounts for 59 percent of that the awnings, on a limited number of occasions, opened sales in this region, growth was positive albeit slightly weaker unexpectedly. No accidents have been reported, but since we than the trend over the past few years. always prioritize safety we decided to order a product recall in RV Products, dominated by awnings and bike racks for RVs collaboration with our partners, RV manufacturers and retailers and caravans, grew 13 percent and we continued to capture to ensure that customers can upgrade the product. market shares in the region. The Active with Kids category performed well in the region Development and posted growth of 15 percent, where both bike trailers and The main portion of the Group’s product development strollers grew quickly. On the other hand, sales of child bike expenses are recognized through profit or loss as an expense seats declined somewhat due to aggressive pricing by a major as they arise. competitor in the Benelux region. Expenses mainly comprise development and production Sales in the Packs, Bags & Luggage category increased a of new products. Development expenses comprised 5.9 total of 7 percent. This category accounts for 8 percent of the percent (5.9) of net sales in 2019. region’s sales. The categories that will account for longterm growth within this product category – smaller bags for Seasonal variations everyday use, suitcases and sports bags – posted very good Thule Group’s sales and operating income are partially affected growth. However, sales within categories linked to consumer by seasonal variations. During the first quarter, sales in the electronics, such as camera bags and cellphone and tablet Sport&Cargo Carriers category (roof boxes, ski-racks, etc.) are cases, recorded a downturn in sales. affected by winter conditions. The second and third quarters are impacted by how early the spring or summer arrives, Region Americas while sales in individual quarters may be impacted by the Sales totaled SEK 1,980m (1,852). An increase of 6.9 percent quarter in which the spring or summer occurs. In the fourth but after currency adjustment, growth decreased to 1.2 quarter, seasonal variations are primarily attributable to sales percent for the region. Excluding the planned phaseout of of winter-related products (roof boxes, ski-racks, snow sport two low-margin categories in the US, the region’s sales backpacks, etc.) and sales of products in the bag category increased 1.4 percent. Uncertainty regarding new trade prior to major holidays. barriers and tariffs for imports from China caused substantial concern among retailers. The region was also impacted by Net financial items the weak economies and sweeping currency depreciations in For the full-year, net financial items amounted to an expense countries such as Argentina, Colombia and Mexico. Our of SEK 49m (expense: 48), and were impacted by exchange other major markets in the region, Canada and Brazil, rate differences of SEK 0m (neg: 5) on loans and cash and trended favorably. cash equivalents. The interest expense for borrowings for the Sport&Cargo Carriers was negatively impacted by the full-year was SEK 45m (expense: 37). planned phaseout of accessories for pick-up trucks, lowmargin products that we sell directly to an auto manufacturer. Excluding these products, sales in the category rose 2.3 Sales trend by region percent. Growth was mainly driven by a positive trend for the rooftop tent category, acquired at the end of 2018, and the Region Europe & ROW continued successful rollout of our updated roof box. BikeIn Region Europe & ROW, we achieved sales of SEK 5,057m related sales were negatively impacted in the US due to the (4,632) corresponding to growth of 9.2 percent. After currency extra import tariffs introduced in the peak season, which also adjustment, sales rose 6.1 percent. There were substantial impacted sales of bike racks. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 62 Stroller sales in the region in Active with Kids proved market that was unexpectedly strong throughout the year (the disappointing. Sales of bike trailers and child bike seats were also market is estimated to have grown 8 percent). We continued adversely affected by the tough market conditions for bikes. to capture market shares and grew 13 percent, driven mainly Sales in the Packs, Bags & Luggage category fell 2 percent for by accessories for smaller RVs where we have an extremely the region. The sub-categories where we are making strategic strong product offering. investments in the forthcoming years – luggage, backpacks, The market was hot at the start of the year; following a slight bags for everyday use and sport-specific bags – grew 8 percent slowdown at the end of the second quarter, the market recovafter currency adjustment. The general market decline in the ered, primarily the large German market at the end of the year. previously large Legacy categories (camera bags and tablet cases), together with the phaseout of certain low-margin OE Packs, Bags & Luggage contracts, brought sales down by SEK 29m, mostly in the US. The general market decline in the previously large, so called, Legacy categories (primarily camera bags and tablet cases), together with the phaseout of certain low-margin OE contracts Sales trend by product category for simpler cases, brought sales down by SEK 35m, mostly in the US. In 2019, these shrinking sub-categories accounted for Sport&Cargo Carriers 29 percent (34) of the category. Compared with the preceding year, growth in 2019 was The sub-categories where we are making strategic investdominated by a few key factors. ments in the forthcoming years – that is luggage, backpacks, In part by the phaseout of low-margin OE contract in bags for everyday use and sport-specific bags – grew SEK 54m the US market for more basic pick-up truck accessories. (up 10 percent after currency adjustment). The reduction in sales of SEK 44m had a negative impact of 1 percent on sales for the category. Active with Kids But also due to lower sales of roof racks, mainly in the first 2019 was another successful year in the Region Europe & half of the year, due to customers reducing inventories of the ROW category, where strollers and bike trailers posted rapid previous generation roof racks. Phase 2 (of the three planned growth. On the other hand, sales of child bike seats declined phases) is currently being launched in the market and we expect somewhat due to aggressive pricing by Central European the phaseout of older products to be completed in 2020. competitors. The announced major one-time contract in the Nordic The performance in North America was a disappointment, market for roof boxes as part of a campaign for Volkswagen, partly due to the largest competitor to our highly appreciated which resulted in the comparative figures for the first half of jogging buggy, Thule Urban Glide 2, deciding to offer large 2018 being exceptionally high in that region. discounts throughout the year – a pricing model we decided not Extremely challenging conditions in the US market, primarily to emulate – as well as failed efforts to break into the children’s for the bike category, influenced consumers’ cautious purchasing store sector in the same way as in Europe with our new stroller, behavior in conjunction with the introduction of import tariffs. Thule Sleek. Over the year, we have bolstered the sales force with new personnel from the industry, and this together with RV Products the new stroller Thule Spring, which we are convinced better Sales in this category were completely dominated by matches the way North American parents use strollers, means Region Europe & ROW and therefore by a European RV we look forward for the performance. Sport&Cargo Carriers RV Products Packs, Bags & Luggage Active with Kids Share of sales Thule Group 2019 (2018)) 63% (64) 15% (14) 12% (12) 10% (10) Share of sales by Eur & ROW Americas Eur & ROW Americas Eur & ROW Americas Eur & ROW Americas region, 2019 (2018) 59% (62) 71% (71) 21% (19) 1% (1) 8% (8) 21% (21) 12% (11) 7% (7) Growth, 2019 vs 2018 (after currency adjustment +1.1% +13.2% +2.4% +11.1% +2% -1% +13% +9% +7% -2% +15% -3% T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 63 Financial position Parent Company At December 31, 2019, the Group’s equity amounted to SEK Thule Group AB’s principal activity pertains to head office 4,330m (4,012). The equity ratio amounted to 52.3 percent (52.1). functions such as Group-wide management and administration. Net debt amounted to SEK 2,119m (1,974) at December 31, The Parent Company invoices its costs to Group companies. 2019. Total long-term borrowing amounted to SEK 2,348m The Parent Company reported net income of SEK 814m (697). (2,147), and comprised loans from credit institutions of The Parent Company received a dividend of SEK 800m (700) SEK 2,178m (2,144) gross, long-term finance lease liabilities of from subsidiaries. Cash and cash equivalents and current SEK 164m (9), capitalized financing costs of SEK 10m (11) and investments amounted to SEK 0m (0). Long-term liabilities to the long-term portion of financial derivatives of SEK 15m (5). credit institutions totaled SEK 2,168m (2,133). Total current financial liabilities amounted to SEK 65m (28) and At year end, 36 (29) people were employed at the head office comprised the short-term portion of financial derivatives and working in Group management and in Group-wide functions finance lease liabilities. such as business development, technology, marketing, HR, accounting, finance and information. Group management SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 is employed in Thule Group AB, while other functions are Long-term loans, gross 2,342 2,153 employed in either Thule AB or Thule Holding AB. Financial derivatives, long-term 15 5 The Parent Company’s financial position is dependent on Short-term loans, gross 53 9 the financial position and development of its subsidiaries. Financial derivatives, short-term 12 19 The Parent Company is therefore indirectly impacted by the Overdraft facilities 0 0 risks described in the Risks and risk management section. Capitalized financing costs -10 -11 Accrued interest 0 0 Gross debt 2,413 2,175 Risks and risk management Financial derivative assets -26 -16 Cash and cash equivalents -268 -186 Like all business operations, Thule Group’s operations are Net debt 2,119 1,974 associated with risk. Continuously identifying and evaluating risks is a natural and integrated part of the operations. The Group’s ability to identify and prevent risk in turn reduces Goodwill at December 31, 2019, amounted to SEK 4,620m the risk of unforeseen events having a negative impact on (4,448). Of the increase, SEK 8m pertained to the acquisition operations. Thule Group has categorized identified risks of the assets of Denver Outfitters. At December 31, 2019, according to industry and market-related risks, operations inventories amounted to SEK 1,092m (1,078). The entire and sustainability-related risks and financial risks. increase, vs last year, was attributable to currency effects of SEK 30m. Industry and market-related risks Business cycle and demand Cash flow Thule Group conducts business activities in a large number of Cash flow from operating activities was SEK 1,030m (606) markets in the world and similar to other companies is affected for the full year. The increase was mainly attributable to the by general economic, financial and political conditions at a improvement in working capital, which was primarily driven global level. Demand for Thule Group’s products is dependent by a lower build-up of inventory. Investments in tangible and on macroeconomic conditions. Changes in such conditions may intangible assets amounted to SEK 161m (179). During the lead to the retail market weakening and changes in consumers’ year, a dividend of SEK 722m was distributed to the company’s purchasing power, which may have a negative effect on shareholders. The Group’s cash and cash equivalents at year Thule Group’s operations, financial position and results. end totaled SEK 268m (186). RV Products is the Group’s only product category that is The Group also has unutilized, binding loan commitments of subject to economic fluctuations. SEK 1,063m (970) to finance the ongoing operations. For more information regarding the terms of the loans, see Note 24. Management Thule Group sells products in 140 markets, which means the Group is not exposed to the business cycle of any one specific T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 64 country or region. The sports and outdoor industry is not Competition legislation entering an upturn or downturn of the business cycle, and so Thule Group is subject to general competition laws in the there are often excellent opportunities to adapt operations to jurisdictions in which it operates. Contractual conditions fluctuations in the business cycle. and prices in agreements that are used in Thule Group’s Thule Group’s operations are closely linked to the market, operations may be subject to restrictions under such enabling it to closely follow sales and business cycle trends competition laws. Competition authorities have the power to and support customers in a timely manner by way of market initiate ex-post regulation procedures and to require a party activities, market-driven pricing and adapting the company’s to cease applying contractual terms and prices that are found organizational and cost structure. to be anti-competitive. Competition authorities also have the power to impose fines and other sanctions as a result of nonDemand for Thule Group’s products is dependent on compliance with relevant regulatory requirements. consumer demand for underlying products While Thule Group has adopted internal procedures to Thule Group’s product offering includes products that are ensure compliance with competition laws, there can be no supplementary to other products not offered by Thule Group, assurance that instances of non-compliance have not occurred which may become obsolete due to technological development in the past nor that instances of non-compliance will not occur or changes in consumer behavior. Changes in consumer in the future. demand for underlying products may thus have a material To the extent Thule Group is unable to ensure compliance adverse effect on Thule Group’s operations, financial position with applicable competition laws, Thule Group may be and results. adversely impacted by regulatory sanctions and measures, as well as inability to enforce contractual terms that are found Management to be anti-competitive. Furthermore, Thule Group’s strong Thule Group consistently monitors trends in adjacent industries position in certain product markets may signify that Thule to which the Group has a link. Regular contact with manuGroup is considered to have significant influence on such facturers and developers in these industries gives Thule Group markets. Significant influence in one or more markets may a feel for which trends will have an impact on the Group’s result in regulatory restrictions on Thule Group’s ability to fully products. implement its business strategies in these markets and its Thule Group has a habit of quickly adapting the company’s ability to grow through acquisitions. products in line with new trends as well as new requirements and challenges. Management Thule Group continuously develops training courses for its Competition employees and monitors compliance with internal regulations Thule Group conducts business activities in a competitive and frameworks established by the Group for its operations. market characterized by price competition and other forms Ongoing internal audits of the different parts of the organization of competitions, for example, product development, design, and local markets examine the risk of breaching applicable quality and service offering. Furthermore, business developlegislation. More extensive legal support is sought when there ment by Thule Group’s competitors may cause customers are deemed to be unclarified areas or increased risks. to prefer, to a greater degree than previously, products that compete with Thule Group’s current and future product Tax-related risks offering. Increased competition may also negatively impact The business – including intra-Group transactions – is Thule Group’s current margins. conducted in accordance with Thule Group’s understanding or interpretation of applicable tax laws, tax treaties and other Management provisions in the realm of tax law, and the requirements Thule Group gains competitive advantages and satisfies imposed by the relevant tax authorities. There can however be consumers’ and customers’ needs for premium products no assurance that Thule Group’s understanding or interpretation by ensuring a very high level of brand awareness, constant of the aforementioned laws, treaties and other provisions is product innovation, the highest product quality and excellent, accurate in all respects. Furthermore, the tax authorities in the award-winning design – combined with good service and relevant countries may make assessments and take decisions efficient logistics. that differ from Thule Group’s understanding or interpretation of the aforementioned laws, treaties and other provisions. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 65 Thule Group’s tax situation in respect of previous years and the regulations applicable in each jurisdiction in which Thule Group current year may thus change as a consequence of decisions operates, as well as license and reporting obligations in by relevant tax authorities or due to amended laws, tax treaties certain jurisdictions and overarching international rules. Laws, and other provisions. Such decisions or amendments, possibly policies, measures, controls or other actions implemented by with retroactive effect, may have a significant negative impact the authorities in the countries where Thule Group operates, or in on Thule Group’s earnings and financial position. other countries in which Thule Group may operate in the future, may restrict its operations, delay or prevent planned investManagement ments, require additional investments and lead to increased Thule Group conducts regular assessments of tax-related and costs and other obligations or otherwise harm Thule Group’s legal issues in order to predict and prepare for any potential financial results. In addition, employees of Thule Group’s changes in good time. subsidiaries, and other persons affiliated with Thule Group, Changes in regulations and standards are often communimay take actions which are unethical or criminal or otherwise cated in good time and there is often room for good advanced contravene the Group’s existing or future internal guidelines and planning. policies as well as those that the Group intends to implement Provisions for legal disputes, tax disputes, inter alia, are in relation to compliance with relevant anti-bribery, sanctions based on the Group’s estimation of the costs, with support from and export control laws in a manner which is consistent with legal consultations and available information. international practice. Operational risks Management Dependence on reputation The Group’s comprehensive Code of Conduct contains ethical Thule Group is dependent on its reputation, which, in turn, guidelines and Thule Group undertakes regular preventive work depends on factors such as product design, the distinct by way of procedures and certified quality work. Thule Group character of the products, the materials used to manufacture conducts obligatory courses on its Code of Conduct and other the products, the image of Thule Group’s stores, communication policies. Combined with the framework of internal control and activities, including advertising, public relations and marketing, monitoring, this provides the foundation for an ethical business and general corporate profile. approach and correct financial reporting. Problems regarding quality, product liability and safety issues as well as operational or logistical problems may result Dependence on suppliers in Thule Group’s reputation being harmed and, as a result, In order to be able to manufacture, sell and deliver products, difficulties in retaining existing or attracting new customers. Thule Group is dependent on external suppliers. Incorrect or Any harm to Thule Group’s reputation may result in Thule Group late deliveries, or non-deliveries, from suppliers may, in turn, losing business or growth opportunities, which could adversely result in Thule Group’s deliveries being delayed or suspended, affect its operations, financial position and results. or becoming deficient or incorrect. Thule Group may also be adversely affected by its suppliers facing financial, legal or Management operational problems. All of these factors may adversely affect Thule Group undertakes continuous preventive work by providing Thule Group’s operations, financial position and results. training in and information about the content of the Group’s Code of Conduct. Procedures are in place for every aspect, from how Management the products are developed and tested, to how the company Thule Group conducts regular assessments of its suppliers’ safeguards competition law and sustainability initiatives. The ability to fulfill its legal obligations, in order to predict and prepare Group’s quality work is certified in line with ISO and IATF. its operations and products for any potential changes. Provisions for the nonfulfillment of obligations, legal disputes, tax disputes, Local business risks in countries with operations and other items, are based on an estimation of the costs, with Thule Group operates in a global environment and is support from legal consultations and available information. consequently exposed to various risks, including decisions by the management of its subsidiaries that may not be aligned Risks relating to local agreements with Thule Group’s broader strategies or that are not beneficial with suppliers and customers for all companies in Thule Group. In accordance with business practices in the markets in Thule Group’s business is subject to the local laws and which Thule Group operates, certain agreements entered into T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 66 by Thule Group and its customers and suppliers are often Environmental impact informal and generally consist of pricing agreements that are The manufacturing at these sites is subject to environmental renegotiated between the parties periodically or when making regulation and supervision. Thule Group’s failure to comply with purchase orders. In the case of a disagreement between the environmental regulations and other provisions could result in parties as to the content of their agreement, this flexibility (which fines and other sanctions. Thule Group’s liability for currently could means that it is difficult to accurately define the rights and known and unknown clean-up costs and environmental obligations of each party) could lead to challenges, disputes or sanctions could have an adverse impact on Thule Group’s conflicts that could have an adverse impact on Thule Group’s operations, financial position and results. operations, financial position and results. Regulatory authorities may also suspend Thule Group’s operations, withdraw environmental licenses reject the renewal Management of environmental licenses that are required for Thule Group’s Thule Group conducts regular assessments of legal issues operations. in order to predict and prepare for any potential changes. Provisions for potential legal disputes are based on an Management estimation of the costs, with support from legal consultations Thule Group conducts systematic work to ensure compliance and available information. with laws and regulations, and to reduce the company’s general environmental footprint. As a part of these efforts, Thule Group Inability to retain and recruit qualified pursues comprehensive quality and environmental managepersonnel and executive management ment initiatives that place requirements on both our own Being able to attract and retain qualified personnel and its production and that carried out by subcontractors. executive management is important to Thule Group’s future operations and business plan. Thule Group is particularly Energy consumption dependent on its executive management and on certain Increased production may lead to increased energy employees within sourcing and sales functions. If Thule Group consumption. There is a risk that Thule Group could fall short cannot attract or retain qualified personnel, it could adversely in its use of renewable energy where this is available, and affect Thule Group’s operations, financial position and results. thereby adversely impact the environment. Management Management Thule Group is an attractive employer with a low rate of sick Thule Group continuously measures the energy consumption leave and staff turnover. By promoting career development and at all of its facilities. Energy efficiency is a crucial factor for other development opportunities for individual employees and investments. When procuring energy, where possible, energy offering market-oriented and competitive remuneration, we from renewable sources should be the first choice. safeguard our ability to attract the right resources and ensure the Group’s employees stay with us in the long-term, because Increased volume of transportation they are content and able to develop in the environment Thule Group sells its products in 140 countries, which entails provided by the Group. the inevitable transportation of goods and components. The direct and indirect use of transportation services involves the Sustainability-related risks use of fossil fuels. Deficiencies in sustainability efforts The confidence of society and the market in Thule Group’s Management sustainability efforts is a prerequisite for successful operations. Thule Group works to optimize logistics flows. When procuring transportation services, emissions requirements constitute a Management vital parameter. Thule Group pursues comprehensive quality and sustainability initiatives that impose requirements on both our own operations Deficiencies in gender equality, and those carried out by subcontractors. diversity and discrimination General sustainability targets relating to the environment, Deficiencies in the implementation of and compliance with quality and social responsibility are monitored on a quarterly Thule Group’s core values could lead to deficiencies in gender basis. equality and diversity. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 67 Management reporting. Thule Group applies global and local authorization Thule Group conducts recurring in-depth employee surveys manuals as well as procurement processes to ensure good and actively follows up on their results. We conduct our work business ethics. with full transparency in relation to policies, employee manuals Thule Group provides suppliers with training on the and the reporting of crimes related to discrimination. company’s Code of Conduct, and collaborates with the company, Intertek, to monitor and audit compliance. Deficiencies in health and safety The work environment, health and safety are central to Financial risks Thule Group. Deficiencies in efforts pertaining to the work Thule Group’s management of financial risks is centralized at environment, health and safety entail a greater risk of ill the Group’s finance department, which manages its activities health and incidents. within its established risk mandates and limits. Management is conducted in line with the guidelines in the Group’s policies and Management regulations governing specific areas. All policies and regulations Thule Group conducts systematic work to safeguard and within this area are updated and established annually by the improve the work environment. Thule Group continuously Group’s Board of Directors. monitors a number of parameters related to health and safety. The Group’s finance operations are coordinated by the subImprovement activities are identified and implemented. sidiary Thule Holding AB, which performs all external financial Thule Group is a sports and outdoor company, where transactions and also acts as an internal bank for the Group’s preventive healthcare activities are inherent to the company’s financial transactions in the currency and interest rate markets. continuous human resource work. Exchange rate risk – transaction exposure Violation of human rights The greatest exposure to exchange rate risk comes from the Thule Group is a global company and is active in 140 countries. Group’s sales and purchases in foreign currencies. These In some countries, insights into human rights may be limited. exchange rate risks consist of risk in the value fluctuations of This entails a risk that the company could contribute to human financial instruments, accounts receivable or accounts payable, rights violations. and the exchange rate risk in expected and contractual payment flows. The Group’s total transaction exposure, net, Management amounted to SEK 2,449m (2,386). The single most important Thule Group is a participating member of the UN Global currency relationship is EUR/SEK, in which the Group has a Compact and therefore abides by its ten principles. positive net inflow. The company’s global Code of Conduct applies to all of Thule Group’s Board members, senior executives (including Management Group Management), employees and, to the extent possible, The central finance department is responsible for all hedging suppliers, business partners, subsuppliers and customers. to reduce the effect of exchange-rate fluctuations. Hedge Thule Group’s supplier strategy includes the company’s accounting is used for currency forward contracts. sustainability aspects. Exchange rate risk – translation exposure Corruption Another influence on exchange-rate fluctuations arises when Corruption exists to varying degrees in many countries and the income statements of foreign subsidiaries and assets and in several sectors of society. Thule Group, as many other liabilities are translated to SEK at year end. companies, runs a risk of becoming involved in unethical business transactions in areas encompassing sales and Management procurement processes. The Group’s policy is to hedge net investments with loans but otherwise not to hedge this type of translation exposure. Hedge Management accounting is used for net investment hedging. Thule Group conducts obligatory courses on its Code of Conduct, anti-corruption and other policies. Combined with the Interest rate risk framework of internal control and monitoring, this provides the Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments foundation for an ethical business approach and correct financial fluctuates due to changes in market interest rates and the risk T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 68 that changes in the interest rate level will impact the Group’s Employees and remuneration borrowing costs. Number of employees Management The average number of employees was 2,422 (2,356). This interest rate risk is managed by the Group’s central finance department. A significant factor that affects the interest rate Guidelines for remuneration of the President and risk is the fixed-rate period. According to the finance policy, the other executive management in 2019 objective of the long-term liability portfolio is for the average Thule Group applies the following guidelines for remuneration fixed-rate period to be, on average, between 6 months and 3 of senior executives, resolved at the Annual General Meeting years. The average fixed-rate period was 1 year and 5 months held on April 26, 2019. (1 year and 3 months) as per December 31, 2019. Remuneration of Group management is to comprise fixed The Group uses hedge accounting to hedge the cash flow salary, any variable salary, pension and other benefits. The risk of interest payments. total remuneration package is to be based on market terms, be competitive and reflect the individual’s performance and Commodity price risk responsibilities as well as, with respect to share-based incentive Commodity price risk refers to continuously fluctuating prices programs, the value growth of Thule Group’s share benefiting of input goods from our suppliers and its possible impact on the shareholders. earnings. For the Group, it is primarily fluctuations in plastic, Variable salary can comprise annual variable cash bonuses aluminum and steel prices that constitute a significant and long-term variable bonuses in the form of cash, shares commodity price risk. During the year, 47 percent (47) of total and/or share-based instruments in Thule Group AB. Variable direct materials consisted of plastic, aluminum and steel. cash salary requires that defined and measurable targets have been achieved and may not exceed 75 percent of the Management fixed annual salary for the President and may not exceed 60 The commodity price risk is managed through supplier percent for other members of executive management. Terms contracts and through financial commodity contracts with for variable salary should be designed so that the Board, under terms of up to one year. exceptional economic conditions, is able to limit or waive the payment of variable salary if such action is deemed reasonable. Refinancing and liquidity risks Pension benefits must be defined-contribution based. Refinancing and liquidity risks are risks that payment commitSeverance pay is normally given if employment is terminated ments cannot be met due to insufficient liquidity or difficulties in by Thule Group. The standard notice period for members of obtaining credit from outside sources at the desired occasion. Group management is a maximum of 12 months in combination with severance pay of six to 12 months’ fixed salary. No Management severance pay accrues if notice is given by the employee. The central finance department continuously monitors On an individual basis, if justified for particular reasons, the whether Thule Group is fulfilling the binding key figures linked Board has the right to depart from the guidelines adopted by to the company’s loan facilities. The Group has a rolling eightthe AGM. week liquidity plan that includes all units of the Group. Results The group of executives covered by the guidelines are the are reported regularly on a weekly basis. The plan is updated President and other members of Group management. monthly. The liquidity plan is used to manage liquidity risk and as a tool for following the cash flow from the operational and Incentive programs financial business. Share-based incentive program 2017/2020 The Group policy is to minimize its borrowing need by The warrants program resolved on by the Annual General centralizing surplus liquidity via the Group’s cash pools that Meeting for senior executives and key employees of the Group have been established by the central finance department. was implemented in July 2017. The program comprises 1,950,645 warrants issued to Thule AB for onward transfer to participants. The participants acquired the warrants at the fair market value and the program currently includes 11 participants. The subscription price was SEK 182.40, based on 118 percent T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 69 of the volume-weighted average price according to Nasdaq scheme proposed by the Board of Directors and submitted to Stockholm’s official price list for shares in the company during the AGM 2020 for approval is excluded for the same reason. the period April 27, 2017 through May 4, 2017. If on subscribing The proposed scheme is in principle equivalent to the current for the share, the latest price paid for the company’s share scheme. The purpose of the share-based incentive scheme is, when the stock exchange closes on the last trading day among other things, to stimulate a sustainable and favourable preceding the subscription date exceeds 162.3 percent of value development of Thule Group’s share that will benefit the average share price based upon which the subscription the shareholders. The basis of the incentive scheme is the price has been determined, the subscription price shall be Company’s strategic plan and sustainable development. increased correspondingly. The warrants may be exercised The scheme also constitute an incentive to fulfil the growth during the period May 15 to December 15, 2020. As part of the objectives that the Company stipulated in its strategic three incentive program, participants may receive a retention bonus year plan. The incentive schemes have been designed in in the form of a gross salary supplement from the company accordance with similar schemes in other publicly traded comthat corresponds in total to the amount paid by the participant panies and are meant to provide for Thule Group’s progress, for the warrants, conditional upon continued employment as well as to ensure long-term loyalty and commitment from at the time of payment and that the participant has not the participants in relation to the Company’s interests. terminated the employment. Fixed salary shall be on market terms. The variable remunerThe dilution effect of the program is approximately 2 percent. ation may compromise annual variable cash remuneration and long-term variable cash remuneration, shares and/or shareGuidelines for remuneration of the President and based instruments in Thule Group AB. Annual variable cash other executive management to apply after the Annual remuneration shall be measured during a calendar year and be General Meeting after December 31, 2019 conditional upon the fulfilment of predefined and measurable The Board of Directors of Thule Group AB (publ) proposes that objectives, such as sales development, EBIT results, cash the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) 2020 resolves to adopt flow and fulfilment of personal goals for each year. The variable the following guidelines for executive remuneration to apply remuneration shall amount to a maximum of 75 percent of until the AGM 2021. the annual fixed salary for the President and 60 percent for The executives covered by the guidelines are the President the other executives. The terms and conditions for variable and the other members of the Group Management. The basis remuneration shall be designed so that the Board of Directors for the remuneration to members of the Group Management may choose, under exceptional economic circumstances, to shall be the sustainability of the Company within a commercial limit or refrain from payment of variable remuneration if such a financial development, organizational structure to provide for measure is considered reasonable. a professionalism that is adapted to the Company’s strategic For members of the Group Management, pension benefits, objectives and also to provide the Company with the adequate including health insurance (Sw: sjukförsäkring), shall be competence and resources at any given time. The remuneration premium defined. Variable cash remuneration shall not qualify to the Group Management shall comprise a fixed salary on for pension benefits. The pension premiums for premium market terms, variable remuneration intended to stimulate the defined pension shall amount to not more than 35 percent of fulfilment of the Company’s objectives regarding commercial the annual fixed salary. and sustainable development, pension benefits and competitive Other benefits may include, among other things, life insurance, other benefits. The total remuneration shall be on market medical insurance (Sw: sjukvårdsförsäkring), company car and terms, be competitive and reflect the individual’s performance fuel benefit. Such benefits may amount to a maximum of 10 and responsibilities. percent of the annual fixed salary. For employments governed by rules other than Swedish, Severance payments may be made when the employment is pension benefits and other benefits may be duly adjusted for terminated by Thule Group. Members of the Group Management compliance with mandatory rules or established local practice, shall have a period of notice of not more than 12 months, in taking into account, to the extent possible, the overall purpose combination with severance pay corresponding to a maximum of of these guidelines. 6–12 months fixed salary. No severance payment will be made Long-term share-based incentive schemes have been when the employment is terminated by the employee. implemented in the Company. Such schemes have been In the preparation of the Board of Directors’ proposal for resolved by the AGM 2017 and are therefore excluded from these remuneration guidelines, remuneration and employment these guidelines. The long-term share-based incentive conditions for employees of the Company have been taken T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 70 into account by including information on the employees’ total emissions, the discharge of water, transportation, remediation of income, the components of the remuneration and increase contamination and workplace health and safety. and growth rate over time in the Remuneration Committee’s Thule Group’s operations require the Group to maintain and the Board of Directors’ basis of decision when evaluating certain environmental licenses for the production of its whether the guidelines and the limitations set out herein products including metal-based products with surface are reasonable. The development of the gap between the treatments and plastics. In addition, Thule Group’s production remuneration to executives and remuneration to other units have generally been certified according to the ISO 9001 employees will be disclosed in the remuneration report. and IATF, as well as quality management standards and the The Board of Directors has established a Remuneration ISO 14001 environmental management standards.The plants Committee. The Committee’s tasks include preparing the outside Sweden adapt their operations, apply for the necessary Board of Directors’ decision to propose guidelines for executive licenses and report to authorities in accordance with local laws. remuneration. The Board of Directors shall prepare a proposal The Group’s Swedish plant, with the production facility in for new guidelines at least every third year and submit it to Hillerstorp, conducts operations that require an environmental the AGM. The guidelines shall be in force until new guidelines license in accordance with Swedish environmental legislation. are adopted by the general meeting. The Remuneration Thule Sweden AB conducts class C operations under a Committee shall also monitor and evaluate programs for license for class B operations and is classified as mechanical variable remuneration for the Group Management, the application manufacturing in the form of metal working in a workshop area of the guidelines for executive remuneration as well as the of less than 18,000 square meters and guarantees that its current remuneration structures and compensation levels in impact in the form of, for example, noise, dust and emissions the Company. The members of the Remuneration Committee to air and water, both in the immediate area and in general, are independent of the Company and its management. The from its manufacturing unit in Hillerstorp is minimal. Systems President and other members of the Group Management do are in place for classifying and sorting waste at source and for not participate in the Board of Directors’ processing of and handling industrial waste. The unit is also certified under the resolutions regarding remuneration-related matters in so far as environmental management standards EN-ISO 14 001:2015, they are affected by such matters. EN-ISO 9001: 2015 and IATF 16949 (quality management The Board of Directors may temporarily resolve to derogate system for suppliers to the automotive industry). from the guidelines, if in a specific case there is special cause for the derogation and a derogation is necessary to serve the Sustainability Report Company’s long-term interests and sustainability, or to ensure The Group’s Sustainability Report can be found on pages the Company’s financial viability. 32 to 52. For more information on employee benefits, see note 11. Future development Environment Significant events after the fiscal year Environmental impact The outbreak of the global covid-19 (corona virus) pandemic Thule Group has a long history of environmental focus due to in the first quarter of 2020 will have a significant impact on the its commitment to develop high-quality products built to last prevailing conditions in the global market. Uncertainty about the for a long time, encourage employees with deep environmental future economic effects due to the spread of the virus means engagement and manage our own production facilities in Europe that the management at present cannot make a more specific and the US not only to legal requirements, but to the higher assessment of the impact on the company in the short and long Thule Group standards. The most important sustainability-related term. The Board of Directors of Thule Group AB (publ) therefore issues are integrated into our business and operational plans and decided on March 22, 2020 to withdraw previously communireported in the annual Sustainability Report. cated proposal for a dividend of SEK 7.50 per share, totaling The Group is subject to a number of European Union, national, approximately SEK 774m. regional and local environmental and occupational health and safety laws, rules and regulations relating to the protection of Forecast the environment and natural resources including, among other Thule Group does not present a financial forecast. things, the management of hazardous substances and waste, air T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD OF D I RECTORS’ REPORT 71 The Thule share, shareholders Articles of Association and proposed appropriation of profits The Articles of Association contain no separate provisions pertaining to the appointment and dismissal of Board members, Number of shares and quotient value nor to amendment of the Articles of Association. The shares of Thule Group AB are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list. The Group did not buy back or Proposed appropriation of profits hold any treasury shares during the fiscal year. The number of Parent Company shares approved, issued and fully paid as per December 31, Proposed appropriation of the company’s earnings. 2019 was 103,208,606. The company has only one class of share. At general At the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: meetings of shareholders, each share carries one vote and each shareholder is entitled to vote for the full number of Share premium reserve, SEK 1,379,718,515 shares such a shareholder holds in the company. Net income, SEK 814,371,957 All shares carry equal rights to the company’s assets and 2,194,090,472 profits. The quotient value (nominal value) of the share is SEK 0.01118 per share. The Board proposes that the profit brought forward be appropriated as follows: Largest shareholders At December 31, 2019, Thule Group AB had 14,120 shareTo be carried forward, SEK 2,194,090,472 holders. At this date, the largest shareholders were AMF 2,194,090,472 Försäkringar & Fonder (11.1 percent of the votes), Nordea Fonder (4.8 percent of the votes), Handelsbanken Fonder (3.9 percent of the votes) and Didner & Gerge Fonder (3.8 percent of the votes). T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 72 Corporate Governance Report Thule Group is a Swedish public limited liability company listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list. Thule Group’s corporate governance structure Meeting and the documents on the rules of procedure for the Board of Thule Group, instructions for the President and Shareholders instructions for the Remuneration and Audit Committees, as adopted by the Board of Directors, are the most important General Meeting of shareholders internal governance systems. In addition, the Group has a Nomination number of policies and instructions containing rules and External auditors Committee principles for the Group’s operations and employees. Remuneration Audit Committee Board of Directors Committee Deviations from the Code Companies are not obliged to at all times apply every rule in the President and CEO Code, but are allowed the freedom to choose alternative solutions which they feel are better in their particular circumstances, Group management provided they report every deviation, describe the alternative solution and explain the reasons for the deviation in its annual corporate governance report (the “comply or explain” principle). Thule Group is a Swedish public limited liability company Thule Group did not deviate from the rules of the Code in 2019 listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list. Thule Group’s and therefore has no deviations from the Code to report. corporate governance is mainly regulated by the Swedish Companies Act and other Swedish laws, Nasdaq Stockholm’s General Meeting of shareholders Rule Book for Issuers and the Swedish Corporate Governance Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act (2005:551), the Code, “the Code” (available at corporategovernanceboard.se). General Meeting is the company’s highest decision-making The Code is to be applied to all Swedish companies whose body where shareholders exercise their voting rights. Shareshares are traded on a regulated marketplace in Sweden. holders who are recorded in the share register on the record Thule Group has applied the Code since November 26, 2014, date and have notified the company of their intention to when Thule Group’s share started to be traded on Nasdaq participate in the General Meeting not later than the date and Stockholm. The 2019 Corporate Governance Report describes time indicated in the notice are entitled to attend the General Thule Group’s corporate governance, management and Meeting in person or by proxy. Resolutions are made at the administration, and the internal control and risk management in General Meeting normally by a simple majority. However, in connection with the financial reporting. certain matters, the Swedish Companies Act stipulates that a certain level of attendance is required to form a quorum or Regulatory compliance a qualified majority of votes. Annual General Meetings must External governance systems be held within six months from the end of each fiscal year. The external governance systems that comprise the framework Thule Group’s Annual General Meeting is usually held in April. for corporate governance at Thule Group primarily comprise The Annual General Meeting resolves on such issues as the the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts Articles of Association and is tasked with appointing Board Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, the Swedish members and the Chairman of the Board, electing auditors Corporate Governance Code and other applicable rules and and resolving to adopt the income statement and balance relevant legislation. sheet, the appropriation of the company’s profits, and the discharge from liability of the Board and the President vis-à-vis Internal governance systems the company. In addition, where necessary, the Annual General The Articles of Association adopted by the Annual General Meeting also resolves to adopt principles for the appointment T H ULE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 73 and work of the Nomination Committee, and resolves on President from liability and resolved on fees to Board members. principles for the terms of remuneration and employment for The Meeting approved the Board’s proposal regarding the the President and other executive management. remuneration of executive management. An Extraordinary General Meeting can be held if specifically required. At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have the 2020 Annual General Meeting opportunity to ask questions about the company and its results The 2020 Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday, for the year just ended. In addition to Annual General Meetings, April 28, 2020 at 11:00 a.m. in Malmö. For more information, Extraordinary General Meetings can be called. The company’s refer to www.thulegroup.com. Annual General Meetings are held each calendar year in Malmö, Sweden, before the end of June. In accordance with the Nomination Committee Articles of Association, notice of a General Meeting is published The Nomination Committee is to be composed of five in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and on the company’s website, members comprising representatives from each of the four www.thulegroup.com. In conjunction with notice being given, largest shareholders in terms of the number of votes at August an announcement is made of the notification in Dagens Industri. 31 every year, and the Chairman of the Board. The Nomination The Articles of Association contain no separate provisions Committee member representing the largest shareholder pertaining to the appointment and dismissal of Board members, in terms of votes is to be appointed as Chairman unless the nor to amendment of the Articles of Association. For the Nomination Committee unanimously appoints another. If more complete Articles of Association, refer to www.thulegroup.com. than three months prior to the Annual General Meeting, one or more of the shareholders who have appointed members to Shareholders the Nomination Committee should cease to belong to the four Thule Group’s share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm largest shareholders in terms of votes, the members appointed since November 26, 2014 and moved to the Large Cap list by these shareholders are to vacate their membership and on January 1, 2017. At year end, share capital amounted to the shareholder/shareholders who has/have instead become SEK 1,153,495.63, divided between 103,208,606 shares. among the four largest shareholders in terms of votes is/are All of the shares are of the same class and all of the shares in to be entitled to appoint his/their representatives. If a member the company carry equal rights in all respects. At December leaves the Nomination Committee before its work is completed 31, 2019, Thule Group AB had 14,120 shareholders. At this and the Nomination Committee finds it desirable to appoint date, the largest shareholders (reported as each owner flags a replacement, the new member should be sourced from the its holdings) were AMF Försäkring och Fonder (11.1 percent of same shareholder or, if this shareholder is no longer one of the the votes), Nordea Fonder (4.8 percent of the votes), Handelslargest shareholders in terms of votes, from the next sharebanken Fonder (3.9 percent of the votes) and Didner & Gerge holder in line. Changes in the composition of the Nomination Fonder (3.8 percent of the votes). Further information about the Committee must be announced immediately. share and shareholders is available at www.thulegroup.com. The Nomination Committee’s duties are to present proposals to the Annual General Meeting regarding the Chairman of the Annual General Meetings Board and other Board members together with an explanatory Resolutions at the 2019 Annual General Meeting statement for the proposal, to propose fees and other remunerThe 2019 Annual General Meeting was held on April 26, 2019. ation for Board assignments for each of the Board members, The complete minutes for and information about the 2019 including any remuneration for Committee work, to present Annual General Meeting are available at www.thulegroup.com. proposals on auditors and their fees, to present a proposal The Annual General Meeting resolved to adopt the submitted for the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting and, where income statement and balance sheet and the consolidated appropriate, to propose changes to the appointment of the income statement and consolidated balance sheet. In Nomination Committee. In addition, the Nomination Committee accordance with the Board’s and the President’s proposal, the is to assess the independence of the Board members in relation AGM resolved to distribute a dividend of SEK 7.00 per share to the company and the largest shareholders. The composition for 2018. The dividend was paid in two installments for a better of the Nomination Committee for the Annual General Meeting adaptation to the Group’s cash flow profile. The Annual General is normally announced on the company’s website six months Meeting also resolved that the company’s profit brought before the Meeting. forward, together with earnings for 2018, were to be carried No remuneration is paid to members of the Nomination forward. The Meeting discharged the Board members and the Committee. T HU LE GROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 74 The company is to pay any necessary expenses that the Chairman of the Board. On November 11, 2019, Liv Forhaug Nomination Committee may incur in its work. The term of office chose, at her own request to, step down from the Board. No for the Nomination Committee ends when the composition of member of Group management is a Board member. However, the following Nomination Committee has been announced. both the President and the CFO of Thule Group participate at Board meetings and lawyer Peter Linderoth serves as Secretary Nomination Committee prior to to the Board. Other officers of the company participate at Board 2020 Annual General Meeting meetings when presenting separate issues. The composition of the Nomination Committee was published In its reasoned statement ahead of the 2019 Annual General in a press release and on www.thulegroup.com on September Meeting, the Nomination Committee stated that it had applied 11, 2019. The Nomination Committee prior to the 2020 Annual rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate Governance Code as diversity General Meeting comprises Anders Oscarsson (AMF Försäkring policy. The objective of the policy is to ensure that the Board of och Fonder), John Hernander (Nordea Fonder), Charlotta Directors will, with consideration for the company’s business, Faxén (Lannebo Fonder), Helen Fasth Gillstedt (Handelsbanken phase of development and other relevant circumstances, have Fonder) and Bengt Baron (Chairman of the Board of Thule Group). an appropriate composition of Board members that collectively display diversity and breadth in respect of skills, experience Percentage and background, and an equal gender distribution. The Nomination Committee of votes, 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved to appoint the Board Name Appointed by Aug 31, 2019, % members in accordance with the Nomination Committee’s Anders Oscarsson AMF Försäkring och Fonder 12.1 proposal, entailing the election of six members, three of whom John Hernander Nordea Fonder 4.7 were women and three men. The 2019 Annual General Meeting Charlotta Faxén Lannebo Fonder 4.7 resolved that Board member fees, paid annually, comprise SEK Helen Fasth Gillstedt Handelsbanken Fonder 4.4 1,075,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 385,000 to Bengt Baron Chairman of the Board of Thule Group each of the other Board members. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is to receive remuneration of SEK 200,000 for After the 2019 Annual General Meeting and until the date on Committee work, while SEK 70,000 is to be paid to each of the which this Annual Report was presented, the Nomination other members. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee has held four meetings. As a basis for its proposals is to receive remuneration of SEK 85,000 for Committee work, to the 2020 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Committee while SEK 40,000 is to be paid to each of the other members. assessed whether the current Board was appropriately composed and meets the requirements imposed on the Board Independence of the Board considering the company’s operations, financial position and In accordance with the Code, a majority of the members of other circumstances. The Nomination Committee interviewed the Board elected by the General Meeting are to be indepenthe company’s Board members and discussed the main dent in relation to the company and its management. The requirements that should be imposed on Board members, independence of the Board members is presented in the table including the independence of members given the number of Board composition. The Board’s assessment of the members’ Board assignments that they have in other companies. independence in relation to the company, its management and major shareholders is presented in the Facts about the Board Board of Directors and Group management section. Composition in 2019 The composition of the Board meets the Swedish Code of The Board’s duty is to manage the company’s affairs on behalf Corporate Governance requirements for independence. of the shareholders. Under the Articles of Association, the Board of Thule Group is to comprise no fewer than three and not more Responsibilities of the Chairman than ten members appointed by the Annual General Meeting The Chairman of the Board leads and manages the Board’s for a term until the end of the next Annual General Meeting. Five work and ensures that activities are conducted efficiently. Board members were reelected at the Annual General Meeting The Chairman ensures that the Swedish Companies Act and on April 26, 2019: Bengt Baron, Hans Eckerström, Liv Forhaug, other applicable laws and regulations are adhered to and Heléne Mellquist and Mattias Ankarberg while Eva Elmstedt that the Board receives the necessary training and improves declined reelection. Heléne Willberg was elected to the Board its knowledge of the company. The Chairman monitors the on the same occasion. Moreover, Bengt Baron was elected operations in close dialog with the President, conveys opinions T H ULE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 75 from shareholders to other Board members and serves as a manner. This evaluation is presented every year to the spokesman for the Board. The Chairman is also responsible Nomination Committee. for providing the other members of the Board with information The current rules of procedure state that the Board is to meet and decision data and for implementing Board decisions. In at least six times a year in addition to the statutory meeting addition, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the following election. work of the Board is evaluated every year. The Board held nine meetings during the year, of which one was held per capsulam. All Board meetings follow a Board responsibilities and work predetermined agenda. The duties of the Board of Directors are primarily set out in Attendance at Board meetings is presented in the table on the Swedish Companies Act and the Code. In addition, the the composition of the Board below. work of the Board is guided by rules of procedure that the In 2019, the Board mainly addressed matters regarding the Board adopts every year. The rules of procedure regulate operations, acquisitions, financing, strategic direction and other the allocation of work and responsibility between the Board, ongoing accounting and company law issues. During the year, Chairman of the Board and President, as well as stipulate one of the Board meetings was held at one of the company’s procedures for financial reporting by the President. facilities in Belgium. The Board also adopts instructions for the Board’s Committees. The Board is tasked with establishing strategies, Board committees business plans and budgets as well as submitting interim The Board has two committees, the Remuneration Committee financial statements, annual accounts, and adopting policies and the Audit Committee. and guidelines. The committees report on the issues addressed either The Board is also charged with following the financial verbally or in writing. The work of the respective committees developments, ensuring the quality of financial reporting and is carried out pursuant to written instructions and rules of control functions and evaluating the company’s operations procedure from the Board. Minutes of the committees’ based on the established goals and guidelines adopted by the meetings are available to all Board members. Board. Finally, the Board also takes decisions regarding major investments and organizational and operational changes in the Remuneration Committee company. Working closely with the President, the Chairman The Remuneration Committee is tasked with preparing issues of the Board is tasked with monitoring the company’s regarding remuneration and other terms of employment for the performance and acting as Chairman at Board meetings. President and the company’s executive management. The work The Chairman is also responsible for the Board's annual involves the preparation of proposals for guidelines for items, evaluation of its work and for the Board receiving adequate such as: the allocation between fixed and variable remuneration, information enabling it to perform its work in an efficient the relationship between performance and compensation, the Board composition Attendance Total fee, Board Audit Remuneration Name Year elected SEK (annual)1 Independent meetings Committee Committee Chairman Bengt Baron 2011 1,115,000 Yes 9/9 2/2 2/2 Board members Mattias Ankarberg 2018 385,000 Yes 9/9 Hans Eckerström 2009 470,000 Yes 9/9 3/3 Eva Elmstedt2 2017 Yes 2/3 Liv Forhaug3 2014 385,000 Yes 7/8 1/1 Heléne Mellquist 2016 455,000 Yes 8/9 3/4 Helene Willberg4 2019 585,000 No 6/6 2/2 1) Fee resolved at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. 2) Eva Elmstedt declined reelection at the Annual General Meeting. 3) On November 11, 2019, Liv Forhaug chose to step down from the Board at her own request. 4) In her role at KPMG, Helene Willberg was the auditor in charge of Thule Group for the period until the 2017 Annual General Meeting. Therefore, in accordance with section 3, paragraph 4.4 of the Code of Corporate Governance she was, until the fiscal year 2019, considered to be dependent in relation to the company and its management. T HU LE GROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 76 main terms of bonus and incentive programs, conditions for At this meeting, the auditor presents the financial information other benefits, pensions, termination and severance pay, and the and discusses the audit with the Board members without the preparation of proposals for individual remuneration packages for President and executive management attending. The auditor the President and executive management. maintains continuous contact with the Chairman of the Board, Furthermore, the Remuneration Committee also monitors Audit Committee and Group management. and evaluates the outcome of variable remuneration, and Thule Group’s auditors are to review the Annual Report and how the company complies with the remuneration guidelines consolidated financial statements for Thule Group AB and the adopted by the general meeting of shareholders. administration of the Board and the President. The auditors The Remuneration Committee comprises two members: follow an audit plan that is discussed with the Audit Committee. Hans Eckerström (Chairman) and Bengt Baron. Liv Forhaug Reports were presented to the Audit Committee during the was a member until the 2019 Annual General Meeting and course of the audit and finally to the Board as a whole when the Bengt Baron was elected as member in conjunction with the year-end report was adopted. The auditor is also to attend the 2019 Annual General Meeting. The Remuneration Committee Annual General Meeting and describe the audit activities and held three meetings in 2019. The members’ attendance at observations made in an auditor’s report. In conjunction with meetings of the Remuneration Committee is presented in the the 2019 Annual General Meeting, PricewaterhouseCoopers table Board composition. AB was reelected for a term of one year with Eric Salander as Auditor in Charge. During the year, the auditors performed Audit Committee certain audit-related consulting assignments in addition to the The main task of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the audit, mainly pertaining to consulting in accounting issues. The Board meets the supervision requirements relating to internal appointed auditor is responsible for auditing all of the important control, auditing, risk management, accounting and financial subsidiaries in the Group. reporting, and prepares accounting and auditing matters. The Audit Committee is also charged with reviewing processes and President and other executive management procedures for accounting and financial control and preparing The President is subordinate to the Board of Directors and is the Board’s report on internal control. In addition, the Audit responsible for the day-to-day management and operations Committee monitors the impartiality and independence of the of the company. The division of work between the Board of auditor, evaluates the audit work and discusses coordination Directors and the President is set out in the rules of procedure between the external audit and the internal work on internal for the Board of Directors and instructions for the President. control issues with the auditor. The Audit Committee also assists The President is also responsible for the preparation of the company’s Nomination Committee when preparing proposals reports and compiling information from management for for auditors and recommendations for auditor’s fees. Board meetings and for presenting such material at Board The Audit Committee in Thule Group comprises two meetings. According to the instructions for financial reporting, members, Helene Willberg (Chairman) and Heléne Mellquist. the President is responsible for the financial reporting in Bengt Baron was a member until the 2019 Annual General Thule Group and consequently must ensure that the Board Meeting and Helene Willberg was elected as member/Chairreceives adequate information for the Board to be able to man in conjunction with the 2019 Annual General Meeting. The evaluate the company’s and the Group’s financial position. Audit Committee held four meetings in 2019. The members’ The President keeps the Board continuously informed of attendance at meetings of the Audit Committee is presented in developments in Thule Group’s operations, the development the table Board composition. of sales, Thule Group’s results and financial position, liquidity The Audit Committee meets all the requirements vis-à-vis and credit status, important business events and all other auditing and accounting competence as stipulated in the events, circumstances or conditions that can be assumed to Swedish Companies Act. be of significance to the company’s shareholders. Information about remuneration, share-based incentive Auditors programs and terms of employment for the President and other The auditor is elected at the Annual General Meeting every executive management is available at www.thulegroup.com. year. The auditors review the company’s and subsidiaries’ financial reports and accounts as well as the administration Internal control and risk management of the Board and the President. The auditor participates at The Board’s responsibility for the internal control is governed the Board meeting that addresses the year-end accounts. by the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts T H ULE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 77 Act (1995:1554), and the Code. Information regarding the most primarily comprise guidelines, policies and manuals that are important aspects of the company’s system for internal control continuously updated and communicated to the appropriate and risk management in connection with financial reporting employees via relevant information channels. must each year be included in the Company’s Corporate A communication policy is in place for external information Governance Report. The procedures for internal control, risk that provides guidelines on how such information is to be assessment, control activities, and monitoring with respect to provided. The aim of the policy is to ensure that the company the financial reporting have been designed to ensure reliable complies with the requirements for disseminating correct and overall financial reporting and external financial reporting in complete information to the market. accordance with IFRS, applicable laws and regulations as well as other requirements, which apply to companies listed Monitoring, assessment and reporting on Nasdaq Stockholm. This work involves the Board, Group The Board regularly assesses the information provided by management and other personnel. Group management. Between Board meetings, the Board regularly receives updated information regarding Thule Group’s Control environment performance. Thule Group’s financial position, strategies and The Board has adopted instructions and governance capital expenditures are discussed at each Board meeting. The documents aimed at regulating the roles and allocation of Board is also responsible for monitoring the internal control. responsibility between the President and the Board. The way This work includes ensuring that measures are taken to address in which the Board monitors and ensures quality in the internal any deficiencies, as well as follow-up of proposals for measures control is documented in the Board’ rules of procedure and to which attention has been drawn in connection with the Thule Group’s finance policy. The control environment also external audit. includes the Board evaluating the performance and results of Each year, the company carries out a self-assessment of the operations through monthly and quarterly report packages the risk management and internal control work. This process that contain outcomes, budget comparisons, forecasts, includes a review of the manner in which established routines operational targets, strategic plans, assessment and evaluation and guidelines are applied. The Board receives information of financial risks, and analysis of important financial and regarding important conclusions drawn from this annual operational key figures. The responsibility for the presentation assessment process, and regarding any measures relating to of the report package to the Board and the responsibility for the company’s internal control environment. maintaining an effective control environment, and the day-to-day risk assessment and internal control over the financial reporting Internal audit are delegated to the President. However, the Board is ultimately Under paragraph 7.3 of the Code, the Board is to annually responsible. Managers at various levels in Thule Group’s evaluate the need for a separate audit function, which is to business areas are, in turn, responsible for ensuring compliance ensure that financial reports are produced in accordance with established guidelines within their business area. with legislation, applicable accounting standards and other applicable requirements for listed companies. Considering the Risk assessment and control activities internal control activities that have been performed, the Board The company conducts continuous risk assessment to identify does not deem there to be any need to establish a separate risks in all areas of operation. These risks, which include the internal audit function. The matter of an internal audit function risk of both loss of assets as well as irregularities and fraud, will be addressed again in 2020. are assessed regularly by the Board. The structure of control activities is of particular importance in the company’s work of Audit fees Group Parent Company preventing and discovering deficiencies. The assessment and SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 control of risks also cover the operational management of each Audit PwC 3.6 3.4 0.6 0.6 reporting unit, where meetings are held at least six times a year Audit in addition to audit assignment PwC 0.0 0.0 – – in connection with business review meetings. Thule Group’s Tax consultancy PwC – – – – President and CFO, as well as local and regional management, Other services PwC 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.0 participate at these meetings, and minutes are kept. Total 3.8 3.6 0.8 0.6 Information and communication The company’s governance documents for financial reporting T HU LE GROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 78 Facts about the Board and Group management Board of Directors Bengt Baron Mattias Ankarberg Hans Eckerström Assignment and Member of the Board since 2011, Board member since 2018. Board member since 2007. year of election took office as Chairman of the (Board member of a former Board in 2018. Parent Company of Thule Group 2007–2009). Born: 1962 1976 1972 Education and Bachelor of Science and an MBA M.Sc. in Business Administration M.Sc. Mechanical Engineering, professional experience: from the University of California at from Stockholm School of Chalmers University of Berkeley, USA. Economics. Technology. M.Sc. Business Administration, University of Former CEO of Cloetta AB and CEO for the Byggmax Group AB Gothenburg. CEO of V&S AB. since 2016. Former Management Consultant Formerly leading positions at at Arthur D. Little. Partner, NC the H&M Group, most recently Advisory AB and advisor to the as global head of sales and Nordic Capital Funds. marketing, member of Group management. Consultant and partner at McKinsey & Company in Sweden and the US. Other current Chairman of Enzymatica AB — Chairman of Nobia AB (publ), Board appointments (publ) and 5653 Sweden AB. Profoto Invest AB, Profoto Board member of AAK AB (publ). Holding AB and Henry Lloyd Group AB. Board member of Nordstjernan AB. Previous Chairman of — Chairman of Brink Board appointments MIPS AB (publ). International AB and Britax Childcare Limited and Board member of Nefab AB (publ), Cloetta AB (publ) and Aditro AB (publ). Shareholding at 35,997 shares 1,500 shares 20,000 shares (through March 26, 2020 Eckis Holding AB) T H ULE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 79 Liv Forhaug Heléne Mellquist Helene Willberg Assignment and Board member since 2014. Board member since 2016. Board member since 2019. year of election Stepped down as Board member on November 11, 2019. Born: 1970 1964 1967 Education and M.Sc., Stockholm School of B.Sc. in International M.Sc., Stockholm School of professional experience: Economics. Business Administration, Economics. Gothenburg School of CEO of Martin & Servera AB. Economics. Executive Country manager at Program IFL, Stockholm Alvarez & Marsal, Sweden. Former CSO (Chief Strategy School of Economics. Officer) at ICA Gruppen AB Previously, several leading and consultant and partner at Senior Vice President Volvo roles at KPMG, including as McKinsey & Company. Trucks Europe. CEO of KPMG Sweden and as Head of KPMG’s Financial Former Senior Vice President Advisory Services. Volvo Trucks International, CEO and CFO at Rederi AB TransAtlantic and CFO at the International Division of Volvo Lastvagnar. Other current Board member of Board member of Board member of Board appointments Hufvudstaden AB (publ). Alfa Laval AB (publ). Profoto Invest AB, Profoto Holding AB, Nordic Paper AB and Footway Group AB (publ). Previous Board member of Min Doktor Board member of Cavotec S.A. — Board appointments International AB and (publ), Partnertech AB and Opus the ICA Group subsidiary Group AB (publ). ICA Sverige AB (publ), ICA Fastigheter AB, Hemtex AB and Apoteket Hjärtat AB and HUI Research AB. Shareholding at 1,100 shares 1,250 shares 1,800 shares March 26, 2020 on stepping down T HU LE GROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 80 Facts about the Board and Group management Group management Magnus Welander Fred Clark Fredrik Erlandsson Assignment and President and CEO President Region Americas Senior Vice President year of election since 2010. since 2003. Communications and IR since 2010. Born: 1966 1959 1970 Education M.Sc. in Industrial Engineering BSBA Quantitative Methods, University studies in political and professional and Management, Institute Western New England University science and economics, Lund experience: of Technology at Linköping MBA Management Science, University and Copenhagen University. University of New Haven. University. Former BA President Former Operations Manager Former Corporate Relations Outdoor&Bags Europe & ROW and Vice President Operations Manager and Corporate at Thule Group, President of of Thule Group and Relations Director at Diageo Envirotainer, various senior Vice President Manufacturing at Plc., GM and procuration holder positions at Tetra Pak in Italy C. Cowles & Co. at Ehrenberg Marketing & and Australia. Kommunikation; and chief of staff for the national delegation to the European parliament. Other current Chairman of — Board member of Board MIPS AB (publ). Landskrona Stadshus AB. appointments Previous Board member of Brink Chairman of the Outdoor Municipal Executive Board Board International AB Foundation and Board member City of Landskrona. appointments and Britax Childcare Limited. of Westover School and the Outdoor Industry Association. Shareholding at 636,990 shares (through 365,665 shares and 108,138 shares and March 26, 2020 Elenima Limited) and 187,500 warrants. 125,000 warrants. 375,000 warrants. T H ULE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 CO RPO RATE G OV ERN ANC E REPORT 81 Kajsa von Geijer Nis Gjendal Lennart Mauritzson Jonas Lindqvist Assignment and SVP HR and Sustainability Vice President Global CFO since 2011. CFO year of election since 2005. Purchasing since Left the company Assumed the role January 2019. February 14, 2020. in March 2020. Born: 1964 1981 1967 1962 Education B.Sc. in Human Resource M.Sc. in Production & B.Sc. in Finance and M.Sc. in Business and and professional Development and Labour Management from DTU. Business Administration, Economics, Lund University, experience Relations, Lund University. Halmstad University. Law EMBA, Stockholm School of Various positions within studies, Lund University. Economics and Advanced Former HR Director Europe supply and operations at Management Program, at FMC Food Tech, Nilfisk AS with a focus on Former Vice President Harvard Business School. HR Director Nordic at strategic purchasing. Finance at Thule Group, Levi Strauss, Training & CFO Beijer Electronics Former CFO Arjo (publ), Development Manager at Aktiebolag and CFO Beijer Ref (publ), Nestlé Sweden AB, Vice President Finance of CFO Polyclad Europe/ HR Manager at Trellex AB/ Cardo AB. Cookson Electronics, Svedala Svenska AB and Finance Director for HR Officer at Trelleborg AB. companies in the Nolato Group and BMH Marine AB. Other current Chairman of Elfte Huset AB. — Board member of — Board Rögle Marknads AB. appointments Previous Chairman of — — — Board Lunicore Studentkonsult appointments AB, member of the board of Stiftelsen Lundsbergs skola. Shareholding at 39,508 shares and 250 shares 124,471 shares by the time — March 26, 2020 125,000 warrants. he left the company. T HU LE GROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 82 Consolidated Income Statement January 1–December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Net sales 6, 7 7,038 6,484 Cost of goods sold -4,209 -3,858 Gross income 2,829 2,626 Other operating revenue 8 0 0 Selling expenses -1,315 -1,156 Administrative expenses -319 -307 Operating income 9, 11, 12, 13 1,195 1,163 Financial revenue 14 10 16 Financial expenses 14 -59 -64 Income before taxes 1,146 1,114 Taxes 15 -263 -277 Net income 883 837 Net income pertaining to: Shareholders of Parent Company 883 837 Net income 883 837 Earnings per share, SEK 16 before dilution 8.56 8.13 after dilution 8.55 8.12 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 83 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income January 1–December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Net income 883 837 Other comprehensive income Items that have been carried over or can be carried over to consolidated net income Foreign currency translation 249 318 Cash flow hedges 6 13 Net investment hedge -34 -118 Tax on components in other comprehensive income 15 -13 0 Items that cannot be carried over to net income Revaluation of defined-benefit pension plans -28 -13 Tax pertaining to items that cannot be carried over to net income 15 6 4 Other comprehensive income 185 203 Total comprehensive income 1,069 1,040 Total comprehensive income pertaining to: Shareholders of Parent Company 1,069 1,040 Total comprehensive income 1,069 1,040 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 84 Consolidated Balance Sheet Per December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Assets Intangible assets 17 4,664 4,476 Tangible assets 18, 23 1,023 778 Long-term receivables 5 13 Deferred tax receivables 15 376 341 Total fixed assets 6,067 5,609 Inventories 19 1,092 1,078 Tax receivables 1 16 Accounts receivable 20 704 655 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 62 69 Other receivables 91 85 Cash and cash equivalents 21 268 186 Total current assets 2,218 2,089 Total assets 8,285 7,697 Equity and liabilities Equity 22 Share capital 1 1 Other capital contributed 2,365 2,368 Reserves 171 -37 Profit brought forward including net income 1,794 1,681 Total equity 4,330 4,012 Liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 23, 24 2,348 2,147 Provision for pensions 12 205 169 Deferred income tax liabilities 15 259 221 Total long-term liabilities 2,812 2,537 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 23, 24 65 28 Accounts payable 529 564 Tax liabilities 14 78 Other liabilities 52 47 Accrued expenses and deferred income 25 430 406 Provisions 26 54 25 Total short-term liabilities 1,143 1,148 Total liabilities 3,955 3,685 Total equity and liabilities 8,285 7,697 Information about the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities is provided in notes 30 and 31. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 85 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Equity attributable to shareholders of Parent Company Other Profit brought Share capital Translation Hedge forward including SEKm capital contributed reserve reserve net income Total equity Opening balance, January 1, 2018 1 2,242 -237 -13 1,475 3,467 Adjusted equity at January 1 -2 -2 Comprehensive income Net income – – – – 837 837 Other comprehensive income – – 203 10 -10 203 Total comprehensive income 0 0 203 10 827 1,040 Transactions with the Group’s owners Dividend – – – – -619 -619 New issue of shares 0 138 – – – 138 Buy back of warrants – -12 – – – -12 Total contribution from owners 0 126 0 0 -619 -494 Closing balance equity, December 31, 2018 1 2,368 -34 -3 1,681 4,012 Opening balance, January 1, 2019 1 2,368 -34 -3 1,681 4,012 Adjusted equity at January 1 -26 -26 Comprehensive income Net income – – – – 883 883 Other comprehensive income – – 203 5 -22 185 Total comprehensive income 0 0 203 5 861 1,069 Transactions with the Group’s owners Dividend – – – – -722 -722 Buy back of warrants – -3 – – – -3 Total contribution from owners 0 -3 0 0 -722 -725 Closing balance equity, December 31, 2019 1 2,365 168 2 1,794 4,330 The translation reserve and hedge reserve are included in the item Reserves under equity in the balance sheet. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 86 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow January 1–December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Operating activities 27 Income before taxes 1,146 1,114 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow 160 118 Paid income taxes -298 -369 Cash flow from operating activities prior to changes in working capital 1,008 863 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(-)/Decrease (+) in inventories 19 -222 Increase(-)/Decrease (+) in receivables -31 -79 Increase(+)/Decrease (-) in liabilities 34 44 Cash flow from operating activities 1,030 606 Investing activities Business combinations -10 -75 Acquisition of intangible assets -13 0 Acquisition of tangible assets -148 -179 Divestment of tangible assets 1 1 Cash flow from investing activities -171 -253 Financing activities Dividend -722 -619 New issue of shares 0 138 Buy back of warrants -3 -12 Debt repaid -53 -256 Cash flow from financing activities -779 -749 Net cash flow 81 -396 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 186 581 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 1 2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 268 186 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 87 Parent Company Income Statement January 1–December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Other operating revenue 8 19 20 Administrative expenses -34 -32 Operating income 9, 11, 12 -15 -12 Profit from financial items: 14 Profit from participations in Group companies 800 700 Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 22 39 Interest expense and similar profit/loss items -34 -42 Income after financial items 773 685 Appropriations 28 45 12 Income before taxes 818 697 Taxes 15 -4 1 Net income 814 697 Parent Company Statement of Comprehensive Income January 1–December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Net income 814 697 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income 814 697 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 88 Parent Company Balance Sheet Per December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Assets Fixed assets Financial fixed assets Participations in Group companies 29 1,000 1,000 Receivables from Group companies 33 4,572 4,438 Deferred tax receivables 3 2 Other long-term receivables 11 8 Total financial fixed assets 5,586 5,449 Total fixed assets 5,586 5,449 Current assets Receivables from Group companies 33 46 13 Other current receivables 1 2 Cash and cash equivalents 21 0 0 Total current assets 47 15 Total assets 5,633 5,464 Equity and liabilities Equity 22 Restricted equity Share capital 1 1 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 1,380 1,408 Profit brought forward – – Net income 814 697 Total equity 2,195 2,106 Long-term liabilities Provisions for other pensions 14 11 Liabilities to credit institutions 24 2,168 2,133 Liabilities to Group companies 33 368 368 Total long-term liabilities 2,551 2,512 Short-term liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 24 0 0 Liabilities to Group companies 33 871 834 Other short-term liabilities 6 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income 25 10 10 Provisions 26 0 0 Total short-term liabilities 887 846 Total equity and liabilities 5,633 5,464 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 89 Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity Share Share premium Profit brought Net Total SEKm capital reserve forward income equity Opening balance, January 1, 2018 1 1,304 0 597 1,903 Comprehensive income Net income – – – 697 697 Total comprehensive income 0 0 0 697 697 Appropriation of profits – – 597 -597 0 Dividend – -22 -597 – -619 New issue of shares 0 138 – – 138 Buy back of warrants – -12 – – -12 Closing balance equity, December 31, 2018 1 1,408 0 697 2,106 Opening balance, January 1, 2019 1 1,408 0 697 2,106 Comprehensive income Net income – – – 814 814 Total comprehensive income 0 0 0 814 814 Appropriation of profits – – 697 -697 0 Dividend – -25 -697 – -722 Buy back of warrants – -3 – – -3 Closing balance equity, December 31, 2019 1 1,380 0 814 2,195 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 FINA N CI A L STATEM EN T S 90 Parent Company Cash Flow Statement January 1–December 31, SEKm Note 2019 2018 Operating activities 27 Income before taxes 818 697 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow -800 -700 Dividend received 700 600 Paid income taxes 0 0 Cash flow from operating activities prior to changes in working capital 718 597 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(-)/Decrease (+) in receivables -35 -12 Increase(+)/Decrease (-) in liabilities 4 6 Cash flow from operating activities 687 591 Investing activities – – Financing activities Dividend -722 -619 New issue of shares – 138 Buy back of warrants -3 -12 Debt repaid/borrowings – -250 Debt repaid/borrowings to subsidiaries 38 152 Cash flow from financing activities -687 -591 Net cash flow 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 0 0 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES 91 Notes for Parent Company and Group All amounts are in SEKm unless otherwise stated. Note 1 Significant accounting policies General information Thule Group AB (publ), Corp. Reg. No. 556770-6311, is a Swedish registered, limited liability company with its registered office in Malmö, Sweden. The shares of Thule Group are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list. The consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year January 1 to December 31, 2019 comprise Thule Group AB (Parent Company) and its subsidiaries. The consolidated financial statements were approved for publication by the Board of Directors and President on March 26, 2020. The consolidated income statement, statement of comprehensive income, and the consolidated balance sheet, and the Parent Company income statement and balance sheet are subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2020. The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the EU. In addition, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups was applied. The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group except in cases listed below in the section “Parent Company accounting policies.” Refer to Definitions on page 147 for alternative performance measures. Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial statements The Parent Company’s functional currency is SEK, which is also the presentation currency for the Parent Company and the Group. This means that the financial statements are presented in SEK. All amounts, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to the nearest million. Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost, except for certain financial assets and liabilities, and contingent considerations that are measured at fair value. Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value consist of derivatives. A defined-benefit pension liability/asset is measured at the net of fair value on plan assets and the present value of the defined-benefit liability, adjusted for any asset limitations. Fixed assets and disposal groups held for sale are recognized, with some exceptions, from when the assets were classified, at the lower of the carrying amount at the time of reclassification and the fair value less deductions for selling expenses. The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make assessments and estimates, as well as assumptions, that affect the application of the accounting policies and the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses recognized. The actual outcome may differ from these estimates and assessments. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly. Changes in estimates are recognized in the period in which the change is made if the change only affects that period, or in the period in which the change is made and future periods if the change affects the period in question and future periods. Assessments made by management when applying IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements and estimates made that may involve material adjustments in the following year’s financial statements are described in detail in Note 2. The accounting policies presented below have been consistently applied to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, unless otherwise stated below. Amended accounting policies resulting from amended IFRS The Group has applied IFRS 16 Leases from January 1, 2019. As a result, the Group has changed its accounting policies for leases as follows. The Group has chosen to apply the modified retrospective approach, which means that the comparative year has not been restated pursuant to IFRS 16. Right-of-use assets that apply to the leasing of premises in Sweden and the US are measured on the first day of application as if the standard had always been applied. Other right-of-use assets are measured at amounts corresponding to the lease liability. The impact on the balance sheet entailed that the Group’s assets increased approximately SEK 137m relating to right-of-use assets, interest-bearing lease liabilities increased SEK 171m and equity decreased by SEK 26m on the transition date. Previously, the Group classified leases as operating or finance leases based on whether the lease agreement transferred the material risks and rewards that ownership of the underlying asset entailed. Operating leases were not recognized as assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and a lease expense was recognized in a straight line over the term of the lease. Under IFRS 16, the Group recognizes right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases, even leases that were previously classified as operating, and depreciation and interest expenses are recognized in profit or loss. An exception has been made for leases with remaining terms of less than 12 months and for leases where the underlying asset is of low value. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 92 When measuring a lease liability, the lease payments are discounted at the incremental borrowing rate as per January 1, 2019. The weighted average lessee’s incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on January 1, 2019 was 1.5%. Group, SEKm Operating lease commitments disclosed as at December 31, 2018 216 Finance lease commitments disclosed as at December 31, 2018 19 Total lease commitments at December 31, 2018 234 Discounted using the Group’s borrowing rate -22 Less short-term leases recognized on a straight-line basis -10 Less low-value leases recognized on a straight-line basis -2 Adjustment due to other treatment of indexed fees -11 Lease liability recognized as at January 1, 2019 190 The following extracts from the financial statements have been recalculated as if IAS 17 had been applied in 2019. Operating income, shown in the table below, the net impact of reversed operating lease payments and depreciation for right-of-use assets is shown. Extract from income statement IFRS 16 IAS 17 Group, SEKm 2019 2019 2018 Underlying EBITDA* 1,383 1,322 1,238 Underlying EBIT* 1,245 1,236 1,164 Operating income 1,195 1,186 1,163 Net financial expense/income -49 -40 -48 Income before taxes 1,146 1,146 1,114 Net income 883 883 837 * Pertains to alternative performance measure as defined on page 147. Extract from balance sheet IFRS 16 IAS 17 Group, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Assets Tangible assets 1,023 858 778 Deferred tax receivables 376 368 341 Equity 4,330 4,356 4,012 Liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 2,348 2,199 2,147 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 65 14 28 Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet applied Other new and amended IFRSs that will be applied in future are not expected to have any significant impact on the company’s financial statements. Classification Fixed assets essentially comprise amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid more than twelve months after the balance-sheet date, while current assets essentially comprise amounts expected to be recovered or paid within twelve months from the balance-sheet date. Long-term liabilities essentially comprise amounts that, at the end of the reporting period, the Group has an unconditional right to choose to pay more than twelve months after the end of the reporting period. If no such right should exist at the end of the reporting period, or if the liability is held for trading or is expected to be settled within the normal business cycle, the liability is recognized as a current liability. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 93 Operating segment reporting An operating segment is part of the Group that conducts business operations from which it generates revenue and incurs expenses and for which independent financial information is available. Furthermore, the earnings of an operating segment are followed up by the company’s chief operating decision-maker, the President, and the company management for evaluating performance and for allocating resources to the operating segment. Consolidated financial statements The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are companies over which Thule Group AB has controlling influence. Controlling influence exists if Thule Group AB has power over the investee, is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its involvement, and has the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the returns. Shares that potentially carry voting rights and any de facto control are taken into account in assessing the existence of a controlling influence. Subsidiaries are recognized in accordance with the purchase method. This method entails that the acquisition of a subsidiary is considered to be a transaction whereby the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilities. The acquisition analysis determines the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities, as well as any non-controlling interests, on the acquisition date. Transaction charges that arise, with the exception of transaction charges attributable to equity instruments on issue or debt instruments, are recognized directly through profit or loss. In the event of a business combination in which the consideration transferred exceeds the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities that are recognized separately, the difference is recognized as goodwill. If the difference is negative, known as a bargain purchase, it is recognized directly in profit or loss. Consideration transferred in conjunction with the acquisition does not include payments pertaining to settlement of previous business relationships. This type of settlement is recognized through profit or loss. Contingent considerations are measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as an equity instrument, no remeasurement takes place and settlement takes place in equity. All other contingent considerations are remeasured at fair value on each reporting date and the difference is recognized through profit or loss. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the acquisition date until the controlling influence ends. In cases where the subsidiary’s accounting policies are not the same as the Group’s accounting policies, adjustments were made to the Group’s accounting policies. Losses attributable to non-controlling interests are also allocated if the non-controlling interest is negative. Elimination of intra-Group transactions Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or costs, and unrealized gains or losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in their entirety when preparing the consolidated financial statements. Transactions in foreign currency Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. The functional currency is the currency in the primary financial environments in which the Group companies operate their business. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate that applies on the balance-sheet date. Exchange rate differences arising on translation are recognized through profit or loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are recognized at historic cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair value are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate on the date that fair value was determined. Exchange rate differences on operating receivables and operating liabilities are included in operating income, while exchange rate differences on financial receivables and liabilities are classified as financial items. Translation of foreign subsidiaries Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and other consolidated surplus and deficit values, are translated from the foreign operation’s functional currency to the Group’s presentation currency, SEK, at the existing exchange rate on the balance-sheet date. Revenue and expenses in foreign operations are translated to SEK using an average exchange rate that is an approximation of the exchange rates prevailing on each individual transaction date. Translation differences that arise in currency translations of foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive income and accrued in a separate component in equity, called the translation reserve. When a foreign operation is divested, accumulated translation differences attributable to the business are realized, at which time they are reclassified from the translation reserve in equity to net income. Net investment in a foreign operation Monetary long-term receivables from foreign operations for which settlement is not planned or will likely not occur in the foreseeable future, are, in practice, part of the company’s net investment in foreign operations. Exchange rate differences arising on the monetary long-term receivable are recognized in other comprehensive income and accrued as a separate component in equity, called a translation reserve. When foreign operations are divested, the accrued exchange rate differences attributable to monetary long-term receivables are included in the accrued translation differences that are reclassified from the translation reserve in equity to net income. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 94 Revenue Revenue is measured based on the compensation specified in the contract with the customer. The Group recognizes revenue when control of a product or service is transferred to the customer. Sales of products to retailers and distributors normally have short delivery times. Control of the goods passes to customers when these have been delivered and accepted by the customer. In conjunction with delivery of the products, invoices are normally prepared with customary payment terms depending on the product category and geographic market. Some contracts entitle the customer to discounts and certain contracts allow the customer to return goods under specific circumstances. For contracts that allow customers to return goods, revenue is recognized to the extent that it is highly likely that a substantial reversal of recognized revenue will not arise. Discounts and volume discounts affect the transaction price continuously. The Group now allocates part of the compensation received to contractual liabilities based on historical data and forecasts. Leases The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability on the commencement date of a lease. The right-of-use asset is initially recognized at cost, which comprises the initial value of the lease liability plus any lease payments paid on or prior to the commencement date and plus any initial direct costs. The right-of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the asset’s useful life and the lease term, which for the Group is normally the end of the lease term. In less usual cases, where the cost of the right-of-use asset reflects the Group’s intention to exercise an option to purchase the underlying asset, the asset is depreciated until the end of its useful life. The lease liability – which is allocated to long-term and short-term components – is initially measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments over the estimated lease term. The lease term comprises the non-terminable period with the addition of further periods in the agreement if, on the commencement date, it is deemed reasonably certain that this option will be exercised. The lease payments are normally discounted at the Group’s incremental borrowing rate, which in addition to the Group’s credit risk, reflects the respective lease term, currency and quality of the underlying asset as collateral. However, when the implicit interest rate of the lease can easily be established, this is used instead. The lease liability comprises the present value of the following fees over the estimated lease term: • fixed payments, including essentially fixed fees, • variable lease payments linked to an index or a price (“rate”), and initially measured using an index or price (“rate”) that applied on the commencement date, • any residual value guarantees that are expected to be paid, • the exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and • penalty fees that arise on termination of the lease if the estimated lease term reflects that such a termination will take place. Lease payments are allocated between repayment of the liability and interest payments. The interest expense is recognized in profit or loss over the lease term so as to produce a fixed rate of interest on the remaining balance of the lease liability for each period. The lease liability for the Group’s premises with index-linked rent are calculated on the rent payable at the end of each reporting period. At this point in time, the liability is adjusted together with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset. The liability and the asset value are adjusted in a corresponding manner in conjunction with any reassessment of the lease term. This is carried when the last date for terminating the lease of the premises in the previously assessed lease term has passed or, alternatively, when significant events occur or circumstances materially change in a manner within the Group’s control, and which impact the assessment of the lease term. Leases with a term of 12 months or less, or with an underlying asset of low value, are not recognized as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Lease payments for these leases are recognized as costs in a straight line over the lease term. Policies applied prior to January 1, 2019 In periods prior to 2019, the Group classified leases – agreements that conferred the right to use an asset over an agreed period in exchange for a payment or series of payments – as operating or finance leases based on whether the contract transferred the material risks and rewards associated with ownership of the asset. As the lessee, costs for operating leases were recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Benefits received when a lease was signed were recognized in profit or loss as a decrease in lease payments in a straight line over the term of the lease. Variable fees were expensed in the period in which they arose. Finance leases where the Group comprised the lessee were essentially recognized in a manner corresponding to the recognition of leases above, from January 1, 2019. Financial revenue and expenses Financial revenue and expenses comprise interest income on bank deposits and receivables and interest-bearing securities, interest expense on loans, exchange rate differences and the results from derivatives used in the financial operations. Interest income on receivables and interest expense on liabilities are calculated using the effective interest rate method. The effective interest is the interest rate that makes the present value of all estimated future receipts and disbursements during the expected fixed-rate period equal to the carrying amount of the receivables or liabilities. Interest income and interest expense include allocated transaction costs and any discounts, premiums and other differences between the original carrying amount of the receivables and liabilities and the amount that is settled on maturity and the estimated future receipts and disbursements during the contract period. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 95 Taxes Income tax includes both current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized through profit or loss, except when the underlying transaction is recognized in other comprehensive income or in equity, whereby the associated tax effects are recognized directly in other comprehensive income or equity. Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received in the current year, using tax rates that are decided or decided in practice on the balance-sheet date. Current tax also comprises current tax adjustments for prior periods. Deferred tax is calculated using the balance-sheet method, based on temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Temporary differences are not recognized in consolidated goodwill, nor are differences attributable to participations in subsidiaries that are not expected to be reversed in the foreseeable future. The measurement of deferred tax is based on how underlying assets and liabilities are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and tax rules established or decided in practice on the balance-sheet date. Deferred tax receivables relating to deductible temporary differences and loss carryforwards are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that they will be utilized. The value of the deferred tax receivables is reduced when it is no longer considered likely that they can be utilized. Any additional income tax relating to the dividend is recognized at the same date as the dividend is recognized as a liability. Financial instruments Financial instruments recognized in the balance sheet include assets such as cash and cash equivalents, loans and accounts receivable and derivatives. The liability side includes accounts payable, loans and derivatives. A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the balance sheet when the company becomes a contracting party in accordance with the instrument’s contractual conditions. A receivable is recognized when the company has performed and a contractual obligation exists for the counterparty to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been sent. A liability is recognized when the counterparty has performed and a contractual obligation exists for the company to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. A financial asset is derecognized from the balance sheet when the contractual rights are realized, expire or the company loses control of them. The same applies to a portion of a financial asset. A financial liability is derecognized from the balance sheet when the contractual obligation is met or extinguished in another manner. The same applies to portions of a financial liability. A financial asset and a financial liability are offset and recognized at a net amount in the balance sheet only when a legal right exists to offset the amounts and there is an intent to settle the items in a net amount or simultaneously realize the asset and settle the liability. With the exception of derivatives, the acquisition or disposal of financial assets is recognized when the transaction is completed (cash settlement approach). Derivatives are recognized when an agreement has been entered into (trade date accounting). Classification and measurement Financial instruments are initially recognized at cost corresponding to the instrument’s fair value plus transaction costs for all financial instruments except those that belong in the measured at fair value through profit and loss category, which are measured at fair value excluding transaction costs. The classification determines how the financial instrument is measured after initial recognition as described below. The classification of financial assets that are debt instruments is determined by the business model of the portfolio in which the financial asset is included and the nature of the contractual cash flows. Thule Group’s business model for all such financial assets aims to collect the principal amount and any interest accrued on the principal. The contractual cash flows from these assets consist solely of principal amounts and interest, and accordingly are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. All financial liabilities are classified under amortized cost except derivatives, which are classified as FVTPL. Derivatives are initially measured at fair value, meaning that transaction costs are charged to net income for the period. After initial recognition, derivatives are recognized in the manner described below. If the derivative is used for hedge accounting and this is effective, then changes in the value of the derivative are recognized on the same line in the consolidated net income as the hedged item. When the derivative is part of a cash flow hedge and the hedged item has as yet not impacted the result, the value changes are recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedge reserve in equity. Even if hedge accounting is not applied, the result from derivatives is recognized as revenue or expense in operating income or in net financial items based on the purpose of the derivative and how its use is related to an operating or a financial item. For hedge accounting, the ineffective portion is recognized in the same manner as changes in the value of the derivative that is not used for hedge accounting. If hedge accounting is not applied when using interest rate swaps, then the interest coupon is recognized as interest and other changes in the value of the interest-rate swap are recognized as other financial revenue or other financial expense. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Assets in this category are continually measured at fair value with value changes recognized through profit or loss. This category comprises two sub-categories: obligatory recognition at fair value and other financial assets that the Group has initially decided to place in this category identified as recognized at fair value. Financial instruments in this category are continuously measured at fair value, with changes in value recognized through profit and loss. The first sub-group includes derivatives with a positive fair value, with the exception of derivatives that are an identified and effective hedging instrument. The Group has only used assets in the obligatory recognition at fair value sub-category. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 96 Financial assets at amortized cost The category includes accounts receivable, short-term receivables and cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and immediately available funds at banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid investments that have a term of less than three months from the date of acquisition and have limited risk for value fluctuations. Accounts receivable are recognized after deduction of expected credit losses. Discounting is not applied because of the short term, which is why the amortized cost corresponds to the nominal value. Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) The category includes financial assets and debt instruments, whose contractual cash flows solely consist of principal amounts and interest, and are held in a business model where financial assets are held to collect the contractual cash flows and cash flow from the sale of financial assets in the portfolio. Equity instruments that the company has chosen at initial recognition to identify as recognized at FVTOCI may also be included in this category. Assets in this category are continuously measured at fair value in the balance sheet. Fair value changes in debt instruments are recognized in other comprehensive income with the exception of those pertaining to effective interest, expected credit losses and possible currency revaluations which are recognized through profit or loss. The allowance for expected credit losses is not recognized as a provision in the balance sheet but in a separate fund in equity. Unrealized results pertaining to debt instruments that have accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss on divestment or maturity. All unrealized and realized results from equity instruments in the category, excluding any dividends, are recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulate in a fair value reserve in equity. On divestment, accumulated changes in value from the fair value reserve are reclassified to retained earnings. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) This category comprises of two sub-groups: financial liabilities subject to obligatory recognition at fair value in profit or loss and other financial liabilities that the Group has decided to place in this category. The first category includes the Group’s derivatives with negative fair value except for derivatives that are an identified and effective hedging instrument. Changes in fair value are recognized through profit or loss. The Group only uses the category for derivatives. Financial liabilities at amortized cost Loans and other financial liabilities, for example, accounts payable, are included in this category. The liabilities are initially recognized at fair value and thereafter at amortized cost through application of the effective-interest method. Derivatives and hedge accounting The Group’s derivatives have been acquired to financially secure risks for interest rate, raw material and exchange-rate exposures that the Group is exposed to. To meet the IFRS 9 requirements for hedge accounting, an economic relationship must exist with the hedged item. Moreover, the hedge is required to effectively offset the value changes or cash flows pertaining to the hedged item, hedging documentation must have been prepared and the credit risk is not permitted to dominate value changes in the hedging instrument. Gains and losses for hedging are recognized through profit or loss at the same time period that gains and losses are recognized for the hedged entries. Hedge accounting is applied for loans used as hedging instruments for currency hedging of the translation risk for net investments in foreign operations, for transaction exposure in foreign currency and to hedge the cash flow risk of interest payments. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency Currency forward contracts are used to hedge receivables or liabilities against exchange rate risk. Hedge accounting is not used to protect against exchange rate risk since a financial hedge is reflected in the accounting in that both the underlying receivable or liability and the hedging instrument are recognized at the exchange rate on the balance-sheet date and exchange rate fluctuations are recognized through profit or loss. Exchange rate fluctuations for receivables and liabilities are recognized in operating income, while exchange rate fluctuations for financial receivables and liabilities are recognized in net financial items. Hedging of forecast sale/purchases in foreign currency Currency forward contracts used for hedging a highly probable forecast sale/purchase in foreign currency are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. Changes in value for the period that comprise an effective hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income and the accumulated changes in value in a specific component of equity (hedge reserve) until the hedged flow affects net income, at which point the hedging instrument’s accumulated change in value is reclassified to net income when the hedged item impacts net income. Ineffectiveness is recognized through profit or loss on an ongoing basis. Cash flow hedging against interest rate risk Interest-rate swaps are used for hedging against uncertainty in highly probable forecast interest rate flows for borrowing at variable interest rates, where the company receives a variable interest rate and pays a fixed interest rate. The Group applies hedge accounting. Interest-rate swaps are measured at fair value in the balance sheet. Interest coupons are continuously recognized through profit or loss as part of interest expenses, whereby the cash flows from hedging instruments meet the cash flows from the hedged item. To the extent they comprise an effective hedge, the unrealized changes in the fair value of interest-rate swaps are recognized in other comprehensive income and are included as part of the hedge reserve until the hedged item affects net income and as long as the criteria for hedge accounting are met. Any ineffectiveness is recognized through profit or loss on an ongoing basis. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 97 Hedging exchange rate risk in foreign net investments Investments in foreign subsidiaries (net assets including goodwill) have, to some extent, been hedged by borrowing in foreign currency that was translated at the closing day rate on the balance-sheet date. Translation differences on hedging instruments for the period are recognized in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedging is effective, and accumulated changes are recognized in a specific component of equity (translation reserve). This neutralizes translation differences that affect other comprehensive income when the Group is consolidated. Tangible assets Tangible assets in the Group are recognized at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. The cost includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to the asset in order to make it operational and ready for use as intended with the acquisition. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the purchase, construction or production of assets that take considerable time to complete for intended use or sale are included in the cost. Tangible assets that consist of components with various useful lives are treated as separate components of tangible assets. The carrying amount of tangible assets is removed from the balance sheet when it is scrapped or divested or when there is no future financial befits expected from the use or scrapping/divestment of the asset. Gains or losses arising on the divestment or scrapping of an asset comprise the difference between the sales price and the carrying amount of the asset, less direct selling expenses. Gains and losses are recognized in operating income. Additional expenses are added to the cost only if it is likely that future financial benefits associated with the asset will accrue the Group and the cost can be calculated in a reliable manner. All other additional expenses are recognized as costs in the period in which they arise. An additional expense is added to the cost if the expense is for replacement of identifiable components or related parts. Even in situations where a new component is created, the expense is added to the cost. Any carrying amounts of replaced components, or parts of components, that have not been depreciated are scrapped and expensed in conjunction with the replacement. Repairs are regularly expensed. Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is distributed to cash-generating units and is tested for impairment annually. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets acquired by the Group are recognized at cost less accumulated amortization and any impairment losses. Expenses for internally generated goodwill and brands are recognized through profit or loss as a cost when incurred. Payroll expenses that are directly attributable to the purchase, construction or production of assets that take considerable time to complete for intended use or sale are included in the cost. Cost of system development and research and development are only recognized as an asset in the balance sheet if the product or process is technically and commercially usable and the company has sufficient resources to complete development and then use or sell the intangible asset. Other product development expenses are recognized through profit or loss as costs when incurred. The majority of the Group’s development expenses are attributable to the maintenance and development of existing products and are recognized through profit or loss when incurred. Depreciation/amortization Principles of depreciation for tangible assets Depreciation takes place on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Land is not depreciated. Leased assets are also depreciated over the estimated useful life or, if shorter, over the contracted lease period. The Group applies component depreciation, which means that the estimated useful life of the components is the basis for depreciation. The residual value and useful life of an asset is determined annually. Useful lives Group Parent Company Buildings and land improvements 35–40 years – Plant and machinery 7–15 years – Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 3–7 years – Principles of amortization for intangible assets Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeterminate useful life or that are still not ready to be used, are tested for impairment annually or as soon as indications appear indicating that the asset in question has decreased in value. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized from when they are available for use. Amortization is recognized through profit or loss straight-line over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. The residual value and useful life of an asset is determined annually. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 98 Useful lives Group Parent Company Capitalized development expenses 5–10 years – IT systems 5–7 years – Other intangible assets 5–10 years – Inventories Inventories are measured at the lowest of cost and net realizable value. The cost of inventories is calculated by the first-in, first-out principle (FIFO) and includes expenses from the acquisition of the inventory assets and the transportation of them to their current place and condition. For manufactured goods and work in progress, the cost includes a reasonable share of indirect expenses based on normal capacity. Net realizable value is the estimated sales price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated cost of completion and sale. Impairment At each balance-sheet date, the carrying amount of the Group’s assets is tested to determine whether there is an indication for a need for impairment. If evidence exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. The recoverable amount of goodwill and other intangible assets with indeterminate useful lives is calculated annually. IAS 36 is used for impairment losses of assets other than financial assets and financial guarantees, which are recognized according to IFRS 9, assets held for sale and disposal groups, which are recognized according to IFRS 5, inventories and deferred tax receivables. The carrying amount of the excluded assets listed above is calculated according to the respective standard. An impairment loss is recognized if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. An impairment loss is charged to profit or loss. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling expenses and the value-in-use. When determining the value-in-use, future cash flows are discounted using a discount factor that takes into consideration risk-free interest and the risk associated with the specific asset. For an asset that does not generate essential cash flows, irrespective of other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit that the asset belongs to is calculated. A cash-generating unit is primarily performed for goodwill and then other assets in the unit are amortized proportionally. All financial assets, except those in the financial asset category that are measured at fair value through profit or loss, are tested for impairment. For each reporting date, the Group calculates the expected credit losses (ECLs) pertaining to a financial asset or group of financial assets over their remaining lifetime. All financial assets subject to the impairment rules are short-term, and accordingly, the Group has chosen to apply the simplified model in which ECLs are recognized for the remaining lifetime of the assets from the date of initial recognition. The ECL levels are based on customers’ payment history, together with loss data for the same period. Historical losses are then adjusted to take into account current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic factors that may impact customers’ ability to pay. Accounts receivable and contract assets are written off when no reasonable expectation exists of reimbursement. Indicators of no reasonable expectation of recouping the claim include, inter alia, that the debtor fails with the repayment plan or that contractual payments are significantly delayed. Credit losses on accounts receivable and contract assets are recognized as loan losses – net of operating income. Recoveries of amounts previously written off are recognized under the same item in profit or loss. Impairment of assets included in the IAS 36 application sphere is reversed if there is an indication that the need for impairment no longer exists and there has been a change in the assumptions that were the basis of the recoverable amount calculation. Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. A reversal is only performed to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount after reversal does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been recognized, less depreciation when applicable, if no impairment had been applied. Earnings per share The earnings per share calculation is based on the consolidated net income attributable to the shareholders of Parent Company and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. When calculating earnings per share after dilution, earnings are adjusted as well as the average number of shares in order to take into consideration the impact from the dilutive potential common shares. Remuneration of employees Pensions The majority of the Group’s pension obligations are met through continuous payments to independent insurance companies that administer the plans, known as defined-contribution pension plans. The responsibility for the amount of future pension payments lies with the external insurance companies. The Group has no further responsibility than paying the premium. A pension expense, which corresponds to the contributions paid, is continuously recognized for defined-contribution pension plans. The expense is recognized in the period in which the employee performed the services to which the contribution refers. Some of the Group’s subsidiaries in Sweden have defined-benefit plans that are unfunded. These defined-benefit pension plans include a commitment regarding future pension benefits, the amount of which is determined by such factors as final salary and service period. The employer bears all material risks for meeting this commitment. The Group’s net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the future remuneration that the employees have earned through their employment in both present and earlier periods; this remuneration is discounted to present value. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 1 99 The discount rate used by the Group to calculate the defined-benefit pension liabilities in Sweden comprises the market interest rate on the balance-sheet date of Swedish mortgage bonds with a term corresponding to the duration of the Swedish pension obligations. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The special employer’s contribution is part of actuarial assumptions and is therefore recognized as a portion of net obligations. The portion of special employer’s contribution that is calculated on the basis of the Pension Obligation Vesting Act for legal entities is recognized, for reasons of simplification, as an accrued expense instead of as a part of net obligations. Actuarial gains and losses may arise when determining the present value of the obligation. These will arise when the actual result differs from the previously made assumption or when assumptions are changed. Revaluation effects are recognized in other comprehensive income. Other retirement pensions according to ITP/ITPK in Sweden are guaranteed for the Group through premium payments to Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, UFR10, this must be reported as a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2019 fiscal year, the Group did not have access to information from Alecta that made it possible to recognize this plan as a defined-benefit plan. Accordingly, the plan has been recognized as a defined-contribution plan. Bonuses A provision is recognized for the anticipated cost of profit share and bonus payments when the Group has a contractual or informal duty to make such payments as a result of services received from employees, the conditions for remuneration are deemed to be fulfilled and the obligation can be reliably calculated. Remuneration if employment is terminated A cost for remuneration in connection with the termination of employment is recognized earliest when the Group can no longer retract the offer to the employees or when the Group recognizes restructuring costs. Remuneration expected to be settled after twelve months is recognized at present value. Remuneration not expected to be settled completely within twelve months is recognized in accordance with long-term remuneration. Share-based remuneration The expense for share-based remuneration is recognized over the period in which the services are rendered by the employees. As part of the share-based incentive program 2017/2020, within the framework of the program, participants may receive a retention bonus in the form of a gross salary supplement from the company that corresponds in total to the amount paid by the participant for the warrants, conditional upon continued employment at the time of payment and that the participant has not terminated the employment. The cost for the above, including social security costs, are allocated evenly over the period until the time when the warrants can be exercised. Provisions A provision differs from other liabilities in that there is uncertainty about the time of payment and the amount of settlement. A provision is recognized in the balance sheet when there is an existing legal or informal obligation resulting from a past event and when it is probable that an outflow of financial resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Provisions are made based on the best estimate of what will be required to settle the existing obligation on the balance-sheet date. When it is important to know when the payment will occur, provisions are calculated by discounting the expected future cash flow using a pretax interest rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, if suitable, the risks associated with the liability. A provision for restructuring is recognized when there is an established, detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either started or been officially announced. Provisions are not made for future operating losses. Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is recognized when there is a possible obligation that originates from past events and whose occurrence is only confirmed by one or more uncertain future events or when there is an obligation that is not recognized as a liability or a provision because it is not likely that an outflow of resources will be needed. Parent Company accounting policies The Parent Company prepares its Annual Report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities. RFR 2 stipulates that the Parent Company, in the annual accounts for the legal entity, is to apply all IFRS and statements adopted by the EU to the extent that this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and taking into consideration the connection between accounting and taxation. The recommendation stipulates the permissible exceptions from and additions to IFRS. Based on RFR 2, the Parent Company has decided not to apply IAS 9 to the legal entity. Amended accounting policies Unless otherwise stated below, the Parent Company’s accounting policies for 2019 changed in accordance with the amendments described above for the Group. The new policies for leases, in accordance with IFRS 16, that the Group has started to apply are not applied by the Parent Company. The Parent Company applies an exception under RFR 2 to the effect that the Parent Company recognizes leases in the same manner as for previous years. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 1–2 100 Differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting policies The differences between the accounting policies of the Group and the Parent Company are stated below. The accounting policies for the Parent Company stated below have been consistently applied in all periods presented in the financial statements of the Parent Company. Classification and presentation format The income statement and the balance sheet for the Parent Company are presented following the format of the Annual Accounts Act, while the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and cash flow statement are based on IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows. The differences compared with the consolidated financial statements that apply in the Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheets primarily comprise reporting of financial revenue and expenses, fixed assets, equity, as well as the presence of provisions as a separate heading in the balance sheet. Subsidiaries Participations in subsidiaries are recognized in the Parent Company according to the cost method. This means that transaction charges are included in the carrying amount for holdings in subsidiaries. In the consolidated financial statements, transaction costs are recognized directly through profit or loss when they arise, while in the Parent Company, financial fixed assets are measured at cost less any impairment. Leased assets In accordance with the exception under RFR 2, the Parent Company does not apply IFRS 16. As the lessee, lease payments are recognized in a straight line over the lease term and are therefore not recognized as right-of-use assets and lease liabilities in the balance sheet. Anticipated dividends Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are reported in cases where the Parent Company has the exclusive right to determine the size of the dividend and has made a decision on the size of the dividend prior to publication of the Parent Company’s financial statements. Taxes In contrast to the Group, untaxed reserves in the Parent Company are recognized in the balance sheet without any specification between equity and deferred tax liabilities. Correspondingly, the Parent Company does not specify the portion of appropriations to deferred taxes in the income statement. Group contributions Group contributions are recognized as appropriations. Note 2 Assessments and assumptions The preparation of the annual accounts and the application of accounting standards are, in some cases, based on assessments, estimates and other assumptions that management considers to be reasonable under the current conditions. For obvious reasons, these assessments and assumptions are based on experiences and expectations of future events. If different assessments and assumptions were made, the results might be different. Goodwill An assessment is made every year as to whether goodwill requires impairment. Impairment testing is performed through estimation of the recoverable amount. Assumptions about future cash flows and estimates of parameters are made as a basis for the calculation. These are explained in Note 17. Taxes Deferred tax is calculated on the temporary differences between the tax and carrying amounts of liabilities and assets. There are two types of assessments and assumptions in these calculations that can affect the deferred tax recognized. The first is the assessments and assumptions made to determine the carrying amount and, the second, the assessments made to determine the possibility of using existing loss carryforwards against future taxable profits. The budget and strategic plan for future years were also taken into consideration in the assessment of loss carryforwards. For more information, refer to Note 15. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 3 101 Note 3 Measurement of financial assets and liabilities at fair value Fair value and carrying amounts in the balance sheet Carrying amount Fair value Fair value through profit or Amortized Group 2019 loss cost Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivatives used in at fair value Obligatory hedge accounting Interest-rate swaps – 9 – 9 – 9 – 9 Currency forward contracts 3 13 – 17 – 17 – 17 Total 3 23 0 26 0 26 0 26 Financial assets not measured at fair value Accounts receivable – – 704 704 – – – 704 Cash and cash equivalents – – 268 268 – – – 268 Total 0 0 971 971 0 0 0 971 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Interest-rate swaps – 15 – 15 – 15 – 15 Currency forward contracts 7 5 – 12 – 12 – 12 Total 7 19 0 27 0 27 0 27 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank borrowings – – 2,168 2,168 – – – 2,168 Finance lease liabilities – – 218 218 – – – 218 Accounts payable – – 529 529 – – – 529 Total 0 0 2,915 2,915 0 0 0 2,915 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 3 102 Carrying amount Fair value Amortized Group 2018 Fair value through profit or loss cost Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets at Derivatives used in fair value Obligatory hedge accounting Interest-rate swaps – 6 – 6 – 6 – 6 Currency forward contracts 2 8 – 10 – 10 – 10 Total 2 15 0 16 0 16 0 16 Financial assets not measured at fair value Accounts receivable – – 655 655 – – – 655 Cash and cash equivalents – – 186 186 – – – 186 Total 0 0 841 841 0 0 0 841 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Interest-rate swaps – 12 – 12 – 12 – 12 Currency forward contracts 6 6 – 12 – 12 – 12 Total 6 18 0 24 0 24 0 24 Financial liabilities not measured at fair value Bank borrowings – – 2,133 2,133 – – – 2,133 Finance lease liabilities – – 19 19 – – – 19 Accounts payable – – 564 564 – – – 564 Total 0 0 2,715 2,715 0 0 0 2,715 The following information pertains to how fair value is determined for financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the balance sheet (see above). The following three-level hierarchy is used to determine fair value: Level 1: according to prices quoted in an active market for the identical instrument. Level 2: from either direct or indirect observable market information not included in Level 1. Level 3: from inputs unobservable in the market. Group 2019, SEKm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivative assets – 26 – 26 Derivative liabilities – 27 – 27 Group 2018, SEKm Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivative assets – 16 – 16 Derivative liabilities – 24 – 24 The following summarizes the methods and assumptions that are primarily used to determine the fair value of the financial instruments presented above. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 3–4 103 Derivatives Currency The fair value of a forward contract is determined beginning with quoted rates. The market price, calculated by using the current rate adjusted for the interest rate spread between currencies and number of days, is compared with the contract’s rate to determine the fair value. The market value of currency options is calculated using the Black & Scholes model. Interest rates The fair value of interest-rate swaps is based on an intermediary institution’s measurement, whose fairness is tested by discounting estimated cash flows according to the conditions and due dates of the contract, using the market interest rate for identical instruments on the balance-sheet date. Accounts receivable and accounts payable The carrying amount reflects the fair value of accounts receivable and accounts payable with a remaining term of less than 12 months. Accounts receivable and accounts payable with a term exceeding 12 months are discounted when determining fair value. Leases The fair value of finance lease liabilities is based on the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market interest rate for identical lease agreements. Interest-bearing liabilities The fair value of financial liabilities that are not derivatives is calculated using future cash flows of principal amounts and interest rates discounted to the current market interest rate on the balance-sheet date. The carrying amount agrees with the fair value of the Group’s borrowing when the loans have variable interest rates and the credit spread is not such that carrying amount materially deviates from fair value. Note 4 Financial risk management Thule Group is continuously exposed to various financial risks through its international operations. Financial risks refer to fluctuations in the company’s earnings and cash flow due to changes in exchange rates, interest rate levels, raw material prices, refinancing and credit risks. The Group’s finance policy for managing financial risks is prepared by the Board and creates a framework of guidelines and regulations in the form of risk mandates and limits on the financial operations. The Board decides on a finance policy annually. The Group’s finance department centrally manages responsibility for the Group’s financial transactions and risks. The overall goal of the finance department is to provide cost efficient financing, to map out financial risks that affect the Group, and to minimize negative impacts on the Group’s earnings that stem from market risks. The Board’s Audit Committee prepares, on behalf of the Board, the practical application of the policy in consultation with the Group’s CFO. The Group’s Director of Treasury regularly reports to the Board’s Audit Committee and Finance Committee. Organization and activities Thule Group’s finance operations are coordinated by the subsidiary Thule Holding AB, which acts as an internal bank for the Group’s financial transactions in the currency and interest rate markets. Refinancing and liquidity risks Refinancing and liquidity risks are risks that payment commitment cannot be met due to insufficient liquidity or difficulties in obtaining credit from outside sources. The Group has a rolling eight-week liquidity plan that includes all divisions of the Group. Results are reported regularly on a weekly basis. The plan is updated monthly. The liquidity plan is used to manage liquidity risk and as a tool for following the cash flow from the operational and financial business. In-depth analyses are made against previous years in order to measure trends and noticeable deviations. The objective is for the Group to be able to manage its financial obligations in upturns and downturns without significant unforeseeable expenses and without risking the Group’s reputation. The Group policy is to minimize its borrowing need by centralizing surplus liquidity via the Group’s cash pools that have been established by the central finance department. Liquidity risks are centrally managed for the entire Group by the central finance department. The central finance department manages a Group-wide, monthly netting process to minimize the number of payment transactions and thereby related expenses. In countries with several operational companies, the surpluses and deficits are matched at the country level using cash pools. There were cash pools during the year in Sweden, Germany and the US. The central finance department manages liquidity in, as well as between, these cash pools. A syndicate with two Scandinavian banks finances the Group. This financing package is contingent on financial and commercial obligations, which are tested regularly. The covenants tested quarterly are the leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio. The Group’s fixed-term credit commitments were SEK 3,188m (3,128), which includes a revolving credit facility corresponding to SEK 3,138m and overdraft facilities of SEK 50m. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 4 104 Notional value, Credit facilities Notional value SEKm Utilized Available Syndicated credit commitments, term until 2024 EUR 300m 3,138 2,124 1,013 Bilateral credit commitment, term until 2020 SEK 50m 50 0 50 Total 3,188 2,124 1,063 Available cash and cash equivalents 268 Total 1,331 Unutilized credit commitments totaled SEK 1,063m (970). Including cash flows for future interest payments, the Group’s financial liabilities amounted to SEK 3,013m (2,846) at year end with a term structure as set out in the following table. Term structure of financial liabilities – undiscounted cash flows 3 months 2019, SEKm Total <1 month 1–3 months –1 year 1–5 years >5 years Long-term liabilities to credit institutions including interest payments 2,228 – – – 2,228 – Derivatives 27 8 2 6 11 – Short-term liabilities to credit institutions including interest payments 12 – 3 9 – – Overdraft facilities 0 – – – – – Accounts payable 529 – 529 – – – Finance lease liabilities 218 – – 52 118 48 3 months 2018, SEKm Total <1 month 1–3 months –1 year 1–5 years >5 years Long-term liabilities to credit institutions including interest payments 2,227 – – – 2,227 – Derivatives 24 6 4 9 4 – Short-term liabilities to credit institutions including interest payments 13 – 3 10 – – Overdraft facilities 0 – – – – – Accounts payable 564 – 564 – – – Finance lease liabilities 19 – – 9 9 – Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of, or future cash flows from, a financial instrument could fluctuate due to changes in market prices. IFRS has divided market risks into three types: exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and other price risks. The market risks that primarily impact the Group consist of interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and commodity price risk. The Group’s objective is to manage and control the market risks within established parameters while optimizing earnings through risk-taking within stated limits. The parameters are established with the purpose that the market risks in the short term (up to 12 months) only impact the Group’s earning and position marginally. In the long term, however, lasting changes in exchange rates, interest rates and raw material prices have an impact on consolidated earnings. Where all relevant criteria are met, hedge accounting is applied in the Group to remove the accounting mismatch between the hedging instrument and the hedged item. Derivatives are only used for economic hedging purposes and not as speculative investments. However, where derivatives do not meet the hedge accounting criteria, they are classified as ‘held for trading’ for accounting purposes and are measured at fair value through profit or loss. Exchange rate risk The risk that fair values and cash flows can fluctuate when the value of currencies changes is called exchange rate risk. The Group is exposed to different types of exchange rate risks. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 4 105 Transaction exposure The largest exposure comes from the Group’s sale and purchase in foreign currencies. These exchange rate risks consist of risk in the value fluctuations of financial instruments, customeror accounts payable, and the exchange rate risk in expected and contractual payment flows. These risks are called transaction exposure. The Group’s total transaction exposure, net, amounts to about SEK 2,449m (2,386) annually. The single most important currency relationship is EUR/SEK, in which the Group has a positive net inflow. The central finance department is responsible for all hedging to reduce the effect of exchange-rate fluctuations. The Group’s transaction exposure and hedged amounts on the balance-sheet date distributed by currency were as follows: Transaction exposure and hedged amounts, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Hedged amounts Currency Exposure – maturity 2020 Exposure after hedge Average hedged rate EUR/SEK 1,338 589 749 10.60 CNY/SEK -301 -59 -242 1.33 PLN/SEK -200 -101 -99 2.43 USD/EUR -123 -55 -68 0.88 GBP/SEK 217 115 103 12.05 USD/CAD -96 -9 -87 1.31 Other 175 67 108 – Total 2,449 994 1,455 Dec 31, 2018 Hedged amounts Currency Exposure – maturity 2019 Exposure after hedge Average hedged rate EUR/SEK 1,287 821 467 10.17 CNY/SEK -244 -121 -123 1.31 PLN/SEK -161 -76 -85 2.39 USD/EUR -117 -31 -86 0.85 GBP/SEK 114 55 59 11.24 USD/CAD -108 -24 -84 1.32 Other 354 73 281 – Total 2,386 1,202 1,184 The Group uses currency forward contracts and currency options to optimize its exchange rate risk management. The fair value of the Group’s outstanding currency derivatives (currency forward contracts and currency options) was a SEK 8.7m (2.1) as per December 31, 2019. Hedge accounting is used for currency forward contracts. Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship, and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments of the hedged item and the hedging instrument to ensure that the relationship meets the requirements. When the Group hedges sales/purchases in foreign currency, hedge relationships are contracted where the critical terms of the hedging instrument match the terms of the hedged item, and thereby conducting a qualitative assessment of the hedge relationship’s effectiveness. The critical terms are the notional value and the currency of the hedging instrument, and the expected cash flows from the hedged item. If changes in circumstances affect the terms of the hedged item such that the critical terms no longer match exactly with the critical terms of the hedging instrument, the Group uses the dollar-offset method to assess effectiveness. Translation exposure There are also exchange rate risks in the conversion of assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries to the Parent Company’s functional currency, called translation exposure. The total translation exposure was SEK 3,425m (3,169). The largest translation exposures were in USD and EUR. The translation exposure in USD was SEK 1,560m (1,540) and in EUR, SEK 1,320m (1,141). The Group’s policy is to hedge net investments with external loans but otherwise not to hedge translation exposure. The currency effects that the loans give rise to are recognized as a financial currency effect in the income statement. The currency effect in 2019 was negative SEK 34.0m (neg: 119.2). However, the Group applies hedge accounting and a negative SEK 34.0m (neg: 118.0) of the total of negative SEK 34.0m (neg: 119.2) was transferred to the translation reserve for net investment hedging. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 4 106 Net investment – total effect for 2019 Currency effect Net investment External of external Hedging Hedging Effectiveness Ineffectiveness Currency – hedged item loans loans, SEKm instruments instruments equity in SEKm in SEKm EUR 181.3 (170.0) (34.0) (170.0) 100% (34.0) 0.0 The translation impact of the conversion of the liabilities and assets of foreign subsidiaries in 2019 was SEK 203m (203) after taking into account the effects of hedging. Sensitivity analysis – exchange rate risk Compared with the closing exchange rates applied at December 31, 2019, a 10 percent strengthening of the SEK against other currencies would have negatively impacted equity by SEK 342m (neg: 317). A 10 percent strengthening of the SEK against other currencies, compared with the average exchange rates in 2019 (not taking into consideration any correlation between currencies), would mean a negative change in EBITDA of SEK 150.1m (neg: 116.3) (transaction and translation effects). The following table shows the effect broken down by currency: Sensitivity analysis for exchange rate risk on EBITDA 2019, SEKm Currency Transaction effect Translation effect Total effect EUR -147.9 -8.2 -156.1 GBP -14.1 -6.4 -20.5 CAD -1.6 -17.2 -18.8 Other -19.3 10.1 -9.2 PLN 92.6 -66.1 26.5 CNY 20.1 8.0 28.1 Total -70.3 -79.8 -150.1 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments fluctuates due to changes in market interest rates and the risk that changes in the interest rate level will impact the Group’s borrowing costs. Interest rate risk can lead to a change in fair values and changes in cash flows. A significant factor that affects the interest rate risk is the fixed-rate period. This interest rate risk is managed by the Group’s central finance department. According to the finance policy, the objective of the long-term liability portfolio is for the average fixed-rate period to be, on average, between 6 months and 3 years. The average fixed-rate period was 1 year and 5 months (1 year and 3 months) as per December 31, 2019. ISDA agreements were signed with all lenders. The fair value of the Group’s interest rate derivatives outstanding (interest-rate swaps and interest rate floors) was a negative SEK 5.5m (neg: 5.4) as per December 31, 2019. Hedge accounting is used for interest rate derivatives. The Group enters into interest-rate swaps that have similar critical terms as the hedged item, such as reference rate, reset dates, payment dates, maturities and notional values. The Group does not hedge 100% of its loans, and therefore only identifies the proportion of the outstanding loans up to the notional values of the swaps. Swaps outstanding covered 43 percent (53) of the variable loan capital outstanding. As all critical terms matched throughout the year, the economic relationship was 100% effective. Sensitivity analysis – interest rate risk The impact on the Group’s interest expense during the coming 12-month period in the event of an interest rate upturn/ downturn of 1 percentage point on the balance-sheet date is SEK -12.0/+0.8m (-9.3/+0.0) – given the interest-bearing liabilities that exist on the balance-sheet date. An interest rate change of +/-1 percentage point on the balance-sheet date would result in a change in the market value of interest rate derivatives of SEK +17.4m (16.4) / SEK -2.6m (-5.7). Commodity price risk Commodity price risk refers to continuously fluctuating prices of input goods from our suppliers and its possible impact on earnings. For the Group, it is primarily fluctuations in aluminum, plastic and steel prices that constitute a significant commodity risk. In 2019, 47 percent (47) of total direct materials consisted of plastic, aluminum and steel. They consist of a number of different subcategories with various degrees of processing that often cannot be tied to a direct market price. Of the three exposures, only aluminum, in principle, is directly associated with a traded market index. In 2019, the Group purchased raw materials and components for SEK 2,847m (2,814). Total purchases of raw materials amounted to SEK 1,308m (1,331). Direct purchases of raw materials amounted to SEK 823m (838) and indirect purchases of raw materials (share of value added of the total value of raw materials) amounted to SEK 484m (493). Direct purchases T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 4–5 107 of aluminum amounted to SEK 220m (220) and indirect purchases of aluminum amounted to SEK 220m (220). Direct purchases of plastic amounted to SEK 356m (367) and indirect purchases of plastic amounted to SEK 237m (245). Direct purchases of steel amounted to SEK 248m (250) and indirect purchases of steel amounted to SEK 28m (28). However, a significant portion of the supplier contracts for these categories are indexed, which means that if the market price for a raw material changes, then the Group’s purchase prices will increase or decrease. Direct materials amounted to 76 percent (75) of the Group’s cost of goods sold. Credit risk The Group’s financial operation creates exposure to credit risks. Primarily counterparty risks in connection with receivables from banks arise when purchasing derivatives and deposits to these banks. The exposure can be attributable to surplus values in derivatives. In order to reduce credit risk, the derivatives are spread between different counterparties. The ISDA agreements permit the offset of derivative assets and derivative liabilities per counterparty, which reduces credit risk. ISDA agreements were signed with all counterparties for settlement of mutual obligations to deliver and pay, and thereby reduce credit risk. Group 2019, SEKm Financial assets Financial liabilities Amount recognized in balance sheet 26.0 26.9 Danske Bank -1.8 -1.8 DNB 0.0 0.0 Nordea -12.8 -12.8 Swedbank -9.2 -9.2 Amount after netting 2.3 3.2 Group 2018, SEKm Financial assets Financial liabilities Amount recognized in balance sheet 16.0 23.5 Danske Bank -5.6 -5.6 DNB -0.4 -0.4 Nordea -8.2 -8.2 Swedbank -1.8 7.5 Amount after netting 0.0 7.5 The credit risk in derivatives on the balance-sheet date was SEK 26.0m (16.0) and corresponded to the total positive market value of the derivatives. The credit risk in cash and bank balances was SEK 268m and corresponded to the Group’s cash and cash equivalents. Credit risk on accounts receivable Refer to Note 20 Accounts receivable. Net debt At December 31, 2019, net debt amounted to SEK 2,119m (1,974). Net debt consists of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities, including accrued interest and financial derivative liabilities less cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing short-term receivables and financial derivative assets. Note 5 Business combinations Effects of acquisitions 2019 On December 30, 2019, Thule Group acquired the operations of North America’s leading player in roof rack mounted fishing rod vaults in North America, Denver Outfitters. Thule Group is the long-standing global market leader in enabling consumers to bring their outdoor gear to the trailhead, the mountain bike slope or the local lake. With the recent addition at the end of 2018 of North America’s leading manufacturer of rooftop tents, Tepui Outdoors Inc., the portfolio of products that help consumers to live an active lifestyle outdoors has been broadened further. With this latest acquisition, roof rack mounted fly fishing rod vaults have been added to the product portfolio, and Thule Group can thus continue to grow the portfolio of solutions to help consumers bring the things they care for – easily, securely and in style. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 5 108 In 2019, Denver Outfitters had sales of around USD 1m and the purchase consideration amounted to USD 1m together with a potential maximum earn-out payment of USD 0.250m based on revenue performance for 2020. The expected outcome for the contingent earn-out payment, USD 0.125m, has been included in the cost and is included in the item Other liabilities in the balance sheet. The acquisition contributed sales amounting to SEK 0m and operating income of SEK 0m for 2019. Had the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2019 it is estimated that sales would have increased around SEK 9m and operating income approximately SEK 1m. Moving forward, the acquisition will be reported in the Sport&Cargo Carriers product category. Net assets acquired at the acquisition date Group, SEKm 2019 Deferred tax receivables 0 Inventories 3 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 3 Goodwill 8 Purchase consideration 11 Of the purchase consideration, SEK 8m has been attributed to goodwill and is expected to be tax deductible. Acquisitionrelated expenses amounted to SEK 0.2m and refer to fees for legal services. Effects of acquisitions 2018 On December 18, 2018, Thule Group acquired Tepui Outdoors Inc., a leading North American manufacturer of rooftop tents. In recent years, sales of this type of product have steadily increased and the acquisition brings the addition of a large range of high-class rooftop tents and accessories to an already broad range offered by Thule Group for consumers who live an active life. The synergies between the Thule brand’s market leading expertise for solutions for bringing equipment on the car and Tepui’s rooftop tent are evident from both a marketing and a manufacturing perspective. The company was consolidated in the Group as of December 2018. The total purchase consideration was USD 9.5m, on a debt-free/cash-free basis, with a potential earn-out payment of USD 1.75m, which is based on revenue performance during the period 2019–2020. The earn-out payment has been included in the cost and is included in the item Other liabilities in the balance sheet. The acquisition contributed sales amounting to SEK 0m and operating income of SEK 0m for 2018. Had the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2018 it is estimated that sales would have increased about SEK 50m and operating income approximately SEK 0m. Moving forward, the new category, rooftop tents, will be reported in the Sport&Cargo Carriers product category. The acquired subsidiary’s net assets at the time of acquisition: Group, SEKm 2018 Intangible assets 0 Tangible assets 1 Deferred tax receivables 0 Inventories 8 Accounts receivable and other receivables 3 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Accounts payable and other operating liabilities -1 Other liabilities -9 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 4 Goodwill 89 Purchase consideration 94 Of the purchase consideration, SEK 89m has been attributed to goodwill. Synergies for more efficient production and distribution processes are included in the goodwill value. No part of the goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. Acquisition-related expenses amounted to SEK 2m and refer to fees for legal services. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 6 109 Note 6 Revenue The Group generates revenue from the sale of products to external customers. Sales are organized in two regions, Region Europe & ROW and Region Americas, and are divided into four product categories: Sport&Cargo Carriers – this category includes roof racks, roof boxes, bike racks and racks for water and winter sports transported by car and rooftop tents to be mounted on vehicles. Packs, Bags & Luggage – computer and camera bags, hiking backpacks and luggage; Active with Kids – bicycle trailers, strollers and child bike seats; and RV Products – awnings, bike racks and tents for RVs and caravans. For further information, refer to Note 7 Segment accounting. Other revenue pertains to development work conducted for external customers. Sales are divided into four product categories: Group, SEKm 2019 2018 Revenue from contracts with customers Product categories Sport&Cargo Carriers 4,360 4,130 Packs, Bags & Luggage 831 760 RV Products 1,081 926 Active with Kids 729 633 Other 36 35 Total 7,038 6,484 Geographic markets 2019 2018 Sweden 313 333 Other Nordic countries 261 259 Germany 1,687 1,465 Other Europe 2,492 2,287 US 1,545 1,455 Other North America 294 260 Central/South America 143 137 Asia/Pacific Rim 260 246 ROW 43 43 Total 7,038 6,484 All revenue is recognised at one point in time. Information about receivables, contract assets and liabilities from contracts with customers are set out below: Contract balances: 2019 2018 Receivables included in accounts receivable 704 655 Contract assets 23 26 Contract liabilities 157 144 Contract assets primarily pertain to the Group’s right to compensation for at the balance-sheet date not yet invoiced development performed on behalf of customers. The contract assets are transferred to receivables when the rights become unconditional. This is generally when the Group issues an invoice to the customer. Contract assets are included in the balance sheet item Prepaid expenses and accrued income. Contract liabilities mainly pertain to volume-weighted discounts that have yet to be settled. Of the amount of SEK 144m recognized at the start of the period, SEK 112m has been settled during the year. Contract liabilities are included in the balance sheet item Accrued expenses and deferred income. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 7 110 Note 7 Segment accounting The Group’s operations are divided into operating segments based on the parts of the operations that are followed up by the company’s President. Thule Group comprises one segment. Though the Group has shared global processes for product development, purchasing, manufacture, logistics and marketing, its sales are managed in two regions, Region Europe & ROW and Region Americas. Internal monthly follow-up focuses on the Group as a whole, in addition to certain geographic sales data, which is presented at other levels than Group level. Group, SEKm 2019 2018 Sales to customers 7,038 6,484 Region Europe & ROW 5,057 4,632 Region Americas 1,980 1,852 Underlying EBITDA 1,383 1,238 Operating depreciation/amortization -138 -74 Underlying EBIT 1,245 1,164 Other depreciation/amortization -1 -1 Items affecting comparability -49 0 Operating income 1,195 1,163 Financial revenue 10 16 Financial expenses -59 -64 Taxes -263 -277 Net income 883 837 Sales are divided into four product categories: Sport&Cargo Carriers – this category includes roof racks, roof boxes, bike racks and racks for water and winter sports transported by car and rooftop tents to be mounted on vehicles. Packs, Bags & Luggage – computer and camera bags, hiking backpacks and luggage; Active with Kids – bicycle trailers, strollers and child bike seats; and RV Products – awnings, bike racks and tents for RVs and caravans. For additional information, refer to Note 6 Revenue. Geographic markets Group, SEKm 2019 2018 Sweden 313 333 Other Nordic countries 261 259 Germany 1,687 1,465 Other Europe 2,492 2,287 US 1,545 1,455 Other North America 294 260 Central/South America 143 137 Asia/Pacific Rim 260 246 ROW 43 43 Total 7,038 6,484 The information presented for the segments’ revenue pertains to the geographic areas based on the location of customers. No single customer exceeds 10 percent of external revenue. Information regarding the assets is based on the geographic areas grouped according to the location of the assets. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 7–10 111 Fixed assets Group, SEKm 2019 2018 Sweden 207 182 Other Nordic countries – – Germany 79 73 Other Europe 356 323 US 186 173 Other North America 1 4 Central/South America 2 2 Asia 2 2 Total 833 760 The assets in table above refer to owned tangible assets. Note 8 Other operating revenue Group Parent Company SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Re-invoicing of expenses – – 19 20 Total 0 0 19 20 Note 9 Audit fees Group Parent Company Audit fees, SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Audit PwC 3.6 3.4 0.6 0.6 Audit in addition to audit assignment PwC 0.0 0.0 – – Tax consultancy PwC – – – – Other services PwC 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.0 Total 3.8 3.6 0.8 0.6 Audit assignments pertain to a review of the Annual Report and accounts, and the administration by the Board of Directors and President, other work assigned to the company’s auditors, and advice or other assistance required due to observations made during the review or implementation of such other assignments. Everything else is considered other assignments. Note 10 Average number of employees and gender distribution in company management Parent Company 2019 Of whom, men 2018 Of whom, men Sweden 5 4 4 3 Subsidiaries 2019 Of whom, men 2018 Of whom, men Sweden 454 302 415 280 Europe 1,371 721 1,322 739 North America 499 311 517 325 South America 35 28 36 28 Asia 58 30 62 31 Total subsidiaries 2,417 1,392 2,352 1,403 Total 2,422 1,396 2,356 1,406 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 10–11 112 Gender distribution for Board members and other executive management Group Parent Company Board members, % 2019 2018 2019 2018 Women 14 14 40 50 Men 86 86 60 50 President and other executive management, % 2019 2018 2019 2018 Women 17 20 20 25 Men 83 80 80 75 Note 11 Remuneration of employees Group Parent Company SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Salaries and other remuneration 866 775 22 20 Social security 217 203 8 7 Pension expenses – defined-contribution plans 39 33 5 4 Pension expenses – defined-benefit plans 13 12 – – Total 1,134 1,023 35 31 Salaries and other remuneration, pension expenses and pension obligations for the Board and executive management Basic salary incl. Remuneration change in vacation Variable Pension Other and benefits 2019, SEKt pay liability, fees remuneration expenses remuneration Total Chairman of the Board Bengt Baron 1,118 – – – 1,118 Board members – – – Mattias Ankarberg 379 – – – 379 Hans Eckerström 461 – – – 461 Eva Elmstedt 90 – – – 90 Liv Forhaug 334 – – – 334 Heléne Mellquist 446 – – – 446 Helene Willberg 439 – – – 439 President Magnus Welander 7,156 1,324 2,388 351 11,219 Other executive management (5 individuals) 12,157 1,046 2,686 2,079 17,968 Total 22,579 2,370 5,074 2,431 32,454 Helene Willberg has, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, received remuneration of SEK 150t, which was included in the above fees. Hans Eckerström has, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, received remuneration of SEK 83t, which was included in the above fees. Pension obligations for the President amounted to SEK 15,989t (13,383) at December 31. Pension obligations for other executive management amounted to SEK 4,850t (3,206). T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 11 113 Basic salary incl. Remuneration and change in vacation Variable Pension Other benefits 2018, SEKt pay liability, fees remuneration expenses remuneration Total Chairman of the Board Bengt Baron 969 – – – 969 Board members Mattias Ankarberg 270 – – – 270 Hans Eckerström 426 – – – 426 Eva Elmstedt 351 – – – 351 Liv Forhaug 378 – – – 378 Stefan Jacobsson (previously Chairman) 221 – – – 221 Heléne Mellquist 411 – – – 411 President Magnus Welander 7,138 1,039 2,268 840 11,284 Other executive management (4 individuals) 9,874 1,641 2,147 1,821 15,483 Total 20,038 2,679 4,415 2,661 29,793 Bengt Baron has, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, received remuneration of SEK 194t, which was included in the above fees. Hans Eckerström has, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, received remuneration of SEK 75t, which was included in the above fees. Remuneration of the Board According to a resolution of the General Meeting, fees to the members of the Board, excluding Committee work, are to be paid as follows: SEK 1,075,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK 385,000 to each of the Board members elected by the Meeting. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is to receive remuneration of SEK 200,000 for Committee work, while SEK 70,000 is to be paid to each of the other members. The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is to receive remuneration of SEK 85,000 for Committee work, while SEK 40,000 is to be paid to each of the other members. Expensed remuneration is presented in the table above. Guidelines for remuneration of the President and other executive management Thule Group applies the following guidelines for remuneration of executive management, resolved at the Annual General Meeting held on April 26, 2019. Remuneration of Group management is to comprise fixed salary, any variable salary, pension and other benefits. The total remuneration package is to be based on market terms, be competitive and reflect the individual’s performance and responsibilities as well as, with respect to share-based incentive programs, the value growth of Thule Group share benefiting the shareholders. Variable salary can comprise annual variable cash bonuses and long-term variable bonuses in the form of cash, shares and/or share-based instruments in Thule Group AB. Variable cash salary requires that defined and measurable targets have been achieved and may not exceed 75 percent of the fixed annual salary for the President and may not exceed 60 percent for other members of executive management. Terms for variable salary should be designed so that the Board, under exceptional economic conditions, is able to limit or waive the payment of variable salary if such action is deemed reasonable. Pension benefits must be defined-contribution based. Severance pay is normally given if employment is terminated by Thule Group. The standard notice period for members of Group management is a maximum of 12 months in combination with severance pay of six to 12 months’ fixed salary. No severance pay accrues if notice is given by the employee. On an individual basis, if justified for particular reasons, the Board has the right to depart from the guidelines adopted by the AGM. The group of executives covered by the guidelines are the President and other members of Group management. Remuneration of the President Remuneration is paid to the President in the form of basic salary, variable remuneration, pension and other benefits. Basic salary amounts to SEK 7,062t per year. Variable remuneration can amount to a maximum of 75 percent of basic salary. Any bonus payments and the amount of bonus are related to the degree of fulfillment of annual, predefined financial targets. These targets are linked to sales, EBITDA and cash flow. A mutual period of notice of six months applies to the President. Full salary and other employment benefits are paid during the period of notice, regardless of whether or not the President has an obligation to work. Severance pay corresponding to 12 monthly salaries is also paid if employment is terminated by the company. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 11 114 Pension benefits are paid at 31–35 percent of basic salary. In 2019, the pension benefit amounted to 33 percent of basic salary. To the extent that premiums are not fully tax deductible for the company, excess premiums are to be agreed as direct pension, insured through endowment insurance pledged to the President. Other executive management Remuneration is paid in the form of basic salary, variable remuneration, pension and other benefits. For other executive management, variable remuneration may amount to between 40–60 percent of basic salary. Any bonus payments and the amount of bonus are determined based on the degree of fulfillment of annual, predefined financial targets and individual targets. These financial targets are linked to sales, EBITDA and cash flow, while the individual targets are based on personal performance. Other executive management has a mutual period of notice of six months. Full salary and other employment benefits are paid during the period of notice. Severance pay corresponding to between six and 12 monthly salaries is also paid if employment is terminated by the company. Pension benefits at 27–35 percent of basic salary are paid for executive management employed in Sweden. To the extent that premiums are not fully tax deductible for the company, excess premiums are to be agreed as direct pension, insured through endowment insurance pledged to the senior executive. Pension benefits at 12–15 percent of basic salary are paid for executive management employed in the US. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is to assist the Board by submitting proposals on remuneration issues and continuously monitoring and evaluating remuneration structures and levels for the President and other executive management. Incentive programs Share-based incentive program 2017/2020 The April 2017 AGM resolved on a warrants program for the executive management and key employees of the Group, which was implemented in 2017. The program comprises 1,950,645 warrants issued to Thule AB for onward transfer to participants. The participants acquired the warrants at the fair market value and the program currently includes 11 participants. The subscription price was SEK 182.40, which corresponds to 118 percent of the volume-weighted average price according to Nasdaq Stockholm’s official price list for shares in the company during the period April 27, 2017 through May 4, 2017. If on subscribing for the share, the latest price paid for the company’s share when the stock exchange closes on the last trading day preceding the subscription date exceeds 162.3 percent of the average share price based upon which the subscription price has been determined, the subscription price shall be increased correspondingly. The subscription price was recalculated based on the dividend paid in 2019 and now amounts to SEK 180.30. The warrants may be exercised from May 15 to December 15, 2020. As part of the incentive program, participants may receive a retention bonus in the form of a gross salary supplement from the company that corresponds in total to the amount paid by the participant for the warrants, conditional upon continued employment at the time of payment and that the participant has not terminated the employment. The cost for the above, including social security costs, are allocated evenly over the period until the time when the warrants can be exercised and are included in the balance sheet item Accrued expenses. The dilution effect of the program is approximately 2 percent. Board members’ and executive management’s holdings of warrants in Thule Group AB are presented below. Opening balance, Warrants Warrants Warrants Closing balance, warrants acquired exercised that matured warrants Warrants 2019 outstanding during the year during the year during the year outstanding Group management President Magnus Welander 375,000 – – – 375,000 Other executive management Fred Clark 187,500 – – – 187,500 Fredrik Erlandsson 125,000 – – – 125,000 Kajsa von Geijer 125,000 – – – 125,000 Lennart Mauritzson 187,500 -187,500 – – 0 Other participants Other participants 700,645 -172,645 – – 528,000 Unsold warrants 250,000 – – – 250,000 Total 1,950,645 -360,145 0 0 1,590,500 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 11–12 115 At December 31, 2019, the number of redeemable warrants was 0 and no warrants were issued over the year. The market value of the warrants was calculated by using an established valuation model (Black-Scholes) with the following preconditions. Market value per Series: 2017/2020 10.50 kr Conditions of valuation 2017/2020: Share price SEK 182.4 (based on 118 percent of the volume-weighted average price according to Nasdaq Stockholm’s official price list for shares in the company during the period April 27, 2017 through May 4, 2017). Volatility 25 percent (based on statistical data for comparable, listed companies) Risk-free interest -0.46 percent (based on Swedish government bonds with matching maturities to the warrants). Assumed dividends: 2018 4.00 kr 2019 4.20 kr 2020 4.60 kr Note 12 Provision for pensions Group Post-employment remuneration, such as pensions and other remuneration, is usually paid through regular payments to independent authorities or agencies that thus take over the obligations to the employees, meaning through definedcontribution plans. Other pension plans in the Group comprise defined-benefit plans where the obligation remains with the Group. Defined-benefit plans primarily exist in Sweden through the ITP plan in accordance with the PRI System (retirement pension). The ITP plan is encompassed by collective agreement between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK. The defined-benefit ITP plan (ITP2) primarily comprises a retirement pension for life. It is based on final salary on retirement. The benefit amounts to 10 percent of final salary on incomes of up to 7.5 income base amounts, 65 percent of final salary on incomes of between 7.5 and 20 income base amounts and 32.5 percent of final salary on incomes of between 20 and 30 income base amounts. No retirement pension benefit is paid on incomes over 30 income base amounts. Companies in the Group have decided to insure the ITP2 retirement pension by making provisions to an account for pensions in the balance sheet, alongside credit insurance with PRI Pensionsgaranti. In addition to the ITP2 retirement pension, the plan also includes a family pension, disability pension, complementary retirement pension (ITPK) and group life insurance benefits (TGL) for which companies in the Group continuously pay premiums to Alecta/Collectum. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board (UFR 10), the defined-benefit ITP in Alecta is defined as a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the 2019 fiscal year, the Group did not have access to information from Alecta that made it possible to recognize these pension obligations as defined-benefit. Accordingly, these obligations are recognized as defined-contribution pension obligations. A surplus or a deficit with Alecta may entail a refund to the Group or lower or higher future contributions. At the end of the year, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective consolidation level was 148 percent (142). The collective consolidation level comprises the market value of the manager’s assets as a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated according to the manager’s actuarial calculation assumptions. For the portion of the ITP plan in Sweden that the Group recognizes as a liability via credit insurance with PRI, the Group is exposed to interest rate risk and long lifetime risk. For defined-benefit plans, the Group’s expenses and present value of outstanding obligations are calculated on the balance-sheet date using actuarial calculations. The table below provides information about the most significant actuarial assumptions, recognized expenses during the fiscal year and the value of obligations at the end of the period. Group Assumptions in actuarial calculations, % 2019 2018 Discount rate 1.55 2.35 Expected rate of salary increase, above inflation 1.75 1.75 Rate of inflation 1.75 1.75 The discount rate used by the Group to calculate the defined-benefit pension liabilities in Sweden comprises the market interest rate on the balance-sheet date of Swedish mortgage bonds with a term corresponding to the duration of the Swedish pension obligations. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 12 116 For Sweden, the updated mortality assumption, DUS 14, is used, which is a more recently updated investigation compared with the assumption in the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s safeguarding bases. The average remaining life expectancy for a 65-year-old man today is 20 (20), and the average remaining life expectancy for a 65-year-old woman today is 23 (23). In addition to the impact from amended actuarial assumptions such as a change in the discount rate, etc., actuarial gains and losses arose due to an adjustment of experience-based effects. Experience-based effects refer to actual salary increases compared with assumed increases, actual personnel turnover rate compared with the assumed personnel turnover rate, etc. The distribution between actuarial gains and losses that are dependent on changes in assumptions and experience-based gains and losses are shown below. Group Changes in assumptions, SEKm 2019 2018 Gains (-) and losses (+) due to changes in assumptions 32 13 Experienced-based gains (-) and losses (+) -3 0 Recognized in other comprehensive income 28 13 Group Carrying amount of defined-benefit pension plans, SEKm 2019 2018 Present value of unfunded obligations 205 169 Provisions for pensions 205 169 Group Changes in present value of obligation for defined-benefit plans, SEKm 2019 2018 Obligation per January 1 169 148 Service cost during current period 10 8 Interest expense 4 4 Pension payments -5 -6 Actuarial gains (-) and losses (+) 28 13 Obligation per December 31 205 169 In 2020, the costs are expected to amount to SEK 16m. At the end of 2019, the average duration of the Swedish pension obligation was approximately 24 years. The present value of the Group’s pension obligations is sensitive to changes in the discount rate (interest rate risk). A decline in the discount rate will lead to the present value of the obligations increasing and an increase in the discount rate will lead to the present value of the obligation declining. The table below presents the impact on the present value of the obligations in the event of a 0.5-percentage-point increase and decrease in the discount rate. SEKm Group 0.5 percent increase in discount rate -19 0.5 percent decrease in discount rate 26 Group Expenses for defined-benefit plans, SEKm 2019 2018 Service cost during current period 10 8 Interest expense 4 4 Recognized in income statement 13 12 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 12–14 117 Group Pension expense recognized in the following lines in income statement, SEKm 2019 2018 Selling expenses 10 8 Financial expenses 4 4 Total 13 12 Defined-contribution pension plans In Sweden, the Group has defined-contribution pension plans for employees that are entirely funded by the companies. Abroad, there are defined-contribution plans that are partly funded by the subsidiaries and partly covered through contributions paid by employees. Payments to these plans are carried out on a regular basis according to the rules of the respective plan. Group Parent Company Defined-contribution pension plans, SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Expenses for defined-contribution plans 39 33 5 4 Total 39 33 5 4 Note 13 Expenses divided by type of cost Group SEKm 2019 2018 Changes in inventory of finished products and work in progress -144 74 Raw materials and manufacturing supplies -3,052 -2,947 Expenses for remuneration of employees -1,257 -1,133 Depreciation/amortization -139 -76 Other expenses -1,252 -1,239 Total expenses for goods sold, sales and administration -5,843 -5,321 Note 14 Net financial items Group Parent Company SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Profit from participations in Group companies – – 800 700 Interest income 10 16 22 39 Net exchange rate fluctuations 0 0 0 0 Financial revenue 10 16 822 739 Interest expenses -51 -49 -25 -28 Other financial expenses -4 -7 -9 -14 Interest expenses on defined-benefit pension obligations -4 -4 0 0 Net exchange rate fluctuations 0 -5 0 0 Financial expenses -59 -64 -34 -42 Net financial items -49 -48 788 697 Of interest expenses SEK 14m (23) pertained to the category of financial liabilities recognized at amortized cost and SEK 5m (5) pertained to the category of financial liabilities recognized at fair value. Interest coupons for financial derivatives are netted, meaning that both receipts and payments are recognized as interest expense. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 15 118 Note 15 Taxes Group Parent Company Recognized in income statement, SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax expense/tax revenue Tax expense for the year -232 -234 -5 0 Deferred tax expense/tax revenue Deferred tax pertaining to temporary differences -31 -43 1 1 Total recognized tax expense (-)/tax revenue (+) -263 -277 -4 1 Group Effective tax rate reconciliation, SEKm 2019 (%) 2019 2018 (%) 2018 Income before taxes 1,146 1,114 Tax according to current tax rates for Parent Company 21.4 245 22.0 245 Impact of other tax rates on foreign subsidiaries 2.1 24 1.2 14 Non-deductible expenses 0.8 10 0.9 10 Non-taxable income -0.5 -5 -0.3 -4 Increase in loss carryforwards without corresponding capitalization of deferred tax 0.1 1 0.5 5 Tax attributable to previous years -0.3 -4 0.9 10 Effect of amended tax rates/regulations 0.1 1 0.0 0 Other -0.9 -10 -0.3 -4 Recognized effective tax 22.9 263 24.9 277 The effective tax rate for 2019 amounted to 22.9 percent. During the year, we recognized a tax reduction attributable to our operations in Poland of SEK 11m as income. For 2018, the effective tax rate amounted to 24.9 percent. Parent Company Effective tax rate reconciliation, SEKm 2019 (%) 2019 2018 (%) 2018 Income before taxes 818 697 Tax according to current tax rates for Parent Company 21.4 175 22.0 153 Non-taxable income -20.9 -171 -22.0 -154 Recognized effective tax 0.5 4 0.0 -1 Recognized in statement of comprehensive income 2019 2018 Group, SEKm Before tax Taxes After tax Before tax Taxes After tax Foreign currency translation 249 -19 229 318 -23 295 Hedge reserve 6 -1 5 13 -3 10 Net investment hedge -34 7 -27 -118 26 -92 Actuarial gains and losses -28 6 -22 -13 4 -10 Other comprehensive income 193 -7 185 200 4 203 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 15 119 Recognized in balance sheet Deferred tax receivables and liabilities pertain to the following: Deferred tax Deferred receivables tax liabilities Net Group, SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Tangible assets 21 13 -17 -23 4 -10 Intangible assets 18 22 -2 0 16 22 Inventories 16 14 0 0 16 14 Receivables 3 1 0 0 3 1 Liabilities 57 55 0 0 57 55 Other 24 5 0 0 24 5 Loss carryforwards 237 230 237 230 Tax allocation reserves -240 -197 -240 -197 Tax receivables/liabilities 376 341 -259 -221 117 120 Changes in deferred tax, net, recognized as follows, SEKm 2019 2018 Deferred tax, net, on January 1 120 139 Effect of new accounting policy 8 0 Recognized in profit or loss: -31 -43 of which, temporary differences -29 -55 of which, loss carryforwards -2 12 Recognized in statement of comprehensive income 2 4 Business combinations 0 0 Currency effect 17 20 On December 31 117 120 Non-recognized deferred tax receivables Deductible temporary differences and loss carryforwards for which no deferred tax receivables have been recognized in the balance sheet: Group, SEKm 2019 2018 Tax deficit 735 738 Deferred tax receivables have not been recognized for the above tax deficit, since it is unlikely the Group will utilize them for deductions against future taxable gains. All loss carryforwards are due no earlier than 2024 or are unlimited in time. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 16–17 120 Note 16 Earnings per share 2019 2018 Earnings per share before dilution Net income attributable to Parent Company shareholders, SEKm 883 837 Average number of shares outstanding, thousands 103,209 103,009 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 8.56 8.13 Earnings per share after dilution Net income attributable to Parent Company shareholders, SEKm 883 837 Average number of shares outstanding, thousands 103,350 103,119 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 8.55 8.12 Earnings per share before dilution The calculation for earnings per share is based on net income attributable to the Parent Company shareholders and on a weighted average number of shares outstanding. In thousands of shares 2019 2018 Weighted average number of shares 103,209 101,945 Impact of issues 0 1,064 103,209 103,009 Earnings per share after dilution The calculation for earnings per share after dilution is based on net income attributable to the Parent Company shareholders and on a weighted average number of shares outstanding. In thousands of shares 2019 2018 Weighted average number of shares 103,209 103,009 Impact of warrants 141 110 103,350 103,119 Note 17 Intangible assets Group, SEKm Goodwill Intangible assets Total Accumulated cost Opening balance, January 1, 2018 4,145 260 4,405 Business combinations 89 – 89 Other changes/reclassifications – -4 -4 Exchange rate differences for the year 214 4 218 Closing balance, December 31, 2018 4,448 260 4,708 Opening balance, January 1, 2019 4,448 260 4,708 Business combinations 8 – 8 Other investments – 13 13 Other changes/reclassifications – 7 7 Exchange rate differences for the year 164 6 170 Closing balance, December 31, 2019 4,620 287 4,907 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 17 121 Group, SEKm Goodwill Intangible assets Total Accumulated amortization and impairment Opening balance, January 1, 2018 0 -228 -228 Amortization for the year – -6 -6 Other changes/reclassifications – 4 4 Exchange rate differences for the year – -3 -3 Closing balance, December 31, 2018 0 -233 -233 Opening balance, January 1, 2019 0 -233 -233 Amortization for the year – -5 -5 Exchange rate differences for the year – -6 -6 Closing balance, December 31, 2019 0 -244 -244 Carrying amounts At January 1, 2018 4,145 32 4,177 At December 31, 2018 4,448 27 4,476 At January 1, 2019 4,448 27 4,476 At December 31, 2019 4,620 44 4,664 Amortization and impairment are included in the following rows of the income statement SEKm 2019 2018 Cost of goods sold 1 1 Selling expenses 2 1 Administrative expenses 2 3 Total 5 6 The Group does not have any internally generated intangible assets. The total development expenses for the year amounted to SEK 413m (382). Impairment testing of goodwill Goodwill is tested if there is any need for impairment as soon as such indications occur. Furthermore, an annual test is performed regardless of the occurrence of indications. Impairment testing is performed through estimating the recoverable amount and comparing it with the carrying amount. Impairment testing 2019 In the impairment test, the cash-generating unit’s estimated value-in-use constitutes the recoverable amount. The current weighted average cost of capital (WACC), estimated at 7.9 percent (7.6) after tax and 9.6 percent (9.2) before tax, is used in the present value calculation of values-in-use. The requirement for return on equity is determined according to the Capital Asset Pricing Model and interest for debt/equity ratio reflects a market-based borrowing cost. The optimal leverage ratio has been set at 20 percent. The estimates that form the basis of calculating the value-in-use were based on budgets determined by company management for the coming year and on strategic plans established by the Board for the next three years. The cash flow for the subsequent years has been extrapolated, assuming an annual growth rate of 3 percent (3). Important variables in forecasting cash flows Growth rate Thule Group’s growth rate is based on sales volume growth. These assumptions are based on planned launches of new products, planned price increases, marketing investments and historical experience. The market growth used is expected to follow the general growth rate of each market. Level of performance Raw material costs for the larger categories were reviewed. Forecasted payroll expenses are based on expected inflation, a degree of real income growth, planned efficiency enhancements in the Group’s production and impacts of planned recruiting. The forecast is also based on the effective handling of the Group’s working capital and necessary replacement investments. The recoverable amount exceeds the carrying amount. On analysis of the impairment need for goodwill, the company performed a sensitivity analysis through a +2 percent adjustment of the discount rate and a -2 percent adjustment of sales growth. The variables were sensitivity tested in combination with each other, and the sensitivity analysis indicated no need for any impairment. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 18 122 Note 18 Tangible assets The Group’s tangible assets comprise owned and leased assets: SEKm Note Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Owned tangible assets 833 760 Right-of-use assets 23 190 19 1,023 778 The previous year’s right-of-use assets represent the Group’s finance leases. In previous years, these leases have been recognized in the note for tangible assets; from this year, these assets are recognized in the note pertaining to leases. Buildings Equipment, and land Plant and tools, fixtures Construction Group, SEKm improvements machinery and fittings in progress Total Accumulated cost Opening balance, January 1, 2018 582 526 193 35 1,336 Business combinations – – 1 – 1 Other investments 6 57 32 93 188 Divestments and scrapping -16 -21 -22 – -59 From in progress 41 61 7 -110 0 Other changes/reclassifications – -23 23 – 0 Exchange rate differences for the year 20 15 9 1 45 Closing balance, 633 615 243 19 1,511 December 31, 2018 Opening balance, January 1, 2019 633 615 243 19 1,511 Reclassification of contracts recognized as finance leases under IAS 17 -18 – -22 – -40 Other investments 8 22 13 106 148 Divestments and scrapping – -22 -6 – -28 From in progress 8 48 2 -57 0 Other changes/reclassifications – – – -7 -7 Exchange rate differences for the year 16 10 6 0 33 Closing balance, 646 674 236 60 1,617 December 31, 2019 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Opening balance, January 1, 2018 -208 -339 -144 0 -691 Divestments and scrapping 15 19 18 – 52 Other changes/reclassifications – 13 -13 – 0 Depreciation for the year -19 -33 -18 – -70 Exchange rate differences for the year -8 -10 -7 – -25 Closing balance, -220 -350 -164 0 -734 December 31, 2018 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 18–19 123 Buildings Equipment, and land Plant and tools, fixtures Construction Group, SEKm improvements machinery and fittings in progress Total Opening balance, January 1, 2019 -220 -350 -164 0 -734 Reclassification of contracts recognized as finance leases under IAS 17 8 – 6 – 14 Divestments and scrapping – 22 5 – 27 Depreciation for the year -23 -41 -15 – -78 Exchange rate differences for the year -6 -5 -5 – -16 Closing balance, -239 -374 -172 0 -785 December 31, 2019 Carrying amounts At January 1, 2018 374 188 49 34 645 At December 31, 2018 415 266 79 19 778 At January 1, 2019 415 266 79 19 778 At December 31, 2019 408 299 65 60 833 Note 19 Inventories Group, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Raw materials and consumables 277 264 Products in progress 105 96 Finished goods and goods for resale 710 718 Total 1,092 1,078 Change in recognized inventory obsolescence 2019 2018 On January 1 70 76 Provision for obsolescence 49 21 Impairment of inventories -25 -18 Reversal of previous years’ reserves -11 -14 Currency effect 2 4 On December 31 85 70 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 20 124 Note 20 Accounts receivable Thule Group applies the simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses, which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for accounts receivable. The approach also entails an assessment of expected credit losses (ECLs) as opposed to events incurred. When assessment of a customer on an individual basis is not reasonable, an assessment is made using ECLs based on payment history and age analysis of accounts receivables past due. Given that historic credit losses to customers have not been material, an assessment has been made that no significant changes have been made to the current method for risk assessment of credit losses. Based on the above, the loss allowance for accounts receivable at December 31, 2019 follows in the table below. Age analysis of provision for doubtful receivables Group, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Not due 0 Due between 1–30 days -1 Due between 31–60 days -1 Due more than 60 days -17 Total -20 Group, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Accounts receivable, gross 723 667 Less provision for doubtful receivables -20 -12 Accounts receivable, net 704 655 There was no significant concentration of credit exposure on the balance-sheet date. The majority of the Group’s customers primarily comprise medium-sized customers. Age analysis of accounts receivable, no provisions Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Not due 600 565 Due between 1–30 days 65 58 Due between 31–60 days 10 14 Due more than 60 days 49 29 Less provision for doubtful receivables -20 -12 Total 704 655 Fair value of accounts receivable agrees with the carrying amount. The credit quality of receivables with no provision is considered to be high. Changes in the provisions for doubtful receivables are as follows: 2019 2018 On January 1 -12 -14 Adjustment for IFRS 9 0 -1 Provision for doubtful receivables -11 -4 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 3 3 Reversal of previous years’ reserves 1 3 Currency effect 0 1 On December 31 -20 -12 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 21–22 125 Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents Group Parent Company SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Cash and bank balances 268 186 – – Short-term investments with a term of less than three months from acquisition date – – – – Cash and cash equivalents 268 186 0 0 Note 22 Specific disclosures regarding equity Thousand shares 2019 2018 Issued January 1 103,209 102,073 New issue of shares 0 1,136 Issued December 31 – paid 103,209 103,209 The shares of Thule Group AB are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm Large Cap list. The Group did not buy back or hold any treasury shares during the fiscal year. The number of shares approved, issued and fully paid as per December 31, 2019 was 103,208,606. The company has only one class of share. At General Meetings of shareholders, each share carries one vote and each shareholder is entitled to vote for the full number of shares such a shareholder holds in the company. All shares carry equal rights to the company’s assets and profits. The quotient value (nominal value) of the share is SEK 0.01118 per share. Capital management Under the Board’s policy, the Group’s financial target is to maintain a financial position that is conducive to maintaining investor, creditor and market confidence and to constitute a stable foundation for continued development of business operations. The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns, that may be possible with higher levels of borrowings, and the advantages and security offered by a sound capital structure. The key metric that the company’s management and external stakeholders mainly assess with respect to capital structure is the net debt to EBITDA ratio. Thule Group aims to maintain an effective long-term capital structure, defined as the net debt to EBITDA ratio (adjusted for items affecting comparability), of 1.5–2.5x. This key metric is monitored on a regular basis via the internal reporting to management and the Board. Net debt in relation to EBITDA totaled 1.5 (1.6) at December 31, 2019. Group Translation reserve The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences arising on the translation of the financial statements from foreign operations that have prepared their financial statements in a different currency to the currency in which the consolidated financial statements are presented. The Parent Company and Group present their financial statements in Swedish kronor (SEK). Furthermore, the translation reserve comprises exchange rate differences arising from the revaluation of liabilities that were recognized as hedging instruments of a net investment in a foreign business. Hedge reserve The hedge reserve includes the effective portion of the accumulated net change in fair value of a cash flow hedging instrument attributable to hedge transactions that have not yet occurred. Parent Company Restricted reserves Restricted reserves may not be reduced through dividends. The Parent Company has no restricted reserves. Non-restricted equity The following reserves, together with net income, comprise non-restricted equity – the amount that is available for shareholder dividends. Share premium reserve When shares are issued at a premium, meaning that a higher amount than the quotient value is paid for the share, an amount corresponding to the surplus of the quotient value of the share is recognized in the share premium reserve. Profit brought forward Profit brought forward comprises profit brought forward from the preceding year and earnings after deductions for any dividends paid during the year. During the year, SEK 722m was paid in dividends. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 23 126 Note 23 Leases The effect of the transition to IFRS 16 on the Group’s leases is described in Note 1 Significant accounting policies. The transition approaches that the Group has chosen to apply for the transition to IFRS 16 entail that the comparative information has not been restated to reflect the requirements of the new standards. The Group’s tangible assets comprise owned and leased assets: SEKm Note Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Owned tangible assets 18 833 760 Right-of-use assets 190 19 1,023 778 The previous year’s right-of-use assets represent the Group’s finance leases. In previous years, these leases have been recognized in the note for tangible assets. Equipment, Plant and tools, fixtures Group, SEKm Properties machinery and fittings Total Accumulated right-of-use assets Opening balance, finance leases under IAS 17, January 1, 2019 18 0 22 40 Additional leases on transition to IFRS 16 131 0 23 154 New right-of-use assets for the year 60 – 17 77 Exchange rate differences for the year 5 0 1 5 Closing balance, December 31, 2019 213 0 63 276 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Opening balance, finance leases under IAS 17, January 1, 2019 -15 0 -6 -21 Additional leases on transition to IFRS 16 -23 – 6 -17 Impairment for the year -4 – – -4 Depreciation for the year -30 0 -22 -53 Exchange rate differences for the year 6 0 2 8 Closing balance, December 31, 2019 -66 0 -20 -86 At January 1, 2019 111 0 45 156 At December 31, 2019 147 0 43 190 The Group leases several types of assets, primarily premises and vehicles, but assets also include machinery and IT equipment to a limited extent. No leases include covenants or other limitations over and above collateral in the leased asset. Lease liabilities Group, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Short-term 53 9 Long-term 164 9 Lease liabilities in the balance sheet 218 19 Refer to Note 4 Financial risk management for the maturity analysis of lease liabilities. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 23 127 Amounts recognized in profit or loss Group, SEKm 2019 2018 Depreciation and impairment of right-of-use assets -57 -5 Interest on lease liabilities -9 0 Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of the lease liability 0 – Costs for short-term leases -10 – Costs for low-value leases, not low-value short-term leases -2 – Over the year, the composition has changed of short-term and low-value leases. Remaining non-cancellable lease payments for these contracts amount to SEK 5m. The total cash flow for all leases in 2019 was SEK 70m. IAS 17 Non-cancellable lease payments amount to: Group Parent Company SEKm 2018 2019 2018 Less than 1 year 58 0 1 Between 2–5 years 142 0 0 More than 5 years 33 – – Total 234 1 1 These future payment commitments consist primarily of lease agreements pertaining to buildings. IAS 17 Expensed fees for operating leases Group Parent Company SEKm 2018 2019 2018 Expensed fees amounted to: 53 – – Total lease expenses 53 – – Property leases The Group leases buildings and land for its offices, warehouses and factories. The leases extend for periods of 1–24 years for offices, 3–10 years for warehouses and 3–15 years for factories. Some leases include lease payments based on changes in a local price index. Accordingly, the Group is to some extent exposed to possible future increases in variable lease payments based on indices or interest that are not included in the lease liability until they enter force. When indexor interest-linked adjustments of lease payments enter force, the lease liability is remeasured and adjusted against the right-of-use asset. Some leases also require the Group to pay fees pertaining to property taxes levied on the lessor. These fees are set each year. Extension and termination options Some leases contain extension and termination options that the Group could choose to exercise or allow to expire. When the Group makes an assessment that sufficient financial inducement exists to extend a contract, an assumption is made from the start of the contract that it will be extended if possible. Extension options can only be used by the Group, not by the lessor. It is assumed that the extension option will not be used for contracts where the Group’s assessment at the start of the contract was that the extension option held no significant financial incentives. The Group re-examines whether it is reasonably certain that an extension option will be exercised if there is an important event or significant changes in circumstances that are within the Group’s control. The Group’s office leases extend for periods of 1–24 years. The majority of these contracts offer extension options, whereby the Group must notify the lessor that the Group intends to exercise an extension option at least 1 year before the contract expires. Other contracts are subject to automatic renewal unless the Group uses a termination option within a stated period prior to the end of the contract. This period varies among the contracts between 3, 6, 9 or 12 months. The Group’s warehouse leases mainly extend for periods of 3–10 years. Following the first period, most contracts can be extended for one or more periods of 1–5 years. Some of the contracts are automatically renewed unless terminated 1–9 months prior to the end date of the contract, while in other contracts the Group must actively notify the lessor of the choice to exercise an extension option no later than 1 year before the end date of the contract. For offices and warehouses, in the majority of cases, the Group considers that it is not reasonably certain that the contracts will be renewed beyond the first period. In other words, the lease term is usually assessed as one period and is only extended if or when this assessment changes. The recognized lease liability for these contracts amounted to SEK 54m and SEK 75m, respectively. The Group also has contracts for factory leases. These extend for periods of 3–15 years, with options for the Group to extend for further periods. For the majority of factory leases, the Group’s assessment is that it is reasonably certain that further periods will be used. The recognized lease liability for these contracts amounted to SEK 46m. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 23–25 128 Over the year, lease liabilities/assets increased SEK 6m as a result of utilizing options that were not previously included in the lease liability. Significant changes could arise in the future if the lease term of the Group’s material property leases should be subjected to retesting. Other leases The Group also leases plant and machinery as well as other technical installations and equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings. These categories mainly comprise vehicles, machinery and IT equipment with respective lease periods of 1–7, 2–5 and 1–5 years. While residual value guarantees and extension options arise, these are of limited and non-material scope. Payments for short-term leases of equipment and vehicles, and all low-value leases, are recognized on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value leases include IT equipment, small forklifts and other small pieces of equipment. Note 24 Liabilities to credit institutions Group Parent Company Long-term interest-bearing liabilities, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Long-term liabilities to credit institutions 2,168 2,133 2,168 2,133 Leases 164 9 – – Derivative liabilities – long-term 15 5 – – Total 2,348 2,147 2,168 2,133 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities, SEKm Short-term liabilities to credit institutions – – – – Overdraft facilities – – – – Leases 53 9 – – Derivative liabilities – short-term 12 19 – – Total 65 28 0 0 Group Parent Company Term structure of liabilities to credit institutions, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Overdraft facilities – – – – 1 year 65 28 – – 2–3 years 88 13 – – 4–5 years 2,213 2,134 2,168 2,133 More than 5 years 48 – – – Total 2,413 2,175 2,168 2,133 Note 25 Accrued expenses and deferred income Group Parent Company SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Employee-related expenses 167 182 10 9 Bonuses to customers 144 134 – – Other items 119 89 1 1 Total 430 406 10 10 Contract liabilities of SEK 157m are included under this item. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 26–27 129 Note 26 Provisions Group Parent Company SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Restructuring expenses 18 1 – – Guarantee commitments 30 15 – – Other provisions 6 9 – – Total 54 25 – – Restructuring Other Guarantee SEKm expenses provisions commitments Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 9 15 New provisions 24 0 25 Amounts utilized during the period -7 0 -10 Reversed provisions 0 -3 0 Currency effect 0 0 0 Carrying amount at end of period 18 6 30 During the year, a provision of SEK 25m was made for a product recall and a provision of SEK 24m pertaining to a restructuring primarily in North America. Note 27 Cash flow statement Group Parent Company SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest paid -40 -42 -12 -3 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries – – -800 -700 Depreciation/amortization and impairment of assets 147 85 – – Capital gain/loss from divestment of operations/ shares/equipment – 5 – – Unrealized and other financial items 13 27 – – Total 160 118 -800 -700 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTE 27 130 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other business units SEKm 2019 2018 Acquisition of subsidiaries and other business units Acquired assets and liabilities Intangible assets 8 89 Tangible assets – 1 Inventories 3 8 Short-term receivables – 3 Cash and cash equivalents – 3 Total assets 11 104 Short-term liabilities – -10 Total liabilities – -10 Purchase consideration 11 94 of which, liability -1 -16 Less: Cash and cash equivalents – -3 Impact on cash and cash equivalents 10 75 Reconciliation of liabilities attributable to financing activity Closing Opening Concluded Exchange Balance balance, Adjusted Cash agreements Financing rate Dec 31, SEKm January 1, 2019 OB leases flows entered into, net costs differences 2019 Long-term liabilities to credit institutions 2,133 – – – 1 34 2,168 Leases 19 171 -53 77 – 5 218 Derivative liabilities 24 – – – – 3 27 Total according 2,175 171 -53 77 1 42 2,413 to balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents Group Parent Company SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 The following sub-components are included in cash and cash equivalents: Cash and bank balances 268 186 0 0 Short-term investments, equal to cash 0 0 0 0 and cash equivalents Total according to balance sheet 268 186 0 0 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 28–29 131 Note 28 Appropriations Parent Company, SEKm 2019 2018 Group contribution received 45 12 Total 45 12 Note 29 Participations in subsidiaries Parent Company, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Opening cost 1,000 1,000 Closing accrued cost 1,000 1,000 Closing carrying amount of direct holdings of participations in subsidiaries 1,000 1,000 Share of equity, Name Corp. Reg. No. Registered office % Thule AB 556770-6329 Malmö 100 Thule Holding AB 556662-7138 Malmö 100 Thule Towing Systems AB 556259-0298 Malmö 100 Thule NV Menen 100 Thule Organization Solutions Asia Pacific Ltd. Hong Kong 100 Thule Organization Solutions Holding B.V. Utrecht 100 Thule Organization Solutions S.A. Louvain-La-Neuve 100 Thule Organization Solutions S.L. Madrid 100 Thule Organization Solutions S.A.R.L Rosny-Sous-Bois 100 Thule Organization Solutions B.V. Utrecht 100 Thule Trading (Beijing) Co. Ltd Beijing 100 Thule Finans AB 556043-6858 Malmö 100 Thule Sp.zo.o. Huta 100 Thule Japan KK Tokyo 100 Thule S.r.o Prag 100 Thule Sweden AB 556076-3970 Gnosjö 100 Thule Brazil Comercial e importadora Ltda. Sao Paulo 100 Thule IP AB 556578-1282 Malmö 100 Thule Merchandizing AB 556849-4016 Malmö 100 Thule Brasil Distribuidora Ltda. Sao Paulo 100 Thule Sport Rack Beheer B.V. Staphorst 100 Thule Canada Holding LLC Wilmington, Delaware 100 Thule Canada Inc. Granby 100 Thule Holding ApS Copenhagen 100 Brink Nordisk Holdings ApS Copenhagen 100 Thule Inc. Seymour 100 Thule Holding Ltd. Haverhill 100 Thule Outdoor Ltd. Haverhill 100 Thule Deutschland Holding AB 556662-7419 Malmö 100 Thule GmbH Neumarkt 100 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 N OTES NOTES 30–33 132 Note 30 Pledged assets There are no pledged assets in the Group. Note 31 Contingent liabilities Group, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Bank guarantees 1 3 Pension liability, PRI 2 2 Other contingent liabilities 21 18 Total contingent liabilities 24 22 Note 32 Events after the balance-sheet date The outbreak of the global covid-19 (corona virus) pandemic in the first quarter of 2020 will have a significant impact on the prevailing conditions in the global market. Uncertainty about the future economic effects due to the spread of the virus means that the management at present cannot make a more specific assessment of the impact on the company in the short and long term. The Board of Directors of Thule Group AB (publ) therefore decided on March 22, 2020 to withdraw previously communicated proposal for a dividend of SEK 7.50 per share, totaling approximately SEK 774m. Note 33 Related-party transactions All of the Group companies presented in Note 29 are considered to be related parties. Transactions take place between Thule Group companies concerning deliveries of goods and services, and the provision of financial and intangible services. Market terms and pricing are applied to all transactions. All intra-Group transactions are eliminated. The Parent Company’s transactions with subsidiaries comprise the transactions presented below. Parent Company Receivables from and liabilities to subsidiaries, SEKm Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Interest-bearing long-term receivables 4,572 4,438 Interest-bearing short-term receivables 46 13 Interest-bearing long-term liabilities -368 -368 Interest-bearing short-term liabilities -871 -834 Total 3,379 3,249 Thule Group AB issued warrants as part of an incentive program for management. Warrants have been issued to and subscribed for by Thule Group AB’s subsidiary, Thule AB. For information regarding remuneration and benefits paid to executive management and the Board, refer to notes 11 and 12. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 A SSU RA N CE 133 Assurance The income statements and balance sheets will be presented to the Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2020 for adoption. The Board of Directors and President affirm that this Annual Report was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting policies in Sweden and that the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and the Council issued on July 19, 2002 on the application of international accounting standards. The Annual Report and consolidated financial statements provide a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial position and earnings. The Board of Directors’ Report provides a true and fair overview of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s operations, financial position and earnings, and describes the significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group are exposed. Malmö, March 26, 2020 Bengt Baron Mattias Ankarberg Hans Eckerström Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Helene Willberg Heléne Mellquist Board member Board member Magnus Welander President and CEO Our auditor’s report was submitted on March 26, 2020. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Eric Salander Magnus Jönsson Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Auditor in Charge T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 A U D I TO R’S REPO RT 134 Auditor’s Report To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Thule Group AB (publ), Corporate Identity Number 556770-6311 Report on the annual accounts other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that and consolidated financial statements represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Opinions We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated financial to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements of Thule Group AB (publ) for financial year 2019 with the statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, exception of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 72-81. The the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the company’s annual accounts and consolidated financial statements are group operates. Based on this, we determined which companies included on pages 60-133 in this document. In our opinion, the annual within the Group were deemed to be significant and determined audit accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts activities to be performed on these companies. In total, 11 companies Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of have been deemed to be significant. Entities that have not been parent company and the group as of 31 December 2019 and its financial deemed as significant, have been reviewed by the Group audit team. performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance The majority of the entities not included in the Group audit are subject with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been to statutory audits in their respective countries. prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present During the year, the Group audit team visited some of the significant fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 entities in the Group with the aim of gaining understanding of the December 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the operations in these countries, compliance of the Group’s internal year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting control framework, including the process for financial reporting. The Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Group audit team has, in addition and amongst other things, executed Our opinions do not cover the Corporate Governance Report on pages an audit of the parent company, the consolidation, the annual financial 72-81. The Board of Directors’ Report is consistent with the other parts statements and significant assumptions and estimates. Based on the of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. performed audit activities mentioned above, we deem that we have We therefore recommend that the shareholders’ general meeting obtained sufficient audit evidence to provide an opinion on the financial adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company reports as a whole. and the group. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated Materiality financial statements are consistent with the content of the additional The scope and focus of our audit was determined by our application report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered Basis for Opinions material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. basis of the financial statements. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain in the Auditor’s Responsibility section. We are independent of the quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for the financial statements as a whole. These, together with qualitative for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have financial statements as a whole. been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. Key audit matters We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. judgment, were most significant in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters Our audit approach were addressed in our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the Audit scope annual accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole, but We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 A U D I TO R’S REPO RT 135 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter Impairment testing of goodwill As of 31 December 2019, the Group reported goodwill amounting In executing our audit, we have focused on whether there is a risk for to SEK 4,620m, which is specified in Note 17 where the allocation of an impairment requirement as regards to goodwill. We have reconciled goodwill and other intangible assets is presented. The reported value important assumptions with the company’s budget and strategic plan, has been the subject to an impairment test, which contained both which includes evaluating management’s assumptions and estimates. complex and major aspects of estimates. The impairment test has This has been done through an analysis of how well previous years’ been prepared for the Group as the cash-generating unit. assumptions have been proven to be correct, and we have challenged the assumptions associated with those aspects which have the greatest These tests imply that the Group is required to undertake future impact on the impairment assessment, such as growth, earnings assessments regarding both the operation’s internal and external margins and cost of capital (WACC). premises and plans. Examples of such estimations include future cash flows, which amongst other things, requires assumptions on future We have also, through our own sensitivity analyses, tested the headproduct launches, price increases and marketing activities. room margins for the cash-generating unit and based on these tests, we have assessed the risk of an impairment requirement. As a part In Note 1, section Impairments and Note 17, there is a description as to of our audit, we have also assessed the calculation model applied by how the Group has made its assessment, and there is also a report on management. We have also assessed the accuracy of the disclosures significant assumptions regarding the sustainable growth rate and the included in the annual financial statements. cost of capital (WACC), as well as regarding sensitivity analyses. Valuation of deferred tax assets As of 31 December 2019, the Group reported deferred tax assets of In our audit, we have tested and assessed the applied principles and SEK 376m, of which SEK 237m refers to tax losses carried forward reasonability of the Group’s model used to forecast future income, expected to be utilized against future income. The remaining part refers compared the key ratio assumptions applied in the calculation against the to temporary differences. In Note 15, losses carried forward, which have business plans, and have considered the Group’s historical capacity to not been recognized, are disclosed. These refer to cases where there are produce forecasts that are accurate. We have challenged the assessuncertainties relating to the valuation of the deferred tax asset. ments undertaken and examined the documentation providing the basis for those assessments. The reporting of deferred tax assets is based on the Group’s assessment of the amount and point in time at which future taxable profits will An analysis has been made of the results generated during the year in arise. The estimation of future profits requires an assessment of future relation to the future profits required in order to show that the capitalized market conditions. The reported value of deferred tax assets can vary losses carried forward can be utilized. if other assumptions are used in the assessment of future profits and of the possibility of utilizing losses carried forward. We have also tested the calculations of the changes in tax rates in various countries to ensure correct calculation and revaluation of deferred tax Given that the carrying value of provisions for taxes is based on assessassets. ment of tax legislation and future taxable income, there is a risk that the carrying value may be overor understated and that any adjustment In addition, we have assessed the completeness and accuracy of the to the value has a direct impact on both the result of the period and disclosures in the annual financial statements. effective tax rate. Other information than the annual accounts statements. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge and consolidated financial statements otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information This document also contains information other than the annual otherwise appears to be materially misstated. accounts and consolidated financial statements and this information is If we, based on the work carried out in respect of this information, found on pages 1–59 and 138–149. This information, in addition to the conclude that the other information contains a material misstatement, sustainability report and our statement regarding this report, do not we have a duty to report this. We have nothing to report in that regard. constitute a part of the annual report. The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for this other information. The Board of Directors’ and Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated financial stateChief Executive Officer’s responsibilities ments does not cover this other information and we do not express any The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated financial In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolistatements and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with dated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the information the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, identified above and consider whether the information is materially in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated financial and the Chief Executive Officer are also responsible for such internal T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 A U D I TO R’S REPO RT 136 control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial annual accounts and consolidated financial statements that are free information of the entities or business activities within the group to from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated financial responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group statements, The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinion. are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the Group’s We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not deficiencies in internal control that we identified. applied if the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer intend We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding alternative but to do so. independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Directors’ other matters that may reasonably impact our independence, and responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the where applicable, related safeguards. company’s financial reporting process. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of Auditor’s responsibility the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements, including Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual accounts the most important assessed risks of material misstatement, and and consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s auditor’s report unless laws or regulations preclude disclosure about report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of the matter. assurance but does not constitute a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards Report on other legal and regulatory requirements in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Opinions Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to financial statements, we have also audited the administration of the influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Thule Group AB annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. (publ) for the financial year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional company’s profit or loss. judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the We also: profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Board of • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual Directors’ Report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the accounts and consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud Chief Executive Officer be discharged from liability for the financial year. or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to Basis for Opinions provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material We have conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibility under these standards error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, is described in the Auditor’s responsibility section. We are independent misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. of the parent company and the Group in accordance with professional • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. • Evaluate the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and made by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. the Chief Executive Officer • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations Chief Executive Officer’s use of the going concern basis of accounting of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to requirements which the company’s and the Group’s type of operations, whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the Group’ that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the Group’s ability equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated financial other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company´s organizaabout the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. Our tion is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a manner. The Chief Executive Officer shall manage the ongoing company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the instructions and among other matters take measures that are annual accounts and consolidated financial statements, including necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 A U D I TO R’S REPO RT 137 Auditor’s responsibility circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examassess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of ined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer has in any material supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal respect: is in accordance with the Companies Act. • undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. statement on pages 72-81 has been prepared in accordance with the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations Annual Accounts Act. of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to Our examination of the corporate governance statement is assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The accordance with the Companies Act. auditor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but does not means that our examination of the corporate governance statement guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally or neglect that could give rise to a liability to indemnify the company, accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examinaor that the proposed appropriation of the company’s profit or loss is tion has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. consistent with the Companies Act. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s annual accounts and consolidated financial statements and are in profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, 113 97 Stockholm, was appointed with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the auditor of Thule Group AB (publ) by the annual general meeting of examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material shareholders on 26 April 2019 and has been the company’s auditor for the operations and where deviations and violations would have since 26 April 2017. particular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other Malmö, 26 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Eric Salander Magnus Jönsson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in Charge T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I I N D EX 138 GRI Index General disclosures UN GC UN Sustainable Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page Principle Development Goal omissions GRI 102-1 to 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-13: 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6–8 Organizational profile 102-3 Location of headquarters 46 102-4 Locations of operations 46 102-5 Ownership and legal form 72–77 102-6 Markets served 108–110 102-7 Scale of the organization 4–7, 18-19, 46, 82–90, 108–110 102-8 Information on employees and other 49–52, 111 6 5 FTEs are not broken workers down by gender. Thule Group has only used the metric, headcount in relation to work time. However, the actual headcount is broken down by gender. 102-9 Supply chain 47–48, 144 102-10 Significant changes to the 3, 107–109 organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 32–40 1–10 102-12 External initiatives 16, 35, 40, 51 See Thule Group’s Community Engagement website. 102-13 Membership of associations 35 GRI 102-14 to 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 9–11 102-15: Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 47–52, 103–107 GRI 102-16 to 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms 32–45, 47, 52 1–10 102-17: Ethics of behavior and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice 7–8, 33–36, and concerns about ethics 47–48, 50–52 GRI 102-18 to 102-18 Governance structure 72–79 102-37: 102-19 Delegating authority 74–77 Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 33–36 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 33–34 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance 74–79 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 78, 148 102-24 Nominating and selecting 72–74 the highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 57, 72–74, 78–81 102-26 Role of highest governance body 34, 75–77 in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest 33–34, 74, 78–81 governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 74–76 body’s performance T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I I N D EX 139 UN GC UN Sustainable Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page Principle Development Goal omissions 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 33–36, 53–54 environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 76–77 processes 102-31 Review of economic, 34, 76 environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustain34 ability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 34, 76 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 53–57 102-35 Remuneration policies 72, 75, 98–100, 111–114 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 72–73, 75 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 72–73, 75 GRI 102-40 to 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 33–34 102-44: 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 50 3 Stakeholder engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 33 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 33 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 33–34 GRI 102-45 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 131 to 102-56: financial statements Reporting 102-46 Defining report content and topic 33, 142 Practice Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 33–34 102-48 Restatements of information 37 102-49 Changes in reporting NO 102-50 Reporting period Calendar 102-51 Date of most recent report April 2019 See Annual and Sustainability Report 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions 141 regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 142 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 138–141 102-56 External assurance 133–137 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I I N D EX 140 Governance UN GC UN Sustainable Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page Principle Development Goal omissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32–52 Included in specific disclosures Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 32–52 Included in specific disclosures approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32–52 Included in specific disclosures Economic standards UN GC UN Sustainable Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page Principle Development Goal omissions GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 82–90, 8 Economic 108–132 performance GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spend on local suppliers 142 8, 12 Procurement practices GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about 33–36 10 8 Anti-corruption anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption 142 10 and actions taken GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 142 10 competitive behavior anti-trust, and monopoly practices Environment UN GC UN Sustainable Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page Principle Development Goal omissions GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 142 7–9 12 GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 44 7–9 7, 12–13 302-3 Energy intensity 44 7–9 7, 12–13 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 44 7–9 8, 12–13 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdraw 44–45 7–9 6, 12 303-3 Water recycled and reused 44–45 7-9 6, 12 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 37 7–8 7, 13 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 37 7–8 7, 13 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 37 7–8 13 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 37 7–8 7, 12–13 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 30, 37 7–8 7, 12–13 GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 45 7–9 12–13 Effluents and 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 45 7–8 12 Waste GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 35 8 Environmental regulations compliance GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 47 7–8 12–13 Supplier environmental criteria Environmental 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 144 7–8 12–13 Assessment chain and actions taken T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I I N D EX 141 Social standards UN GC UN Sustainable Comments and GRI Standard Disclosure Title Page Principle Development Goal omissions GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 143 6 5, 8, 10 Employment GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety 43, 1 8, 12 From 2019, Thule Group will Occupational management system 143–144 report pursuant to GRI 403: Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 35–36, 43 8, 12 incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 43 8, 12 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 35–36, 43 8, 12 communication on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 35–36, 43 8, 12 403-6 Promotion of worker health 51–52 8, 12 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 36, 43, 8, 12 and safety impacts directly linked by business 143–144 relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 144 8, 12 safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 144 8, 12 GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 143 5, 8 Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 51, 143 5, 8, 10 Education performance and career development reviews GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 50, 6 5, 10 Diversity and equal 148–149 opportunity GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 142 6 5, 8, 10 Non-discrimitaken nation GRI 407: Freedom 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 34, 47–48 1–3 8 of freedom of association and collective bargaining Association and may be at risk Collective Bargaining GRI 408: 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 34, 47–48 1–2, 5 8 Child Labor incidents of child labor GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 34, 47–48 1–2, 4 8 Forced or incidents of forced or compulsory labor compulsory labor GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened 47 1–6 8, 10, 12 Supplier using social criteria Social Assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 47–48, 1–6 8, 10, 12 actions taken 144 GRI 416: Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 142 12 Health and Safety health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 142 12 and labeling information and labeling GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 35, 142 10 Socioeconomic social and economic area compliance Contact: Jack Fraser, GRI and Sustainability Analyst jack.fraser@thule.com T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I A PPEN D I X 142 This report was prepared in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option. The report and GRI index are supported in this GRI Appendix. To ensure that our compliance with and reporting of GRI standards pursuant to the requirements stipulated under GRI Standards: Core option, we are including data in this appendix that is not reported in the running text of the report. Each graph below has an explanatory text to clarify the graph’s significance. The number of employees, promotions and employee turnover are also reported in accordance with the GRI Standards’ guidelines. GRI 205-3: GRI 206-1: GRI 307-1: GRI 406-1: GRI 416-2: GRI 417-2: GRI 419-1: Zero incidents of Zero incidents Zero incidents of Zero cases of Zero consumer Zero incidents of Zero incidents of corruption of antifines or sanctions discrimination health and non-compliance fines or sanctions competitive for breaches of safety incidents concerning for breaches behavior environmental from using our product of social and laws products information economic laws and labeling GRI 204-1 Procurement practices, 2019 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption and intensity GWh GWh/SEKm Indirect electricity, Local, 54% 40 renewable Non-local, 46% 0.008 0,008 Indirect electricity, non-renewable 30 0.006 0,006 Other, renewable O  ther, 20 0,004 0.004 non-renewable – Energy intensity 10 0,002 0.002 0 00 2014 2015 2016 2017 “Local” procurement refers to purchasing from suppliers in the From 2018, Thule Group reports Energy consumption and countries where we have our own production. intensity (GWh/SEKm) in accordance with the above GRI Standards’ guidelines. Since this has been reported somewhat differently in previous years, the data is shown in the above table. Satisfaction index according to GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume, 2019 tons employee survey, % 2012 2015 2018 Aluminum 11,167 Workplace climate 67 69 73 Plastic 12,549 Work environment 76 78 82 Steel 16,629 Leadership 65 68 76 Textiles 2,464 Organization 72 73 76 Paper packaging 7,878 Core values 77 77 80 Plastic packaging 212 Total 69 71 76 Polystyrene packaging 64 Total 50,962 The table shows comparable results from surveys implemented in 2012, 2015 and the most recent survey in 2018. Thule Group will conduct a new employee survey in 2020. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I A PPEN D I X 143 GRI 401-1 GRI 401-1 New employee hires by Employee turnover by GRI 401-1 New employees, promotions age and region, 2019 Number % age and region, 2019 Number % and turnover by gender, 2019 Total 571 100 Total 411 100 % Women Men 100 <30 years 278 49 <30 years 200 49 100 30–50 years 243 42 30–50 years 151 37 7575 >50 years 50 9 >50 years 60 14 50 50 Total 571 100 Total 411 100 Europe 391 68 Europe 195 47 25 25 Americas 175 31 Americas 212 52 Asia 5 1 Asia 4 1 00 New employee for 2019 includes seasonal Employee turnover includes seasonal New Promotions Personnel employees and complies with the GRI employees and complies with the GRI employees turnover standards’ proposed guidelines on grouping standards’ proposed guidelines on grouping by age and regions. by age and regions. GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees who received GRI 403-2 Workplace accidents by region, 2019 performance and career development reviews, 2019 Poland, 31% % 100 Belgium, 28% 100 Salaried employees US, 18% Factory workers Germany, 10% 75 75 Women Sweden, 7% Men UK, 6% 50 50 Brazil, 0% 25 25 0 0 Workplace accidents in 2019 include fractures, joints of fingers and toes, crush injuries to fingers and toes, and minor injuries. No work-related fatalities occurred during the year. GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee, 2019 GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Hours Women The occupational health and safety management system of 12 12 Men Thule Group’s production facility at Haverhill in the UK is ISO 45001 certified. 10 10 Salaried employees Factory workers 8 All of Thule Group’s production facilities also work with occupational 8 health and safety management under the direct guidance of 6 6 Thule Group’s Health and safety Committee. 4 4 Health and safety management was also introduced for Thule Group’s 2 2 offices in 2019. 0 0 T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I A PPEN D I X 144 GRI 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system All of Thule Group’s employees are covered by occupational health and safety management systems at our production facilities. Health and safety requirements apply for all employees of Thule Group, agency workers, protected labor, temporary employees, contractors and visitors. GRI 403-9 Work related accidents, 2019 GRI 403-8 Types of work-related injuries, 2019 Days Number  ost days per L Cuts to fingers million hours worked or hands, 21% 400 120 – No. of accidents Crush injuries to hands or feet, 5% 300 90 – Number of accidents Other fractures, 5% leading to at least eight lost hours Minor cuts, 4% 200 60 Other minor recurring injuries, 65% 100 30 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 GRI 308-2 and 414-2 Negative environmental and social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken, 2019 Number of CSR audits at our suppliers in 2019 Results of supplier audits China, 31 85%–100%, 59% Sweden, 5 71%–84%, 25% Poland, 4 51%–70%, 14% Cambodia, 3 31–50%, 2% Vietnam, 3 0%–30%, 0% Germany, 3 Taiwan, 1 Thailand, 1 Philippines, 1 Myanmar, 1 UK, 1 Netherlands, 1 Thule Group conducts an annual risk assessment to determine In 2019, 55 suppliers were audited (48 direct suppliers and seven which suppliers are relevant for our CSR audit program. sub-suppliers). Thule Group’s CSR audits cover the following areas: the environment, business methods, ethics, and health and safety. • All suppliers are ranked by spend. • Suppliers are categorized by country of operation at the levels: All of the audited suppliers implemented the corrective measures high, medium and low risk. and none of the audited suppliers were discontinued due to an • Suppliers with high-risk processes and suppliers who inadequate CSR audit. supply specific product categories have been identified. This process enables Thule Group to focus on suppliers in If a supplier scores less than 50 percent, we limit further purchases countries with medium to high risk and with high priority, specific from the supplier and conduct a new audit within six months. processes and product categories. T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R I A PPEN D I X 145 External sustainability assessments The following external institutes and companies evaluate Thule Group each year in terms of sustainability and ESG results. CDP Gaia Nasdaq Listing Center CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) is a Gaia is a branch of the French firm, Nasdaq Listing Center is a subsidiary of Nasnon-profit charity that collects and compiles EthiFinance. Gaia conducts annual daq Inc., which owns and operates nine global companies’ reports on their environmental assessments and scores the sustainability stock exchanges. Each year, Nasdaq Listing impact, governance, strategy, risks and work of SMEs. Center collects the listed companies’ ESG data possibilities. Thule Group completes the to ensure stock market transparency. annual climate change questionnaire that Thule Group scored 69 out of a maximum CDP later evaluates and scores. A number of score of 100. Thule Group is transparent in terms of sharother organizations that produce sustainabiling ESG data and actively participates in this ity assessments based on ESG use CDP as annual data collection by updating the data an important data source. already registered and, where appropriate, updating with additional data. The Nasdaq Thule Group has raised its score over the last Listing Center does not give the participating year, from D in 2018 to C in 2019. companies ratings or points, but rather collects ESG data to help investors make decisions. ISS-oekom ISS-oekom is a company within the ISS Group that conducts annual sustainability assessments and provides ratings for global companies. Ecovadis Thule Group received a rating of C+ (Prime) Ecovadis is a company that supplies of the maximum A+. Sustainalytics sustainability ratings for companies with Sustainalytics is a Dutch company that global supply chains. In 2019, Thule Group uses public ESG data to assess and score was awarded the Ecovadis Gold CSR rating companies annually on their sustainability for advanced CSR performance. work. Thule Group scored 68 (gold) out of a Thule Group has raised its rating from maximum score of 100. 69 (90th percentile) 2019, to 75 (96th percentile) 2020. The maximum score is 100. MSCI MSCI is a global company that provides various stock market indices and assessments. Each year, MSCI ESG Research LLC assesses and evaluates Thule Group’s sustainability work. Thule Group received the highest rating – AAA. Read more T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 A BO U T TH E SU STA I N A BILITY REPORT 146 Auditor’s Report on the Statutory Sustainability Report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Thule Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556770-6311 Engagement and responsibility statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different sustainability report for the year 2019 on pages 32–52 and and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with 138–145 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted Annual Accounts Act. auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s Opinion auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Malmö, 26 March 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Eric Salander Magnus Jönsson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in charge T H U LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 DEFI N I TI ON S 147 Definitions Earnings per share Leverage ratio Facts: Alternative performance measures Net income for the period divided by the Net debt divided by the underlying Alternative performance measures are used average number of shares during the period. LTM EBITDA. to describe the underlying development of operations and to enhance comparability EBIT LTM between periods. These are not defined under (Earnings before interest and taxes) Rolling 12-month. IFRS but correspond to the methods applied by Income before net financial items and taxes. Group management to measure the company’s Net debt financial performance. The alternative perforEBIT margin Gross debt less cash and cash equivalents. mance measures used are net debt (see table EBIT as a percentage of net sales. on page 63), underlying EBIT and underlying Net investments EBITDA. Underlying denotes that we have EBITDA Investments in tangible and intangible assets made adjustments for specific items, see Note (Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation adjusted for disposals. 7, Segment accounting. These performance and amortization) Income before net financial measures should not be viewed as a substitute items, taxes and depreciation/amortization and Operational depreciation/amortization for financial information presented in accorimpairment of tangible and intangible assets. The Group’s total depreciation/ dance with IFRS but rather as a complement. amortization excluding depreciation/ EBITDA margin amortization of consolidated excess values. EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. Other depreciation/amortization comprises depreciation/amortization of consolidated Equity per share excess values. Equity divided by the number of shares at the end of the period. Underlying EBIT EBIT excluding items affecting comparability Equity ratio and depreciation/amortization of consolidated Equity as a percentage of total assets. excess values. Gross debt Underlying EBITDA Total long and short-term borrowing EBITDA excluding items affecting including overdraft facilities, financial comparability. derivatives, capitalized transaction costs and accrued interest. Working capital Comprises inventories, tax receivables, Gross income accounts receivable, prepaid expenses Net sales less cost of goods and accrued income, other receivables, sold. cash and cash equivalents less accounts payable, income tax liabilities, other liabilities, Gross margin accrued expenses and deferred income and Gross income as a percentage of net sales. provisions. Working capital in the cash flow excludes cash and cash equivalents. Items affecting comparability Profit/loss items that are by their very nature unusual and significantly impact profit or loss. These play an important part in understanding the underlying business performance. T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 B OA RD O F D I RECTORS 148 Board of Directors Bengt Baron Hans Eckerström Heléne Mellquist Member of the Board since 2011, took office as Board member since 2007. Board member since 2016. Chairman of the Board in 2018. Born 1972. Born 1964. Born 1962. Education: M.Sc. Mechanical Engineer Senior Vice President Volvo Trucks Europe. Education: Bachelor of Science and an ing, Chalmers University of Technology. Education: B.Sc. in International MBA from the University of California at M.Sc. Business Administration, Business Administration, Gothenburg Berkeley, USA. University of Gothenburg. School of Economics. Executive Program IFL, Selected current Board assignments: Selected current Board assignments: Stockholm School of Economics. Chairman of Enzymatica AB (publ) Chairman of Nobia AB and Profoto AB, Current Board assignments: and Board member of AAK AB (publ). Board member of Nordstjernan AB. Board member of AlfaLaval (publ). Selected previous Board assignments: Selected previous Board assignments: Mattias Ankarberg Chairman of Brink International AB Board member of Opus Group (publ), and Britax Childcare Limited; Board member Partnertech AB and Cavotec S.A. (publ). Board member since 2018. of Nefab AB (publ), Cloetta AB (publ) and Born 1976. Aditro AB (publ). CEO Byggmax Group. Helene Willberg Board member since 2019. Education: M.Sc. in Economics and Liv Forhaug Business Administration, Stockholm Born 1967. Board member since 2014. School of Economics. Country manager at Alvarez & Marsal, Sweden. Stepped down as Board member Selected previous assignments: on November 11, 2019. Education: M.Sc. in Economics and Leading positions at H&M, consultant and junior Business Administration, Stockholm School Born 1970. partner at McKinsey & Company. of Economics. CEO of Martin & Servera. Selected current Board assignments: Education: M.Sc., Stockholm School of Board member of Profoto AB, Nordic Paper AB Economics. and Footway Group AB (publ). Selected current Board assignments: Selected previous assignments: Board member of Hufvudstaden AB (publ). Several leading roles at KPMG, including as Selected previous Board assignments: CEO of KPMG Sweden and as Head of Board member of HUI Research AB, KPMG’s Financial Advisory Services. Min Doktor International AB and Apoteket Hjärtat. Bengt Baron Mattias Ankarberg Hans Eckerström Liv Forhaug Heléne Mellquist Helene Willberg T H ULE GROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 G R OU P MA N A GEMEN T 149 Group Management Magnus Welander Fredrik Erlandsson Kajsa von Geijer Lennart Mauritzson CEO and President. Senior Vice President SVP HR and Sustainability. CFO. Born 1966. Communications and IR. Born 1964. Left the position Born 1970. February 14, 2020. Education: M.Sc. in Industrial Education: BSc in Human Engineering and Management, Education: University studies, Resource Development and Labor Born 1967. Institute of Technology at Linköping Lund University and Copenhagen Relations, Lund University. Education: BSc in Finance University. University. Employed at Thule Group and Business Administration, Employed at Thule Group Employed at Thule Group since 2005. Halmstad University. Law studies, since 2006. since 2010. Lund University. Previous positions: Previous positions: Previous positions: HR Director at FMC Food Tech AB, Employed at Thule Group President of Envirotainer, various Corporate Relations Director HR Director Nordic at Levi Strauss, since 2011. senior positions at Tetra Pak in Nordics and Eastern Europe at various HR positions at Nestlé and Previous positions: Italy and Australia. Diageo, GM and procuration holder Trelleborg AB. CFO Beijer Electronics, Vice of Ehrenberg Kommunikation President Finance of Cardo AB, and Sweden and Chief of Staff for senior positions in finance at Acadia Fred Clark one of the national delegations in Nis Gjendal Pharmaceuticals and Pharmacia BA President the European Parliament. Vice President Global Purchasing. Pfizer. Region Americas. Born 1981. Born 1959. Education: M.Sc. in Production & Jonas Lindqvist Education: BSBA Quantitative Management from DTU (Technical CFO Methods, Western New England University of Denmark). Assumed the role in March 2020. University and MBA Management Employed at Thule Group Science. Born 1962. since January 2019. Employed at Thule Group Education: M.Sc. in Business and Previous positions: since 1993. Economics, Lund University, EMBA, Various leading positions within Stockholm School of Economics Previous positions: supply and operations at Nilfisk AS and Advanced Management Various senior positions at with a focus on strategic Program, Harvard Business School. Thule Group and various senior purchasing. Latest locations in positions at C. Cowles & Co. Denmark and Hungary. Previous positions: CFO Arjo (publ), CFO Beijer Ref (publ), CFO Polyclad Europe/ Cookson Electronics, Finance Director for companies in the Nolato Group and BMH Marine AB. Magnus Welander Fred Clark Fredrik Erlandsson Kajsa von Geijer Nis Gjendal Lennart Mauritzson Jonas Lindqvist T HU LE G ROU P A N N U A L REPORT 2019 production: sthlm kommunikation & ir ab, printing: exakta 2020. paper: munken kristall Thule Group AB Fosievägen 13, SE214 31 Malmö Sweden Tel: +46 (0)40-635 90 00 thulegroup.com info@thule.com
