BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 1 Promoting The TreasureS Of Ancient Egypt Egyptian Pyramids Since 1920, Banque Misr has steered the Egyptian economy ahead. Banque Misr exploits the full potential of liberating Egypt’s economy and the rise of Egypt’s economic power. Banque Misr opened the routes to use the Egyptians’ savings to contribute to the national investments. 2 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 Disclaimer: scene depicted in the painting is fictitious. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 3 CONTENTS FOREWORD 6 Banque Misr At A Glance 8 Banque Misr Proudly Looking Back... Forging Ahead With Purpose 22 A Century – Old History Of Illustrious Success... The Best Yet To Come OUR APPROACH 24 About the report: A 100-year journey...Toward a sustainable future 25 Materiality 36 Stakeholders’ Inclusiveness 37 Our Approach to Sustainability 38 Introduction by the Chairman 46 Financial Highlights for Fiscal Year 2018/2019 47 Sustainability Highlights for Fiscal Year 2018/2019 48 BM Strategy 51 Awards and Recognitions 54 Local and Global Network HOW BM OPERATES 66 Board of Directors as of March 2020 67 Senior Executives as of March 2020 88 BM Board Committees 94 Senior Committees 100 Our Commitment 106 Our People 112 Tackling our Climate Footprint 114 BM Service Providers and Suppliers 116 Community Development 118 Banque Misr’s Goals For Sustainability 4 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 BM DIVISIONS 144 Technology 146 Corporate Banking 148 Retail Banking 153 SMEs And Microfinance 156 Capital Markets And Investment 158 Islamic Banking 160 Treasury And Correspondent Banking 162 Global Transaction Banking OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 174 Chairman’s Remarks 176 Financial Statements BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 5 102-2 102-5 102-7 201-1 BANQUE MISR AT A GLANCE Ownership No. of issued payroll cards State-owned bank 2.6m Total Assets Net Fee and Commission Income EGP 967.3 billion (bn) EGP 4.3bn Branches Net Interest Income About 700 branches, making it the EGP 17.7bn largest network owned by any bank in Egypt and the Middle East Customer Base ATMs More than 12 million (m) in Egypt About 2,800 No. of Issued Cards Shareholders’ Equity 8.7m EGP 65.6bn Point of Sale Terminals (POS) Income Tax paid About 18,700 EGP 8.7bn Net Profit After Taxes Customer Deposits EGP 8.6bn EGP 745.8bn 6 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-7 102-8 102-5 Number of Employees About 18,000 Employees Direct Equity Participation 154 multi-sector companies Through 8 Business Divisions Technology Corporate Banking Retail Banking SMEs and Microfinance Capital Markets and Investment Islamic Banking Treasury and Correspondent Banking Global Transaction Banking Market Presence Across 9 Countries Egypt UAE Lebanon France Germany China Russia South Korea Italy * Financial figures listed in this annual report are recorded as of June 2019, whereas listed non-financial figures are recorded as of December 2019. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 7 102-2 BANQUE MISR PROUDLY LOOKING BACK...FORGING AHEAD WITH PURPOSE T his report celebrates iconic visionaries throughout our history, who bravely took first steps down new roads armed with nothing but their vision. Their noble goals differed, but they pyramids have withstood the test of time through ages. They were built by our ancestors in this hallowed land long before the rise of various civilizations when most of cultures worldwide all had this in common: their step was the first of its kind to had not yet emerged from pre-history. These pyramids stood as be taken on a new road with a pioneering and transformative monuments to the pharaohs who commenced their construction vision. As we open the door to a new decade, we celebrate the by the willing hands of Egyptians. In the shadow of the pyramids strong will and perseverance of Egyptians, starting from the lie the tombs of workers, architects, military men, priests, and great pharaohs who envisioned the pyramids to the renowned high-ranking state administrators who served their king and economist, Talaat Harb, who founded the first bank, which is country. It is worth noting that more than 80 pyramids were built entirely owned by the Egyptians, Banque Misr. in ancient Egypt. This edition of the report will uncover Egypt’s treasures and mysteries with a special focus on the pyramids Banque Misr was an evolutionary concept commissioned by Talaat that were constructed during the Old Kingdom (c.2686–2181 Harb, with the support of a group of patriots to achieve economic BC) along the west bank of the Nile, from Cairo City to 80km liberty for the State in order to eliminate the repercussions of south the frontier of Fayoum Oasis. foreign occupation on the Egyptian economy. Since then, Banque Misr has been delivering on Egypt’s sustainable development. We In the 20th century, our forefathers built a different pyramid, can proudly say that Banque Misr planted the historical roots for a monument of excellence crowning years of struggle. This financial inclusion, as it was Egypt’s first bank to be established pyramid has emerged as a base for the national economy, while with Egyptian capital to invest citizens’ savings and integrate standing the test of time. This pyramid is Banque Misr (BM), a them into the formal economy. The year 2020 will coincide with modern wonder, which made strides throughout the times of war the centennial of the founding of Banque Misr. Established to and peace, revolutions and stability, as well as times of scarcity be the first national bank, this pioneering institution rose to the and plenty. Our annual report will showcase the achievements challenge of nationalizing Egypt’s economy. Since its inception, we have made this year and highlight the competencies that have Banque Misr has become an icon of financial sustainability, taking driven our success throughout decades and how our sustainable the initiative of promoting inclusive development to safeguard efforts will shine through the future, limited only by our boundless future generations. ambition. As a part of its leadership, Banque Misr is committed to enlarging its positive footprint on the community welfare. Similarly, ancient Egypt's cultural heritage was conserved in the pyramids for future generations. In this respect, Imhotep Banque Misr’s growth is fundamentally correlated with the state’s immediately springs to mind. Imhotep was a universal genius economic growth and the well-being of all segments of society. who served under the pharaoh Djoser during the Third Dynasty Hence, Banque Misr is held responsible for establishing major in Egypt. He was a high priest and vizier. He was renowned the industrial platforms to have a truly resilient impact on the state’s first identified architect in history. As an architect, he is primarily economic growth. Therefore, the bank adopts a uniquely-designed famous for having created the first pyramid, the Step Pyramid strategy to channel savings into the best high-yield investments in of Saqqara, whose extraordinary and wondrous architecture support of the national economy. Several companies, which were continued to evolve for more than a thousand years. These either capitalized or partially funded by Banque Misr, successfully 8 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-12 102-2 FOREWORD Ceiling of the hypostyle hall, Temple of Hathor in Dendera, Qena. play a role in strengthening the national economy, including leading bank was enhanced through long-running partnerships Misr Capital Investments, BM Lease, Misr Ameriya Spinning with the government and various local and international & Weaving Company, Misr Insurance, Misr Hotels Company, institutions. BM Misr Oil Refining, Studio Misr, and Misr Company for Cotton Ginning. Currently, BM has acquired shares in 154 companies In its continuous pursuit of excellence, BM is the first stateAPPROACH across different fields, including finance, tourism, housing, owned bank that takes the lead in fulfilling the highest standards agriculture, food, communications, and information technology of corporate governance by adopting front-line regulations, (IT). Throughout the past century, Banque Misr has been among which are the GRI Sustainability Reporting standards, supporting Egypt’s economic growth and community welfare, the UN global compact principles, and the responsible banking even in the most challenging of times, during bursts of growth approach. Banque Misr is Egypt’s contemporary pyramid, and in wartime. Banque Misr has withstood adversity with a and Talaat Harb’s crowning achievement that has sustained sustainable legacy of success, while abiding by its first mission: its remarkable prominence as a pioneer bank several years to promote community empowerment and well-being. after his death; it has crystallized his grand vision and success. HOW BM Many of BM’s projects laid the foundation for a resilient Spurring competitiveness throughout several decades, Banque national economy that would endure any challenges just like OPERATES Misr scaled up its leadership in the banking sector through the pyramids we are showcasing in the pages of this report. customer-centricity and digitally-enabled sustainability. As artificial intelligence (AI) always enables BM to deliver the Drawing parallels between the ancient Egyptians’ glory and best for its customers, it excelled in AI-powered digital Banque Misr’s ground-breaking achievements. We are proud transition due to its professional workforce. With solid to be the upholders of Egypt's remarkable position worldwide, BM confidence in the capabilities of Egyptians, Banque Misr’s while overcoming any possible challenges. By establishing stakeholders represent the milestone of its leading success. Banque Misr, Talaat Harb notably reflected the pharaohs' Thus, effective stakeholders’ engagement is of prime priority unremitting greatness in Egypt's contemporary culture. DIVISIONS for the bank. Therefore, Banque Misr always ensures the best communication channels to effectively engage with them. Five millennia of Egyptian civilization have inspired us to It has always been a front-runner in deploying cutting-edge promote the treasures of ancient Egypt in BM’s annual report innovations that reshape the customers’ experience. for the second consecutive year. The ancient Egyptians built many pyramids, aside from those on the Giza Plateau, most of FINANCIAL Even prior to the current digital transformation, Banque Misr which were named after the kings who were buried in them was the first bank to apply a computer system in its operations. and their numbers continue to rise due to new archaeological PERFORMANCE With a fundamental role in stimulating Egypt’s economic discoveries that are being made. We present here the most development, the bank embraces state-driven initiatives magnificent of these structures, whose secrets are still being to integrate underserved groups, including the youth and unlocked to this day by experts, including how they were built, women, into the formal banking sector and to ensure startup and the purposes they served. empowerment as well. Full of pride, it offers the best for the prosperity of the community. Such a prominent role as a BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 9 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Djoser c.2667–2648 BC; Third Dynasty The Step Pyramid in Saqqara marks the beginning of The Pyramid Age This pyramid was built by the Third Dynasty king Djoser, also known as Netjerykhet (Magli 2010). It is 60 meters high, 330,400 cubic meters in volume, and covers an area of 121 by 109 meters. (Bárta 2005). Djoser was related to Khasekhemwy, the last king of the Second Dynasty, through Queen Nymaathap, who has generally been accepted to have been the wife of Khasekhemwy and the mother of Djoser. Early in the Third Dynasty, King Djoser assigned Imhotep to develop the first great stone building in history, the Step Pyramid. Djoser's name was found written in a cartouche, yet not found in an inscription of the Old Kingdom. On his own developments, the pharaoh engraves his Horus Name, Netjerykhet. There is no doubt that both names refer to the same king (Smith1962). King Djoser built more than just a pyramid. He built other structures around it as well, which form together a pyramid complex. In essence, he combined his tomb and the site of his funerary cult, which were separate in previous periods, into one coherent whole. Although no pyramid complex like his would ever be completed, the influence of Djoser’s pyramid complex on later ones is undeniable. For example, his pyramid complex includes a mortuary temple. This is where his funerary cult was conducted. It also includes a structure called the South Tomb, in essence a symbolic tomb, also for the king, believed to be for his ka-soul. 10 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Djoser in central Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 11 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Djoser c.2667–2648 BC; Third Dynasty It is worth noting that there are groups of underground passages cut into the bedrock under the complex, one under the pyramid and the other under the South Tomb – each planned to comprise four rooms with walls covered with faience tiles. The corridors of the South Tomb were most probably completed, while those under the pyramid were left unfinished (Kuraszkiewicz 2015). The Step Pyramid complex is the first monument that the ancient Egyptians built entirely out of stone. It is interesting to note that the ancient Egyptians built its constituent structures in the same style that they previously used to build these same structures, but out of mudbrick and plant materials. The columns of the entrance colonnade, for example, are made to look like bundles of reeds, and the series of shrines just to the east of the Step Pyramid are stone replicas of their wood and reed originals. 12 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The pyramid of Djoser in Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 13 One of the Faience Panels from Djoser's Step Pyramid Complex Pyramid Relief One of the underground relief Relief depicting Djoser performing panels beneath the Step Pyramid the running ritual of the Sed Festival, depicting Djoser. from the so-called South Tomb at his Step Pyramid complex, Saqqara 14 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Panels of Hesire Six wooden panels were found in the niches of the brick tomb of Hesire at Saqqara. He was a Chief of the Royal Scribes and Chief Dentist, during the reign of Djoser in the Third Dynasty (c.2667– 2648 BC). They are carved with fine reliefs of hieroglyphs as well as figures of the tomb owner in different poses and different stages of his life. Statue of King Djoser The Famine Stela This statue, found in a closed room called a serdab, An inscription written in Egyptian hieroglyphs located northeast of the funerary complex of King Djoser at on Sehel Island in the Nile near Aswan in Egypt tells of a Saqqara, is the oldest known life-size statue in Egypt. It seven-year period of drought and famine during the reign of depicts King Djoser himself, seated on his throne. pharaoh Djoser of the Third Dynasty. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 15 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Sekhemkhet c.2648–2640 BC; Third Dynasty S ekhemkhet began building a step pyramid in central Saqqara that was planned to be 129 square meters, but it only reached a height of seven meters when work stopped (Baines and Malek 2000). Had it been completed, it would have been 33,600 cubic meters in volume, stood 70 meters tall, and consisted of seven steps (Lehner 1997, Bárta 2005). The pyramid was certainly not finished but the excavations had to be discontinued after only a small part of the site had been explored. The underground galleries of Sekhemkhet resemble in plan those of the Layer Pyramid assigned to Khaba at Zawyet el-Aryan (Smith 1962). Although the pyramid was unfinished, archaeologists discovered a translucent alabaster sarcophagus with the original gypsum seal intact in the burial chamber. Unfortunately, the sarcophagus was found to be empty. However, a number of gold bracelets and armlets, and a beautiful golden box in the shape of a shell were discovered in a small chamber outside the burial chamber, along with clay jar sealing bearing Sekhemkhet’s name (Hill 2008). Sekhemkhet was a rather obscure king. A relief in the Wadi Maghara shows that he engaged in military activity in Sinai, but other than that little is known about his reign. Sekhemkhet is mentioned in both the Saqqara Kings List and the Abydos Kings List (Hill 2008). 16 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Sekhemkhet in central Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 17 Historic Pyramid expedition photos The pyramid was discovered by Zakaria Ghoneim in 1952, and excavated until 1956. During the visit of H.E. Jefferson Caffery, U.S. Ambassador to Egypt 18 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 Alabaster Sarcophagus King Sekhemkhet Archeologists discovered a translucent The king as he appears in his reliefs in Wadi Maghara, alabaster sarcophagus with the original Sinai. gypsum seal intact. Golden Bracelets A hinged gold cosmetic box in the form of a shell Golden bracelets found in the funerary complex of Sekhemkhet. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 19 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Khaba c.2640–2637 BC; Third Dynasty T he so-called Layer Pyramid at Zawyet el-Aryan was most likely built by Khaba, who ruled Egypt during the Third Dynasty. He was the successor of Sekhemkhet and probably his son (Hill 2010). The Layer Pyramid is 47,040 cubic meters in volume (Bárta 2005). Its base is 84 square meters (Baines and Malek 2000), and it might have reached a height of 42 to 45 meters if it had been completed (Lehner 1997). The Layer Pyramid is ascribed to Khaba based on the discovery of eight stone bowls in a Third Dynasty tomb beside it that are inscribed with the name of this king. It is clear that Khaba’s pyramid, as well as his predecessor Sekhemkhet’s, was intended to be a step pyramid, like Djoser’s, but neither were completed because of the short reigns of both kings (Smith 1962). There is no evidence that Khaba was buried in the pyramid, and there is no reference to him inside the structure (Hill 2010). It is not clear what state of construction had been reached in building a temple at the Layer Pyramid of Zawyet el-Aryan (Smith1962). 20 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Khaba in Zawyet el-Aryan BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 21 102-2 102-5 102-6 102-7 102-12 A Century–old HISTORY of illustrious SUCCESS... THE BEST YET TO COME The year 2020 is a defining year that marks the centennial of the the largest networks of branches in the Middle East and North establishment of Banque Misr, which was founded in 1920. The Africa. Banque Misr has about 18,000 employees, with a total notable Egyptian economist, Talaat Harb, initially proposed the paid-up capital worth EGP 15bn. BM has a solid competitive establishment of the first bank entirely owned by Egyptians to advantage, where it owns and operates 700 branches, including utilize their savings. Banque Misr has played a considerable role in five branches in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), one in Paris, driving sustainable development and supporting entrepreneurial a subsidiary in Germany, 20 branches run by its subsidiary in ecosystems. Lebanon, and representative offices in Russia (Moscow) and China (Guangzhou). This is in addition to new representative As a solid pillar of Egypt’s economic growth for a century, offices in Italy (Milan), and South Korea (Seoul). Moreover, It Banque Misr has spawned new opportunities for numerous plans to expand its foothold, especially in Africa. Egyptian businesses to transform into industrial giants. Banque Misr offers a wide array of funds for various sectors, including: In parallel, BM’s innovative strategies place it at the vanguard textiles, insurance, transportation, aviation, entertainment, and of the transformation of the banking industry. Over the past film-making. Since then, Banque Misr has been offering various decades, the bank harnessed the latest technologies to enhance financial services for all segments through advanced banking the way products and services are developed for customers. facilities. Banque Misr has also expedited the restructuring process of its branches to fully equip them for digital transformation, offering Additionally, Banque Misr always participates in various initiatives a wide variety of best electronic services, such as e-payment and protocols to promote national projects, including Al-Robeky services, BM mobile and internet banking (BM online), and BM Leather City workshops, industrial complexes for micro, small, microfinance products. and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), the “Mashrouak” (Your Project) program, the New Damietta Furniture City workshops, For the first time in Egypt, Banque Misr has launched a selfpharmacists’ businesses, and more. Further, BM signed an service “Chatbot” on its website to better serve customers 24 agreement with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to hours a day. BM is also the first bank in Egypt and North Africa help in expanding the number of women-led businesses in its SME to adhere to the PCI data security standards and to obtain the Banking portfolio, as part of the IFC’s wider efforts to promote latest version of the globally-accredited Payment Card Industry financial inclusion for women entrepreneurs in the country. Data Security Standard (PCI DSS 3.2.1) certification. BM’s stateof-the-art technologies aim to serve a large base of customers. Banque Misr relentlessly focuses on promoting a vibrant economy through its financial services offered by its valuable Sustainability underpins BM’s corporate culture and guides its day-toemployees who provide exceptional services in uniquely diverse day operations, along with stakeholders’ inclusiveness. This has been workplaces. Banque Misr expanded its outreach nationwide pioneered through the adoption of inclusive prosperity for everyone and worldwide with advanced banking facilities in order to in the communities it aims to serves; through a positive climate serve various segments. BM’s headquarters is located at 151 of entrepreneurship, women empowerment, and environmental Mohamed Farid Street, Downtown Cairo, Egypt. It successfully protection for a more prosperous present and future. BM plays an built its success in nine markets across three continents with a indispensable role in achieving sustainable development. With the huge domestic client base of more than 12m, operating one of aim of accelerating sustainable development, Banque Misr adopts 22 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-12 103-2 102-5 frontline regulations, as the bank recently signed the responsible banking initiative supported by the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP-FI). This is in addition to the UN global 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and the UN Global Compact (UNGC) principles. Embracing a shared responsibility to accelerate progress, BM is proud to make a positive impact, both directly and indirectly through the Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD). BM also encourages employees to give back to the communities they serve. As a fundamental pillar of the national economy, BM’s role extends to contextualizing and promoting the SDGs and UNGC principles in Egypt. In this regard, BM has taken remarkable steps toward eradicating poverty and hunger, promoting health and education, reducing inequality and gender disparities, combating climate change, and halting biodiversity loss. Further, the bank is committed to aligning its operations and strategies with the 10 UN principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. BM’s ongoing efforts support Egypt’s Sustainable Development Strategy, dubbed “Egypt’s Vision 2030.” This strategy is aligned with the UN global 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The strategy intends to serve as a guiding framework for all development work in Egypt, which in turn extends to the bank’s commitment to promoting social justice, knowledge, innovation, scientific research, and economic development. Ownership Banque Misr is a state-owned bank BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 23 102-45 102-46 102-52 102-54 103-2 102-1 ABOUT THE REPORT A 100-YEAR JOURNEY Toward A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE C elebrating 100 years of a remarkable footprint nationwide, Banque Misr (BM) remains committed to maximizing returns to a wide range of stakeholders, while minimizing environmental into our second centennial. Additionally, BM spearheaded efforts for ecosystem development and environmental protection, embedded through its compliance with local and international impacts and acting as a responsible financial institution. regulations and laws related to environmental protection while carrying out its operations. Banque Misr (S.A.E.) issues its annual sustainability report to illustrate its performance impacts on the communities it serves. A century of success is a milestone few institutions achieve. Banque Misr adopts such internationally recognized framework This is a testament to BM’s ongoing perseverance over many in order to assess such impacts. Hence, BM is always able to generations. The bank shows a clear commitment to GRI foster its positive impacts and mitigate any adverse impacts to standards, which have been included in the report. This report ultimately achieve the best with regard to community wellbeing. has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Core option. Thus, senior level decision making process has to be conducted under BM’s chairman’s authority to define the material topics. Throughout the report, GRI Standards are disclosed through The reporting on sustainable development topics is conducted labels. All these standards and the corresponding page numbers on an annual basis. are listed in the GRI Content Index starting from page 209. BM’s fifth annual sustainability report highlights progress on For the fifth consecutive year, Banque Misr sets sustainability as the bank’s main materiality approach, as selected based on the pillar according to which its operations are measured. Among our operations, strategy, and sector particularities. Notably, many other highlights, this report reveals BM’s strategy, which a comprehensive overview of our impact and engagement aligns with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, across the economic, social, and environmental sectors is the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), along with joining covered in different sections of this report within the scope of United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP the consolidated audited financial results for fiscal year (FY) FI). This year’s edition of our report illustrates our progress over 2018/2019. the last 10 decades and the strides we made on several fronts. BM’s corporate communication department is responsible for determining and validating the overall sustainability reporting process in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards for sustainability. Meanwhile, BM’s business departments jointly collaborate in providing the updated information, reviewing and consolidating the included data and information. With this respect, BM’s sustainability reporting process is based on the consultation of internal stakeholders. Building on remarkable performance during the past years, BM is now well-positioned to progress into a brighter future. We are now more focused on sustaining BM's positive influence as we launch 24 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-46 102-47 102-49 103-1 MATERIALITY T he materiality concept has recently been deemed fundamental to our sustainability efforts. Banque Misr adopts a triple bottomline strategy which gives equal weight to its economic performance, along with its social and environmental footprint. This year’s materiality assessment puts an emphasis on the bank’s economic performance, stakeholders’ inclusiveness and the socio-ecological impacts. Banque Misr is the first state-owned bank to prepare its annual report in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting standards for sustainability and UNGC principles. BM plays an indispensable role in achieving sustainable development. This year marked the fifth year since its compliance with the GRI standards to report its sustainability performance. In line with its operations, Banque Misr has a mission to foster the community’s wellbeing and market-led growth, in addition to boosting shared prosperity. Banque Misr adopts a communitydriven development approach while managing the allocation of its resources in a prudent manner. Capitalizing on today’s opportunities and future potentials, Banque Misr shows a full commitment to eradicating poverty, promoting human rights, and gender equality. Banque Misr conducted an assessment to identify topics that are essential to its approach to sustainability. The assessment is conducted based on GRI Standards, diligently seeking to enhance our sustainability approach in line with stakeholders’ expectations. The report covers 22 material topics pertaining to sustainability that are crucial both to the bank and its stakeholders. These topics were identified in FY 2017-2018, and as cohesive as the relevant focal points in this year’s report. Defining the categories of material topics Banque Misr applies triple-bottom-line framework for achieving sustainable development. Thus, the material topics of the sustainability report are classified and prioritized according to: Operational impact Corporate Impact Operational Impact Corporate Impact 1. Economic Performance 1. Staff-related disclosures 2. Indirect Economic Impacts Employment and job creation Labor/Management Relations 3. Anti-corruption Post-Employment Benefit Plans 4. Customer Privacy Employee Wages and Benefits 5. Procurement Practices (suppliers) Occupational Health and Safety 6. Human Rights Training and Education Diversity and Equal Opportunity 7. Child Labor Non-discrimination 8. Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2. Environmental footprint impacts: 9. Community Welfare Material Recycling Reduction of Energy Consumption Reduction of Water Consumption Reduction of Green House Gas Emissions Procurement Practices (Suppliers) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 25 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Snefru Meidum Pyramid c.2613–2589 BC; Fourth Dynasty The Fourth Dynasty begins with Snefru, the builder of the two magnificent pyramids located in Dahshur. Snefru built his first pyramid, 638,733 cubic meters in volume, at Meidum (Bárta 2005). With an original height of 92 meters (Baines and Malek 2000), the pyramid does seem to represent a transitional phase from Djoser’s step pyramid to the whole structures adopted in the Giza Plateau. It is most likely that the original outer casing was quarried away rather than suddenly collapsing and sliding down around the base of the remaining stepped tower (Lehner 1997). The Meidum complex is the first ancient Egyptian royal funerary compound to have many of the components that would later become standard. Aside from the pyramid itself, there may have been a simple valley temple closer to the Nile Valley, along with a funerary cult structure in the center of the eastern face of the pyramid. This is a simpler version of the mortuary temple found in later pyramid complexes, where the cult of the deceased king was conducted. These two structures were connected with the first causeway which, unlike later examples, was not roofed. In addition to elite burials around the pyramid, the complex also has a satellite pyramid, a smaller, symbolic, pyramid for the soul of the king (Lehner 1997, Bárta 2005). 26 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Meidum Pyramid of Snefru in Dahshur BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 27 Phase 3: Smooth Pyramid Phase 2: Second step Pyramid Phase 1: First step Pyramid The Construction Riddle Some researchers think that Huni was largely responsible for building the step pyramid phases of the Meidum Pyramid and that Snefru’s involvement was limited to the final building phase. According to the work of Petrie, followed by the insightful work of Borchardt, it is well established that the Meidum Pyramid was built in three phases, an initial seven-step pyramid which was enlarged to an eight-step pyramid, before an outer casing was added to produce a smooth-sided pyramid (Reader 2014). Mendelssohn claimed that, during construction, the pyramid collapsed, possibly burying parts of the Old Kingdom workshops beneath the debris that accumulated around the base of the pyramid. Those who do not favor the collapse theory for the Meidum Pyramid argue that the unusual shape of the pyramid is the result of centuries of stone robbing, with the debris mantle slowly accumulating around the base (Reader 2014). 28 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Façade of the Tomb of Nefermaat, Looking Toward the Meidum Pyramid Close to the Meidum Pyramid is a series of Old Kingdom tombs, which are generally considered to belong to the family of Snefru. Old Kingdom, Fourth Dynasty, reign of Snefru (c.2613–2589 BC) painted plaster scenes from the tomb of Nefermaat and Atet in Meidum. The beautiful scene on the right, which is famously known as the Meidum Geese , was discovered by A. Mariette in 1871. Nefermaat bore the title Eldest Son of the King, and was thought to have been a son of Snefru and thus brother of Khufu, owner of the Great Pyramid of Giza. The colorful scenes of daily life that decorate the chapel of this tomb include pictures of men hunting birds in the marshes and farmers plowing and sowing seed. The geese displayed here form part of the scene showing men trapping birds with a clapnet. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 29 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Snefru Bent Pyramid c.2613–2589 BC; Fourth Dynasty Snefru made his second attempt at building a pyramid, 1,237,040 cubic meters in volume, at Dahshur (Bárta 2005). Its final height is 104.71 meters (Verner 2002). Around the fifteenth year of his reign, Snefru decided to transfer his burial ground to Dahshur, further to the north. The reasons for this decision are unknown. Maybe the king wished from the inception of the project to build a new, larger, pyramid (the square base of the Bent Pyramid measures 189.5 meters compared to the Meidum pyramid’s 144 meters) and one that in its shape would be the first true pyramid (Verner 2002, Bárta 2005). Another factor may have been the site’s relative proximity to Memphis (Bárta 2005). Some Egyptologists argue that when the Bent Pyramid reached a height of about 46 meters, cracks appeared within the masonry and the architect was forced to reduce the steep slope of the side-walls from an angle of 55 degrees to 43 degrees (Verner 2002, Bárta 2005). Because of the resulting shape, this pyramid has come to be known as the Bent Pyramid. However, the Time Scanners documentary team laser scanned the pyramid and their results showed that the pyramid has not collapsed on itself. Based on these interesting results, they claim that the pyramid was designed with its peculiar in shape in mind from the outset, and consider it a marvel of ancient architecture (Stubberfield 2014). However, peer-reviewed academic research is required to validate their findings. 30 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Bent Pyramid of Snefru in Dahshur BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 31 The Internal Layout of the Pyramid The pyramid is exceptional in that it has two largely separate internal structures a lower one with an entrance located on the north face at a height of 11.33 meters from the ground level, and an upper one – a unique case for the Old Kingdom – with an entrance situated on the west face at a height of 32.76 meters. These two systems of compartments both contain a vast chamber which is covered with a corbelled vault. These different arrangements were connected by a gallery dug through the existing masonry, undoubtedly by the builders themselves at a later stage of the construction work (Monnier and Puchkov 2016). 32 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Lower System The reconstruction of the three building stages of The Upper System the upper chamber BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 33 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Snefru The Red Pyramid c.2613–2589 BC; Fourth Dynasty Snefru built his third pyramid, 1,649,000 cubic meters in volume and 104 meters high, at Dahshur (Verner 2002, Bárta 2005). It is built from a reddishcolored limestone, which gives it the nickname of the Red Pyramid (Baines and Malek 2000). It is also known as the North Pyramid because of its position relative to the Bent Pyramid. The mortuary temple for the Red Pyramid in Dahshur covered an area of approximately 800 square meters, but had virtually no storerooms (Bárta 2005). It appears to have been completed in a rushed manner, possibly by Khufu himself after the death of his father Snefru (Lehner 1997). This pyramid was conceived as an even bigger construction (the length of the base being 220 meters) but the slope of the walls was from the very beginning lessened to 43 degrees. This pyramid probably became the final resting place of the king (Bárta 2005). The tremendous amount of building undertaken by Snefru had a profound effect on the overburdened state economy, with a vital part of the resources directed toward the pyramid projects. At Meidum, pottery imitating stone vessels and miniature cult vessels for symbolic food and drink offerings were introduced. The mastaba tombs for elite members of the royal court at Dahshur were limited to a standard size of about 600 square meters, in contrast with the mastaba tombs for members of the royal family at Meidum ranging from about 3,200 to 6,000 square meters (Lehner 1997, Bárta 2005). 34 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Red Pyramid of Snefru in Dahshur BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 35 102-9 102-10 102-40 102-42 102-43 103-2 STAKEHOLDERS’ INCLUSIVENESS A VALUABLE ASSET FOR SUCCESS T he value of Banque Misr’s stakeholders is deeply articulated in its strategy. Hence, Banque Misr actively puts stakeholder engagement as a top priority for achieving more equitable, and sustainable social development. BM’s stakeholder strategy focuses on promoting inclusiveness and strengthening integrity while fostering the transition to a sustainable future. Banque Misr’s long-run success is driven by leveraging stakeholders’ overall value. Furthermore, Banque Misr conducts multi-stakeholder partnerships, which in return enable it to be better positioned to accelerate sustainable development. Banque Misr takes its stakeholders’ engagement into due account through a systematic approach in order to ensure long-term shareholder value, which has been reflected through our performance. To solidify the long-term relationships with its stakeholders, Banque Misr frequently ensures proactive, broad, and ongoing engagement. Stakeholders’ engagement is essential to Banque Misr’s sustainable success, which is fostered by continuous adaptability to cutting-edge evolution. Identifying Stakeholder Perspectives including volunteerism and philanthropy. Banque Misr mobilizes financial support for sustainable development to advance its Employees goal of shared prosperity. As an influential asset, employees have significant financial and Business Partners & Suppliers time investments in the organization. They also have defining Banque Misr integrates sustainability into its procurement role in the strategy, tactics, and operations undertaken by the activities, encouraging business partners and suppliers to organization. They also sustain the well-established confidence incorporate social, ethical, and environmental criteria in their of other stakeholders. They are well-equipped to offer the best activities. banking services whilst ensuring that customers aren’t vulnerable to privacy breaches. BM’s Stakeholder Engagement Government Banque Misr’s solid commitment to the stakeholder engagement is fundamental for ensuring a constructive, accountable, and Due to its prime importance as a major stakeholder, Banque inclusive decision-making process at all levels, in aligning with Misr ensures the alignment with the Egyptian cabinet’s agenda national regulations, and international best practices. Reciprocal for sustainable development, aiming to eliminate poverty and communication is the essence of Banque Misr’s resilient presence. advance human development and gender equality. Hence, BM is always committed to ensuring seamlessly effective communication channels with its stakeholders. Current & Potential Clients Therefore, BM offers optimized end-to-end communication Adopting a customer-centric approach, Banque Misr ensures channels to its stakeholders: above the line (ATL), below the line customer retention by going beyond high-quality customer (BTL), and one-to-one communication. In line with its multichannel service. Banque Misr always takes the lead in ensuring optimum stakeholders’ communication approach, BM has managed customer engagement. consistent communications through a wide array of print, online and broadcast media in order to ensure effective stakeholder Local Communities engagement. Banque Misr also embraces the full potential of digital channels for highly personalized communication with its Banque Misr adheres to a solid commitment to corporate social stakeholders. responsibility and a range of humanitarian and societal impact, 36 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-12 103-2 Our APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY FOREWORD Entering a New Century of Sustainable Success B anque Misr always looks forward to creating the utmost value, with a 100-year proven track record of achievements. Our purpose, “working together for prosperity”, success. Since its inception in 1920, Banque Misr’s mission is to facilitate access to affordable and reliable banking services for all Egyptians, to ensure inclusive and sustainable development is deeply rooted in our operations. BM illuminates a valuefor the national economy. Sustainability at BM is not just about based culture that creates a more resilient future every day; doing good. It is about investing in a better future for our enriching communities and boosting the local economy while business and making a positive and lasting impact on society, BM maintaining human rights and environmental protection as a driven by our purpose and our corporate values. This has top priority. guided the way we do business for a century and enabled us to APPROACH adapt effectively to an ever-evolving operating environment. Incorporating sustainability in the core of its business philosophy, Banque Misr’s success goes beyond a sole focus Commitment to sustainability has been at the core of our on the economic bottom line. When it comes to our strategy, success from the outset, which drove us to align with the Banque Misr adopts a holistic approach to its sustainability highest global standards to achieve the optimum level of agenda. excellence for the communities we serve. As a flag bearer for a responsible banking approach, corporate social responsibility HOW BM OPERATES For a wider impact, exceeding profits and stakeholders’ value, is tightly integrated into our activities. BM adopts corporate-level strategic priorities in line with the triple-bottom-line framework. With ongoing growth prospects, In line with the culture of compliance, good corporate BM invests its value-based efforts in support of the national governance in the sense of promoting continuity, economy, community welfare, and environmental protection. consistency, and effectiveness is of special importance for BM will always maintain its customer-centric strategy, in Banque Misr. Within an international best practice framework, addition to ultimate excellence in all its operations. BM’s governance practices usually bring better performance and reinforce transparency, accountability, and sustainability. BM DIVISIONS As a value-based bank, prioritizing stakeholder engagement Based on materiality, GRI Sustainability Reporting standards, along with the best resource allocation complements Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and Environmental, the bank’s responsible growth. BM has a well-established Social, and Governance (ESG) principles and best practices proactive approach to adequately balance between delivering are broadly articulated by the bank’s strategy which focuses added value to society and its target to fulfill the demands of on optimizing the bank’s resource allocation strategy, while both current and future generations for a better life without steering the nation’s action plan for sustainable development FINANCIAL compromising either of them. and community welfare. Banque Misr has been able to significantly achieve competitive This chapter clarifies BM’s current market position and its PERFORMANCE advantages. Building prosperous communities, therefore, has governing principles along with its new strategy to sustain its been integrated as a guiding principle into our operational leading role in the banking sector and community welfare as decisions and business strategy. With a future-focused well. approach, Banque Misr pursues sustainability, not just a mere BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 37 38 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-14 INTRODUCTION BY THE CHAIRMAN A CENTURY OF MOMENTUM A s Banque Misr Chairman, it is my distinct privilege to witness Banque Misr’s centennial, which is a once-in-alifetime occasion that deserves special recognition for its Accordingly, we will make the utmost effort to always ensure such sustainable success, which propels national economic growth. With a solid compliance to our code of ethics and deeply-rooted momentousness. One hundred years ago, the leading economist values, Banque Misr sustained its stakeholders’ long-lasting Talaat Harb took the reins to turn the long-cherished dream trust and loyalty. Such compliance and commitment to remain of the whole society into a reality. With immense pride over a responsible partner for our stakeholders is a stepping stone this unremitting tradition, we are ready to forge ahead with a for every achievement; this unwavering commitment is clearly deep sense of loyalty and commitment, not just for this legacy demonstrated through BM’s hierarchy structure at all levels. but also for the whole community. In this vein, I would like to recognize the inclusive value of our broad stakeholders’ base, including our employees, as every success is chiefly attributed to their devotion and trust, which has lasted over the years. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 39 102-2 102-6 102-14 103-3 201-1 Banque Misr... The Route to Genuine Success Supported by a strong economy and robust growth rate, Egypt will turn into a cross-continental hub in various sectors thanks to Last year was another year of progress along with a consistent its vast resources, along with the government’s megaprojects, focus on customer-centricity and propelling growth. The including a pan-African road project extending from northern milestone of such progress is always steered by our commitment Egypt to Cape Town, which is currently under construction. to society and the environment. For the fifth consecutive Egypt also has a pivotal role in the Belt and Road Initiative. year, we are full of pride as our annual report illustrates our The long-term economic growth is also supported by ongoing performance in accordance with the standards of the Global reforms, mega infrastructure projects and national projects Reporting Initiative, the most widely-adopted global standards in housing and health. As financial technology (fintech) has for sustainability reporting. recently become a promising and emerging industry across the globe, the Central Bank of Egypt has launched its fintech Aligning to such standards scales up Banque Misr’s growth in and innovation integrated strategy in March 2019 to promote its business size. Banque Misr recorded a 9.4% increase in its Egypt’s fintech ecosystem and position Egypt as the regionally financial position up to EGP 967bn by the end of June 2019, recognized fintech hub. compared to EGP 884bn at the end of June 2018. Banque Misr successfully managed to restore its profitability rates to Egypt’s robust growth is maintained at favorable levels. Real its normal levels recording EGP 8.6bn in net profits after tax GDP growth reached 5.6% in FY 2019, compared to 5.3% in during fiscal year 2018/2019. This coincided with the maturity FY 2018. The pivot to monetary easing is triggered by the of the high yielding certificates of deposits that the bank significant decline in the rate of the headline inflation in July offered during the last fiscal year to minimize the impact 2019 to 7.8%, Egypt cut interest rates, seizing on slower of high inflation rates on average depositors, while playing inflation, a stable currency and stocks rebounding. The a much appreciated positive role in supporting the national positive indicators of Egypt’s economic performance lauded economy. by international institutions reflect that Egypt is on the right track. Egypt notched up to third place in The Economist’s list Egypt’s Economy on the Right Track for the most accelerated economic growth globally in the first quarter of 2019. Egypt has successfully begun to reap the fruits of the notable success of the comprehensive economic reform program, Due to the ongoing efforts regarding improving the investment which receives a positive impact on national economic environment, Egypt continues to be Africa’s largest recipient performance during 2019. Egypt has undertaken historical of foreign direct investment (FDI) flows in the first half of economic reforms over the last years. In cooperation with 2019, as declared during the United Nations Conference on the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the government took Trade and Development (UNCTAD). As for the International courageous strides. The macroeconomic outlook has continued Monetary Fund’s forecasts, Egypt’s economy will witness a to improve, with external and fiscal deficits narrowing, inflation solid economic growth thanks to the recovery of the tourism and unemployment decreasing, and growth accelerating. A sector and the hike in gas production rates. Furthermore, positive outlook is a token of Egypt’s continuous reforms. Egypt Egypt’s economy is forecasted to grow at 6.8% per year over recently gained a solid foothold in the digital transformation the next 10 years, placing it among the top fastest-growing era, reshaping its future as a leading fintech hub through its economies until 2027, according to a report issued by Harvardtechnology-driven innovation in financial infrastructure. affiliated Center for International Development (CID). 40 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 102-14 102-16 Egypt will continue on the same path as it further diversifies Egypt’s main index recorded the highest global hike. The CBE local production and promotes investments. Moody’s indicates also launched an initiative for a 6-month delay of installment that Egypt’s budget deficit narrowed to 8.2% of the GDP in payment for retail loans, debit cards, corporate loans, and FY 2019, from 9.8% in FY 2018, against an initial target of SMEs loans. Besides, the limitation has for in-branch cash 8.4%, and that the primary surplus expanded to 1% of GDP withdrawals and deposits in Egypt to avoid crowding and after recording a small deficit in FY 2018. Moreover, Moody’s ensuring protection. The Egyptians are also urged to rely on report indicates that Egypt’s economy is well-diversified with e-payments and electronic transfers instead of cash to avoid high growth potential, underpinning Egypt’s significant shock COVID-19 transmission. absorption capacity. Egypt’s GDP rate reached 5.6% despite rekindled global trade tensions. A New Strategy for Future Success According to Fitch, real interest rates remain comfortably Taking the next step in its sustainable success, Banque Misr positive, even after CBE’s interest cut. Thus, Egypt’s embarked on adopting a new five-year strategy to be applied economic strength was assessed as “high”, with forecasts of during the period from 2019-2023 to increase its market share a continuous increase in the primary surplus to 2% of GDP and further reinforce its financial position. The new strategy is threshold in FY 2021 and a decline in deficit rate to 7.5% in based on important pillars: Partnership, Responsibility, Integrity, FY 2020. Fitch Ratings affirmed Egypt’s longTerm ForeignDedication, and Excellence. As the first letter of each word Currency (LTFC) Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at B+’ with a forms collectively form the word “PRIDE”, we are attached to stable outlook. On the other hand, Fitch Ratings forecasts real this pride to pursue a better society for future generations; GDP growth will remain robust at around 5.5% in FY 2020. hence, our operations are managed responsibly in alignment The recent economic reform decisions positively influenced with community development strategies. BM’s strategy not the banking sector and the whole society. In the light of the only identifies economic targets but also sets social objectives bank’s outstanding performance in 2019, Moody’s upgraded such as financial inclusion, responsible lending, environmental the long-term local-currency deposit ratings of Banque Misr sustainability, social development, and governance. Sustainable to B2, and the long-term foreign currency deposit rating to and responsible practices remain fundamental to our business B3. approach which, in continuation of tradition, will remain a crucial component of our guidelines and values. Egypt’s Bold Strategy to Ensure Coronavirus Readiness Financial Inclusion...Key to Sustainable Development Amid the novel Coronavirus outbreak, the Egyptian government swiftly took robust countermeasures to prevent Being at the forefront of financial inclusion, Banque Misr is wellthe epidemic. President Sisi urged the government to seriously positioned to unlock the potential for sustainable development in and responsibly deal with the outbreak. Egypt embarks Egypt. Banque Misr is internationally recognized by The European on a comprehensive and coherent strategy for reassuring Magazine-one of the most prominent international magazines in precaution measures, including suspending flights and assessing the performance of banks and financial institutions, as repatriating the Egyptian expatriates in Coronavirus-stricken “The Best Bank in Financial Inclusion in Egypt 2019”. We have countries and quarantining them for 14 days. identified various scopes that are crucial for financial inclusion, namely digital transformation, ensuring accessibility for both The CBE ramped up bold measures to support the national underserved and unbanked groups, supporting micro, small, and economy. With the CBE’s support with the tune of EGP 20bn, medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), and empowering women. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 41 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-10 102-14 Toward Disruptive Digital Transformation and Banque Misr adopted an expansion strategy that enabled it a Cashless Society to operate one of the largest networks of branches in the MENA region, operating a network of branches of about 700 As digital transformation cuts across every aspect of the branches. Banque Misr is renowned for providing the best-inbanking sector, digital-enabled banking operations unveil new class banking services from in-branch services through the opportunities. Moving ahead in line with the global shift toward largest network of branches to online services. Banque Misr digital transformation, Banque Misr has successfully taken plans to extend its geographical presence in Egypt through credible steps toward harnessing financial inclusion through a up to 875 branches by 2022. Banque Misr is also the first wide array of digitized banking services, with scalable, faster bank to offer Islamic banking branches (Kenana Branches) and cheaper delivery. Banque Misr has successfully taken the that reach up to about 44 branches all over Egypt. lead in the digital banking transformation through a wide array of services, which include BM Online services for faster, safer Wider Global Outreach for Optimal Success and more convenient transactions around the clock. BM enjoys a well–established global presence across three BM’s digital banking services enable customers to carry continents. Banque Misr’s strategy sets global outreach as out banking transactions anytime and anywhere. Besides, a top priority to ensure more accessibility. Banque Misr’s digitalization expands the outreach of the banking services global outreach solidly extends across nine countries: Egypt, beyond the confines of our physical footprint. As part of UAE, Lebanon, China, South Korea, Italy, France, Germany, its journey of ongoing success, Banque Misr takes the lead and Russia. Igniting financial inclusion, BM has a solid market in providing state-of-the-art digital services, being the first presence worldwide in order to fulfill the demands of a bank to supply the Chatbot service with artificial intelligence wider segment of customers, especially Egyptian expatriates. technology. Banque Misr also introduced QR code technology Banque Misr has set a plan, which entails expanding our global for electronic payments, updated BM mobile, and Internet outreach to include Somalia “Mogadishu”, Kenya “Nairobi” banking service (BM online), in addition to BM Wallet, which and some other African Countries. The bank will work on the enables customers to safely make their payments through websites and ATMs all over Egypt. expansion plan in more than 15 countries during the later four phases of this strategy. For boosting the functionality of our digital offerings, Banque Misr also provides instant payroll services and electronic Advancing MSMEs Ecosystem...Fostering services for government payments, taxes, insurance, and Inclusive Prosperity customs to avoid time-consuming transactions. Banque Misr is setting up a new department to manage to adopt the latest Indeed, Banque Misr is determined to continue reshaping the digital banking technologies, such as blockchain and fintech. future with an inclusive vision aligned with national and global To unlock more potentials to accelerate the transition toward best practices. Banque Misr notably recognizes the essential a cashless society in line with the national strategy for financial role of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) as inclusion, the bank signed protocols with 23 public and private a catalyst for accelerating economic growth. Accordingly, BM universities in Egypt to offer fee-free prepaid cards “Meeza”, has exerted serious efforts to fuel productive business models for university students to pay tuition fees. and champion entrepreneurship as well. In line with Egypt’s national strategy in this regard, financing priority is given to Accessible for Better Customer Experience the MSMEs sector in Banque Misr. In return, BM inched up the MSMEs loan portfolio rate in accordance with the CBE’s latest As customer-centricity is our prime focus to reach out to directives in support of this segment. BM’s MSMEs portfolio more than 12m customers in Egypt wherever they are, has surged by 120% year-on-year during FY 2018/2019. 42 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-12 102-14 413-1 The volume of the portfolio reached EGP 23.3bn, compared Egypt’s Vision 2030”. Further, Banque Misr has a supporting to EGP 10.6bn by the end of June 2018. Further, Banque Misr role in integrating the informal micro-businesses, owned or collaborated with the Ministry of Local Development in the led by women into the formal economy. “Mashrouak” program for financing MSMEs through local single-window units nationwide. With respect to this program, Female entrepreneurs represent an increasingly significant Banque Misr issued total loans at a value of EGP 6.4bn to portion of the SMEs sector in Egypt, yet they are still struggling 78,000 clients. BM’s MSMEs portfolio has served about 121,000 to access financial services. Therefore, Banque Misr exerts clients as of June 2019, compared to 85,000 in June 2018. As efforts through collaboration with international institutions such, the client base of the MSMEs portfolio increased by toward empowering female entrepreneurs, which in return 36,000 clients, recording a growth rate of 41%. Banque Misr reflects on sustainable development. It signed Egypt’s first also thrives to facilitate a barrier-free transition for MSMEs Women Banking Agreement to Support Female Entrepreneurs to the formal economy. Banque Misr always seeks to launch with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) to integrate innovative banking services and solutions for this segment, more women-led SMEs into the formal banking sector, in resulting in expanding the client base. In an unprecedented alignment with the state’s directives. step, Banque Misr automated micro-financing services, with the aim of enhancing the quality of the services provided for Corporate Social Responsibility...A Leading this segment. Abiding by CBE’s mandate to support MSMEs, Role Banque Misr also took part in various initiatives, including the “NilePreneurs” initiative. Since the community is the root of our existence, Banque Misr is always keen on consolidating its commitment to social Banque Misr inaugurated the first NilePreneurs Design House welfare. Banque Misr always takes part in national initiatives in 2018. It also supports its clients in participating in local and targeting better lives for vulnerable groups in our community. international exhibitions in addition to providing consultation Banque Misr has a significant footprint in economic growth, as services to ensure their sustainability. Banque Misr’s efforts to it is considered one of the largest banks with a legacy in the support MSMEs ultimately promote the growth rate of the Gross field of corporate social responsibility, which complements its Domestic Product (GDP) and effectively impact sustainable performance standards. Banque Misr is the first state-owned development. bank to abide by the GRI standards and UNGC principles. In line with the adopted triple-bottom-line framework, Banque Misr Empowering Women Through Banking is enacting positive change on community welfare through its Innovations leading role in social responsibility. Banque Misr’s expenditures on CSR activities amounted to almost EGP 760m in 2019. Banque Misr recognizes gender equality as an essential aspect of sustainable development and a better future. Thus, Banque It is worth noting that corporate social responsibility is tightly Misr is always keen on promoting women’s representation on integrated into its activities, either directly through the bank one hand and providing finances for female-led businesses on itself along with its employees or indirectly through Banque the other hand. Empowering women is considered a recurring Misr Foundation for Community Development in cooperating necessity to accelerate sustainable development. Being the with the civil society organizations. Banque Misr is actively core of our bank’s strategy, empowering women is consistent contributing to the community’s development in various with the UN Sustainable Development Goal no. 5 for promoting sectors: health, education, slum development, supporting gender equality and empowering all women, which echoes civil society in the implementation of development projects, BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 43 102-12 102-13 102-14 102-15 103-2 413-1 etc. Giving back to our nation, Banque Misr’s employees carbon economy with equal opportunities within an ethical crystallize its core value in promoting the community welfare framework. As a member of (UNEP FI), Banque Misr uniquely through philanthropy and volunteerism activities. Further, shows a further commitment to the international principles Banque Misr’s role was recognized as the best bank in CSRengendering the transition to climate-resilient economic 2019 by International Business Magazine. Banque Misr’s solid development. In parallel, our employees give back through commitment to corporate social responsibility is clearly corporate philanthropy and volunteerism. This is in addition demonstrated through various efforts exerted by the bank as to our collaborations with non-profit organizations and an entity or by its valuable employees. participation in corporate social responsibility initiatives. Responsible Finance...Bettering the Agile Methodology for Adaptive, Resilient Environmental Footprint Success With a commitment to social and environmental responsibility, Banque Misr focuses on achieving agility to promote BM is the first national bank in Egypt to comply with the 10 sustainable development. Banque Misr’s success is a unique principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the GRI success shared with the staff and stakeholders. Such Sustainability Reporting standards, for the fifth consecutive collaborative success is all about high-performing teamwork. year, to report its sustainability performance. In addition to As customer-centricity is Banque Misr’s highest priority, our signing the United Nations Environment Programme Finance self-organizing teams are committed to consistently offering Initiative, Banque Misr also joined the Responsible Banking a competitive advantage to customers while paying attention initiative. Banque Misr has enhanced its role in this regard by to technical excellence, respect, and transparency. In light of earning a firm position in the global arena. financial inclusion, the team ensures simplicity in delivering digital banking services to customers within a shorter As a good corporate citizen, we are conscious of managing timescale. To be adaptable to any change, Banque Misr our direct environmental footprint and seek to influence our decided to double the training activities to enhance acquired stakeholders toward sustainable practices and to rely on locally skills and improve competencies, striving to offer the best. manufactured materials. Banque Misr offers finance schemes for eco-friendly projects to achieve sustainable development. Our Stakeholders...Mutual Trust over Years In addition to collaborating for environmental protection, Banque Misr also implements effective practices in its internal BM’s stakeholders represent the most valuable asset to operations to reduce its carbon footprint and protect resources. continuously leverage our success. Banque Misr’s remarkable As a pioneering financial institution, BM is consciously working stand couldn’t be achieved without the engagement of our on reducing the adverse environmental impact of its operations stakeholders and employees. Enhancing the stakeholder’s through consistent reductions in its environmental footprint. value remains indispensable to our core strategy. I would like Our resource conservation programs, in water usage, energy to say that sustainability, as a core value, truly relies on our consumption, and waste recycling, are helping to cut down employees. We further uphold our unwavering compliance CO2 emissions. Banque Misr has a significant footprint in with our code of ethics and core principles to ensure being a economic growth, Banque Misr goes beyond the traditional responsible partner for our stakeholders. Our Board and senior CSR approach and facilitates the transition to a green, low team are clear about the role they play; we are setting the right 44 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-14 103-2 103-3 tone from the top to create a culture that drives success on all fronts. Our employees are considered the most valuable asset; they instill a solid sense of loyalty and commitment, which is deeply reflected in each and every success. Thus, BM is keen to achieve a work-life balance to maintain the well-being of its employees and their engagement, as a board focus. Sustaining optimum performance goes hand in hand with supporting employee fulfillment through effective succession planning, learning agility, talent management, and leadership development. On behalf of Banque Misr, I would like to express my appreciation to everyone who contributed to our road to success, with special gratitude to our stakeholders, the Central Bank of Egypt, and the Ministry of Finance. We are looking forward to starting a new century of excellence based on the values of our rich history. This will be accompanied by an unparalleled level of sustainable integrity, transparency, and unsurpassed commitment to our partners in success, our employees. They instill a solid sense of loyalty and commitment, which is deeply reflected in each and every success attributed to Banque Misr. Sincerely, Mohamed Mahmoud El –Etreby Chairman BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 45 102-7 413-1 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018/2019 967 32.4 Financial Position Retail Portfolio Branches (As of June 30th, 2019) (As of June 30th, 2019) about 700 local and EGP 967bn EGP 32.4bn international branches Customers’ Deposits MSMEs CSR Donations (As of June 30 , 2019) th (As of June 30 , 2019) th (As of June 30th, 2019) EGP 745.8bn EGP 23.3bn About EGP 760m 46 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-8 102-9 102-12 102-15 103-3 302-1 SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2018/2019 IMPROVING WORK ENVIRONMENT LEADING ENVIRONMENTAL ROLE Focusing on building a sustainable workforce, Banque Misr extends its positive environment to its a positive workplace atmosphere is crucial for whole operation, catalyzing significant suppliers’ boosting productivity. Maintaining effective engagement. BM signed the UN’s Environment communication to solidify positive relationships Programme Finance Initiative, becoming the based on trust and free from discrimination first Egyptian bank to sign the UN’s Responsible is deemed a pillar for Banque Misr’s success. Banking principle. Recognitions, competitive benefits packages, incentives, and recreational activities are essential aspects of shaping the positive work environment in Banque Misr. RECYCLING PROMOTING LOCAL INDUSTRY Annual paper use is reduced by around 20%. With full support to the local industry and MSMEs, Approximately 166.24 tons of papers were BM achieved leading efforts for strengthening shredded to be recycled in 2018/2019, compared the MSMEs ecosystem, which in return supports to 210 tons of paper in 2017/2018. financial inclusion. BM’s role in supporting startups and the handicrafts industry significantly contributes to achieving professional development WOMEN EMPOWERMENT and promoting economic growth as well. Female representation at Banque Misr this year amounted to 35.5%. The female representation ratio reached 34.31% in the previous year. SUPPORTING TALENTS BM also supports talented athletes in a number of sports to complement its sustainability achievements. Sponsoring talented Egyptian CHAMPIONING SDGs athletes participating in major international BM’s strategy and action plans actively sporting events is an integral part of BM's contribute to the Sustainable Development sustainability goals and achievements. Most Goals (SDGs) to ensure inclusive welfare for the current of BM's initiatives is the sponsorship of whole community. the Egyptian Tennis Federation for the upcoming Davis Cup as well as all talented Egyptian athletes qualified to participate in the next Olympic Games scheduled to take place in Tokyo, Japan. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 47 102-16 103-2 BM STRATEGY A t Banque Misr (BM) we have developed a very ambitious five-year strategy (2019-2023) that capitalizes on our heritage, and expertise. Our strategy focuses on sustainable growth through providing profitable services and products driven by our customers’ needs and enabled through diverse innovative channels and solutions and our expanding local, regional and global presence. It is a fully transformative tool that empowers us to continue our critical role in the national economic agenda and support financial inclusion within Egypt while remaining vigilant over our social, environmental, and economic footprint. Vision: Our distinguished performance guarantees us the leadership we deserve. Mission: Excellence in fulfilling all of our customers' banking needs, maximizing the value of shareholders, inspiring employees' loyalty and playing a leading role in the prosperity and development of Egypt. VALUES: Our core PRIDE values of Partnership, Responsibility, Integrity, Dedication and Excellence define who we are and how we carry ourselves. Our values reflect the essence of our mission for sustainability; to invest in communities and value sustainable development. 48 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-16 Our VALUES Partnership Partnership is about working together as one team across departments and sectors to achieve the best results. Teamwork, centered on collaboration and knowledge-sharing amongst the team, creates mutually beneficial and profitable internal and external relationships that instill a sense of gain. We value partnership, unity, and collaboration within our team, bank, and community. We: Believe in working together and respecting our differences to achieve the best results. Build diverse inclusive teams aligned through mutual trust, shared ownership and accountability. Responsibility Responsibility is each individual’s role in the bank. Every employee is accountable for their work, which serves internal and external customers and contributes to the achievement of the bank’s strategic goals. We are responsible for the way we do business. We: Learn from our successes and failures, and focus on efficiency and future development. Add value to our shareholders and clients by prioritizing their current and future goals. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 49 102-16 Integrity Integrity is the foundation of all interactions, whether internally with colleagues or externally with clients. To choose the interest of the public and the bank over personal gains in an honest and transparent manner. We are truthful, credible and honorable in our business. We: Communicate with openness and transparency. Ensure that honesty and trust govern our work. Dedication Dedication is each individual’s commitment to their function within the bank. It is devotion to perform at a degree of competence that outshines expectations through exerting more effort and time, as well as coming up with new and unique ideas. We are dedicated to our role in the success of our bank, clients and community. We: Are committed to the national, economic and environmental development of Egypt. Serve our country, bank, customers and colleagues with the utmost devotion. Excellence Excellence in providing the highest quality of products and services to customers. It is BM’s drive to be an innovation leader in the banking industry; offering non-traditional digital products and solutions, ensuring high customer satisfaction ratings and enabling the transformation of the bank into the future. We strive for excellence and quality in our everyday services We: Seek to be the best for our shareholders, customers, colleagues and community. Believe that the application of intelligence and innovation in a practical way has a positive impact on our customers and their businesses. 50 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 Awards & Recognition I n recognition of our excellence, Banque Misr’s leadership has been lauded locally, regionally, and internationally. With a sense of pride in our 100-year legacy, we commemorate Banque Misr’s centennial this year. The year 2020 honors the rich history of the bank. This year, the bank received 23 global awards from 14 leading organizations. As a culmination of Banque Misr's relentless efforts, Banque Misr always receives well-earned recognitions and awards. Nominated by panels of experts, BM always receives awards in various categories, nominating its first-class performance and holistic management approach in various categories. Such recognitions drive Banque Misr to tirelessly work on fulfilling its customers’ demands and retaining its stakeholders’ trust. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 51 Banque Misr Receives 23 Awards and Leading Titles in 2019 We continue to pioneer, and today, we celebrate what we have accomplished together Global Business Outlook Magazine --------------------------------------------------Best Islamic Bank-Egypt Best Environmental Sustainable Bank-Egypt International Finance Magazine ---------------------------------------------Most Socially Responsible Bank–Egypt Best Islamic Bank-Egypt ASIA MONEY (Euromoney) Magazine -------------------------------------------------------Egypt’s Best Bank for Asia Best Local Bank in the Region for Belt Road Initiative (BRI) in the Middle East and Africa International Business Magazine ----------------------------------------------Best CSR Bank-Egypt Best Islamic Bank-Egypt World Union of Arab Bankers ------------------------------------------Best Bank in Egypt in Terms of Financing Big Projects and Enterprises The Asian Banker ------------------------Among 5 Strongest Banks in Africa The Banker (Financial Times Magazine) ---------------------------------------------------------Deal of the Year-Africa Corporate Live Wire Magazine --------------------------------------------SME Bank of the Year in Africa Global Finance Magazine ------------------------------------Best Provider of Money-Market Funds and Short-Term Investments in Africa and the Middle East Global Brands Magazine -----------------------------------Best CSR Bank-Egypt Best Corporate Banking Brand-Egypt The European Magazine ----------------------------------Bank of The Year-Egypt Best Financial Inclusion Program-Egypt Global Banking and Finance Review Magazine --------------------------------------------------------------Best CSR Bank-Egypt Fastest Growing Trade Finance Bank-Egypt Best Islamic Corporate Bank-Egypt Euromoney MagazineCash Management Survey ----------------------------------------------------------------------Market Leaders for Non-Financial Institutions-Egypt Best Service Provider for Non-Financial Institutions-Egypt YouTube (Google) --------------------------YouTube Silver Play Button as a reward for reaching 100,000 subscribers 102-4 102-6 LOCAL AND GLOBAL NETWORK Egypt UAE Lebanon Germany France China Italy South Korea Russia Up to 700 Five Subsidiary that Subsidiary in One branch in Representative Representative Representative Representative branches branches operates 20 Frankfurt Paris office in office in Milan office office in branches Guangzhou in Seoul Moscow 54 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-10 B anque Misr has established a resilient market presence as a core strategic value to ensure wider access to its banking services. Banque Misr’s market presence has successfully BM’s Presence in the UAE Banque Misr’s global outreach complements its strong market permeated the market in Egypt and the World over the past presence in the Middle East through operating a digitally century. Moreover, BM is executing a new strategy to expand its upgraded network of five branches in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, Dubai, market penetration while contributing to economic development Ras Al Khaimah, and Sharjah. Over the past two years, all Banque in the local and global communities it serves. Misr’s UAE branches underwent renovations to be more digitalenabled and service-focused, in line with BM’s corporate identity. Banque Misr offers various channels to ensure the accessibility Banque Misr-UAE branches upgraded its core banking system by of banking services for both its current and prospect client the end of 2018 to support the bank’s ambitious expansion plans base 24/7, including a wide network of about 700 branches and in retail and corporate banking. about 2,800 advanced ATM machines all over the nation, in order to ensure proximity to its customers, BM’s local network of Banque Misr-UAE seeks to meet customers’ evolving needs, branches will exceed 875 branches across Egypt by 2022. especially Egyptian expatriates, and foster greater connection through BM’s presence across the world in France, Lebanon, Banque Misr sets the community’s economic and social welfare Germany, Russia, and China. and prosperity as its sustainable core value. Against the backdrop of this value, Banque Misr always ensures higher efficiency and Aiming to provide Egyptian residents in the UAE with services better customer experience through operating one of the largest that meet and satisfy all their needs, Banque Misr-UAE offers networks of branches in the Middle East and Africa. The bank mortgages for the purchase of housing units inside Egypt using continuously invests in upgrading its banking platforms by adopting the local currency (EGP). Also, the bank provides mortgages within disruptive technologies to provide modern mobile, branch, ATM, the UAE to locals and selected non-Egyptian nationalities with high and online banking services, along with customized services. incomes, who wish to increase their asset base with long-term secured products. BM branches in the UAE provide a wide range Banque Misr’s global presence across three continents highlights of corporate, retail and treasury products, in addition to several a competitive advantage to incorporate its sustainable success state-initiated funds and certificates. The bank also enables the worldwide. Banque Misr operates five branches in the United purchase of certificates of deposit in euros and US dollars. Arab Emirates (UAE), one in Paris, a subsidiary in Germany, 20 branches operated by its subsidiary in Lebanon, and four The bank also offers high-yielding certificates in Egyptian pounds representative offices in Russia (Moscow), China (Guangzhou), issued by the parent bank, BM Egypt. During FY 2017/2018, BM South Korea (Seoul), and Italy (Milan). appointed a new management team aiming for further expansion in operations and service delivery. The top management team To leverage its financial footprint in Africa, Banque Misr has set a possesses the necessary leadership and extensive expertise to new expansion strategy. The ambitious five-year strategy entails solidify the bank’s position in the UAE market. It is worth noting expanding our global outreach, mainly in our home continent that BM supported the recapitalization of its branches in the UAE Africa. It is our target to expand the bank’s market presence in by injection new funds to increase its paid-up capital. Africa either through establishing a unit in the form of Rep. Office/ Branch/ Subsidiary or by practicing the international activities BM’s Presence in Lebanon through other Financial Institutions. Therefore, Banque Misr moves forward to having a presence in Somalia “Mogadishu”, Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML) is one of the oldest banks in Kenya “Nairobi” and some other African Countries as the Bank Lebanon. Founded in Lebanon in 1929, BML stands at the heart of successfully optimizes a multitude of business cooperation Beirut’s commercial center. Its network of branches strategically activities and opportunities through resilient global outreach. spread throughout Lebanon, along with an extensive ATM BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 55 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-10 102-13 413-1 network and online banking platform. The bank is working on its also volunteer annually to contribute to the cause. Since its first geographical expansion. Currently, the bank owns and operates edition in 2015, Dafa aided more than 80,000 families. more than 20 branches. On average, the bank inaugurates at least one branch a year. The bank also remains committed to In 2017, the bank opened a representative office (BMLCI) adopting the latest technologies to increase productivity and in Abidjan, République de Côte d’Ivoire, West Africa. This improve service quality. representative office serves the Lebanese expatriate community in West Africa and provides full logistical services to Lebanese During the past 90 years, BML offers an array of distinctive and Egyptian nationals wishing to invest in West Africa. Also, Corporate, Retail, SME, Investment, Treasury, and Private BMLCI supports and works closely with Egypt Lebanon for Banking services. In December 2010, BML established Misr Africa (ELA) initiative to promote the Egyptian-Lebanese ties. Liban Insurance Brokers S.A.L. (MLIB) to develop an integrated In 2012, World Finance named BML as the Best Commercial bundle of services, principally focused on bancassurance. The Bank, in recognition of its outstanding performance. The bank new company complements BM’s banking services and retail, also received the Best Visual Award in the same year for its corporate, treasury, investment, and private banking activities. distinctive and unique website. BML adopted several internal reform measures, including BML’s success is attributed to adopting the highest standards restructuring the senior executive management, as well as of corporate governance, careful adherence to all regulatory implementing a comprehensive and integrated plan to expand requirements and standards, strict risk management guidelines, and develop the bank’s services and operations to keep pace and achieving a strong financial position. BML has shown with the global banking industry. endurance and looks forward to a promising future of steady growth and continuous development across all its activities and On the grounds of adopted reforms, BML’s total assets have services, especially under the leadership of its Board of Directors increased by 105.07% and deposits increased by 67.84%. Also, and with the strength of its qualified senior management team. loans and advances to customers surged by 117.26% over the past BML will continue working on upholding its objective of serving five years. BML witnessed a substantial increase in deposits in 2013, its customers in the best possible ways. qualifying the bank to join the Beta group (i.e. transformed from a small bank to a medium-sized bank). These key developments BM’s Presence in Germany were also made possible by increasing BML’s paid-in capital, which recorded 120 billion Lebanese pounds. Additionally, BML is Following Banque Misr’s successful experience in international committed to developing its loan portfolio, while supporting its markets, in 1992, BM’s top management decided to open a provisions and reserves.BML’s long history and close association subsidiary in Frankfurt, Germany. The subsidiary was named Misr with Lebanon’s economic and social development have fostered the Bank Europe GmbH. Currently, Banque Misr owns 84.75% of the importance of giving back to the community. Under the umbrella subsidiary (74.75% directly and 10% through Banque du Caire). of “Be the Change,” BML launched in 2017 its Corporate Social Responsibility arm defined by its philosophy and commitment to Misr Bank Europe GmbH (MBE) is considered the first and only serve its community and society at large. Egyptian bank in Germany and Central Europe with a paid-in capital of €60 million. It also has a full banking license and is a The Dafa Campaign is on top of BML’s CSR efforts. The campaign member of the Association of German Banks. The Association of gathers donations to supply basic needs like food, clothing, German Banks secures customer deposits at the bank. hygiene products, and other necessities to families and individuals in Lebanon who are living below the poverty line. Thousands of The bank earned prominent memberships in many local, Arab, volunteers gather for a day to sort and distribute the donations and international banking organizations, including the Germanyacross Lebanon. The bank supports Dafa since 2016. The bank based Association of Foreign Banks, the Private Banking Industry’s participates in planning and logistics for the event. BML employees Employers Association and the German Near and Middle East 56 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-4 102-6 102-10 102-13 103-2 302-2 305-1 305-3 Association (NUMOV), Ghorfa Arab-German Chamber of BM’s Presence in France Commerce and Industry, along with the German-Arab Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Cairo and the Austro-Arab BM inaugurated its branch in 1922 in rue Danielle Casanova, Chamber of Commerce in Vienna. formerly known as rue des Petits Champs, Paris. The Paris branch was reallocated in 1984 to rue Auber, Paris. The bank is a Today the business of MBE focuses on supporting clients member of the French Banking Association and is regulated by engaged in trading activities between Europe-Egypt and clients the Central Bank of France. investing in growth and sustainability projects in Egypt. The branch has a clear mandate to promote Europe-Middle East By concentrating on its strength in trade finance and guarantees, trade and economic ties with a particular focus on Egypt, offering MBE succeeded in delivering a strong performance during the trade finance and corporate banking services. The mission of long period of low-interest rates witnessed over the last few Banque Misr -Paris is to participate in the development of trade years. A modern core banking system and a forward-looking between Egypt, Europe, France, and French-speaking countries. risk management concept also contribute to enhanced risk It provides import and export clients with high-quality services awareness. In that regard, MBE limited allocation of risk capital and solutions adapted to their needs. BM’s branch in Paris also in the framework of the yearly update to the risk strategy offers retail banking services to customers with ties to Egypt. played a significant role in ensuring the presence of a rigorous management system. MBE's continuous marketing activities As a bank operating in France, authorized by the French banking positively contributed to the increase in the documentary authorities, Banque Misr participates in the deposit guarantee business between Egypt and target countries in Europe. MBE scheme of France, which applies to all deposit accounts made by offers export finance products, insurance-covered financing natural persons, legal entities and covers up to the sum of €100K. of export receivables to Egyptian exporters, correspondent Currently, the branch is upgrading its online banking service to banking services to banks in Egypt and the Middle East. Besides, better cater to a modern and demanding clientele. providing finance and handling a range of exports from Egypt. In cooperation with the German-Arab Chamber of Industry and BM Representative Offices Commerce (GACIC), Cairo – the bank has developed a tailormade product to meet the requirements of Egyptian exporters BM has founded four representative offices as a part of its that do business across European countries. expansion strategy. Currently, the bank operates representative offices in China “Guangzhou“, Russia “Moscow “, Korea “Seoul” MBE currently focuses on financing Egyptian investments in and Italy “Milan”. sustainability projects including, investments in new efficient machinery, renewable energy supply, wastewater projects, The main business activities of BM representative offices desalination projects, greenhouse gas reduction, in other words, are to: projects reducing the carbon footprint of our clients. We also hold well-established contacts to investors interested in Egyptian business. • Build relations and liaison financial activities with state-owned and private banks, financial institutions, companies, organizations, MBE’s ongoing efforts contributed to a large volume of highand institutions class assets in syndicated loans and the establishment of a highly • Utilize business opportunities for BM branches and units in liquid financial asset portfolio. In turn, this generates revenue that Egypt, the UAE, Lebanon, France, and Germany, which provide a guarantees the continuation of a steady flow of income and an comprehensive range of products and services, including trade increase in business volume, reflecting positively on the overall finance (letters of credit, letters of guarantee and collections), financial performance. The bank aims, as part of “Egypt Inc.”, to payment orders, transfers, corporate credit, etc. be the first contact for any business in Egypt as well as the prime • Reinforce relations between BM and correspondent banks. address for parties being interested in investments in Egypt. • Handle market research and analysis. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 57 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Khufu c.2589–2566 BC; Fourth Dynasty Khufu, son of Snferu and Hetepheres I was the first king to choose the Giza Plateau as the site of his tomb. He launched a building project that would remain unparalleled in the history of the ancient Egyptian state. Khufu’s successful overcoming of the initial obstacles resulted in a pyramid with a base of 230.33 meters, originally 146.6 meters high with a volume of some 2,583,283 cubic meters of built stone (Bárta 2005). For its massive proportions, Khufu’s pyramid is today known as the Great Pyramid. The Pyramid of Khufu is in good condition and, although it has lost almost all of its casing blocks, stands nearly to its original height. The temples which were a part of the total pyramid complex, however, have all but disappeared. The name of Khufu’s pyramid was Horizon of Khufu. The complex is also identified as belonging to Khufu through quarry inscriptions found on the relieving blocks above the king’s burial chamber inside the pyramid and by later historical tradition. There is no evidence that the cult of Khufu was maintained during the Middle or the New Kingdoms; however, the cult was revived in the 26th Dynasty, known as the Saite Period (Petrie with update Hawass 1990). Khufu most probably abandoned the royal necropolis at Dahshur because there was no longer enough limestone nearby and because of the low stability of the subsoil, which consists of slate clay. Instead, he decided to build his pyramid on a massive rocky plateau in the western desert near modern Giza. In terms of size, technical accomplishment, and organization required for its construction, this pyramid represents the climax of pyramid building (Klemm and Klemm 2010). The outer walls of the core are built with blocks laid in horizontal layers. The height of the blocks varies between 0.80 and 1.20 meters on average. Between the core and the casing, another layer of somewhat smaller stones was bound with mortar, which increased the cohesion of both the two materials and the two masonry structures. 58 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Khufu in Giza BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 59 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Khufu c.2589–2566 BC; Fourth Dynasty In archaeological terminology, this intermediate layer is known as backing stones (Klemm and Klemm 2010). The casing was made of large blocks of fine, white limestone blocks from Turah, but only a few are still in place, mostly at the base. A cult pyramid, of which little remains, and three small queens' pyramids stand on the eastern side (Klemm and Klemm 2010). The original entrance with the descending corridor is about 17 meters high starting on the level of the 13th layer at the north side of the pyramid (Klemm and Klemm 2010). The first burial chamber in Khufu’s pyramid is located in the bedrock underneath the pyramid and was left unfinished. Next, the king’s burial chamber was moved further up within the pyramid to what is known as the Queen’s Chamber. But for reasons possibly connected to a cult change made by Khufu, the burial chamber which contains the sarcophagus was moved even higher up into the pyramid (Petrie with update Hawass 1990). A red granite sarcophagus is still in situ, oriented north-south. It is 2.24 meters long and 0.96 meters wide. Its lid is missing. This large sarcophagus was installed during the construction of the granite chamber. The walls of the burial chamber, and the pressure relieving chambers above it, are all also made of large granite blocks, all of which were brought all the way from Aswan (Klemm and Klemm 2010). Khufu’s mortuary temple east of the pyramid, with only its black basalt pavement remaining, covered an area of more than 2000 square meters (Bárta 2005, Klemm and Klemm 2010). 60 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Khufu in Giza BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 61 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Radjedef c.2566–2558 BC; Fourth Dynasty Radjedef, also called Djedefra, began building a pyramid north of Giza at Abu Rawash with a base of 106 meters square, and a volume of 131,043 cubic meters. The pyramid itself occupies a very favorable position atop a limestone plateau overlooking the region (Bárta 2005). Although the present surviving height is 11.4 meters (Verner 2002), the pyramid would have stood between 57–67 meters. Radjedef is well-known as the king who introduced the fifth element of the official royal titulary, namely the 'Son of Ra' name which emphasizes the link of the king with his mythical father, the sun god Ra. More importantly, the site of the Abu Rawash plateau, some 160 meters above sea level, was by far the highest location for an Old Kingdom pyramid and Radjedef was thus closest to his solar father travelling daily across the sky (Bárta 2005). The earliest known ancient Egyptian sphinx to date was found in Abu Rawash. It belonged to Radjedef’s consort Hetepheres II (Bárta 2017). Radjedef was succeeded by his brother Khafra and subsequently Menkaura, both of whom placed their mortuary complexes back at Giza (Bárta 2005). 62 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Radjedef in Abu Rawash BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 63 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Khafra c.2558–2532 BC; Fourth Dynasty Khafra returned to Giza to build the second largest pyramid in Egyptian history, this time with a base of 215 meters, a height of 143.5 meters and a volume of 2,211,096 cubic meters. To strengthen his ties with the sun god, he shaped a natural rock outcropping into the form of a sphinx and to the east of it built a sanctuary dedicated to the sun god Ra (Bárta 2005). The level of the base of the pyramid is 10 meters higher in relation to Khufu’s monument and thus, depending on the viewing position, it seems to be bigger. The lower levels of the pyramid’s casing were cased with blocks of pink granite from the large quarry area south of Aswan. The higher layers, which become smaller toward the top, are of fine limestone. At the top of the pyramid a small portion of the original casing remains in place (Klemm and Klemm 2010). The older of the two entrances into the subterranean rooms of the pyramid is located about 30 meters north of the pyramid and carved completely out of the subsoil rock. The second entrance is located in the north side of the pyramid about 12 meters above ground level. It meets a corridor lined with red granite that first descends into the pyramid before running horizontally at the structure’s base. The burial chamber at the end of this corridor, oriented east-west, was excavated completely out of the bedrock. Near its west wall stands a black granodiorite sarcophagus that was originally covered by a sliding lid. The lid was found nearby in two pieces. A small cult pyramid stands on the structure’s central axis at the southern side of the pyramid (Klemm and Klemm 2010). Storerooms start to appear during the reign of Khafra but only occupy less than 200 square meters of the 1265 square meters of the mortuary temple’s built area, so the daily funerary cult of the king wasn’t yet as important as it became in the Fifth Dynasty (Bárta 2005). 64 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Khafra in Giza BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 65 Board of Directors AS OF MARCH 2020 MR. MOHAMED EL-ETREBY CHAIRMAN MR. AKEF EL MAGHRABY VICE CHAIRMAN MR. HOSSAM ELDIN ABDELWAHAB VICE CHAIRMAN Mr. Ahmed Alaa El-Din Ali El-Guindy Board MEMBER Dr. Maya Mohamed Abdel-Moneim Morsy Board MEMBER Mr. Mahmoud Montaser Ibrahim El-Sayed Board MEMBER Dr. Riham Moustafa Hassan Moustafa Board MEMBER Mr. Tamer AbDel Aziz Gadalla Board MEMBER 66 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 SENIOR EXECUTIVES AS OF FOREWORD MARCH 2020 MRS.MAHA HEBA ENAYETALLA MR. KHALED ATRIS ABDEL AZIZ HEAD OF STRATEGY AND HEAD OF LEGAL AFFAIRS DEVELOPMENT MR. AHMED IBRAHIM MR. MOHAMED AFIFI BM HEAD OF REMEDIAL SECTOR GROUP CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE APPROACH MR. AMR EL AASSAR MR. MOHAMED SHERIF HEAD OF CORPORATE BANKING CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AND SYNDICATED LOANS MR. AMR HASHEM MR. MOHAMED YEHIA AHMED HOW BM HEAD OF INTERNAL CONTROL CHIEF INTERNAL AUDITOR MR. ASHRAF TOLBA MR. MOUSTAFA GAMAL OPERATES CHIEF RISK OFFICER HEAD OF TREASURY AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING DR. FATMA EL-GOULLY ENG. SAYONARA EL ASMAR CHIEF CORPORATE CHIEF OPERATION OFFICER COMMUNICATION OFFICER BM MR. HANY ELSAMRA MR. SHEHAB ZIDAN DIVISIONS CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES Head of Global transaction OFFICER Banking and Head Of Transformation office MR. HOSSAM RAOUF HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL MR. SHERIF EL-BEHERY BUSINESS AND FOREIGN BRANCHES Head of SMES, Microfinance and Islamic Wholesale Banking FINANCIAL MR. IBRAHIM EL-SHERBINI DR. SUZAN F. HAMDY CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER AND CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER ACTING HEAD OF DIGITAL PERFORMANCE TRANSFORMATION MR. IHAB DORRA ENG. TAREK ALI HEAD OF BRANCHES AND HEAD OF ADMINISTRATIVE RETAIL BANKING AND ENGINEERING AFFAIRS BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 67 MEMBERS OF BM’s Board of Directors 68 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 69 MR. MOHAMED EL-ETREBY CHAIRMAN Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby is a prominent banker with more than 35 years of experience in the banking sector. Prior to joining Banque Misr, he was the CEO and Managing Director of the Egyptian Gulf Bank from January 2013 to December 2014. Mr. El-Etreby began his banking career in 1977 with the Arab African International Bank (AAIB), followed by Crédit International d’Egypte Bank. In 1983, he joined Misr International Bank (MIBank, currently Qatar National Bank Alahli), where he spent more than 22 years, and during which he held several senior banking positions and acquired a wide range of experience in various key areas of the banking industry. In September 2005, he joined the Egyptian Arab Land Bank as Vice Chairman and Board Member. In 2009, he was appointed as the Managing Director of the Arab Investment Bank. In 2011, Mr. ElEtreby returned to the Egyptian Arab Land Bank as Chairman. In recognition of his great achievements, Mr. El-Etreby was appointed as the Chairman of Banque Misr in January 2015. He also serves as the Chairman of Federation of Egyptian Banks (FEB), in addition to being a Vice Chairman of Union of Arab Banks, the Chairman of Banque Misr Liban (BML), and a Vice chairman of Cairo Amman Bank. He graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Commerce from Ain Shams University in1976. Committees: (E, ALCO, CRC, b9) 70 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 MR. AKEF EL MAGHRABY MR. HOSSAM ELDIN ABDELWAHAB VICE CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN Mr. Akef El Maghraby joined Banque Misr in August 2016 as Vice Mr. Hossam Eldin Abdelwahab joined Banque Misr in October 2018 Chairman. Previously, he spent 16 years working at Citibank. as Vice Chairman. Prior to joining Banque Misr, Mr. Abdelwahab was the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Al-Ahli Bank of Kuwait, where he He is responsible for the Lines of Business including Corporate, Treasury, led the retail, branches and SMEs divisions from 2016 until September Investment, SMEs, Retail, Branches, Islamic Financing, Global Transaction 2018. Mr. Abdelwahab began his banking career in 1989 at Gulf Bank Business, International Business and Financial Inclusion. in Kuwait before moving to Procter & Gamble in 1991, climbing up the ranks throughout his nine years working for the company. He held the Mr. El Maghraby has held positions in a variety of fields throughout his position of Head of Investments in 2000. He subsequently left Procter & banking career, including Credit Analysis, Corporate Finance, Ratings Gamble to join Investia Venture Capital from 2000 until 2001 as Manager Advisory and Corporate and Investment Banking. of Investments. Later in 2001, he moved to Citibank Egypt, taking on leadership positions from 2001 to 2006 in the fields of risk management, He has worked in and covered several jurisdictions, including Egypt, distribution and operations. Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands, where he led and executed many landmark mergers and acquisitions (M&As), debt, He then moved to Citibank regional office in London as Vice President and equity capital markets, loan markets, and derivatives transactions. of Credit Operations for the Middle East and Africa and Europe from 2006 to 2008. Later, he took the position of Head of Retail Banking at Mr. El Maghraby also serves as ChairmanMisr Bank-Europe GmbH Audi Bank Egypt from 2008 to 2012, before moving to the Arab Banking Frankfurt, Chairman BM Lease, Board Member Misr Capital S.A.E., Corporation, where he held the position of Executive Board Member and Board Member Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML), Board Member Misr Head of Retail Banking and Branches from 2012 to 2016. Mr. Abdelwahab Insurance Holding Co S.A.E. and Board Member – Egyptian Mortgage received his bachelor’s degree in Accounting & Auditing from the Faculty Refinance Co. of Commerce, Economics and Political Science at Kuwait University. Mr. El Maghraby holds a bachelor’s degree in Accounting and an MBA, Committees: both from the American University in Cairo. (V,E,I, ALCO, CRC, ICAAP, IFRS 9, a1,a2,a5,a8,b1,b6,C) Committees: (E, C, V, ALCO, CRC, b2, b7, a5, IFRS 9, I, b9) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 71 Mr. Ahmed Alaa El-Din Ali El-Guindy Dr. Maya Mohamed Abdel-Moneim Morsy Board MEMBER Board MEMBER Mr. Ahmed Alaa El-Din Ali El-Guindy began his career in research Dr. Maya Mohamed Abdel-Moneim Morsy was elected as the President of Egypt’s and economics at the World Bank bureau in Cairo in 2002. He started National Council for Women (NCW) on the 1st of February 2016. She is the third and the youngest President of the NCW since it was established in 2000. She was awarded the Woman of the Decade in Public Life and working as a Financial Analyst at EFG-Hermes in 2004 in the Investment Empowerment” during the Women Economic Forum conveyed in India in 2018, the national award of one Banking Division. He went on to occupy the position of Vice President of of the 100 most influential women in Egypt in the year 2016, and the Women Pioneer from the UAE in 2019. Investment Banking in 2008, before becoming the Managing Director of Investment Banking from 2012 until 2016. Before being elected as NCW's President, Dr. Morsy has been the UNDP's Gender Regional Advisor (2013 2016). She formerly served as the Head of the Egypt Country Office United Nations Fund for Women (20112013), and as a Country Coordinator/Director of UNIFEM and liaison for the League of Arab States (1999 2010). During this time, he worked on expanding the division’s regional presence and overseeing the conclusion of several high-profile mergers Dr. Morsy has more than 25 years’ experience with National, Regional and International organizations, and acquisitions, as well as, numerous regional initial public offerings, through her work in the National Council for Women, the United Nations Agencies, USAID, Academia, and Private Sector. Her work experience has strengthened the strategic partnership with the including Emaar Malls Group, Edita Food Industries, Dubai Parks and League of Arab States, European Union, Organization of Islamic Cooperation, African Union, Union Resorts, Orascom Construction, Arabian Cement Company, Emaar Misr, for the Mediterranean, Government Organizations, Civil Society, Academia and Private Sector. and Domty. Under his leadership, the investment banking team went on to top the Thomson Reuters’ MENA Equity Capital Markets list in 2015. She managed and Led more than 50 programs and widely authored more than 45 training manuals, books, articles, research and policy papers on Public Policy, Development, Gender Equality and In June 2016, he became a Founding Partner of TCV Holding for Women’s Empowerment, Peace and Security, Human Security, and Finance for Development. Investment, specializing in promoting capital growth for successful and promising Egyptian SMEs. Her Areas of Technical Focus are: Public Policies, Public Administration, Business Administration, Management and Human Resources, Social and Economic Policies (Welfare Systems, Fiscal Stimulus Packages, Conditional Cash Transfer). Human Security, Human Rights, International Conventions Treaties, Strategic Planning, Political Mr. El-Guindy received his bachelor’s degree in Business Administration and Democratic Transition, Electoral Assistance, Gender Transitional Justice, Rights based approach. Gender and Economics from the American University in Cairo in 2002 and his Equality and Women's Empowerment, engendering public policies and statistics, Gender Responsive Planning master’s degree in Accounting and Finance from the London School of and Budgeting, Performance Based budgeting, Financial Inclusion, Monitoring and Impact Evaluation, Fair Economics in 2004. Trade, Entrepreneurship and Social innovation, Academic/Action oriented research and Behavioral Change. Committees: Dr. Morsy received a Ph.D. in Public Policy with a focus on the human security of Arab women from the Institute of Arab Studies and Research of the League of Arab States. She completed two Master’s degrees at (A, V) the City University of Seattle, USA, in Business Administration (1998) and Public Administration (1997), after receiving a Bachelor’s of Arts degree in Political Science from the American University in Cairo (1995), with a minor in Mass Communication (Journalism). Committees: (I) 72 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 Mr. Mahmoud Montaser Ibrahim El-Sayed Dr. Riham Moustafa Hassan Moustafa Board MEMBER Board MEMBER Mr. Mahmoud Montaser Ibrahim El-Sayed gained more than 40 Dr. Riham Moustafa Hassan Moustafa is a professor of public years of experience in the banking sector. He has amassed a wealth of policy and entrepreneurship as well as the managing director of the knowledge in all areas of lending, investment, and funding. In November Resource Development Center at Helwan University. She began her 2017, the Egyptian government assigned him as the Deputy Chairman and career as a teaching assistant, before becoming an assistant professor the Managing Director of the National Investment Bank. in the Business Administration Department at the Faculty of Commerce. Moreover, he was appointed as a Board Member at Banque Misr in Dr. Moustafa specializes in public policy and entrepreneurship. In 2015, September 2017. Prior to his current position, Mr. Montaser was selected she earned her Ph.D. in Public and Urban Policy from the New School to be the Executive Vice Chairman of the National Bank of Egypt (NBE). University in New York City. Her dissertation was titled “Evaluating the As Vice Chairman of NBE, Mr. Montaser led the day-to-day commercial Institutional Environment for Entrepreneurship: A Cross-National Study banking departments, such as Corporate and Syndications, Investment, on Arab Countries.” Foreign Affairs, and Treasury, as well as Retail and Branches. Mr. Montaser was personally responsible for a loan portfolio of over EGP 490bn. In 2008, she earned her master’s degree in International Studies from the University of Connecticut, with a thesis titled “Egyptian Women as He was also an Executive Board Member and Head of Corporate and Entrepreneurs and Leaders.” Dr. Moustafa also has another master’s Syndicated Loans, where he was responsible for the supervision and degree in Marketing and Strategic Management, with a thesis titled management of the direct and indirect credit portfolio that exceeded EGP “Evaluating the Competitiveness of the Textile and Ready-made Garment 465bn at that time. Mr. Montaser also served as NBE’s representative in Industry in the Light of Trade Liberation Agreements.” Her research and several corporations in the petroleum, construction, and aviation fields, teachings cover topics such as entrepreneurship, public policy, strategic in addition to NBE’s financial affiliates in Europe and Egypt. In 1977, management (competitive strategies), and management in transitional Mr. Montaser graduated with a bachelor’s degree from the Faculty of economies. Commerce at Ain Shams University. He obtained a diploma in Banking Studies from Ain Shams University in 1998. Committees: Committees: (G, I, B, R) (A, R, G, B) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 73 Mr. Tamer AbDel Aziz Gadalla Board MEMBER Mr. Tamer Abdel Aziz Gadalla began his career in the Cabinet Information and Decision Support Center IDSC, where he occupied the position of Systems Engineer in 1993. In 1996, Mr. Gadalla joined GEGA NET, where he worked as a Sales Manager. He then moved to MenaNet for Communications, where he held the position of Business Development Manager in 1999, before being formally appointed to General Manager in 2001. Subsequently, Mr. Gadalla joined TE Data as Sales Director in 2004, before heading to the Commercial Department in 2005. Afterward, he served as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of TE Data in the period between August 2008 and March 2016. He later held the position of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Telecom-Egypt from March 2016 to April 2017. In 2018 Mr. Gadalla joined SAP. Currently, he is the Executive Director for SAP in Egypt and the Non-Executive Chairman of Eastern Tobacco Company since 2019. Mr. Gadalla received his bachelor’s degree in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Cairo University in 1992. He also completed his master’s degree in Business Administration from Maastricht University in the Netherlands in October 1996. Committees: (I, R, B, G) 74 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 75 SENIOR EXECUTIVES 76 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 77 MRS.MAHA HEBA ENAYETALLA MR. AHMED IBRAHIM HEAD OF STRATEGY AND HEAD OF REMEDIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT Mrs. Maha Heba EnayetAlla has 36 years of experience in the Mr. Ahmed Ibrahim was appointed as General Manager of the banking sector. She joined Banque Misr in September 2010 and was Remedial Sector. Prior to joining Banque Misr, Mr. Ibrahim was Head of appointed as Executive Board Member from January 2014 to September the Recovery Division Risk Group at NSGB Egypt. 2017, and a Board Member in Banque Misr Liban (BML) from November 2011 to August 2017. He has extensive experience, spanning across 35 years in the banking industry and covering different areas, including Retail Banking, Branches After graduating from the American University in Cairo in 1982, she and Marketing, Corporate Credit, Credit Risk Assessment, and Remedial joined Chase National Bank, a subsidiary of Chase Manhattan Bank, Loans. (currently CIB), where she spent almost 26 years working in several departments, mainly Corporate Banking, Branch Management, and Retail He obtained his bachelor’s degree from the Faculty of Commerce Development, with the last position held being Head of Mid-Cap and at Cairo University in 1984. SME Banking. Committees: She currently oversees the following departments at Banque Misr: • Strategy and Change Management (E,a5, a8,c3, c6,b) • Project Management Office • Performance Quality Assurance • Research and Market Studies Mrs. EnayetAlla was chosen by Forbes Middle East as one of the Top 100 Most Powerful Businesswomen of 2017. And, she was also chosen as one of The 50 Most Influential Women in Middle East Finance in 2018. Her professional experience is complemented by intensive training programs and study tours with renowned international institutions. Committees: (E, I, CRC, ALCO, b2, a1, IFRS 9) 78 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 MR. AMR EL AASSAR MR. AMR HASHEM HEAD OF CORPORATE BANKING HEAD OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND SYNDICATED LOANS Mr. Amr El Aassar joined Banque Misr in May 2018 as Head of Mr. Amr Hashem joined Banque Misr as Head of Internal Control in Corporate Banking and Syndicated Loans. He is responsible for handling March 2019. Before joining Banque Misr, he obtained more than 23 years corporate portfolio performance in terms of quality, growth, and of progressive experience in the banking sector. profitability. He is responsible for managing the Internal Control Framework Strategy Mr. El Aassar enjoys over 22 years of extensive in-depth experience in Egypt and the UAE, with a focus on strengthening the internal control in the banking sector. He commenced his banking career in 1996 environment/culture across branches, operations, as well as finance with Misr International Bank, holding various roles and managerial and support functions. Mr. Hashem worked in four leading multinational positions in corporate and investment banking He played a pivotal role banks, such as the National Bank of Kuwait, Citibank, Arab Bank PLC and in restructuring MIBank’s corporate credit unit before its merger with the Egyptian American Bank. National Societe General Bank (NSGB). He has extensive experience in all aspects of supervisory functions in the He joined different financial institutions and acted as Corplease’s Chief banking sector, including internal control, operational risk management, Credit Officer, Audi Egypt Bank’s Chief Corporate Officer, and Arab business continuity, internal audit, AML compliance, banking operations Bank’s Country Head of Corporate and Institutional Banking. process design, balance sheet accounts monitoring, reconciliation and control requirements of bank branches. Mr. El Aassar graduated with a bachelor’s degree from the Faculty of Economics and Political Science at Cairo University. He is also a certified He was the Head of Operational Risk Management & Business Continuity trainer for Finance and Credit modules at various institutions, such as the in National Bank of Kuwait-Egypt. Subsequently, Mr. Hashem served as American University of Egypt and the Egyptian Banking Institute. the Cluster Head of Internal Control at Citibank (Egypt, Jordan and Lebanon). He obtained his bachelor’s degree in accounting from the Committees: Faculty of Commerce, Ain Shams University in June 1992. (E, C, ALCO, c6, IFRS 9) Committees: (E, b8, BRCC) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 79 MR. ASHRAF TOLBA DR. FATMA EL-GOULLY CHIEF RISK OFFICER CHIEF CORPORATE COMMUNICATION OFFICER Mr. Ashraf Tolba joined as Chief Risk Officer in September 2019. Dr. Fatma El-Goully was appointed as Chief Corporate Communication Before joining Banque Misr, he garnered more than 27 years of experience Officer at Banque Misr in 2006. Dr. El-Goully has over 20 years of in credit risk management, corporate banking, and investment banking. experience in marketing, public relations, corporate communication, and From 2003 until 2019, he worked for Union National Bank-UAE, gaining management. more than 13 years of specialized experience in credit risk. Prior to joining Banque Misr, Dr. El-Goully held several managerial He was promoted to Executive Vice President in Credit Risk Management, positions in different industries, such as pharmaceuticals, banking, managing the entire portfolio of the bank, including international and communications. She was the former Director of Marketing subsidiaries. His last position was Executive Vice President – Corporate and Corporate Communication for National Societe Generale Bank Banking (UAE), including Islamic Finance. From 1992 to 2003, he worked (NSGB) and Misr International Bank (MIBank), and Head of Marketing in the corporate banking sector in various financial institutions, including Communication at Novartis Swiss Company. She has experience in Commercial International Bank, Arab Bank Plc, and Citibank. Joining leading firms such as Bristol-Myers Squibb and Raya. Citibank, he handled the responsibilities of Senior Relationship Manager for Public Sector Enterprises. She has been exposed to diverse training and personal development programs, in addition to earning an MBA in Business and Marketing Mr. Tolba also worked for Alliance Capital Management, one of the top Management in 2005, a Master of Philosophy in Corporate 10 global fund managers, as an Equity Research Analyst and Co-Fund Communication in 2009, and a Doctorate of Business Administration in Manager for The Nile Growth Fund dedicated to Egyptian equities. Mr. 2013, all from Maastricht School of Management, Netherlands. Tolba became a certified Credit Official in 1994 and since then attended high profile training programs in Egypt, UAE, UK, South Africa, Brazil, and Committees: Oman facilitated by global institutions as Alliance Capital Management, Harvard Business School, and Franklin Covey. (b2, c4) committees: (A,I,R,E,v,ALCO,a8,FATCA,b2,C,C1, ICAAP, C6, IFRS9, b9) 80 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 MR. HANY ELSAMRA MR. HOSSAM RAOUF CHIEF HUMAN RESOURCES HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL OFFICER BUSINESS AND FOREIGN BRANCHES Mr. Hany Elsamra was appointed as Chief Human Resources Officer Mr. Hossam Raouf joined Banque Misr in August 2017 as Head of in June 2018, with more than 19 years of cumulative experience within International Business and Foreign Branches. the banking sectors in Egypt and Kuwait. Before joining Banque Misr, Mr. Elsamra worked with three different leading multinational and regional Prior to joining the bank, Mr. Raouf served as Head of Saudi Arabia and banks, such as Citibank, Abu Dubai Islamic Bank, and Burgan Bank, where GCC Markets at Credit Suisse Dubai from October 2008 to July 2011. He he was distinguished by his commended performance and proven was responsible for managing a team and leading sales activities, as well results. as other responsibilities. He has extensive experience in all aspects of HR, including Recruitment Mr. Raouf has rich banking experience extending over 30 years. He began and Selection, Employee Relations, Conflict Resolution, Performance his banking career at Misr International Bank in 1982 as Chief Dealer, Management, Training and Development, Compensation and Benefits, until 1994, when he joined American Express Bank. At American Express Talent Management, Career and Succession Planning, HR Systems, Bank, he held various positions, including Treasurer and Head of Financial Payroll Personnel and Admin, Governmental Activities, Manpower Market Services, until he was finally named Middle East Treasurer and Planning, and Budgeting. Head of Financial Market Services, a post he held for 14 years. Mr. Elsamra is responsible for directing the Human Resources group Moreover, Mr. Raouf obtained an Executive Master of Business strategy with a key focus on helping develop the bank’s transformation Administration from the American University in Cairo and the Kellogg through leadership, differentiated talent models, attracting and School of Business in Chicago. He also attended extensive managerial, developing the best talent, and building a culture of engagement, sales, and product-related training courses. agility, and innovation. He is also responsible for planning, developing, coordinating, and tracking HR management to maximize the strategic Committees: use of human resources and provide business units with value-added HR services. He obtained his bachelor’s degree from the Faculty of (b9) Commerce, English Department in June 1997. Committees: (CRC, a2, b3, b4, b5, b7, c4) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 81 MR. IBRAHIM EL-SHERBINI MR. IHAB DORRA CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER HEAD OF BRANCHES AND AND ACTING HEAD OF DIGITAL RETAIL BANKING TRANSFORMATION Mr. Ibrahim El-Sherbini joined Banque Misr in March 2018, as Chief Mr. Ihab Dorra was appointed as the Head of Retail Banking at Banque Information Officer and Acting Head of Digital Transformation. Mr. El Misr in February 2017, later named the Head of Branches and Retail Sherbini was the Chief Operations Officer of Non-Market Operations Banking. He is responsible for leading global performance and strategic and the Chief Information Officer at EFG Hermes. He was responsible delivery of a broad range of personal banking products and services, for overseeing the IT, marketing, legal, facilities, and administration with a focus on new banking technology, innovative and digital banking departments, directing the overall strategy, driving support to all EFG trends, and online payment and e-banking channels. This is in addition to Hermes lines of business, in addition to steering the technology strategy driving Banque Misr’s strategy in the retail business banking segments to of the firm and driving its development to further support and enhance maximize customer and shareholder value and achieve market-leading EFG-Hermes’s products and services. business growth. Prior to joining Banque Misr, Mr. Dorra was the Head of Retail Banking at Bank Audi Egypt, where he built the platform for a Mr. El-Sherbini was Vice President of Development at the Pennsylvania full-fledged retail arm, including Audi Première Service and Branch Model based Primavera Systems. He also helped drive the company’s Optimization. implementation of agile development methodologies and successfully adapted agile methods to work within a project management culture. In 2008, Mr. Dorra joined Barclays as Cluster Head, managing a region He has published articles and presented at conferences focused on of 15 branches constituting over 50% of the bank’s liabilities portfolio. both agile development and project management, and has mentored Mr. Dorra also worked in Citibank in 2001, where he spent eight years in other development organizations in their adoption of agile development different positions ranging from Auto Loan Sales Manager and Auto Loan practices. He received a Master of Science in Computer-AidedProduct and Sales Manager to Branch Manager and Branch Area Head. Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University and an MBA from the Mr. Dorra, who is a Certified Trainer at the Egyptian Banking Institute Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. (EBI), received a number of certificates and diplomas in retail banking, which enriched his area of expertise. He received a Banking Diploma Committees: from the University of Madison in Wisconsin, USA in 2016, in addition to holding an MBA from Operational Unit for Development Assistance (a1, E, I, ALCO, b1, a3, IFRS 9) (OUDA). Committees: (I, E, ALCO, b1, C, a4, a1, b5, IFRS 9) 82 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 MR. KHALED ATRIS ABDEL AZIZ MR. MOHAMED AFIFI HEAD OF LEGAL AFFAIRS GROUP CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Mr. Khaled Atris Abdel Aziz El Sayed is Head of Legal Affairs. He Mr. Mohamed Afifi was appointed as the Group Chief Compliance & joined Banque Misr in 1993. He has more than 25 years of experience in Corporate Governance Officer in January 2019. various legal fields. With more than 39 years of experience in the banking sector, he brings He has risen through the ranks, starting as a lawyer in the legal department a deep perspective regarding banking operations, retail banking, and until he reached his current position as the Head of Legal Affairs on control functions. Before joining Banque Misr, he elevated his career in March 13th, 2018. the banking sector while holding various senior positions at a number of Mr. Atris is also a Member of the Cairo Regional Center for International leading regional and international banks and institutions, among which Commercial Arbitration, Member of the Arab Union for International are the Arab Banking Corporation, Barclays Bank, NBAD, Crédit Agricole, Arbitration, Member of the Arab lawyers union, and Member of the and BNP Paribas. He also served in several senior management positions, Committee of Directors and Member of Legal Departments Affairs including Group Head of Compliance, Chief Internal Auditor, Deputy headed by the Council of Ministers. Chief Operations Officer, and Regional Head of Compliance. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration. Mr. Atris graduated from the Faculty of Law at Ain Shams University in 1991. He holds a master’s degree in private law from Ain Shams Committees: University and received an honorary doctorate from the Cambridge Academy of Science and Technology in collaboration with IAUS College (FATCA, a1, a2, a3, b1, b2, IFRS 9, ICAAP, b6, b9) and UNESCO. Committees: (E, I, a2, a3, a5, a6, a8, b1, b2, b4, b6, BRCC) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 83 MR. MOHAMED SHERIF MR. MOHAMED YEHIA AHMED CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CHIEF INTERNAL AUDITOR Mr. Mohammed Sherif was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in Mr. Mohamed Yehia brings more than 20 years of professional June 2019. Sherif is also a part-time instructor in the Egyptian Banking experience in internal and external auditing. Before joining Banque Misr, Institute; He is also a guest speaker in many international conferences in he was appointed by Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank Egypt as Chief Internal banking. He is also a Non-Executive Board Member in many joint-stock Auditor (Audit & Risk Review Division Head). Additionally, he held various companies. senior positions, such as Head of Retail Audit, Head of Operations, Branches, and Financial Audit. He was the acting Head of Corporate Prior to joining the bank this year, Mr. Sherif served as Executive Board Credit Audit and a member of the international/cross border audit team Member, Chief Financial Officer and Strategic, and Transformation in the UAE, and Sudan. Director at Attijariwafaa Bank Egypt (formerly Barclays Egypt) since September 2012, and Board Member since January 2013. He joined For his efforts in the bank, he was assigned to carry out additional tasks, Barclays Egypt as Operations Risk and Control Director in February 2009. being the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank’s “End of Service” Fund. Previously, he joined KPMG–Hazem Hassan as a Senior Prior to joining Barclays Egypt, Mr. Sherif held several positions at Citibank, Audit Manager (Financial Sector and Contracting). most recently as Vice President and Quality Assurance Unit Head. Mr. Mohammed Sherif has an MBA from the German University in Cairo, in He gained vast experience while working at prominent institutions. He addition to his diploma in International Accounting Standards and Report combined his professional experience with academic and professional from the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). He is learning. He is a CPA, CIA, CISA and CFIP holder. His professional also a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants experience includes auditing financial statements, fraud investigations, (AICPA) since 2004. audit quality assurance, IT, information security, corporate and retail credit risk, operations, subsidiaries, compliance, and corporate governance, in Committees: addition to conducting financial due diligence (valuation) for financial institutions for mergers and acquisitions. He has a well-established track (A, E, I, ALCO, V, b2, A5, b1, b4, a1, a3, a8, ICAAP, IFRS9, BRCC, C) record in strengthening the organization internal control systems, risk management framework and corporate governance. Committees: ( A,G,E,a5,b6,ALCO,IFRS9,BRCC) 84 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 MR. MOUSTAFA GAMAL ENG. SAYONARA EL ASMAR HEAD OF TREASURY AND CHIEF OPERATION OFFICER CORRESPONDENT BANKING Mr. Moustafa Gamal was appointed as the Head of Treasury and Eng. Sayonara El Asmar has been appointed as Chief Operations Correspondent Banking in August 2018. Officer in Banque Misr since May 2019. In addition, she is a member of the Bank's Executive Committee and Board member in I-score. Mr. Gamal brings over 28 years of experience in the banking industry, having held a range of leadership positions in a number of banks. Before She has been working in the banking operations and information technology joining Banque Misr, he was the Senior General Manager for Treasury field for the last 34 years. Her banking experience includes managing IT and Capital Markets at Bank Audi, a role he held for eight years. departments, implementing different core banking systems, managing operation division, and handling all type of operations related to individuals Prior to this, he spent 20 years, from 1990 until 2010, in the Commercial and companies, besides managing automation and process re-engineering International Bank, Egypt (CIB) in a variety of roles, including Director projects to optimize processes and resources utilization. Thus, increase and Chief Dealer. Additionally, he served in different areas, including operational efficiency, reduce turnaround time and enhance quality of branches and trading support, and treasury. service. Moreover, El Asmar participated in different merging processes and digital transformation initiatives. She also formalized and implemented Mr. Gamal received a Banking Diploma and a Certificate of Executive the digital transformation strategy for banking operations. Leadership from the University of Madison in Wisconsin, USA in 2014 and 2016 respectively. Additionally, he completed training programs in Prior to joining Banque Misr, Sayonara was Head of Bank Operations and USA, UK, and GCC. Deputy COO at Credit Agricole Bank Egypt for 13 years, and Head of Information Technology department at the CALYON/CAE, a subsidiary Committees: of Credit Agricole Group for 6 years. Preceding these posts, El Asmar held different positions in the Information Technology department in the (C, E, CRC, ALCO, b2, b5, a3, b9, V, IFRS 9) Egyptian American Bank, a joint venture between American Express Bank and Bank of Alexandria for almost 16 years. She earned a bachelor’s degree from the Faculty of Engineering, Cairo University in 1984. Committees (E, I, a1, a3, b2,b7,c3) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 85 MR. SHEHAB ZIDAN MR. SHERIF ELBEHERY Head of Global transaction Head of SMEs, Microfinance Banking and Head Of and Islamic Wholesale Banking Transformation office Mr. Shehab Zidan joined Banque Misr in October 2017 as the Head Mr. Sherif El Behery is currently the Head of SMEs, Microfinance of Global transaction Banking and Head Of Transformation office. Mr. and Islamic Wholesale Banking at Banque Misr, a position he has held Zidan has extensive experience spanning over 18 years, whereby he since April 2017. Mr. El Behery brings vast experience to the role, having held diversified banking managerial roles in the commercial operations, worked in various banking sectors throughout his career, including SMEs, financial institutions, corporate banking, and global transaction banking retail banking, finance, business development, and strategic capacity departments. In September 2018, he took responsibility for governmental planning. relations in Banque Misr after the Governmental Relationship Department was consolidated under BM’s Global Transaction Banking. Mr. Zidan Prior to this post, Mr. El Behery was the Director of Retail and Business commenced his banking career in 2000 with the Commercial International Banking at Barclays Egypt, a role he held for three years. Bank (CIB), after which he joined the Arab African International Bank (AAIB) in 2004. During the period from 2007 until 2017, he worked at Mr. El Behery joined Barclays Egypt in 2010 as the Director of Strategy, Barclays. Planning, Marketing, and Corporate Affairs. He formerly joined Barclays Africa Center-UAE, where he spent nearly four years moving between From 2014 to 2017, he was responsible for establishing the Global senior roles in the Emerging Markets Center and Russia. Transaction Service (GTS) platform in Barclays Egypt. Mr. Zidan graduated with a bachelor’s degree from the Faculty of Commerce He also held various senior positions at Vodafone and Citigroup, including and Business Administration at Helwan University. He studied Business Head of Business Performance and Business Manager for the Middle Administration at the American University in Cairo in 2000 and he holds East, and North Africa Global Transactional Services, respectively. an MBA from ESLSCA Business School. Mr. Zidan also holds several professional certificates, including the CDCS from the IFS School of Mr. El Behery holds a Business Administration degree from Ain Shams Finance and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), and the University, in addition to being a CFA charter holder. Advanced Commercial Lending certificates from the IFS School of Finance. In addition, he successfully completed Harvard Business School Committees: – EBI Executive leadership program. (E, c1, a3, a4, C, c6, b7, IFRS 9) Committees: (E, ALCO, C, a3, a4, b5, b7, c4, IFRS9) 86 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 DR. SUZAN F. HAMDY Eng. TAREK ALI CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER HEAD OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENGINEERING AFFAIRS Dr. Suzan F. Hamdy is currently the Chief Investment Officer. She also Eng. Tarek Ali joined Banque Misr in 2009 as the General Manager oversees the assets managed by the Capital Markets Group. of the Administration Department for two years. He was subsequently promoted to his current position as the Head of Administrative and Dr. Hamdy has a career spanning more than 35 years in the banking Engineering Affairs in 2011. Eng.Tarek Ali is also a Board Member at industry. She began her career at the credit and syndications department Amanco company. at the Arab African International Bank, where she worked in a variety of banking divisions, including project finance, remedial management, He has about 35 years of proven experience in various fields. Before investment banking, retail banking, marketing, business development, joining Banque Misr, Eng. Ali was the Head of Supply Chains at Americana and foreign branches. She was formerly the Chairman of the Nile Fund Group. He was formerly the Head of the Operations Department at Company for Development and Investment in the Nile Basin countries. Quick-Tel Egyptian Telephone Company. She was also a Board Member at the Export Development Bank and several other companies. In 2014, Dr. Hamdy was chosen as one of the Prior to that, he was the Head of the Purchases and Materials Department top 10 bankers in Egypt, and as one of the 50 most influential women in at Magrabi Hospitals. Eng. Ali spent 15 years in senior roles at Xerox the Egyptian economy in 2015. She was also selected as a member of the Egypt, including Quality Assurance Manager, Administration and Training International Who’s Who of Professionals for the year 2009. Moreover, Manager, Production Manager, and finally as Head of the Materials and Dr. Hamdy is a member of different business associations, such as Export Department. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Power Engineering the Egyptian Capital Market Association, Fixed Income Association, from the Faculty of Engineering at Ain Shams University. Egyptian Investment Management Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, the British Egyptian Business Association, and the World Committees: Studies Future Generation in Finland. (E, b1, b2, a5) She had represented Egyptian banks as part of the Visa International Risk Advisors for the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa (CEMEA) region. She holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in Economics from the American University in Cairo. Graduating at the age of 17, Hamdy obtained her P.h.D. in Monetary Policy from the University of Hungarian Sciences at the age of 22, to become the youngest university graduate and P.h.D holder in Egypt and the Middle East. Committees: (E, ALCO, V, b2, a5, C, IFRS 9) BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 87 102-18 BM Board COMMITTEES T he Board of Directors is a governing body, comprised of principal decision-makers. It is responsible for representing the stakeholders’ interests. It also ensures effective implementation of the bank’s risk management strategy. The Board is accountable to the General Assembly of Financial and Operational Performance. It is responsible for providing leadership in order to deliver long-term value to stakeholders. It also leads the management to act in the interest of the public as well as stakeholders, and to set corporate management policies. Corporate Governance Audit Committee (A) Committee (G) Investment Committee (V) BM Board High Risk Committee (R) COMMITTEES % Executive Committee (E) += Remuneration Committee (B) Informatics Committee (I) 88 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-18 Audit Committee (A) Responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process, including the risks and controls in that process. The committee should supplement figures received from the executive management with further information and assurance from both internal and external auditors. Corporate Governance Committee (G) Ensures strict adherence to the principles of corporate governance and oversees the strict compliance to all relevant laws and regulations imposed by the Central Bank of Egypt and all other regulatory bodies. Investment Committee (V) Evaluates and allocates the investment budget on the bank’s macro level. Remuneration Committee (B) Governs and leads major decisions regarding all matters related to Banque Misr’s total reward strategy, taking into consideration the following aspects: Egypt’s gross domestic product, updated inflation rates and market changes in terms of reward structures in the banking sector, ensuring that BM is aligned with its market competitors. Executive Committee (E) Controls all funding operations, contributions made in corporate capital, and the bank’s credit facilities. Informatics Committee (I) Monitors the offered services, ensuring that all needs are being catered to, up to the highest standards, to maximize the bank’s return on investments in the field of informatics. High Risk Committee (R) Risk management is an integral part of banking business. BM’s strategy should incorporate policies and actions regarding the risks it is willing to take and the means by which it will manage and mitigate those risks. The High Risk Committee ensures that all relevant business risks are identified, that their impact has been properly assessed, and that there are enough policies and regulations in place to manage all risks effectively. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 89 102-18 Audit Committee: Providing recommendations to hire auditors, setting their tasks, and reviewing issues related to their resignation or The committee handles a number of responsibilities that dismissal, according to legal provisions and the Central Auditing include: Organization law. Offering counsel on permission to assign auditors to provide AFinancial Statements: services to the bank, rather than reviewing financial statements. Studying annual financial statements before presenting them to EInspection Department: the Board of Directors for approval. Reviewing and adopting the annual inspection plan. Ensuring that the bank’s Executive Committee periodically reviews the value of collateral put up against loans and credit Executive Committee: facilities. The Executive Committee reviews the overall bank Studying the Central Bank of Egypt’s observations on the bank strategy, prior to submission to the Board of Directors for and its financial statements following inspections and reporting approval. them to the Board of Directors with recommendations. The committee reviews and approves: BInternal Audit System: ANewly delivered retail asset and liability products and/or financial Reviewing the reports compiled by the Inspection Department, schemes. including reports on the sufficiency of the internal audit system at the bank. BCredit facilities within the authority granted to the committee and in accordance with the bank’s credit policy. Coordinating between the tasks of internal and external auditing and ensuring that there are no obstacles preventing CInvestment strategies and decisions in accordance with the communication between the head of the Inspection Department committee’s set authorities. and auditors. DSettlements and/or the rescheduling of remedial loans in accordance Reviewing the procedures adopted by the bank’s management with the bank’s set policies. to ensure compliance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s auditing standards and regulations. EAllocated provisions and reserves in accordance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) regulations and internal policies. CCompliance, Money Laundering And Risk Management: The committee ensures the enforcement of all of the CBE’s regulations and legislations. It follows up on the financial results Reviewing reports compiled by the head of compliance at the and performance indicators of the bank on a monthly basis and bank. addresses areas of concern. DAuditors: The committee approves capital expenditures related to the 90 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-18 purchase of new branches, IT systems, and procurement, after The bank’s assessment of the efficiency of its governance structure to being studied and approved by the relevant committees. its potential customers as part of the process to approve the granting of credit to such customers. The committee studies and recommends modifications to HR The relevant departments ensuring the bank’s adherence to the policies, incentive schemes, and appraisal systems. application of corporate governance rules established by or added to the bank. It evaluates the bank’s performance, competitiveness, and The application of corporate governance rules in emergencies and brand positioning with regards to the local market and in all crisis management. countries where Banque Misr has branches and/or subsidiaries. The committee has administrative and financial authorities in Informatics Committee: accordance with the bank’s regulations, approved by the Board of Directors. It also has lending authorities according to the Providing domain expertise, leadership, and approved credit policy. guidance to the bank to help it achieve its objectives through: The Board of Directors may delegate additional authorities to the Executive Committee when deemed necessary, to facilitate AConstantly reviewing the bank’s strategies and activities, as well the bank’s operations. as monitoring the offered services, ensuring that all needs are being catered to, up to the highest standards, to maximize the return on the Corporate Governance Committee: bank’s investments in the field of informatics. The committee handles a number of BFollowing up on the development of the bank’s services, the flow responsibilities that include: of its operations, and the archiving of data, by bridging between the bank’s reporting requirements and data architecture to ensure that all ADefining clear boundaries of responsibility and accountability data models are aligned with the bank’s main strategy. in the bank and ensuring the clarity of the rules relating to the existence of: CManaging the development and distribution of data and reports provided to the bank’s internal and external customers, along with A policy to deal with related parties. eliminating risky operations and protecting data from potential threats. Effective internal control and risk management systems, and compliance with laws and regulations. Workable policy to replace the different functions. Investment Committee: Assisting the Board of Directors in overseeing investment BEnsuring the availability of applicable policies, systems and the activities from a strategic perspective. means to ensure the following: The committee focuses on the following areas: The senior management and Board of Director’s commitment to the principles of governance. AMacro-economic and market conditions as they pertain to the bank. The application of good practices in the bank, in accordance with the Basel II accord. BThe bank’s investment strategy, taking into account the implications Staff commitment to the implementation of the banking code of of accounting, standards, taxation laws, regulatory requirements, and conduct. bank policies. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 91 102-18 103-2 COverseeing investment exposures across multiple asset classes. setting the boundaries used for follow-up allocations (risk exposures), in addition to the standards of the risk management system in terms of DReviewing investment risk levels for each asset class and overall. acceptable risk percentages and rates. ESetting criteria for regular investment reporting. EReviewing the procedures and policies followed for setting the maximum limits on risk and risk concentrations (risk/concentration FEnsuring that investment guidelines are adhered to and that procedures limits), as well as ensuring that reports illustrate the trends in terms of are in place to ensure that portfolios are managed in compliance with investments and concentrations, versus unauthorized limits. investment policies for each asset class. FReviewing the size of the bank’s liquidity and making recommendations to the Board on the comprehensive framework for liquidity risk, including GMonitoring performance in line with the bank’s strategy and the results of the different assumptions of stress tests (liquidity stress). objectives. High Risk Committee: GEmphasizing the independence of the Chief Risk Officer through his/her jurisdiction in directly reporting to the Board of Directors or the High Risk Committee without any obstacles. Assisting the Board of Directors in carrying out its roles in relation to the control and supervision of the overall risk management framework at Banque Misr. Additionally, he/she may not perform any financial or administrative responsibilities that contradict with his/her job as General Manager of The committee also follows up on the functions of risk the Risk Management system. management through: HEnsuring that all risk management reports are rated according to: ACompiling reports and following up on compliance to capital strategies, liquidity management, credit and market risks, operational The probability of occurrence of those particular risks. risk, and any other risks the bank may become exposed to. The completion of the internal control systems of the bank to manage those risks. BControlling and supervising the development and evaluation of the general risk management framework in the bank in terms of: credit, Remuneration Committee: investment, market, and liquidity risk, as well as operational risk. The committee should take into account all required policies, procedures, The committee works to establish and maintain a competitive systems, and tools used by the executive management in the risk and equitable remuneration/compensation and benefits policy control and identification of acceptable risk (risk appetite) for each that results in a powerful total reward strategy designed to of the major risks in light of the surrounding environment, as well as attract engage and retain a workforce that helps BM achieve current and prospective economic and financial conditions. immediate and long-term sustainable success. CEnsuring the application of regulatory instructions and governance Moreover, it is also responsible for reviewing and approving any principles, and following up on the related principles and policies in line updates or modifications to BM’s salary structure, ensuring the with them. competitiveness of the wages and benefits programs offered to employees. This is to make sure that these programs comply DAuditing reports that contain the key risks faced by the bank, which with the bank’s strategy to attract and maintain outstanding cover all credit, investment, market, liquidity, and operational risk and performance among employees. 92 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The committee also monitors and evaluates the overall structure of the employees’ financial and non-financial rewards through: Reviewing the all related proposals designed by the HR Department resulting in fundamental changes related to the philosophy and strategy of the bank’s income and benefits. Ensuring that the incentive policies offered to managers do not lead to the acceptance of excessive risk and do not exceed the market high-end total cash in similar positions. Periodically reviewing the public policy programs for income, taking into consideration Egypt’s gross domestic product, updated inflation rates and market changes in terms of reward structures in the banking sector, and presenting them to the Board of Directors for approval. Reviewing the long-term policy programs, such as the benefits related to the end of service or healthcare after retirement, ahead of submitting them to the Board of Directors for approval. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 93 102-18 BM SENIOR COMMITTEES Governance Bodies T he committees retain the authority and responsibility for the bank’s strategic guidance while ensuring competence and diligence, while undertaking their supervisory responsibilities to assess the efficiency of the bank’s performance, and ensure accountability to the bank's management and its stakeholders. Technology Committee (a1) Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO) Human Resources Executive BM SENIOR International Business Risks Committee (a2) COMMITTEES Committee (b9) FATCA Committee (FATCA) Annual Performance Appraisal Committee (c7) International Financial Reporting Standards Committee (IFRS9) Credit Control Committee (C6) 94 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-18 Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO) Responsible for the formulation of the management strategy for assets and liabilities, as well as specifying the key performance and risk indicators, while taking all the necessary executive decisions to achieve the goals set by these indicators. Corporate Restructure Committee (CRC) Governs and oversees new structures, in which new manpower is requested and job leveling is reviewed for endorsement, ensuring that there is no duplication of functions and the bank’s resources are fully utilized. This review can result in the approval, boundary change, re-allocation, merger, or rejection of business proposals, based on the bank’s strategic direction aligned with modeling the best-applied practices in the peer group. FATCA Committee (FATCA) Ensures the bank’s compliance with the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) regulations and the provision of the required systems and mechanisms, as well as examining any obstacles to applying those regulations. The committee does not have any financial authorities, and all recommendations from the committee must be presented to the Executive Committee. Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process Committee (ICAAP) Responsible for the bank’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). The ICAAP was formed as a result of Pillar 2 of the Basel II accords, which targets a better quality of regulatory capital, along with better risk management and supervision. The committee is responsible for coordinating and implementing a comprehensive vision for all the bank’s departments, to implement the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. International Financial Reporting Standards Committee (IFRS 9) Implements new financial instruments through developing an action plan, follows up on implementation in accordance with the adopted timeline and ensures the bank’s compliance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s guidelines in this regard. IFRS 9 introduces new requirements on how an entity should classify, measure and reflects impairments to financial instruments. The Board Risk and Compliance Committee (BRCC) The committee aims at developing, reviewing, and overseeing the bank's compliance strategy and its consistency with BM's evolving plans and adopted policies. The committee monitors high risks, concentrations or exposures, and recommends reform procedures. The committee also evaluates mitigation procedures and ensures that inherent risks controlled effectively within the scheduled timeline. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 95 102-18 103-2 Technology Committee (a1) Evaluates all technological and informatics systems. Human Resources Executive Committee (a2) Reviews and approves various HR-related policies, including and not limited to hiring, job transfers, leaves, temporary assignments, promotions, disciplinary actions, post-graduate educational support, etc. This is in addition to reviewing staffing structure and succession planning. It also reviews reports related to confirmed changes in the types of contracts for employees, from limited term contracts to permanent contracts. In addition, the committee further oversees rehiring cases, and unpaid leaves for reasons apart from childcare. It is worth highlighting that the committee does not hold any HR-related financial authorities. Procedure Manuals Committee (a3) Aims to ensure the bank’s compliance with and adoption of the guidelines and other procedures comprised in all-new, updated, and amended instruction manuals across all divisions and departments. ATMs & Branches Network Development Committee (a4) Specifies the requirements of new or alternate branches nationwide, as well as reviewing requests from regions and branch management departments to expand branches. Real Estate Divestment Committee (a5) Facilitates a systematic and suitable disposal of unserviceable properties that have been acquired by the bank in stages, to be sold in steps. Committee for Receiving Assets Owned by Holding Companies’ Affiliates (a6) Based on the Framework Debt Swap Agreement signed on September 14th, 2009 between Banque Misr, the National Bank of Egypt, and holding companies, regarding the assets owned by subsidiaries of the holding companies, the committee is responsible for coordinating a collective settlement through exchanging the debts of lagging public companies for land plots. 96 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-18 205-2 403-1 Committee for Setting Returns on Islamic Transactions(a7) Reviews BM’s Islamic branches’ performance and return rates on a monthly basis, and sets the applicable return rates. Settlement Committee (a8) Reviews suggestions for the settlement of client debts, liquidating facilities, and/or debt write-off. Senior Gulf Branches Committee (b) Reviews and approves credit cases extended to Gulf Branches' corporate borrowers and participates in syndicated loans. Reviews suggestions for the settlement of Gulf clients’ debts and/or debt execution. Administrative Affairs Committee (b1) Reviews the requirements of the bank’s various departments, whether furniture, equipment, office supplies, publications, and other requirements, as well as anything related to the bank facilities. Crisis and Emergency Management Committee (b2) In light of some unusual events that the country experienced over the past few years and in order to be ready for any adverse political and economic circumstances, this Committee was formed to address any potential crises and to handle any emergency situations following natural disasters. The committee creates and maintains an efficient and integrated structure for preventing and managing incidents. It aims to ensure preparations for crisis situations and develop action plans. Medical Services Committee (b3) Assesses all offers from medical specialists, hospitals, and laboratories, to select the most suitable and low-cost services to provide comprehensive medical packages for employees and their families. The committee issues decisions regarding handling of chronic illnesses, and the relevant actions in relation to the type of work. It also follows up on the monthly financial status of the bank’s medical service system and decides on how to ensure a balance between the system’s expenses and resources. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 97 102-17 102-18 205-2 403-1 Support and Medical Care Committee (b4) Responsible for providing financial assistance and granting expedited approvals following social disasters that affect the basic needs of employees and for the treatment of exceptional medical conditions. Banking Services Tariff Committee (b5) Responsible for reviewing and amending the tariffs for the provision of the banking services in Banque Misr. Grievances Committee (b6) Reviews any complaints/grievances submitted by employees regarding performance evaluations, disciplinary actions imposed on employees, or actions that violate BM’s code of conduct, with the aim of achieving conflict resolution and fair treatment in resolving issues. Senior Management Nomination Committee (b7) Conducts interviews with candidates seeking senior-level positions at Banque Misr i.e. General Manager and Senior Deputy General Manager positions. Middle Management Nomination Committee (b8) Conducts interviews with candidates seeking positions at specialized departments at Banque Misr. International Business Risks Committee (b9) Approves all limits related to Pre-Settlement Risk (PSR) provided by different business lines and/or the International Business Department (new extension of facilities, renewal, increasing limits). Credit customers are excluded from this. Senior Credit Committee (C) Formed of Senior Executives of the bank to (i) approve credit facilities within its delegated authorities, (ii) reviews policies, and (iii) sets strategies for various Business units Main Credit Committee (c1) Approves credit facilities within its delegated authorities. 98 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-18 SME Credit Committees (c2): (Three committees) Approve facilities (new, renewal, amendments, etc.) within their delegated authorities for companies that fall under the SMEs portfolio. Settlement of Retail and Corporate Banking Customers Committee (c3) Considers the debt settlement offered by the debt Remedial or Retail Banking departments, whose indebtedness does not exceed EGP1m or its equivalent in any other major foreign currency, excluding marginal returns. Interviewing Committee for Entry-Level Applicants (c4) Responsible for conducting interviews and selecting the successful applications of new recruits, ensuring that their performance is up to the bank’s standards, vision and strategic objectives. Re-Interviewing Committee for Entry-Level Applicants (c5) Conducts second interviews with applicants who scored less than 70% in their first interviews, and who are compliant with the bank’s terms of service, in light of staff shortages in various departments. The second interview is conducted within six months of announcing the results of the first assessment. Credit Control Committee (c6) Reviews the status of clients whose related facilities are (i) suspended due to irregularities in their accounts, (ii) warning signs that appeared due to internal or external factors, or (iii) accounts that breach approval terms or covenants. Reviews all accounts falling within these criteria in terms of account behavior, collateral position, and recommends the appropriate course of action. Annual Performance Appraisal Committee (c7) Responsible for discussing and endorsing the defects in the annual performance appraisal reports. Central and Non-Central Small Enterprises Financing Committees (c8) Responsible for small-sized business financing schemes and products, both in the conventional and Islamic branches. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 99 102-12 102-15 102-46 103-2 OUR COMMITMENT B ringing a sustainable future-forward vision after a century-old legacy, our commitment will continue to expand the breadth of our efforts to ensure sustainable development in the community we serve. Hence, our mission is as expansive as our capacity to act for the community. To this end, we bring the best standards and practices to our multi-dimensional strategy, culture, and day-today operations. Banque Misr’s strategy is underpinned through acknowledging that its long-lasting profitability depends on stability, economic growth, shared prosperity, and a better ecosystem. Banque Misr enables stakeholders’ collaborative engagement while empowering others and respecting differences, encouraging effective risk management while adopting good governance and anticorruption practices. Moreover, equal weight is given to its market-leading role through its resilient commitment to the best international standards. Banque Misr’s adherence to the UN SDGs, UN Global Compact, and Responsible Banking Initiative is widely reflected in its sustainable action plan. Thus, Banque Misr gained solid stakeholders’ loyalty and ensured success. Further, BM fosters collaboration with a wide range of partners across the community for a more sustainable impact on a larger scale. In order to propel better prosperity in line with inclusive economic growth, we effectively engage with our stakeholders in adopting more sustainable action. Hence, Banque Misr is effectively accountable to them. Further, BM’s strategy clearly entails a good governance structure and adherence to the highest level of ethics and integrity. Three-Dimensional Sustainability Strategy Taking the three pillars of sustainability further, Banque Misr has built a true paradigm of sustainability within a triple-bottom-line framework. Banque Misr effectively contributes to promoting more cohesive and inclusive societies through major efforts Social toward reducing inequities and promoting social justice, along with a clear focus on optimal employability and Dimension residential stability. Banque Misr also contributes to the quality of life and well-being. Banque Misr actively promotes its positive environmental footprint, while maximizing the efficient Environmental utilization of renewable resources. The bank also ensures effective stakeholders’ engagement toward Dimension promoting ecological sustainability for a wider impact. Economic With industry-leading profitability, Banque Misr’s innovative mechanisms ultimately Dimension add a competitive edge to its contribution to the state’s economic development. 100 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-17 102-56 RESPONSIBLE BANKING APPROACH LONGLASTING COMMITMENT T hroughout 100 years of dedication to economic growth and community wellbeing, Banque Misr continues to deliver on its mission to best serve the community. Banque Misr’s corporate culture is consistently compliant to good governance and responsible banking principles to steer operations toward a promising future. In matters of its corporate governance approach, Banque Misr always keeps a close attention to three action areas. The bank’s value-driven management system ensures maximizing its stakeholders’ value, while retaining better and long-lasting relationships with them. As for BM’s managers and employees, performance-based compensation represents a rewarding incentive to maintain their remarkable contributions to its ongoing success. Furthermore, transparency through reporting is always deemed crucial for Banque Misr to maintain its status as a pioneering financial institution. BM’s Board of Directors upholds the highest standards of corporate governance, integrity, and ethics. BM’s Board of Directors’ agenda entails internal control, risk management and regulatory compliance, which is considered of a paramount importance. Further, policies and practices concerned with compliance to legal and regulatory requirements are considered a priority during the Board of Directors’ meetings. Banque Misr abides by sound governance for promoting accountability, transparency, efficiency, and commitment, as they are considered resilient assets to the bank’s control system framework for equitable and sustainable development. Banque Misr has not set a policy on gaining external assurance for its GRI index and sustainability review, however internal assurance is constantly carried out to ensure quality and promote credibility, as sustainability represents the main pillar of its legacy of success. Banque Misr’s operations and activities is subject to the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, the Central Bank of Egypt, the Financial Regulatory Authority, and the Central Auditing Organization. With regard to the bank’s financial statement, Banque Misr’s financial statement is subject to external assurance. Banque Misr’s financial statements are audited by a third party, a Certified Public Auditor. Banque Misr’s pre-eminence in leveraging its sustainability potential is achieved through incorporating best practices: 1Governance 2Code of Conduct 3Whistleblowing...Zero-Tolerance Policy 4Anti-Money Laundering and Combating Terrorism Finance 5Data Protection & Cybersecurity 6Risk Management 7Transparent Remuneration System BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 101 102-15 102-40 102-42 103-3 Governance Through its cohesive governance policies, Banque Misr attains the highest levels of sustainable transparency and integrity. Moreover, accountability and disclosure have crucial importance to the effectiveness of the bank’s core operational strategy. To ensure more sustainable excellence, Banque Misr has set an established corporate governance strategy to prudently maintain high standards of business ethics and integrity. Subsequently, Banque Misr is committed to fulfilling the highest standards of accountability and transparency to maintain our stakeholders’ trust and confidence. Promoting balance between its stakeholders’ values and continuous high profitability rates is consolidated in the Board of Directors’ agenda within a crystal clear governance framework. Additionally, compliance to the best policies, system controls, and practices is a high priority, as a key element of its sustainable success. The bank’s Corporate Governance Committee submits semi-annual reports to follow up on performance in line with global governance principles. Meanwhile, the Board of Directors’ annual report covers disclosures. Our Sustainability Governance Structure is based on five key pillars Clients Banque Misr is fully compliant with confidentiality and Community Wellbeing transparency to leverage added value with our clients. Banque Misr always ensures solid momentum in its efforts Stakeholders toward the prosperity of the community it serves. In line with corporate sustainability best practices, Banque Misr has placed a A proactive approach is adopted in regularly engaging with rising emphasis on CSR activities. a wide spectrum of stakeholders and employees to ensure professionalism in the best working environment. Reports and Follow-ups As a fundamental asset to its success, Banque Misr’s employees The bank’s Corporate Governance Committee receives always show a full commitment to the top standards of semiannual reports to ensure sustainability, in line with universal professionalism. governance principles. These disclosures are also covered in the Board of Directors’ annual report. BM’s Goals for Sustainable Success Banque Misr adopts a built-in strategy for sustainability, adhering to the best practices and standards, including the UN Global Compact standards for citizenship. It successfully adopts the UN’s SDGs, as well as Egypt’s Vision 2030. 102 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-16 102-17 103-3 205-2 Code of Conduct be raised directly to senior executives and line managers, in addition to human resources, security, and fraud departments. Banque Misr’s code of conduct stipulates sound principles to Whistleblowing allegations are investigated thoroughly to take safeguard its genuine reputation of success. It underpins the preventive actions. Regardless of which reporting channel business ethics and morals, which represent the bank’s core is used, confidentiality will be maintained to the fullest extent values. possible. Whistleblowers can select a different channel other than the main ones for reporting if the misconducts violate The code of conduct is a clear guidance to our staff, and is established standards of practice, or are improper behaviors, so deeply embedded as a solid culture based on transparency and as to ensure effective ways to act on such breaches. integrity, ensuring that our employees maintain the highest levels of professionalism and confidentiality in addition to avoiding any conflict of interests. Anti-Money Laundering and Combating Terrorism Finance Further, the confidentiality of information is a top priority whether Banque Misr mitigates any potential risks, especially those internally or externally, so as to avoid any conflicts of interests. related to money-laundering and terrorism financing, in order Thus, confidential information can only be shared if it's essential to promote peaceful and just societies, in compliance with the for the performance of a job function. During FY 2018/2019, the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal no. 16. In order to abide Board members stated that no conflict of interest had occurred. by the best possible compliance practices, the bank regularly takes key follow-up actions, including the periodical review of its Whistleblowing ... Zero-Tolerance Policy strategies and policies. Banque Misr is FATCA compliant, which aligns the automated monitoring system applied by the bank to As a part of Banque Misr’s culture of responsibility and scrutinize clients and banking transactions. commitment, Banque Misr has zero tolerance for corruption, bribery, and all violations of laws or its documented code of Banque Misr’s branches in Egypt, the UAE and France successfully conduct. Banque Misr strictly adopts whistleblowing, one of the met all requirements of the FATCA through the collaborative GRI Sustainability Reporting standards, to ensure full compliance efforts exerted by the bank’s staff and top-management. On with all laws and regulations, in addition to mitigating any potential the other hand, Banque Misr’s full compliance with both local risks of noncompliance. and international anti-bribery and corruption acts is upheld and strengthened through its employees, who are strictly obliged to In this regard, the bank’s whistleblowing policy shows all reinforce these laws. employees’ commitment to integrity through positive action to strengthen the bank’s reputation. Thus, all the employees receive Data Protection & Cybersecurity supplementary training programs, which cover BM’s regulations Banque Misr always prioritizes a functional data privacy system. and policies. With technical and organizational measures, BM’s customers’ data cannot be accessed, altered, misused, lost, hacked, or otherwise Various whistleblowing channels are available to adequately used for unauthorized purposes. Banque Misr continuously address any concerns in terms of disclosing any sort of improves the best cybersecurity practices. To ensure adequate misconduct. The main reporting channels include written data security, the bank regularly delivers training programs to letters, emails and phone calls. whistleblowing cases may also increase awareness on data protection among employees. BM’s BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 103 102-9 102-11 102-17 205-2 103-2 103-3 405-2 data protection office coordinates, assesses, and monitors and transaction levels. BM’s Board Risk Committee provides an practices in this field, where complaints on data protection independent assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of issues are investigated thoroughly. Banque Misr always ensures the overall risk management framework and risk governance up-to date security controls for the big data it obtains. Banque structure in the bank. Misr always adopts high-level security standards for reinforcing the highest level of data protection for its clients’ personal The Risk Sector adopts effective risk management processes, information. along with efficient countermeasures, to secure constant compliance with the internal policies and the Central Bank of Moreover, Banque Misr strengthens its cybersecurity position Egypt’s regulations. To manage any potential risks prudently, BM to avoid any cyber-attacks, data losses, leakage, or misuse. To is strengthening collaborative management of risk diversification. leverage BM’s professional and safer banking services, Banque It established disaster recovery centers, along with adopting Misr successfully abides by the global data security standards of business continuity and contingency plans, to respond effectively the payment cards industry, among which is the Industry Data to potential serious incidents like natural disasters and technical Security Standard (PCI-DSS). The adherence to the global data breakdowns. BM’s risk management process continuously strikes security standards of payment cards has been reflected in offering a balance between productivity and security. safer banking services. All employees are strictly prohibited from receiving, accepting, offering, paying, or authorizing any bribe, Transparent Remuneration System or being involved in any other form of corruption. BM sources talents and attracts and retains the best individuals Risk Management to lead the bank in an increasingly competitive marketplace. BM adopts best-practice guidelines for the management of board Banque Misr’s risk management structure is managed by remuneration. The bank implements a transparent remuneration several departments, starting from board-level executives to system. various committees within the Executive Management purview, including Board Risk Committee, Executive Committee, Senior Performance-based compensation is at the heart of BM’s Credit Committee, and other committees down the spectrum remuneration policy. The average monthly income of BM’s top with various delegated authorities. The Risk management sector 20 employees in Egypt is EGP 201.675 thousand. The executive manages the bank’s overall portfolios covering corporate, retail, directors’ salaries are benchmarked against comparable roles non-performing loans, and investments. Dedicated teams are in peer banks. All employees’ salaries are determined based on assigned to each field to ensure specialization and the acquisition their professional experience and market standards. of required market knowledge. BM’s average monthly net income for entry-level employees To achieve the above objectives, policies are formulated to setup stands at EGP 5,500. The average annual cost allocated for (i) Risk appetite in terms of maximum exposure per industry and employees in terms of wages and benefits rose to EGP 289.1 per client and (ii) Processes ensuring adequate controls are in thousand in 2019, up from EGP 100.89 thousand in 2011. BM place. Risk Management’s role is to guarantee the suitability of abides by the Central Bank of Egypt’s regulations governing policies and periodically review them to meet market changes payrolls, which entitle employees and any third party contractor and business needs and to ensure the adequacy of control or service provider to be compensated on time for their work. measures to mitigate the underlying risk at portfolio, client, 104 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-7 102-8 Total Salaries And Benefits Total Salaries And Benefits For For Local Branches Foreign Branches Amount in EGP thousand Amount in EGP thousand Jun-2019 4,914,016 Jun-2019 288,940 Jun-2018 3,288,610 Jun-2018 251,872 Jun-2017 3,201,353 Jun-2017 195,626 Jun-2016 2,556,180 Jun-2016 104,534 Jun-2015 2,211,240 Jun-2015 86,712 Jun-2014 2,074,522 Jun-2014 76,667 Jun-2013 2,075,023 Jun-2013 63,331 Jun-2012 1,661,180 Jun-2012 62,333 Jun-2011 1,178,791 Jun-2011 54,684 Total Salaries And Benefits For All Number Of Branches Employees Amount in EGP thousand Jun-2019 5,202,956 Jun-2019 18,000 Jun-2018 3,540,482 Jun-2018 16,052 Jun-2017 3,396,979 Jun-2017 14,497 Jun-2016 2,660,714 Jun-2016 14,110 Jun-2015 2,297,952 Jun-2015 12,689 Jun-2014 2,151,189 Jun-2014 12,535 Jun-2013 2,138,354 Jun-2013 12,345 Jun-2012 1,723,512 Jun-2012 12,344 Jun-2011 1,233,475 Jun-2011 12,226 Average Yearly Cost Average Monthly Cost Per Employee Per Employee Amount in EGP thousand Amount in EGP thousand Jun-2019 289.1 Jun-2019 24.1 Jun-2018 220.56 Jun-2018 18.38 Jun-2017 234.32 Jun-2017 19.53 Jun-2016 188.57 Jun-2016 15.71 Jun-2015 181.10 Jun-2015 15.09 Jun-2014 171.61 Jun-2014 14.30 Jun-2013 173.22 Jun-2013 14.43 Jun-2012 139.62 Jun-2012 11.64 Jun-2011 100.89 Jun-2011 8.41 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 105 102-11 102-16 102-41 103-2 404-2 405-2 103-3 OUR PEOPLE A s employees represent the pillar of our success, Banque Misr retains and empowers its staff with the required skills, training programs, and incentives to fulfill their mission with loyalty and professionalism. This core value is deeply articulated in the bank’s strategy, which is centered on five core elements: adaptability, agile methodology, promoting diversity, career progression opportunities, and rewards. The bank is committed to attracting and retaining the best talents, developing their capabilities, ensuring their wellbeing, and affording them opportunities to achieve sustainable operational performance. Sustainable Change... BM’s Valuable Commitment Employees are the most valued asset for Banque Misr. Thus, it ensures an inclusive and healthy work environment to optimize their productivity and performance. Our employees always show a deep sense of loyalty through full compliance with the best practices and accountability standards. As a value-driven bank, BM instills its values and commitments through employee induction programs for the new hires to ensure that they abide by the highest standards of professionalism and integrity, in addition to various leadership training programs. Diversity and global outreach are integrated into our operational excellence. To capitalize on these comparative advantages, Banque Misr catalyzes its employees’ engagement. Moreover, Banque Misr is committed to its staff and their wellbeing, safety, and security, in recognition of the overwhelming importance of adequate occupational health and safety measures. BM always shows a full commitment to employees’ welfare and human rights pursuant to all applicable laws and binding standards, guidelines, and agreements. The bank abides by the below principles: • BM refrains from child labor exploitation. The bank strictly prohibits the hiring of individuals less than 18 years old. • BM offers decent and humane working conditions, where employees are treated with respect and dignity. • BM curbs discrimination on the basis of race, religion, political convictions, gender/sex, or on any other basis. • BM sustains a safe and healthy workspace for its employees. • BM is committed to compensating employees in a timely manner in accordance with all applicable employment laws. • BM respects the right to collective bargaining. Employees are entitled to join, form, or refrain from joining a labor union without fear of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. 106 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-8 102-12 103-2 401-2 401-3 404-1 404-2 103-2 103-3 Inclusive Diversity ... Fostering Success 35.5% Supporting a positive and respectful work environment not only assists the bank in retaining the top talent, but it also allows the workforce to be more productive. BM strives for equality and diversity and works actively to eliminate discrimination based on aspects such as age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or ethnicity. BM is committed to respecting employees’ different backgrounds as part of its commitment to creating a diverse and inclusive society. Employees are encouraged to freely discuss their opinions and concerns. Representation The bank ensures fair recruitment practices through three key channels. The first channel comprised eight of Women employment fairs that we participated in throughout the FY 2018/2019. BM employees fill vacancies internally, as the second channel encompasses 68 job announcements through 43 internal adverts. Meanwhile, the third channel was announcing 64 external adverts during the same fiscal year. Moreover, BM launched a cooperation protocol with Ain Shams University to establish an initiative for providing summer training and employment opportunities for students and fresh graduates. This is in addition to specialized credit courses, and training initiatives in cooperation with various entities, including the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI). In 2018, the average age of employees in BM went down to 34 years, from 44 years in 2005. BM is also committed to empowering individuals with disabilities to thrive and be included in society. The bank is committed to hiring people with disabilities and developing their skills. The bank’s recruitment process takes into consideration the type of disability and the candidate’s abilities to meet the respective job requirements in order to tap into their unique talents. As part of its role in reducing inequalities, Banque Misr made significant strides in reducing the gender gap and empowering women to reach their full potential. Greater female representation has been achieved this 34 years year. In this regard, the percentage of female workers rose to 35.5% in 2019, compared to 34.31% in 2018. The bank is also attentive to women’s needs in terms of maintaining balance between their careers and personal lives. In 2019, BM offered maternity leaves to 481 female employees, in addition to child care leaves for 555 female employees. Employees’ Career Progress Average Age of Employees Every stage in the employment process, from hiring and training to leadership development, generates more emphasis on making Banque Misr the employer of choice. The bank effectively balances and rebalances the skills of employees against strategic objectives and aligns individual goal plans with these objectives. BM constantly offers opportunities for career development and advancement, aiming to boost employees’ engagement rates. The bank encourages employees to build their own skills (technical and otherwise) in line with both their professional needs and aspirations. In total, BM offered 689 different training programs in 600,000 hours this year, with a total of 26,000 training opportunities for 16,200 employees. The bank launched many learning and developmental initiatives and programs this year, key among which are: BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 107 401-1 401-2 103-3 404-2 1BM Induction Program 4Harvard Business School Leadership Track BM launched a new upgraded induction program to ensure that new hires are given the latest and most BM launched a major learning initiative affiliated 2.86% with Harvard Business School to send a group of comprehensive information to execute their jobs our senior executives to attend a comprehensive properly. leadership program at Harvard Business School, with an aim of acquiring the best-in-class practices when The new program offers an overview on the bank’s it comes to leadership, planning and formulating heritage, commitment and future endeavors. The strategies. This initiative is not a one-time event program outlines the activities and training that new but will be held annually in a bid to invest in our recruits will undergo, providing them with a valuable top-tier executive level to improve organizational Employee engagement channel that fosters a positive work development and better achieve our objectives. environment. Turnover 5BM Knowledge League 2Ta’alam Initiative BM introduced gamification as a training tool to drive BM launched last year the learning Initiative employee engagement by offering prizes, awards, “Ta’alam” (Learn), a self-teaching initiative, aiming privileges, and recognition. The newly adopted to support employees in their career development tool enables employees to participate in individual and fulfill their aspirations toward their future career. and team-based competitions, which grow in their The initiative inspires self-development through a understanding of the bank's regulations, code of number of online tools and programs. Moreover, it conduct and technical banking processes. ensures the alignment between the strategic goals and objectives of the organization and the individual 6Succession Planning & Talent Management Processes goals of its employees, in order to improve 2503 annual business results and to enhance employee BM continues to enhance its talent management satisfaction and engagement. initiatives annually. It also introduced a revamped talent and succession planning process to develop the 3BM Learning Academy next generation of leaders, emerging from the second and third lines of employees, who embody the bank’s BM Launched last year the first curriculum of its values and guiding principles. This year, we built a own learning academy, and seeks to continuously steady and reliable pipeline of 67 senior management Total New Hires improve it by adding new schools that tailor in-house talents. The placement and career development from July 2018 to learning paths for all different divisions on a variety phase will continue for the upcoming 18 months. June 2019 of banking and non-banking topics. The academies As for Banque Misr’s Talent Hub, it was identified are divided into four layers, which span the career and launched to develop 204 potential talents of spectrum-from junior to senior management levels employees with a comprehensive development track with specialized development tracks, programs and for three years on three different phases. These certifications for each stage that is linked directly phases will focus on equipping our talents with all with employee’s career paths and growth inside Banque Misr. relevant banking and non-banking topics that directly reflect our new strategy, to prepare them for future opportunities that align with BM’s corporate goals and their individual aspirations and career ambitions. 108 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 103-3 401-1 401-2 103-3 404-2 BM Successors Academy Building a Positive Work Environment... Bringing Out the Best Designed to identify, develop and retain BM’s potential successors who can assume key and critical positions within the bank and are the bank’s Banque Misr (BM) constantly ensures a positive and proactive future leaders. One of the high-tier programs that we used for our work environment, which in return reflects a high rate of successors is the Future Leaders Program, devised in collaboration with employee satisfaction and a low turnover rate. BM’s positive the Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI), which helped enhance our future work environment is essential to developing a high-performance leaders’ knowledge through mixed learning methodologies, including workforce. BM registered an employee turnover rate of 2.86% in-class training, seminars, online training, case studies and study tours. in the FY 2018/2019, mainly comprised of employees who had The purpose of the program was to sufficiently prepare them for future reached retirement age. roles. It is tailored around the participants’ individualities, experiences, aspirations and the understanding of how to apply their experience in this program on the job. Easing Financial Burdens Talent Management Hub BM’s employees can easily deduct loans, which are offered as a support to enable them to bridge their financial gaps in times of Designed to identify, develop and retain young stars in different emergency. Banque Misr provides various loan options tailored divisions who differentiate themselves from their peer groups through especially for its employees. their distinct ambition, eagerness to learn, independence, creativity and intelligence, and who demonstrate a clear growth potential. Candidates Competitive Benefits must show initiative, take responsibility, set and maintain high quality standards, demonstrate ownership, and exceed expectations, allowing To retain the best talents, Banque Misr sets a competitive salary them to become the leaders of Banque Misr in the long-term through structure based on global standards. It also offers its employees fully customized development tracks within the BM Academy. performance-based incentives and benefits packages to optimize the best performance. Moreover, BM’s employees are eligible 7BM New Performance Management System for medical care in addition to recreational and leisure options, (Management by Objectives MBO) such as traveling and sports activities. BM launched its new performance management system based Corporate Wellness on the bank’s objectives. The new management model sets a revamped process for evaluating BM employee’s performance As a part of a holistic approach to promote the health of through a scientific approach, enabling any manager or employees and their families, Banque Misr offers premium employee to set the annual career objectives, according to BM’s health care coverage for them, which covers charges for in strategy with crystal clear key performance indicators (KPIs). network and out-of-network health care providers. To ensure The employee’s numeric performance rating is linked with all targeted technical objectives, as well as another two relevant core the best health care for them, Banque Misr also contracted corporate values. The system includes a managerial section for with medical specialists, doctors, hospitals, laboratories, and senior-level management. The model emphasizes transparency, pharmacies to cover the vast number of employees working in planning and fair chances for all employees to perform their jobs the bank’s different branches and offices. BM’s medical system is better in line with a wide-scale evaluation process that ensures automatically updated to facilitate and expedite the process. The providing equal opportunities to learn and work through a clear value of medical care coverage netted about EGP 250m for the vision toward the yearly objectives. FY 2018/2019. The bank holds seminars on various health-related issues to improve employees’ health and well-being various medical awareness seminars and campaigns are conducted by the bank for its employees on hepatitis C, the new Coronavirus, health problems related to smoking, and other health issues. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 109 102-11 401-2 103-3 404-2 Safety Precautions amid Coronavirus Pandemic electronic channels to ensure that customers and employees stay safe amid Coronavirus outbreak. BM issued various hygiene Banque Misr always places a safe and healthy working instructions while using ATMs, including: environment for both its employees and customers at the top of its agenda. Thus, it swiftly took strict safety precautions • Using hand sanitizers and tissues in ATM stalls amid the Coronavirus pandemic. As part of “Take Care of • Standing at a minimum distance of 1-2 meters and avoiding Your Health and Protect Your Country” initiative, Banque Misr overcrowding. issued internal standards and good hygiene practices to protect against infection and prevent the virus from spreading. Banque Furthermore, Banque Misr offers charge-free ATM transactions Misr strictly applies many protective measures against the new and BM Wallet services, as a step to encourage customers to use coronavirus, including: these channels to do their transactions instead of cash. Moreover, Banque Misr keen to receive clients in its premises fit the spaces Safety measures related to the workplace and employees to avoid overcrowding. • Giving instructions for disinfecting surfaces using antiseptic solutions Improving Physical Wellness and Resourcefulness containing alcohol every two hours, in addition to installing hand sanitizer dispensers and periodical routine cleaning of the main elevators BM’s employee wellbeing extends beyond health-related issues • Banning unhealthy practices such as sharing reusable plates and cups, and safety. Banque Misr always acknowledges the importance of which are replaced with disposable cups optimizing the health and wellbeing of all employees and their • Giving instructions for taking all proactive measures related to the families. Thus, Banque Misr focuses on providing employees and transportation system to ensure the safety of the drivers their families with the opportunity to perform sports, social, and • Suspending fingerprint biometric attendance system entertainment activities. The bank renovated Talaat Harb Club • Replacing onsite meetings and workshops with either videoconferencing and established its New Cairo Leisure and Sports Club. or teleconferencing • Talaat Harb Pasha museum has been closed to the public and the preBM further funds employee sports tournaments and other booked group tours activities, amounted to EGP 6.15m in the FY 2018/2019. The bank • 24/7 availability of the bank’s medical care department and the organizes football tournaments frequently during the Islamic physicians to ensure instant response to any question via e-mail or holy month of Ramadan, as well as during Easter holidays, phone. encouraging employees to take part. Similar tournaments are also organized for volleyball, table tennis, chess, basketball, Safety measures for all employees swimming, squash, and futsal games. Banque Misr also takes part in all competitions organized by the Egyptian Companies Sports • Reminding all the employees to wash their hands every hour and to Federation through the involvement of sports teams in various wear gloves and face mask, especially the bank’s front-line employees sporting activities, whereby it achieved advanced positions led and those who have to deal with cash at hospitals, airports, and hotels. by bank’s sports coaches, with strong support of the senior • Offering several Coronavirus awareness publications and videos to management. ensure the prevention of infection • Providing temperature checks, as well as taking all the required Banque Misr’s five-a-side football team has won the Inter-banks procedures Football Tournament League, held on the football pitch of Securing Our Customers’ Safety Talaat Harb Club under the patronage of Egypt’s Central Bank Governor, Mr. Tarek Amer. The football tournament witnessed BM launched a campaign under the slogan “Stay Home.. Stay the participation of a large number of Egyptian banks. BM team Connected”, aiming to promote online and mobile services. BM successfully won the tournament league after participating in 26 also decided to issue its new certificates of deposits through games without defeat. 110 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-16 102-41 401-2 404-2 413-1 Optimizing Leisure Time to Promote Performance BM’s Employees Engagement in CSR Leisure trips and recreational activities inspire employees to Banque Misr always seeks to inculcate corporate responsibility do their best; as such activities harness the performance and values to be an integral part of the employees' sense of loyalty deepen the employees’ loyalty during office hours. Banque Misr toward the community. The bank firmly believes in the necessity offers funding worth up to 70% of the value of recreational trips of anchoring corporate social responsibility among employees. for employees and their families. The total cost of the leisure Employees’ CSR role, whether individually or collectively, acts trips recorded EGP 37m in FY 2018/2019. as motivation for higher employee engagement and teamwork productivity. Post-Retirement Benefits BM’s employees are fully aware of that giving back to the Banque Misr seeks to reward the dedication of its employees community is considerably important. Giving back time and after retirement. Thus, it conducts periodical actuarial studies in talent demonstrates BM employees' loyalty and commitment accordance with Egyptian accounting standards and the Centoward the community. A number of well-executed employee tral Bank of Egypt’s regulations to evaluate its post-retirement volunteer programs and philanthropic activities took place; offerings. The post-retirement benefits offered by Banque Misr among which are blood donation campaigns, school painting increased from EGP 34m in 2010 to EGP 890m in 2019. initiatives, distributing gifts to school students, frequent donation campaigns for the Egyptian Clothing Bank, annual orphan day Solid Culture of Recognition celebrations, site visits for the bank’s CSR projects, and equipment Banque Misr’s employees shape its sustainable success, donation campaigns for Abu El-Rish Pediatric Japanese Hospital whereas their contributions are recognized and appreciated. and the hospital in Fayoum City. The recognition of hard work and Achievements motivates the employees and upholds BM’s values toward excellence. Commuter Benefits for Employees To strengthen the productivity of employees, BM offers employee transportation services to reduce the commuting times. Freedom Of Association And Collective Bargaining Banque Misr reinforces its commitment to respect personnel rights in accordance to the principles of the UN Global Compact and the rights regarding freedom of association and collective bargaining. Banque Misr’s employees are permitted to negotiate working conditions freely. The employees also have rights to join, form, or refrain from joining a labor union without fear of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. This is in addition to their ability to carry out constructive dialogue with their freely chosen legal representatives. For employees who are represented by a legally recognized union, the bank remains committed to bargaining in good faith with all such representatives. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 111 102-11 302-1 302-3 302-4 103-2 TACKLING OUR CLIMATE FOOTPRINT Action on Climate T he sense of community is a deeply rooted value for Banque Misr. The bank strives to lower its negative footprint on the environment without lowering the quality of the work environment. Banque Misr’s employees feel valued in this positive work environment, which positively impacts their performance and productivity. Banque Misr always ensures efficient resource allocation, including efficient energy usage. To ensure food and water security, Banque Misr steps up various efforts to suspend the loss of biodiversity and protect the ecosystem, through participating in various initiatives and sponsoring several events, including the 14th UN Biological Diversity Conference (COP 14) in Sharm El-Sheikh. Reducing Energy and Water Waste Banque Misr seeks to ensure sustainable access to energy and water supplies. Electricity conservation is a national commitment. BM has substituted conventional power systems with energy-efficient LED and Variable Refrigerant Volume (VRV) technologies. By the end of 2019, the LED lighting system was adopted in around 411 branches and 45 central departments. Further, the bank installed solar panels in the building located in its social club. The bank also installed VRV air conditioning systems in 239 branches, which resulted in up to 22% energy savings in each branch. The bank has further deployed occupancy sensors to lower its power and water consumption in its new administrative office in New Cairo. BM has massively contributed to the national initiative to rationalize water and power consumption rates. It also exerts contributory efforts to raise the awareness about the necessity of rationing electric consumption. Prioritizing Safety BM adopts a strategic focus on maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for employees. The bank oversees all issues related to safety, health and the environment and ensures that all provisions are in place and are working properly. All bank locations are equipped with early detection and fire extinguishing systems. The bank deploys a firefighting agent that is approved by the Central Bank of Egypt, the Civil Protection Associations, and the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA). Employees receive adequate training on fire safety, first aid and emergency evacuation. In addition, the bank provides blue-collar workers with safety boots, protective masks and other tools to protect them from any potential harm. Additionally, BM deploys a robust video surveillance system connecting all bank branches, which can be loaded on the commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) hardware. The adopted system functions as a multi-site management software enabling users to control the multi Network Video Recorder (NVR) from a single computer. It also has enabled reporting functions and is integrated with other security and management systems across BM branches. 112 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-11 302-1 305-1 305-2 Expanding Responsible Recycling BM ensures that recycling programs are in place to allow employees to dispose of and reuse materials. Simultaneously, BM continues its shift toward paperless operations. A total of 166.24 tons of papers were shredded for recycling during FY 2018/2019, compared with 210 tons during FY 2017/2018. The compared numerical figures also demonstrate the bank's success in significantly reducing paper use on a year-on-year basis (paper use is reduced by around 20%). The bank is keen on using more recycled and locally manufactured materials, as an effective environmental practice in support of national economic growth. Going Paperless For a Better Environment Banque Misr opted out of paper consumption, even before the digital transformation. Effective steps have been taken to cut paper usage in most in-office operations, online, and offline transactions. Double-sided printing and copying of internal reports and memos is also an effective step toward reducing paper consumption. This is in addition to further steps to reduce couriered printed materials, among which are monthly banking statements. Banque Misr has cut down on paper consumption by 43.76 tons. Lower Carbon Footprint Targeting more positive climate action, Banque Misr effectively contributes to reducing transport gas emissions through low-emission mobility, providing its employees with group transportation services. Indoor-smoking bans at the bank’s premises also effectively contribute to providing a better workplace and reducing the harms of passive smoking as well. On a larger scale, Banque Misr promoted the national efforts to decrease ambient air pollution and greenhouse gas concentrations. Banque Misr provided funds to relocate leather tanneries and furniture workshops to reduce pollution and greenhouse gas concentrations. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 113 102-9 102-10 102-43 302-2 305-2 103-2 408-1 BM’s SERVICE PROVIDERS & SUPPLIERS BM ’s commitment to sustainability extends to influencing its suppliers and providers to integrate into effective engagement with a full commitment toward the community. BM selects suppliers according to the highest standards. The bank seeks in them the qualities it stands for: long-term commitment, loyalty, ethics, and transparency. The bank also makes investigations and initial due diligence on suppliers before registering them, in addition to the bank’s further plan for applying supplier risk assessment, targeting smooth business continuity, and avoiding business interruption. Service providers must abide by all applicable laws, rules, regulations and policies and refrain from giving gifts to BM employees. Suppliers are not authorized to disclose any private or confidential information without previous consent from the bank. They are also required to report on actual or suspected cases of disclosure or loss of any private or confidential information related to Banque Misr, its clients, operations, or other suppliers the bank deals with. Bringing the value of shared success, BM takes into account embedding sustainability in its responsible procurement approach. BM harnesses its worldwide presence through its diverse network of suppliers and service providers. BM sets benchmarks and assessment criteria while building its geographically expanded base of suppliers and service providers adopting best practices and industry standards in order to ensure long-term environmental, social, and economic value while bringing its banking products and services to the market. BM considers its supply chain as an essential extension of its sustainable success. For harnessing a wide array of partnerships and supplier diversity in its supply chain, BM focuses mainly on event-based relations with its suppliers. This is in addition to establishing long –term and shortterm relations with its supply chain. As part of its leadership commitment, BM focuses on environmentally responsible strategy while identifying the required specifications for receiving eco-friendly products such as recyclable products and energy-efficient products, in order to mitigate any potential operational risks on the environment. Moreover, full consideration should be given to innovation, cost efficiency, and better quality. In line with its lasting legacy related to its social responsibility, BM fulfills its compliance toward community development through showing preference to locally manufactured products and services and the suppliers who mainly rely on local hires. Good labor conditions, child labor elimination, and workforce health and safety practices are also integrated into BM’s procurement criteria. It is worth noting that BM gives due regard to confidentiality and other competitive concerns related to the information about its supply chain. They should also treat their employees humanely and adhere to all relevant legislation and regulations. Suppliers should further apply sound environmental management principles. Banque Misr reserves the right to verify the suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Professional and Ethical Code of Conduct introduced by the bank. Both the suppliers and their subcontractors are asked to maintain all records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the laws and principles specified in the code of conduct. In the event that a violation occurs, the bank has the right to take any action it deems appropriate to address the situation. 114 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 302-5 305-2 103-2 408-1 The Following Six Principles Guide BM Suppliers/Subcontractors To Operate Responsibly: Child Labor: Suppliers should not employ children. Humane Treatment: Suppliers should guarantee a workplace free of inhumane treatment. Non-Discrimination on the Basis of Race and Religion: Suppliers should guarantee a workplace free of harassment based on race or religion. Environmental Protection: Suppliers should reduce their carbon emissions and act in an environmentally-friendly manner to ensure sustainability. Hazardous Substances: Suppliers should ensure the safe handling and disposal of any hazardous substances. Using Safe Technologies: Suppliers should adopt the latest environmentally-friendly technologies. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 115 102-12 102-16 103-2 103-3 413-1 Community Development A Pathway to Shared Prosperity B anque Misr’s first and top mission is to safeguard a sustainable future of shared prosperity in Egyptian society. To deliver on this priority, Banque Misr’s sustainability strategy, at its core, fully contributes to fostering shared prosperity for all individuals in the community. Thus, eradicating poverty, reducing inequality, and women's empowerment are enshrined among Banque Misr’s solid commitments. As a responsible banking approach is rooted in its core values, Banque Misr is constantly scaling up its efforts to attain broader development goals toward a more inclusive growth. In this regard, Banque Misr always pursues community-led solutions to overcome the challenges on a long-term basis and to fulfill the community’s ever-expanding needs as well. To better achieve this target, Banque Misr aligns philanthropy, volunteerism, and CSR initiatives with its core values in order to integrate the underprivileged segments of the community into the wave of prosperity and economic growth that Egypt is currently witnessing. Within the framework of financial inclusion, the bank thrives to promote indigenous community development through providing MSMEs with finances, supporting female breadwinners to ease their financial burdens, developing infrastructure, and improving access to quality education and health care to the underprivileged segments of the community. The bank is always attentive to supporting the underprivileged in the rural areas. BM provides funds to develop schools and medical centers. Community development programs are executed directly by the bank, or indirectly through the Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development, in collaboration with non-profit organizations and development-oriented civil society institutions. Community-Based Initiatives For a Better Future Banque Misr sponsored and launched programs and initiatives aimed at funding micro-sized projects in the neediest villages across the country, in cooperation with NGOs such as Misr El-Kheir Foundation, Orman Charity Association, and Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID/El Nidaa). BM’s philanthropic approach, under the slogan “Citizen’s Right to a Decent Life,” is fully integrated in its strategy, which inspires its employees to give back to the communities in which it operates. It always encourages volunteering and fundraising efforts to support community welfare in Egypt. As a major financial entity, BM collaborates with a number of non-profit organizations to support underprivileged households in launching income-generating projects. In line with its leading role in social responsibility, Banque Misr’s total expenditures on CSR activities amounted to almost EGP 760m in 2019, compared to EGP 600m in 2018. 116 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-12 102-45 B anque Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD) A Step Further Toward Community Wellbeing Banque Misr’s role in community development extends through philanthropy, volunteerism, and effective CSR activities. To ensure a wider scope of positive sustainable development practices that uplift our community, Banque Misr established a non-profit organization registered under the Ministry of Social Solidarity. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD) is a catalyst for effective corporate social responsibility. Working together for the good of our country is a deeply rooted commitment in the foundation. BMFCD collaboratively contributes to community empowerment through educational, health, and economic programs to enhance the lives of residents of slums and villages and empower female breadwinners. The foundation accepts donations from inside and outside of Egypt and from all individuals who are willing to engage in charity and development initiatives. Contributions to the foundation can either be delivered to special accounts offered by Banque Misr’s branches across the country or mailed directly to the bank’s headquarters at 153 Mohamed Farid Street, Banque Misr Tower, Floor 22, Downtown, Cairo, Egypt. Banque Misr allocates annual funds from its net profit to ensure shared prosperity. The foundation supports community-driven development initiatives in cooperation with a number of NGOs and universities, to foster social development, health, education, effective environmental activities, and economic development. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 117 102-15 103-2 103-3 Banque Misr’s Goals For Sustainability Economic Growth...Banque Misr’s Top Mission Since its inception, Banque Misr’s first and top mission has been propelling Egypt’s economic growth through investing the Egyptians’ savings. Thus, Banque Misr’s efforts remained a cornerstone for various national plans toward long-lasting developments, most recently in its adherence with Egypt’s Vision 2030. Banque Misr always shows a full commitment toward each and every development-oriented effort to strengthen the state’s economic growth. Peace, Justice, and Strong Intuitions To sustain a peaceful and inclusive society, Banque Misr plays a fundamental role, as an effective and accountable institution. Within such a framework, Banque Misr’s Chairman participated in Aswan Forum for Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa. Alleviating All Forms of Poverty Banque Misr always sets its targets for a promising future and sustainable livelihoods. In this regard, Banque Misr actively promotes the entrepreneurial ecosystem and enhances employability potentials as well. Its role also extends to supporting vulnerable groups, including the poor and underprivileged. Good Health & Well-Being For a Prosperous Society Banque Misr shows a full commitment toward ensuring healthy lives and well-being for all. Banque Misr takes a part in national health campaigns to eliminate preventable diseases and ensure access to health care services. To achieve such goal in full, Banque Misr has also supported considerable voluntary efforts, in addition to supporting various sports activities. Quality Education..An Essential Factor For Development Banque Misr prioritizes ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and financial literacy, as such a target is considered a prerequisite for sustainable development in the rapidly-evolving era of digital transformation. It has also achieved major efforts to ensure access to quality education for all. Sustainable Consumption and Production Banque Misr enforces a sustainable consumption and production model through promoting resource and energy efficiency in its all aspects of its operations, as well as taking part in promoting relevant efforts and projects to sustain a viable way of life for future generations. 118 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-15 103-3 Inclusive Society with No Inequalities As gender equality is at the apex of national efforts, Banque Misr embraces empowering vulnerable groups, especially women, at a wide scale through its endeavors toward a more inclusive community. Banque Misr also has a leading role in supporting women-led MSMEs and leveraging female representation in all its departments. Climate Action and Responsible Consumption...A Better Future To create a secure future for generations to come, Banque Misr has contributed in an outstanding manner to the enhancing the ecosystem and protecting the environment. Banque Misr has also played a contributory role in the international initiative for protecting environment, curbing climate change and sustaining biodiversity. This is in addition to the responsible resources consumption. Sustainable Cities & Communities Banque Misr is constantly working toward fostering the quality of life through its contributions at building up inclusive, safe, and sustainable cities. Banque Misr plays a leading role as a financial entity in providing affordable housing. This is in addition to promoting heritage through protecting cultural buildings. Industry...Innovation...Infrastructure Since its inception, Banque Misr has been leading innovative transition in banking sector. Banque Misr adopts the latest innovations to offer the best customer experience. It also contributed to, and established various mega infrastructure development projects in various segments. No Hunger...Leaving No One Behind BM works toward eliminating poverty through offering pathways to prosperity for slum and village inhabitants with incomes below the official poverty threshold. BM has framed its social impact to eliminate poverty. Such target extends far beyond to ensure a sustainable livelihood. Partnerships for Goals Banque Misr is committed to forging local and international partnerships to support community mobilization and socio-economic development. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 119 413-1 Sustainable Community Welfare in Action BM’s Long-Lasting Priority Community welfare is BM’s resilient commitment, which is demonstrated through promoting financial inclusion and supporting MSMEs and women-led businesses to ensure economic growth with added value BM has undertaken efforts to create a local entrepreneurial ecosystem and drive sustainable development goals (SDGs) across the whole country. ABanque Misr is committed to building a balanced, knowledge-based, competitive inclusive economy that creates added value and generates productive job opportunities. BM adopts an approach based on the principle that all citizens have the right to a decent life, and plays a full part in supporting society to improve living standards and achieve economic prosperity. BM aims to eliminate poverty through offering pathways to prosperity for slum and village inhabitants with incomes below the official poverty threshold, in accordance with its commitment to the twin goals of ending extreme poverty by 2030 and boosting community welfare. Financial Inclusion BM believes that financial inclusion features as a prominent enabler for sustainable development and social welfare. Financial inclusion has a major role in attaining many SDGs. Financial inclusion encompasses eliminating poverty, creating jobs, improving equity education, and better health. To this end, microfinance has been proven as a successful method to promote development through integrating marginalized communities and well-off communities; providing education to ensure a better understanding of financial products, along with efficient access to them; financial literacy etc. • Youth Empowerment toward Financial Inclusion Offering fee-free bank accounts within the framework of the CBE’s “Bank Account for Every Citizen” initiative Banque Misr always takes the lead in integrating more young Supporting small savers, BM launched a new savings account, namely adults to the inclusive cashless society through; the Tahweesha Bezyada account Organizing tours, seminars, workshops to raise awareness on financial Participating in the Arab Financial Inclusion Day and Financial Inclusion inclusion among youth and unbanked groups during the International Week (FIW) to reach the unbanked population Financial Inclusion Week • Women Empowerment for Sustainable Launching Youth programs, which offer various banking services for Development teenagers and young people, including Teens Card, BM Card, and GoCard. Banque Misr launched a campaign to promote seamless end-toLooking toward integrating women in the inclusive economy, end banking services Banque Misr signed an agreement with the International Finance 120 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-12 413-1 Corporation (IFC) to help increase the number of women-led houses also provide the latest simulation programs, interactive training businesses receiving financing from Banque Misr as part of its sessions and practical workshops for startups and SMEs, providing them SMEs portfolio. The project is implemented in the framework with a reliable foundation for cost estimation and quality assurance. of the “Champions of Women’s Banking Services” program introduced by the IFC in the MENA region, in collaboration with 2Business Development Services (BDSs) the financing arm of the State Secretariat for Economic Affairs of Switzerland, as well as the Global Women’s Banking Services These are services offered in support of small, medium and micro program. projects and entrepreneurs, providing them with non-financial services that enable them to obtain funding and to communicate with all service • MSMEs...The Pillar of Economic Development and business development providers. Banque Misr has activated BDSs in three branches (Sadat City branch, Minoufiya Governorate; Banque Misr has a pioneering role in promoting sustained, inclusive New Damietta branch, Damietta Governorate; Aton branch, Luxor and sustainable growth. Hence, Banque Misr pays great attention Governorate), these BDSs provide many services including; generating to supporting MSMEs and startups, which represent a key asset for ideas for new businesses, registration and licensing service, feasibility productive employment for all; thereby directly alleviating poverty, study services, facilitating access to funding, financial analysis and increasing income and positively impacting household investments in assessment services, networking with vendors and targeted markets, education and health over time. The bank facilitates MSMEs’ access to exchange of products and services, publishing available data and financial services. Banque Misr had increased its lending for small and knowledge on SMEs via Egypt’s project platform, training, capacity medium-sized businesses many times in the past three years, in line building and workshop services. with the Central Bank of Egypt’s orientation. BM has launched various initiatives and protocols to support MSMEs, including: Develop Your Project, Support Your Country Initiative CBE’s NilePreneurs Initiative The bank launched “Develop Your Project, Support Your Country initiative to support its clients in the SMEs sector through organizing The NilePreneurs scheme was initiated as a national initiative for all training programs in cooperation with the Egyptian Banking Institute entrepreneurial and innovative activities, collaboratively fostering an in various governorates of Egypt. The first phase began in Cairo environment that is conducive to a culture of entrepreneurship. Governorate. The initiative aims to encourage young people to establish small and medium-sized projects, deepening the culture of As part of its leading role in harnessing the Egyptian entrepreneurial entrepreneurship, introducing effective methods in dealing with banks to meet their financing needs, developing the technical skills required ecosystem, supporting promising young entrepreneurs, and unlocking for business leaders, and discussing the problems facing customers in their untapped potentials, Banque Misr has partaken in the NilePreneurs their existing projects, leading to the maximum possible utilization of initiative via the two following streams: invested capital and reduced risks. 1Design House Promoting Handicrafts Design Houses were established within a number of handpicked As an integral part of the SMEs sector, handicraft industries majorly Universities (Nile University, Arab Academy for Science, Technology contribute to economic growth and environmental sustainability. and Maritime Transport, Ain Shams University, Al Azhar University, Qena Therefore, Banque Misr always takes the initiative to back these University). industries. Supporting the national efforts toward MSMEs development, Banque Misr has sponsored many exhibitions that support developing The new design houses are the first of their kind in Egypt. Aiming to the entrepreneurial ecosystem in Egypt. Such exhibitions provide a strengthen the link between universities and a wide range of industries, unique gateway to the exhibitors, offering them new opportunities to the houses offer consultancy, design, and prototyping services. The showcase their talents, in addition to sustaining heritage, such as; BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 121 102-12 413-1 1Banque Misr sponsored Diarna exhibition, the largest display of Egyptian Manufacturers Association handicrafts and traditional crafts held under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Solidarity. The program aims to support SMEs and promote exports. In line with Central Bank of Egypt’s initiative, BM offers members of the Egyptian 2Banque Misr organized, in cooperation with Banque Misr Foundation Manufacturers Association financing with a small diminishing interest for Community Development, a monthly handicraft exhibition for its rate ranging between 5% and 7%. employees to support the handicraft industry. Ministry of Local Development (Mashrouak) 3Banque Misr sponsored one of the most prestigious art exhibitions in the world, the “L’Artigiano in Fiera”, which is held in Milan, Italy. As BM has participated with the Ministry of Local Development in the “Mashrouak” program for financing small and micro enterprises through Egypt was the country of honor at this exhibition, the sponsorship of the single-window system available at local units all over Egypt. The this exhibition broadened the values anchored in BM’s mission; which is number of local units has reached 308 units. Banque Misr’s presence supporting the Egyptian handcrafters through a global gateway. extended to 238 units (77%) as of March 26th, 2015. The number of customers in the SMEs portfolio increased to about 121,000 customers Strengthening Entrepreneurial Spirit in June 2019, compared to 85,000 customers in June 2018, marking a 41% increase. For the third consecutive year, Banque Misr pursues to translate its ideology into its advertising campaigns to glorify its legacy while Ministry of Trade and Industry (Al Robeky Industrial Zone) spreading hope, optimism and enthusiasm. The program aims to support owners of small and medium tanneries, In 2017, BM launched a full-fledged cause-based marketing campaign specifically those located in the Magra El Oyoun district. BM facilitated under the title, Talaat Harb Ragaa (Talaat Harb is Coming Back). The the tanneries’ access to a better and healthier working environment. campaign’s message goes beyond the normal operational objectives. It Tanneries in Magra El Oyoun district suffered from deteriorating encourages the youth to set up small and medium enterprises (SMEs) facilities, including accumulating garbage and lack of hygiene, and to support the economy and contribute to the nation’s overall progress. frequent gas and electricity cuts. The campaign succeeded in increasing youth involvement in the entrepreneurial ecosystem, promoting employment opportunities and Damietta Furniture City Company (Damietta Furniture City combating illegal migration. In recognition of BM’s efforts, the Ministry DFC) of Foreign Affairs issued a press statement acknowledging the bank’s significant implied role in fighting illegal migration. The program aims to support the development of DFC and SMEs operating in the furniture industry. The national project is expected In 2018, the bank decided to take this campaign to the next level, through to create over 25,000 direct and indirect employment opportunities the launch of the You Can campaign. The campaign was a major hit BM arranged an EGP 1.5bn loans to develop the city and signed a during the Ramadan season, building on the year’s triumphs. cooperation protocol to finance workshops to develop and modernize Egypt’s furniture industry. In 2019, the bank decided to take its ad “I am the son of Egypt” (Ana Egyptian Pharmacists Syndicate Ebn Masr), which is quite a literal translation of the bank itself; the first Egyptian bank. The ad illustrated BM’s mission of empowering various The program aims to support pharmacy-based projects. In line with segments of society through the scenes. the CBE’s initiative, BM funds pharmacists in support of the right to healthcare, at a low-interest rate of 5% on granted loans. Partnership for Development General Electric Healthcare The bank has also participated in many initiatives and programs to support MSMEs, in cooperation with a number of international The program seeks to fund hospitals and clinics to purchase modern and governmental entities, including: medical equipment from General Electric Healthcare. BM provides 122 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-12 413-1 innovative financing solutions that help emerging clinics and hospitals The foundation also promotes youth participation develop and expand their business, thereby providing better healthcare and directs their energies to overcome social to more patients across Egypt. hurdles, and improve their broad-based life skills and scientific skills. Beyti Egypt 1“Made in Egypt” Initiative for Women and youth The program finances the purchase of refrigerated vehicles for young Empowerment people who have signed contracts with Beyti Egypt. In line with the CBE’s initiative, BM offers financing schemes at a 5% interest rate. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development funded the establishment of handicrafts projects under the “Made in Egypt” Misr El-Kheir Foundation initiative and collaborated with a number of non-profit organizations to support Egypt’s low income rural and remote areas. The foundation BM supported young handicraftsmen and female breadwinners’ projects aims to raise the standard of living and improve the quality of life in in four towns in Minya Governorate, namely Maghagha, Bani Mazar, villages and informal areas, especially for female breadwinners and Malawi and Al-Adwa. BM allocated about EGP 18 m to develop villages youth; and encourage them within the framework of financial inclusion through financing 50 micro-enterprises, 300 female breadwinners’ to increase the size of their projects funded by the foundation through projects, 500 greenhouses, the cultivation of 200 feddans and the revival the bank’s facilities. of two agricultural cooperative associations. The bank also funded vocational training programs for 300 individuals and hospitality training Under the initiative, the foundation established 3,770 micro-projects and programs for 150 individuals. provided vocational training for 1,240 young people across Upper Egypt villages and the slums of Greater Cairo. In collaboration with several Orman Charity Association NGOs, the foundation established various service and production-based projects, including alternative fodder crops, manufacturing/packaging BM extended support to villagers in Minya Governorate, specifically of Ajwa dates and honey bees, mobile maintenance, sewing/rolling mill, in Ashrob, Abaza, Abgag Al Hatab and Al Souby. BM offered funds to computer maintenance, and glass/Alumetal installation. improve the villagers’ standard of living. The initial funds amounted to EGP 4m, with soft loans amounted to EGP 21,000 for each beneficiary. 2You Can Make Your Country Better Initiative Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD) The Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID/El Nidaa) funded three new projects and entirely developed 8 villages in Sohag and Aswan, in collaboration with Masr Elmahrousa Balady Association, BM allocated EGP 3.244m to host brass and kilim rug workshops in Omar Bin Abd El Aziz Association, and Sonaa al-Hayat. Qena Governorate, specifically in El Maana, Al Gazairia and Sheikh Eissa. 3Preservation of Heritage Crafts B. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD) directs its activities In collaboration with the Handicraft Industry Chamber, Banque toward inclusive community development to Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD) served achieve sustainability in light of Egypt2030 vision. the inhabitants of Garagos village, a small village 30 km from Qena In 2019, the BMFCD developed 26 villages in 12 Governorate. In line with the government's public policy to increase governorates. Currently, BMFCD is improving 13 rural areas' productivity and sustain handicraft industries, the villages in various facets across eight governorates, foundation revived Garagos pottery factory. It furnished two ceramic in support of the government's initiative, Decent workspaces, facilitated 25 youths training by industry gurus, provided Life, through collaborative efforts with several employment opportunities to youth upon completion of the training civil institutions, associations, and universities to program, promoted the export of handcrafted ceramic and pottery economically empower and provide better living products, and preserved the handicraft industry. Also, the foundation conditions for individuals living in these villages. coordinated with a specialized company to create an online platform BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 123 102-12 413-1 for Garagos pottery through a dedicated Facebook page, Instagram Association of Upper Egypt for Education and page, and product page. It is worth noting that the craft was initiated Development by French monk Estefan Damon and constructed by the renowned architect Hassan Fathi to be a museum, offering world-class pottery Serving the inhabitants of Juhayna and Al Maraghah cities in and porcelain artifacts that firmly maintain Egypt's position on the Sohag Governorate through: global maps of tourism. Organizing workshops for youth and female households in sewing, 4. Comprehensive Village Development electricity, craftsmanship, patisserie production, and farming projects for cattle, goats, and poultry breeding Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development (BMFCD) fully Organizing exhibitions for their products Funding 110 micro-projects developed neediest villages in Egypt in collaboration with a number of civil society organizations, including: • Omar Bin Abd El Aziz Association • Masr Elmahrousa Balady Association Serving the inhabitants of Juhayna city in Sohag Governorate through: Serving the inhabitants of Tafnees, Asfoun, Al-Gharyera, and Kiman villages Isna City, Luxor Governorate through: Organizing workshops for 380 young trainees in sewing, electricity, apiaries and the maintenance of photocopying machines and Offering two carpentry workshops and providing carpentry courses motorcycles to 30 young people, among which 10 trainees received the required Supporting 330 veterinary and feed projects support to establish their own projects Funding 200 micro-projects and providing kit for each craftsman Establishing 198 livestock farming projects for cattle, goats, and poultry breeding • Fayoum Agro Organic Development Association Training and funding 300 economic and social solidarity projects aimed at youth and women Serving the inhabitants of Hawara, Disya, Senofar, Demashkin Raising awareness among a total of 150 farmers on the latest and Manshiet Demour villages in Fayoum Governorate through: techniques in the fields of agriculture, breeding, and agricultural rationalization Establishing livestock projects for 480 families Improving the standard of living of 40 farmers through the supply Providing 20 biogas units for 20 low and middle-income of Berhi palm dates produce (seeds) households Developing the capacities of 150 individuals and providing Serving the inhabitants of Al Raghamah, Adwa, and Iqlit Villages – employment for 75% of them Kom Ombo City in Aswan Governorate through: Funding six farms with new palm offspring • Kheir Wa Baraka NGO Providing technical support for 100 villagers to set up their own Serving the inhabitants of Haradna village in Sakulta city in Sohag projects Governorate through: Improving the standard of living of 200 villagers Establishing 5 collective poultry farm projects Conducting vocational training for young people to establish startups (plumbing maintenance of household appliances, electricity Serving the inhabitants of Al-Basateen District, Dar Al Salam and in households) and providing Kit for each craftsman Arab Maadi in Cairo Governorate through: Training members of production units, young people on project management and marketing Organizing sewing workshops Establishing a clothing production center for women and providing Supporting several women in establishing their own projects• them with sewing machines 124 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-12 102-12 413-1 Providing craftsmanship training, tools and equipment fabrics for 114 families (carpentry plumbing electricity sewing, etc...) training and production) through specialized training centers Setting up village-based breeding program for goat herd Developing the capabilities of 25 on ground volunteers who improvement follow up and support the daily needs of the families Generating projects and veterinary care training for families, in addition to providing them with goats, goat vaccinations, vet care, feed, and insurance programs • The Egyptian Association for Marketing and Development Serving the inhabitants of Zawyat Sultan village in Minya Governorate through: Organizing workshops for 250 young male/ female trainees on managing projects (patchwork, mobile maintenance training, air conditioner maintenance training, electricity, and dairy production) Funding 140 micro and small projects • Gannat Elkhulood Charity Association The foundation funded handicraft workshops for 350 individuals in textiles, leather, and handicrafts (crochet knitting) in Dewei’a, Cairo Governorate. It also organized positive parenting workshops and sponsored a behavioral adjustment program for 300 mothers in Dewei’a. • The Handicraft Industry Chamber, Federation of Egyptian Industries Serving the inhabitants of Garagos village in Qena Governorate through: Completing the first phase of reviving Garagos pottery factory Furnishing two ceramic workspaces Offering 25 youths training by industry gurus Providing employment opportunities to youth upon completion of the training program Promoting the export of handcrafted ceramic and pottery products Preserving the handicraft industry • Sonaa al-Hayat Egypt Establishing micro-economic projects, in addition to providing a soft skill, professional, and project management training for BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 125 102-12 413-1 Promoting Good Health And Well-Being For Sustainable Future BM holds a bold commitment toward better health and well-being for all. In line with the national efforts to promote healthy living among Egyptians, BM supported various initiatives for accessible health care services and sports participation for youth and adults. BM is also committed to taking part in promoting the national health care system and combating and emerging health issues. Facilitating access to medical care Throughout the past year, the bank has allocated many donations to support blood and heart research, treatment of patients and AThe bank aims to facilitate access to medical the purchase of necessary medical equipment. care to improve health conditions through early intervention and preventive coverage. The bank • Mansoura University’s Hospitals collaborated with a number of entities to extend medical care to all Egyptians, namely: BM donated EGP5.5 m to the Urology and Nephrology Center to equip it with 10 kidney dialysis machines, and to support a • Orman Charity Association research project for cell therapy for diabetes mellitus, in a continuous support for scientific research on this health issue, The bank allocated EGP 300m to support the development as BM allocated EGP 6 m in 2017/2018. of the third stage of Shefaa Al-Orman Hospital, so as to ease the financial and emotional burdens on the patients and their • Cairo University’s Hospitals relatives who must often travel long distances to Cairo to receive treatment. The bank donated EGP 10m for financing an advertising campaign on behalf of Al Kasr Al Aini Hospitals, promoting its • Tahya Misr Fund’s “Nour Hayah” Initiative crucial role in providing various free healthcare services to all citizens across Egypt. Banque Misr cooperates with Tahya Misr Fund in its Nour Hayah initiative that addresses avoidable vision impairment by BBanque Misr Foundation focuses on promoting allocating EGP 80m for the initiative. The Nour Hayah initiative health care and medical services provided for the aims to provide 2m citizens with eye care services and perform Egyptian citizens through various axes: more than 200,000 surgeries in addition to treatment and follow ups. The initiative seeks to offer affordable access to quality 1Promoting the healthcare facilities at public and inclusive clinical and surgical eye care for the underprivileged University hospitals and to reduce the rates of vision impairment and vision loss. Nour Hayah’s agenda encompasses reintegrating and empowering the During FY 2018/2019, Banque Misr Foundation contributed to visually impaired, as well as raising awareness among Egyptians, developing medical units and facilities through providing the targeting Egypt to be free of avoidable vision impairment. required medical supplies at a value of EGP 62m. 126 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 413-1 Hospital Contribution (Unit/ Dep.) 1Mansoura University Children’s Hospital Renovating and expanding Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) 2Sohag University HospitalPediatrics Unit Intensive Care Unit (ICU) 3South Egypt Cancer Institute Surgery Department 4Beni Suef University Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU) 5Sohag Educational Hospital Gastroenterology Unit 6Sohag University Hospital Artificial Kidney Unit 7Sahel Teaching Hospital General Surgery Department 8Health Affairs Directorate (Asyut General HospitalMedical supplies for Surgery Department and Obstetrics and Obstetrics and Gynecology HospitalIman Hospital) Gynecology Unit 9Egyptian Liver HospitalAl Mansoura Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Unit 10Assiut University Hospitals Gastrointestinal Endoscopy Unit 11Assiut Cardiothoracic Surgery Surgical instruments and supplies BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 127 413-1 2Surgeries for needy patients Ongoing support for the national hepatitis C treatment program for children in cooperation with the National Hepatology and Tropical The foundation allocated supporting funds to cover the surgery Medicine Research Institute and treatment costs of a number of patients who were unable Covering the expenses of the required facilities for the Intensive Care to pay. Unit at the National Cancer Institute Sponsoring the annual medical convoys launched by Faculty of Covering the expenses of heart surgeries in Abu El-Rish Pediatric Medicine-Ain Shams University in Beni Suef and Al Fayoum governorates Japanese Hospital Contributing to Sonaa El Kheir Foundation initiative “Your Eye Is Our Covering the expenses of eye surgeries in cooperation with the Care” National Association of Rotary Clubs for the second consecutive year Ongoing support for the third consecutive year to Ahl Misr Association Supporting the “Right to Vision for All and Combating Blindness for Development’s project for burn prevention and treatment project in collaboration with Fayoum University Hospital for the fifth Covering the expenses of physical therapy sessions for the rehabilitation consecutive year of disabled children at the Special Needs Center, Faculty of Graduate Cochlear implant programs in cooperation with Fayoum University Studies for Childhood, Ain Shams University Hospital for underprivileged children 3Promoting healthcare in the Upper Egyptian villages and the slums of Cairo Banque Misr Foundation cooperated with a number of NGOs to promote the healthcare system at 10 Upper Egyptian villages and four slum areas in Cairo through: Developing and providing facilities for the health units in villages Developing kidney dialysis units and dental clinics in the health units Launching awareness campaigns about hepatitis C, breast cancer and disease prevention methods Launching campaigns to detect conjunctivitis and anemia blood tests for school students Nursing training in villages Providing health care services and treatment for chronic diseases Sponsoring medical convoys and sending referral requests to hospitals to carry out the required surgeries 4Supporting Health Care Initiative Sponsoring medical convoys and sending referral requests to hospitals to carry out the required surgeries. Covering nursing costs for the fifth consecutive year at the emergency Care Unit Abu El-Rish Pediatric Japanese Hospital and the Intensive Care Unit-Ain Shams University Surgery Hospital– Ain Shams University Surgery Hospital 128 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 413-1 Sports... A Step Toward Prosperity BBanque Misr Foundation for Community Development has collaboratively promoted AAiming to boost community wellbeing, Banque sports in Egypt’s underprivileged rural and Misr is keen on turning athletes’ dreams into remote areas. The foundation equipped and reality through: developed three youth sports centers. • Tokyo Summer Olympics BM supports athletes who will participate in the upcoming Tokyo Summer Olympics in collaboration with the Egyptian Ministry of Youth and Sports. • Egyptian Tennis Federation Davis Cup As part of its leading role in supporting sports, Banque Misr signed an agreement with the Egyptian Tennis Federation for sponsoring the upcoming Davis Cup, the premier international team event in men's tennis. • Women’s International Tennis Championship in Sharm El-Sheikh The Women's International Tennis Championship was held in SOHO Square, in Sharm El-Sheikh during the period from October 17th to 24th , 2019. A total of 64 players from more than 25 countries, including Russia, Spain, Italy, England, France, Belgium, United States, Belarus, Germany, Sweden, China, Argentina and Mexico took part in the championship. • Egyptian Sports Fund BM launched the Egyptian Sports Fund, the first charitable investment fund to support a renaissance in Egyptian sports under the management of Beltone Egypt S.A.E. Up to 70 Egyptian athletes will benefit from the fund over the course of the first three years. • Promoting Youth Sports Centers BM contributes to equipping and refurbishing sports youth Clubs, as youth engagement in sports has a positive impact on both their emotional and physical health. BM provides funds to cooperate at establishing new centers, as well as developing the required facilities. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 129 413-1 Sustainable Education For A Better Future BM focuses on financing inclusive education initiatives and promoting equitable education, with a focus on individuals with learning and physical disabilities. These efforts aim to create a positive impact on society in terms of overall social cohesion and in particular shaping a better future in terms of sustainable economic development. ABanque Misr has a solid belief that civilization can only be sustained through inclusive equitable education. BM plays a significant role in ensuring access to education, which extends to bridging the education-to-employment gap through offering internship opportunities, including: • Zewail City of Science and Technology • Dar El-Maaref Banque Misr supports 11 senior students at Zewail City of Banque Misr cooperated with Dar El-Maaref Printing and Science and Technology, through fully-funded scholarships. This Publishing House in enriching the culture of reading among is in addition to its continuous support for the university through school-age children. The bank aims to encourage reading and to allocating EGP 25 m for the development of a student service expand children’s cultural knowledge by offering them stories center. and books. The new building provides a centralized location for all strategic • INJAZ Egypt studies. The building represents a real breakthrough in terms of vocational guidance and training, by helping students to navigate Banque Misr sponsored the “Sanaaety” training program that their academic journey. aims to create a new generation of young entrepreneurs. Under the cooperation agreement signed with INJAZ Egypt, • Ministry of Planning, Monitoring and Administrative the program aims to provide training for students in various Reform vocational schools. BM participated in allocating EGP 200m over two years to finance educational programs and training to raise the efficiency of the government’s administrative sector. • Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research BM participates in financing research and scientific study missions with EGP 300m on an annual basis. 130 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 413-1 BBanque Misr Foundation for Community Development collaborates with a number of NGOs to develop and educate youth in an effort to ensure better lives for the underprivileged, including: • Nile University Talent Program Banque Misr Foundation offers 56 annual fully-funded scholarships The foundation further developed an integrated program to support to the unique talents among engineering and business administration talented individuals. The program supports poets, writers, artists, students at Nile University. This is in addition to offering 10 masters innovators, scientists and gifted individuals in the field of information scholarships for research assistants. technology. Vocational Internship Program The Literacy Initiative In collaboration with Sonaa al-Hayat, Banque Misr Foundation for Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development offers 35 annual Community Development established 36 mobile literacy classes in training programs for preparatory students at the Automotive Vocational Rawafia Al-Issawiya villages in Sohag to reach the largest number of Centers in Imbaba – Giza, Moharam Bek – Alexandria, and Kafr El-Zayat beneficiaries and facilitate their participation. City, Gharbia Governorate. After completing the training program in three years, the student receives two certificates: a vocational education Teaching with Technology Program diploma from the Productivity & Vocational Training Department and a certificate from Saxony International Schools. Derived by a firm belief that an educated population is a critical requisite for social and economic change, Banque Misr Foundation for Community Developing educational environment in Upper Egypt Development sponsored programs to enhance teachers' professional qualifications with a focus on integrating technology in the teaching As promoting the educational environment remarks a gateway for process, in partnership with, Fayoum Agro Organic Development development, BMFCD cooperated with NGOs to develop the educational Association(FAODA), Masr Elmahrousa Balady Association, Kheir Wa environment in some of the neediest villages in Upper Egypt (Fayoum, Baraka NGO, and Sonaa al-Hayat Egypt. Minya, Assiut , Sohag, Luxor, Aswan) through educational and cultural programs in order to fulfill the demands of the target groups. Such The Microsoft Teaching with Technology program is designed cooperative efforts resulted in: specifically for teachers to bridge the gap between technology skills and Renovating five primary and preparatory schools innovative teaching and increase their knowledge of how technology Furnishing and providing kindergarten classrooms with the required can boost peer interaction and increase productivity in the classroom. teaching tools Establishing kids’ play areas and providing them with the required In addition, it provides educators with an opportunity to obtain a supplies Microsoft Certified Educator certification to provide rich, customized Holding literacy classes in 10 villages for female breadwinners and learning experiences for their students that incorporate critical skills drop-out students using Microsoft tools. Providing specialized training programs for kindergarten teachers Establishing computer and science labs Schools Computer Lab and Science Lab Initiative Holding classes for students with academic difficulties in primary and preparatory schools Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development equipped 20 Providing scholarships and uniform fees for the neediest students computer labs in schools in Fayoum, Minya, Sohag, Luxor, Aswan, and Providing supplies for the computer lab in the Faculty of Medicine Cairo. The foundation also provided internet connection in laboratories, Al-Azhar University for Girls allowing teachers to integrate technology in the curricula to make it more effective. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 131 413-1 Promoting Adequate Housing For Better Living Standards BM has a major role in building resilient societies and economies. It participates in the state’s investments in developing public transport and improving urban planning and management. BM substantially contributes to national socio-economic development through reducing the urban population living in slums. BM ensures access to adequate and affordable housing and basic services and developing informal settlement. ABanque Misr’s firm commitment -as a leading as allocating space for various activities, including livestock and banking institutionis to contribute to promoting rabbit farming. long-term standards of living. Banque Misr signed various protocols to ensure convenient housing, in BBanque Misr Foundation for Community an effort to contribute to livelihoods enhancement Development was keen to develop 310 houses for through safe and secure housing. 1850 beneficiaries and supply water to more than 70 houses serving around 420 beneficiaries to improve • Central Bank of Egypt (Mortgage Initiative) safe and healthy home environments. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development served The program aims to support low, middle, and upper-middleEgypt’s low income rural and remote areas in income citizens’ right to housing. BM offered long-term mortgage Fayoum, Minya, Sohag, and Aswan in collaboration financing with simple procedures. Within the framework of the with several non-profit organizations including, CBE’s initiative, BM provided long-term loans at a value of about Fayoum Agro Organic Development Association EGP 5bn to more than 46,000 customers as of June 2019. (FAODA), Masr Elmahrousa Balady Association, Sonaa al-Hayat and Kheir Wa Baraka. Recently, the • Tahya Misr FundAl Asmarat foundation funded the installation and supply of clean water to the main road located in Iqlit village, BM supported the Al Asmarat project to enhance the living Aswan. standards for the slum inhabitants. BM donated 200 m to finance Al Asmarat housing project and furnishing the residential units. • The Egyptian Ministry of Defense BM supported the Bashayer El Kheir Housing Project to ensure decent living conditions for the underprivileged residents of slum areas in Al Asmarat project, Manshiat Naser and Ezbet khairallah. Hence, BM allocated EGP 300m to develop these projects. • New Valley GovernorateModel Village Banque Misr signed a protocol with New Valley Governorate for developing Upper Egypt through establishing a model village in Kharga. Banque Misr allocated investments worth EGP 35 m for establishing a model village on an area of 1000 feddans in Kharga, New Valley. The protocol targets at establishing 100 country houses equipped with all the required facilities, as well 132 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 413-1 Sustaining Social Welfare For Shaping Better Future Banque Misr continues to promote social solidarity in order to improve quality of life by adopting a core principle of “Decent Life for all” as most highly valued commitment. BM is committed to raising living standards for the poor and the underprivileged. ABanque Misr is committed to promoting young • Material Aid orphans’ social inclusion and wellbeing through tackling the issues of exclusion and discrimination. Throughout the year, Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development not only helps children through every phase of their Social solidarity emphasizes the interdependence growth into self-reliant adults, but also strives to ease the burden between individuals in a society, giving them the of poverty on their families and improves their communities. The ability to enhance others’ lives. BM’s core principle foundation accomplishes this by providing material support in of collective action is founded on shared values the following categories: and beliefs. Welcome Back to School • Supporting Orphans Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development strives to support underserved children by providing essential school BM and its foundation hold annual celebrations for orphans. The supplies. The foundation delivered nearly 2,600 bags to some of celebrations are held in several governorates: Cairo, Alexandria, the most under-resourced children across the country. Besides, Minya, Qena, Luxor, Aswan, Beni Suef, Beheira, Sharqiya, New the foundation covers tuition of low-income students. valley, and Red Sea (Qusair and Hurghada). Spread Winter Warmth • Talaat Harb Retired Employees Association Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development delivers BM allocated EGP 55,000 to support retired employees. 1,900 warm clothes to cope with the cold, biting wind and relentless winter weather that is closing under deserved individuals who are • Ramadan Bags completely unprepared. Furthermore, the foundation distributed 1,300 blankets to underprivileged households. The bank donated 1000 Ramadan bags in cooperation with Misr El Kheir Foundation, in addition to distributing Ramadan boxes to Spread Eid Joy the neediest. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development delivered BBanque Misr Foundation for Community 2,700 Eid outfits to orphans, poor and needy families. Development is also committed to embracing Sponsoring Impoverished Families young orphans’ social inclusion and wellbeing through collaborating with a number of nonBanque Misr Foundation for Community Development sponsors profit organizations to support Egypt’s lowstruggling families through a monthly aid serving 125 families in income rural and remote areas. collaboration with 30 NGOs. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 133 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Menkaura c.2532–2503 BC; Fourth Dynasty The last king who situated his monument at Giza was Menkaura. His pyramid measures 104.6 meters in ground plan, is 65 meters high, and has a volume 235,183 cubic meters (Verner 2002, Bárta 2005). The Menkaura pyramid is built at the far southern end of the Giza diagonal on the edge of the Mokattam formation. The pyramid’s base lies 2.5 meters higher than Khafra’s pyramid but occupies only a quarter of the area used by the Khafra and Khufu pyramids. With its original height of 66 meters, Menkaura’s pyramid represents only about a tenth of the mass (235,183 cubic meters) in comparison to Khufu’s (2,583,283 cubic meters). The core consists of locally quarried limestone blocks. The bottom-most approximately 15 meters of the pyramid’s sides were cased with granite blocks from Aswan. Further up, the casing was made of fine limestone. The final dressing of the granite casing was not completed until the end of the construction process (Bárta 2005, Klemm and Klemm 2010). Menkaura began a new trend leading to distinctly smaller pyramids. Nevertheless, the decrease in monumentality was to be compensated for, since it is also during his reign that the pyramid substructure was enriched by a complex of storerooms. At Menkaura’s pyramid there were six, indicating a shift in the philosophy behind the mortuary complex (Bárta 2005). It is also starting his reign that the trend, which started with Khafra, became more pronounced, namely, the shrinking in size of the pyramid, and the expansion of the of the mortuary temple and its decoration. This would continue throughout the rest of the Old Kingdom (Lehner 1997). An entrance on the north side provided original access to the inner chambers, about 4 meters above ground level. An inclined passage, more than 30 meters long, leads to the subterranean chambers. One of them, the proper burial chamber, was constructed entirely with granite, and housed a dark grey sarcophagus, which was found to be empty. After its discovery, the sarcophagus was lost when the ship transporting it to Europe sank (Klemm and Klemm 2010). 134 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Menkaura in Giza BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 135 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Menkaura c.2532–2503 BC; Fourth Dynasty Three small pyramids stand to the south of Menkaure’s monument. The eastern one was probably the true satellite pyramid. It was partly cased with red granite, and a sarcophagus of the same material was sunk into the floor of the burial chamber (Klemm and Klemm 2010). The pyramid complex of Menkaura differs from the complexes of Khufu and Khafra in many ways. It was not finished during his reign, but was instead completed by his son and successor, Shepseskaf. Other architectural additions were made during the Fifth and Sixth Dynasties. And intact artifacts from various periods were found in the upper and lower temples and the chapels of the subsidiary pyramids (Petrie with update Hawass 1990). 136 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Menkaura in Giza BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 137 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Userkaf c.2494–2487 BC; Fifth Dynasty Userkaf built his pyramid, 87,906 cubic meters in volume, in central Saqqara outside the northeastern corner of the enclosure of Djoser’s Step Pyramid complex (Bárta 2005). Its base is 73.3 meters on each side, and the height is 49 meters (Verner 2002). Shepseskaf, the son of the powerful Queen Khentkaus I, was the first king of the Fifth Dynasty. Although the pyramid of Userkaf was once encased in fine limestone, its core masonry was built hastily and carelessly. As a result, when the casing blocks were removed some time later, the core masonry collapsed, and the pyramid lost its perfect pyramidal shape. Userkaf’s pyramid complex exhibits some unique features: the mortuary temple is on the south, rather than east, side of the pyramid, and in place of it is a small offering chapel. Also, the mortuary temple is not oriented toward the pyramid, but toward the south. The reasons behind these changes are unknown, but it has been suggested that this was due to a lack of space toward the east of the pyramid. Another explanation involves the pyramid complex of Djoser, which is oriented north-south. It is therefore also possible that Userkaf desired a pyramid complex that incorporated elements from the older, Third Dynasty type (Lehner 1997). One of the principal innovations of his time was the construction of a so-called sun temple, dedicated to the cult of the sun god Ra, in Abu Ghurab, north of Abusir, a distance of some 3 kilometers to the north of his pyramid. One of the most important officials of the Fifth Dynasty was Ptahshepses (not to be confused with the Ptahshepses who served as vizier later in the dynasty), who married Userkaf’s daughter Khamaat (Dorman 2002). He is, in fact, the first official known to have married a king’s daughter (Bárta 2005, 2017). 138 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Userkaf in central Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 139 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Sahura c.2487–2475 BC; Fifth Dynasty Sahura built his pyramid, 96,542 cubic meters in volume and 48 meters high with each side of the base 78.5 meters long, at Abusir (Verner 2002, Bárta 2005). With Sahura, the son of Userkaf and second king of the Fifth Dynasty, the trend that had begun with Khafre continued. Hand in hand with the decrease in pyramid size there went a tendency to emphasize the decoration program of the complex, thus favoring a symbolism of the royal tomb set not by its sheer size and monumental impression, but by the elaborate and much more thoughtful and extensive wall decoration program (Lehner 1997, Bárta 2005). Sahura’s mortuary complex, one of the best preserved of the Old Kingdom, thus displayed some 370 running meters of decoration, whereas several of the most important kings of the Fourth Dynasty seem to have paid little attention to this component: Snefru, the biggest pyramid builder, reserved only 64 running meters for the decoration of his complex, his son Khufu 100 meters, and the direct predecessor of Sahure, Userkaf, only about 120 meters of relief decoration (Arnold 1999, Bárta 2005). Sahura’s royal reliefs form the largest collection known from the third millennium BC. They include not only traditional religious and symbolic scenes, but also representations of historical events, including an expedition to Punt, and gatherings of the royal family, listing the names of a number of family members and representatives of the state elite (Bárta 2005, 2017, El-Awady 2009). Generally, starting with the reign of Sahura, there was a strong tendency toward increasing the area reserved for storerooms within the mortuary complexes. This indicates that the daily funerary cult for the king carried out in them rose in importance. In the case of the Sahura complex, the storerooms take up 916 square meters of the whole 4,246 square meters of the mortuary temple’s area. This policy stands in marked contrast to the previous Fourth Dynasty (Bárta 2005). 140 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Sahura in Abusir BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 141 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Djedkara Isesi c.2414–2375 BC; Fifth Dynasty Djedkara Isesi abandoned the royal cemetery at Abusir, and built his pyramid, 107,835 cubic meters in volume, at South Saqqara (Bárta 2005). It is 52 meters high and each side of the base is 78.5 meters long (Verner 2002). Because of its position on high ground above Saqqara, this pyramid is known as el-Shawaf “The Sentinel” (Lehner 1997). As a consequence of the serious centrifugal trends experienced by the previous Fifth Dynasty central administration, Djedkara was compelled to introduce significant reforms (Kanawati 1980). These included a new policy stipulating that each nomarch (provincial governor) was now responsible exclusively for his own nome (province). Previously, an official had held responsibility for several nomes simultaneously (Martin-Pardey 1976). Moreover, the king established three administrative centers for the control of the most economically important nomes of Upper Egypt: numbers 10, 15, and 20 (Kanawati 1980). It was also in Djedkara’s reign that high administrative officials began to be buried in their hometowns, rather than at the royal residence (Kanawati 1980). There are indications that, from this time on, there were two viziers at the same time, one of them only titular, a probable indication of conflict between the king and powerful courtiers. Djedkara’s funerary complex was built at South Saqqara and is known for its unique representations, such as the royal birth scene (Bárta 2005, 2017, Megahed 2016). Another new feature is that his queen’s pyramid now had its own, smallerscale, version of the elements of the king’s pyramid complex. Thus, in addition to her pyramid and mortuary temple, there was a small satellite pyramid, and the whole was surrounded by its own enclosure wall. The mortuary temple of the queen itself also had components like her husband’s: an offering hall, storerooms, a room with niches for her statues, and a columned court (Lehner 1997). 142 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Djedkara Isesi in Abusir BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 143 102-2 102-6 TECHNOLOGY T o gain a competitive edge in today’s ever-evolving market, Banque Misr embarks on the digital transformation of the banking industry. One of BM’s priorities is deploying technology to level up the efficiency of its line-of-business operations, which in return enhances BM’s added value to its stakeholders. Banque Misr always ensures that the operating system is functioning as smoothly and efficiently as it should be, even during the upgrades. For high-quality, innovative and integrated customer experience, the cutting-edge technologies are always assimilated into the bank’s operating systems to ensure that all inputs to the system are complete and accurate and all transactions are valid and properly authorized. In order to be future-ready, Banque Misr also applies emerging technologies to optimize backend operations, data management, cybersecurity, payment platforms, IT infrastructure, and risk management. To this end, the bank offers its customers innovative banking services with optimal standards of accuracy and security. Developing IT Infrastructure Banque Misr’s rich legacy extended locally and regionally over saving benefits for the best customer experience. It enhanced a century. BM employs an integrated perspective to sustain this its operational flexibility, security, business continuity, and legacy. Therefore, it continues with a steady pace toward the disaster recovery. Additionally, the third phase of upgrading, digital transformation at full potential through the systematic robust fiber-optic internet cables across BM’s network of updating of its infrastructure. branches improved the bank’s productivity with high-speed internet connectivity and maximum uptime. The first two Banque Misr is the first bank in Egypt and North Africa to become phases of upgrading copper cables to fiber-optic cables have compliant with PCI data security standards, upon which obtaining been implemented at 208 branches. version 3.2.1 of PCI-DSS certification for the eighth consecutive year. In line with the customer-centric approach, the bank also applies Middleware to connect network-based requests generated by Further, the bank has upgraded its core systems. The cost a client to the back-end data the client is requesting for better effective core banking system opts to streamline a full spectrum and faster transaction management. Middleware seamlessly of banking operations. In return, BM rolls out new innovative integrates the bank’s core banking system with internet banking products while seamlessly integrating multiple channels to services. ensure availability for its customers. The software supports the bank’s open banking Application Further, BM inked the Oracle Unlimited License Agreement (ULA) Programming Interface (API).The bank has also upgraded the to ensure unlimited use of a subset of Oracle products. The bank IT Infrastructure of its branch network, comprising switches, also upgraded critical databases to the latest versions using routers, personal computers, printers, scanners, IP telephony Oracle Enterprise Manager. One of the eco-friendly business and surveillance cameras. This is in addition to applying the Data practices adopted by Banque Misr is applying the Building Mart platform for financial reporting. Thus, BM stays ahead of Management Systems (BMS). the competition during the digital transformation era through applying state-of-the-art technologies. This is in addition to implementing server virtualization technology at the main data center and disaster recovery Advanced Information systems sites. The server consolidation model enables faster server provisioning and improved desktop application deployment. Banque Misr continuously develops and upgrades its information Applying this technology, BM achieves significant cost and time systems, so as to provide a wide array of world-class banking 144 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 FOREWORD services to a wide range of customer segments. The bank Business Continuity seeks to offer its customers the best banking experience ever. As such, BM was the first bank in Egypt to implement BM’s operational continuity has been empowered through a number of projects during the FY 2018/2019 including, the applying the latest recovery technology in order to ensure Mobile Wallet to allow users to withdraw and deposit via all a full-fledged recovery process. Banque Misr established mobile wallets through ATMs. a disaster recovery site, in addition to carrying out an BM interruption test to examine the shortest timing for system It was the first Egyptian bank to release the BM Chatbot on the restoration (credit, debit, prepaid cards). APPROACH bank’s website to support current and potential customers. In support of national efforts toward financial inclusion, BM Aiming to minimize the time consumed in granting loans to was the first bank in Egypt to issue Meeza prepaid card to clients while reducing administrative fees, BM has adopted an facilitate electronic payments and boost the transition to a automated workflow for MSMEs during the current FY. cashless society. Further, BM launched a new banking product, “Salary in Advance,” enabling its customers to withdraw cash Moreover, in order to minimize the time required for currency in advance from their payroll accounts to be repaid later. requests at BM’s branches, the bank has applied a system Banque Misr consistently outpaces the evolving digital for the Treasury Department for that purpose. The system HOW BM enables the prompt monitoring of the status of each phase OPERATES transformations in retail banking through embracing cuttingof the currency management request. Further, to manage VIP edge technologies to introduce innovative banking products clients’ products and services; Banque Misr has inaugurated and services. During the year, BM introduced a variety of the BMVIP Plus service. BM also seeks to employ a pioneering prepaid cards, either for existing or virtual accounts. BM internet and mobile omnichannel solution for retail and implemented cash monitoring system, as a direct corporate corporate clients. connection that allows companies to instantly track their BM deposits, accounts, transactions, and the status of checks, bills and commercial papers provided for collection. Corporate customers can search their business transaction DIVISIONS history onsite via laptops or mobiles with the highest degree of security and confidentiality. During the FY 2018/2019, BM applied the latest version of the 3D Secure program for fraud prevention to secure digital transactions using all FINANCIAL types of cards (credit, debit, prepaid cards). Further, Banque Misr upgraded the core banking system (FlexCUBS) at its branches in the United Arab Emirates in order to fulfill all the PERFORMANCE business market requirements in UAE. The updated system enabled the bank to launch new service and products (fast cash, retail loans). This is in addition to establishing an online link with the Central Bank of the UAE, in order to facilitate instant activation of customers’ balances and automate loan services to reduce loan-processing time. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 145 102-2 102-6 103-2 302-2 305-2 CORPORATE BANKING S ince its inception, Banque Misr has been a fundamental asset to Egypt’s economy with its leading role in economic development. The bank’s first mission is to stimulate savings into channels to finance various public and private projects, either locally or internationally, to ensure economic stability, social equity, and sustainable economic growth. Banque Misr holds a position of a strategic importance in propelling the national economy through providing an essential banking service, namely the corporate banking service through its Corporate Banking Division. The Group offers a comprehensive range of tailored corporate banking products and services, supporting different business activities while fulfilling a wide spectrum of corporate clients’ demands and requirements. Various corporate banking services provided by Banque Misr include facilities on the short, medium, or long term, as well as project/structured/syndicated financing packages and other corporate finance services. Loan Financing for a Better Future housing projects, along with participating in other Portfolio initiatives. The Corporate Banking and Syndicated Banque Misr offers integrated corporate banking Loans Department managed to sustain a sufficient services and products of a high quality to leverage credit rating portfolio. By the end of the FY 2018/2019, EGP corporate investments and megaprojects, so as to BM’s total loan portfolio surged to EGP 271.7bn. BM 271.7bn inject added value into the national economy and concluded 8 syndicated finance facilities during the accelerate the state’s inclusive development. The bank period from July 1st, 2018 till June 30th, 2019, with retains solid expertise to ensure the delivery of end a total finance volume worth EGP 20.45bn. With a to-end services with regard to structuring, arranging, share worth EGP 10.1bn, the portfolio’s facilities were and syndicating large-scale finance transactions concentrated in various sectors, including real estate within very tight time frames. Banque Misr plays a investments, building materials, oil and gas, financial vital role in promoting the wellness of the national services, and general contracting. BM also targets economy through its vital support to the government to conclude other 20 finance facilities with finance in advancing the petroleum, energy, electricity, gas, volume of EGP 16.7bn. telecommunication, real estate and construction sectors. Generating Green Investments The bank has facilitated funds for the development of BM’s sustainability strategy entails mobilizing green the New Administrative Capital, national developmental finance, as BM’s commitment to climate action is projects in Sinai, constructing and renovating Egypt’s of the utmost importance. From renewable energy road network, electric network projects, affordable to energy efficiency projects, BM directs funds to 146 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 103-2 302-2 305-2 address the challenges of climate change and serve a wider Driven by a strategy that capitalizes on youth, BM will offer segment of society. BM runs comprehensive environmental its seventh round of training programs in credit certification compliance check-ups to ensure that financed projects adhere to courses during 2020. The bank previously provided six training the Ministry of Environment’s regulations. Moreover, BM finances courses since 2009. projects that address resource scarcity, with the aim of achieving economically inclusive, resilient and sustainable development. BM always integrates an effective environmental footprint in its financial performance, along with sustainable investing. Sustaining Excellence Banque Misr has been awarded by several national, regional, and international prestigious institutions in recognition of its remarkable achievements in corporate banking, driven by its professional team. In 2019, the reputable publications and magazines acknowledged BM’s efforts in this Division across Africa. BM also led and participated in various transactions, which are internationally recognized as the best deals of the year by different financial publications and magazines, including Euromoney & EMEA Finance. Banque Misr has been honored to receive various awards for its efforts in corporate banking and project finance: Bloomberg’s League Tables on Global Syndicated Loans ranked BM as Egypt’s top Mandated Lead Arranger and Book Runner among the top 20 financial institutions across Africa for 2019. BM was ranked as: The fifth among Book Runners for Syndicated Loans and Project Finance across Africa. The sixth Mandated Lead Arranger For Syndicated Loans and Project Finance across Africa. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 147 102-2 102-6 103-2 R ETAIL BANKING B anque Misr strives to meet and exceed the expectations of several customer segments, not only by providing advanced banking products and services, but also by offering a wide variety of tailored financial solutions to ensure fulfilling its customers’ demands. In this regard, BM’s new retail banking strategy firmly reflects its adopted customer-centric approach. BM’s retail portfolio successfully surged at 41% year-over-year, indicating strong consumer demand. Compared to EGP 22.9bn a year earlier, the portfolio increased to EGP 32.4bn by June 30th, 2019, marking a rise of EGP 9.5bn. BM's deposits portfolio rose by EGP 76.2bn, recording EGP 745.8bn in June 2019, compared to EGP 669.6bn in June 2018, with a growth rate of 11.4%. Retail Offering an Outstanding Customer tailored for durable goods and tourism. In an effort Banking Experience to further enable more Egyptians to have access to quality education, BM recently launched educational Portfolio Banque Misr is always committed to creating solutions loans to support students in colleges, universities and that meet consumers’ growing needs and to facilitate institutes, as well as certificate programs. EGP32.4bn the individuals’ lives. BM offers personal loans without salary transfer 41% YOY Personal Loans for the customers working for public entities, public Growth and private banks, oil and petrochemical industries, Banque Misr is fully committed to providing telecommunications, as well as business owners and convenient access to funds to its customers at professionals (doctors, pharmacists, engineers, etc.). competitive rates, including a variety of tailored loans and financing schemes. At competitive interest Islamic Retail Services rates, the bank’s personal loan programs are offered for various sectors with a maximum loan cap of up To ensure fully-fledged Islamic banking services, to EGP1.5m for unsecured personal loans and loan Banque Misr for Islamic Transactions offers a diverse tenure up to 120 months. The bank also has relaxed range of products, among which are: Auto Murabaha, lending terms and conditions for personal loans to Durable Murabaha, Haj & Omra Murabaha, Education fulfill the customers’ requirements. Murabaha, Wakala Murabaha, Islamic Credit Card Kenana and Islamic Qard Hassan. The value of the Embracing banking digitalization in the Egyptian Islamic banking portfolio totaled EGP 934m by June Deposits market, Banque Misr launched the first innovative 30th, 2019, compared to EGP 577m a year earlier, banking product “instant personal loan”. This product recording an increase of EGP 357m and a growth offers loans without any paperwork for eligible rate of 62%. EGP customers with disbursal in just two hours. 745.8bn Bank Deposits 11.4% YOY Moreover, the bank has launched “Salary in advance”, Growth one of its recent digital banking services, which BM offers a variety of deposit products designed is designed for its customers who have payroll to suit the changing needs of customers. To reduce accounts. The bank avails this new overdraft product the market gap and continuously expand the existing to enable the customer to withdraw a percentage of product range, the bank launched new products. his monthly salary in advance. Multi-currency deposit products are available on both short and long-term bases. Recently, the bank issued The bank also provides auto and mortgage loans, the Talaat Harb Certificate of Deposit (CD) at a very house finishing/refurbishment loans, as well as loans competitive interest rate in local currency. 148 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 103-2 BMVIP To offer the best to our BMVIP clients, the bank enhanced debit cards process delivery and activation Retaining customers’ loyalty is an essential factor to process to facilitate prompt cards delivery to their enrich BM’s legacy of success. To improve the value residence; and card activation process through the provided to the premier customers and maintain their call center. loyalty, the bank offers various bundles of exclusive Further, BMVIP customers obtain special interest products and services with competitive prices to rates on their accounts. Besides, they are exempted the VIP customers in collaboration with MasterCard from checkbook fees and some other banking tariffs. under the bank’s BMVIP brand. Payroll Financial Inclusion Further, BMVIP empowers customers to enjoy a world EGP of unique benefits and unforgettable experiences. The Delivering on the state’s financial inclusion strategy, 87.2bn available services are provided by a dedicated team of Banque Misr’s efforts have effectively contributed customer relationship managers (RMs) and effective to the success of this strategy. Its remarkable multichannel customer support, including our call contributions strengthen its positive impact on the center with specific track, SMS service, as well as the country’s economic development and prosperity. e-mail support service. Moreover, BMVIP customers In this regard, BM is planning to add a new sector also receive special interest rates on their accounts. to its organizational structure, mainly specialized in implementing the bank’s strategy for promoting Through their transactions with us, BMVIP customers financial inclusion. are also promised additional luxuries. Depending on the account balance, VIP customers also receive special Last year, BM had a significant role during The return rates on their VIP accounts with an ascending Financial Inclusion Week. The bank offered charge daily interest posting. In addition, VIP customers are free accounts, pursuing to extend its outreach and expand its targeted customer base, which has exempted from the payment of checkbook fees and successfully reached more than 12m customers some other banking tariffs. Furthermore, customers from various society segments. BM’s efforts are given free access to main VIP lounges situated in contributed to bringing unbanked segments of unique locations at airports to ensure the customer’s society into the formal economy, along with ensuring privacy. This is in addition to free accommodations at wider access to advanced banking services. This in E-payment Starwood Hotels and Resorts. turn reflects favorably on the economy, raising its Services rates of growth and decreasing rates of poverty As well, customers are given free access to local and and unemployment. international concierge services through a convenient EGP mobile application to ease the booking process. The 46.076bn concierge service supports BMVIP customers in Toward an Inclusive Economy their travel arrangements (hotel reservations, online According to Banque Misr, securing equitable tickets, airport reception and hotel transportation), economic opportunities for under-served individuals theater reservations, cinemas, cultural events, is considered integral to promoting broad support restaurants, health and beauty centers, as well as for reforms in industry and sustainable market shopping and gift selection (available in Cairo and economies. Banque Misr works collaboratively with Alexandria), with many discounts and benefits in a the government to promote best practices toward number of restaurants, hotels and services. financial inclusion. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 149 102-2 102-6 102-12 103-2 Initiatives for Promoting Financial Inclusion CBE Mortgage Initiative (low and middle-income individuals) Within the framework of the CBE’s initiatives for financial Since mortgage is a crucial catalyst for promoting the national inclusion, BM’s Retail Banking Division has also launched two economy, Banque Misr has a vital role in the government’s initiatives new products: to promote adequate housing. Within the framework of the CBE’s initiative, BM provided longterm loans at a value of about EGP 5bn a. Tahweesha Bezeyada Account: to more than 46,000 customers as of June 2019. These loans enabled them to purchase affordable residential housing units provided by the government. Tahweesha Bezeyada (extra savings) is a special savings account that enables the customer to deposit a fixed amount of savings on a monthly Further, Banque Misr seeks to attract local and foreign investments basis over a period of a year. This saving account is offered with for the real-estate sector. It offers a variety of mortgage programs administrative charges' exemption. The account holder will redeem the for housing and furnishing for all the segments of the Egyptian full amount of savings in case of regular payment process. During the society and the Egyptian expatriates living in the UAE as well. last five months of the saving program, the customer will be required to pay only 25% of the total value of fixed savings and the bank will cover the remaining 75%. The minimum opening balance is EGP100 and Bancassurance its multiples. The customer shall not receive any further returns on the savings if he wishes to withdraw the savings prior to the first six months Banque Misr has been one of Egypt’s leading banks that offer the of the program. bancassurance services. In the last two years, BM has promoted its productive partnership with Allianz Egypt, insurance Co., to be among b. Debit Cards for Minors: the top life insurance providers in Egypt, issuing more than 220,000 policies at the end of June 2019 . Moreover, BM mulls to offer nonAs a part of the bank’s role in financial inclusion, BM’s “Debit Cards for life insurance products to its customers within the next few months. Minors” product is offered for the youth to gain the new generation loyalty and expanding the customer base. BM always targets to increase Credit Insurance the number of minors' saving accounts to facilitate the access of the banking services to the minors. To ensure the optimum safety for customer lending process, BM has reached deals with both types of insurance companies to mitigate any associated risks. BM offers its customers a variety of insurance coverage Social Initiatives programs: life, total permanent disability, and default coverage for 27 banking products, including retail loans, Islamic retail – Murabaha, and Aman El Masreen Certificate of Deposit SMEs according to the relevant terms and conditions of each banking product in order to collect Claims when it is valid to BM as a primary BM launched the “Aman El Masreen” Certificate of Deposit, a threebeneficiary. The total value of BM’s insurance coverage portfolio year local currency certificatein partnership with Misr Life Insurance reached about EGP28.2bn for 376,000 clients. Company, the National Bank of Egypt, Agricultural Bank of Egypt, and Banque Du Caire. The Aman El Masreen certificate mainly targets Takaful Bancassurance temporary and seasonal workers, farmers and low-income society segments. The certificate is offered along with a life insurance policy. Offering the best banking services is BM’s top priority. Thus, it is keen on The certificate’s return is disbursed via prepaid cards or the Mobile constantly introducing competitive banking products and services. As Wallet payment card. The certificate also offers customers a quarterly for strengthening its the Islamic banking portfolio, BM offers “Takaful EGP 10,000 prize draw after tax exemption. By June 30th, 2019, the Life Bancassurance service to fulfill its customers’ demands and Aman El Masreen Certificate’s assets value amounted to EGP 417m. highest expectations at the same time. Therefore, the bank launched a 150 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 103-2 partnership with the Egyptian Life Takaful Company, one of the biggest Corporate Payment Services Takaful insurance companies in Egypt. According to this cooperation, BM facilitates a variety of advanced insurance services and programs Aiming to assist its customers, Banque Misr has also provided throughout its Islamic branches, including integrated Life Takaful Corporate Payment Services (CPS) in order to make it easier for insurance products. customers to pay their taxes, tariffs, social insurance, and other government dues from their offices. Meeza Debit/Prepaid cards E-Commerce In support of the national financial inclusion strategy, BM has been the first bank in Egypt to issue Meeza debit and prepaid cards, as a part Amid the rise of the e-commerce sector in the 20th century, of the National Payment Scheme to integrate the unbanked segments Banque Misr is the first bank in Egypt to launch a payment of society into the formal banking sector. BM issued 270,000 Meeza gateway for e-commerce transactions. This gateway has been cards in June 2019. It also targets to replace the payroll cards offered upgraded to facilitate online sales and other types of online for the employees working at public entities to Meeza cards to enable commercial transactions. them to enjoy the contactless features of Meeza platform. BM Mobile Wallet Cashless Services on the Rise In February 2017, Banque Misr unveiled the BM Wallet service to promote financial inclusion by providing a mobile application Banque Misr opts for cashless services to ensure the best for that offers a variety of banking services to customers. BM Wallet its customers. Driven by the digital transformation, Banque Misr empowers users to transfer money directly to other wallet seeks to deliver numerous financial and banking services that holders, pay their bills, and receive foreign remittances using will attract new customers from the community’s nonbanking the most secure and efficient process, as well as to send and segments, fulfilling the Egypt's strategies for financial inclusion receive money directly from their mobile phones anywhere in and the transition to a cashless society. the world 24/7. Moreover, Banque Misr has taken leading steps in promoting digital payments through QR Code payment system. It was the first bank to roll out this system on POS and E-Payment Services e-commerce services. It also gives its customers the advantage to use the QR code in their e-payments for charities purpose. It BM has a vital role in spreading out acceptance of electronic also offers them the self-registration option for the service via payments across the country through its broader e-payment online application. scheme. The bank also upgraded its e-payment services with innovative features for its customer. This is in addition to e-payment services for taxes, customs, and various billers, Dynamic Currency Conversion System e.g., social insurance. Furthermore, BM has signed cooperation agreements with many organizations to expand electronic BM launched the Dynamic Currency Conversion System (DCC) payment acceptance across the nation. Banque Misr has also program as part of the bank’s strategy to foster e-commerce and implemented e-payment services in 406 branches, including tourism. This advanced financial service offers money transfers 401 branches across the state and the other five branches in for overseas purchases by credit cardholders into local currency the UAE. The bank ranks first in offering customs tariffs and at the point of sale. government payment services, collecting over EGP 39bn during FY2018/2019. BM issued more than 8.6m cards in December Automating Payroll Transfers 2019, which mostly operate on a smart chip system, ranking In order to turn Egypt into a cashless society, Banque Misr the bank as the second-largest card issuer amongst its Egyptian possesses 48% of the total market share in automating the counterparts. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 151 102-2 102-6 103-2 wages of employees working for governmental entities. For the past 14 consecutive years, the bank has maintained its first place in this regard. In the FY2018/2019, Banque Misr carried out annual automated payroll transfers amounted to more than EGP 87.2bn, covering 59,222 payroll accounts for workers in both the public and private sectors via 3.6m cards. E-Payment Facilities Banque Misr runs one of Egypt’s largest networks of branches, ATMs and Point of Sale (POS) terminals. ATMs Coinciding with its strategy of expansion, Banque Misr has inaugurated new branches all across Egypt and expanded its advanced ATM network to reach about 2,800 machines. In addition to conventional cash withdrawal, cash deposit and foreign exchange facilities, BM fitted its ATMs with new features. In cooperation with Fawry, an e-payment solutions company, new services are being provided. Such services include cardless cash transfers, wallet to wallet transfers, deposits, bill payments, donations, I-score inquiries, and various subscription fee payments. Point of Sale – POS With regard to merchant outlets, Banque Misr has been operating the second largest network of about 18,700 POS terminals nationwide in December 2019 (17,066 POS terminals in June 2019). During the FY2018/2019, the bank operated at a trading value of EGP 18.45bn. Supporting Customers and Data Protection Banque Misr is the first Egyptian bank to be certified for complying with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS 3.2.1); leveling up its customers’ security against any potential e-piracy threats. Moreover, BM is committed to advancing its infrastructure with state-of-the-art technologies. BM plans to launch cheaper, safer and more affordable internet banking services in the near future. The new service would significantly reduce paper use in offline transactions. 152 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 102-10 102-12 103-2 SMEs AND MICROFINANCE BM views MSMEs as an untapped catalyst for propelling the Egyptian economy and a key pillar of sustainable development. The MSMEs sector represents a cornerstone for stimulating modern economies. Considering one of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, BM invests in the SMEs sector, as it holds the lion’s share of new job opportunities, thereby eliminating poverty, increasing incomes and boosting exports. Thus, the Egyptian government and the CBE have set on an ambitious plan to create thousands of job opportunities in line with supporting growth in the SMEs sector as a strategic pillar to meet these targets. MSMEs SME initiatives and protocols as a loan portfolio directed to the sector, has reached Portfolio prerequisite to achieving sustainable more than 20% of the bank's total credit portfolio.BM development and community for provides banking solutions through 238 one-window prosperity units across Egypt, creating more than 12,000 job EGP 23.3bn opportunities through the program. Meanwhile, the 120% YOY As access to finance still represents a challenge for customer base for SMEs portfolio increased by Growth SMEs sector’s capacity and growth in Egypt, the 35,000 to about 121,000 customers, recording a Central Bank of Egypt has carried out a number of 41% growth rate as of June 2019. initiatives and efforts, which are: Expanding Geographical Outreach for Accessible Banque Misr not only shows a full support to the Banking Services to Entrepreneurs state’s agenda for economic development, but also acts in a proactive manner toward fulfilling Banque Misr’s leading role in supporting MSMEs is the community’s demands for a better inclusive driven by our efforts toward internal restructuring, ecosystem. Since 2015, BM has been leveraging the and attracting the right calibers. BM targets a SMEs footprint with almost 16-fold increase at its faster and smoother decision-making process and portfolio size and tripling its customer base. growing its geographic reach, with lending authority decentralization. We have invested a lot in promoting By the end of June 2019, BM had reached an our internal capabilities. We started by restructuring exposure of around EGP 4bn to micro-scale projects, the department and then increased our workforce EGP 11.5bn to small-scale projects and EGP 7.7bn to to reach more than 1,100 professionals specialized medium-scale projects. Thus, BM’s SMEs portfolio in serving MSMEs. witnessed a compound annual growth rate to almost 120%. The bank’s MSMEs portfolio has reached EGP Aiming to expand our geographical outreach 23.3bn in June 2019, compared to 10.6bn in June nationwide, BM’s SME hubs currently reached 2018. more than 280 micro-scale lending hubs, more than 282 small-scale lending hubs, and 17 mediumBM’s supporting role for the MSMEs sector has scale lending hubs. This expansion is coupled with been demonstrated through its strategic alignment decentralization in the decision-making process and with supporting initiatives to promote lending to automation to reach our SME customers and offer SMEs at preferential rates of 5%, 7% and 12%. The them tailored banking services. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 153 102-2 102-6 103-2 The NilePreneurs Initiative Supporting Egyptian Industries Promoting the entrepreneurship eco-system in Egypt is a prime In order to support the national manufacturing sector, BM signed focus for Banque Misr. As part of its efforts, BM jointly launched various protocols with several chambers, companies and entities, the NilePreneurs Initiative in cooperation with the Central Bank to automate payments, fulfill socio-environmental needs and of Egypt. The initiative contributes to integrating SMEs sector promote exports. Key protocols signed by BM are listed below. into the formal economy. • A cooperation protocol with the Ministry of Local Development 1Design House to finance small and micro-enterprises. Under this protocol, BM financed 77,367 clients with a value of EGP 6.3bn Design House is a first of its kind program in Egyptian universities • Cooperation protocols with Leasing Companies to fund their clients' fixed assets to train young calibers, university students, entrepreneurs, • A cooperation protocol with the Egyptian Pharmacists startups, and small industrial institutions, enabling them to Syndication to finance working capital, transportation, and innovate and develop new and existing products through utilizing equipment for syndication members. the latest design technologies and capitalizing on available Under this protocol, BM funded 334 pharmacies with a value of resources offered through design and simulation services, as EGP 151m well as training courses and workshops held for start-ups and • A cooperation protocol with the Industrial Development SMEs entrepreneurs. Banque Misr launched Design Houses at Authority to finance industrial companies that apply and obtain Nile University, the Arab Academy for Science, Technology and IDA's specified industrial units. Maritime Transport, Ain Shams University and Al Azhar University • A cooperation protocol with the Renewal energy (Egypt -PV) in Qena Governorate. to fund small and medium enterprises implementing integrated solar energy units 2Banque Misr’s Business Development Centers • A cooperation protocol with the Federation of Chambers of Commerce Protocol to provide small retailers with E-payment Banque Misr launched three Business Development Centers systems (hardware & software) (BDCs) in the following governorates: Menoufiya Governorate • A cooperation protocol with the Exporters' Council to finance the council members to participate in international exhibitions. – Sadat City branch, Damietta Governorate – New Damietta Granted loans cover accommodation, flight tickets and booth branch, and Luxor Governorate – Aton branch. BM’s BDCs setup costs offer nonfinancial services to support young and potential • A cooperation protocol with E-Finance company to extend its entrepreneurs in adopting well-studied plans for their potential agriculture lending capacities for small and medium enterprises projects and identifying investment opportunities. (SMEs) operating in the sector via an e-agriculture platform operated by the company. The move comes as part of the bank’s strategy to increase financial inclusion and its range of digital financial services • A cooperation protocol with the Damietta Furniture City company to finance, develop, and modernize SMEs involved in Egypt’s furniture production and stimulate exports. So far, the bank funded 149 projects value at EGP 82.5m 154 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 103-2 Awards and Recognitions Acknowledging its superior efforts in supporting SMEs, Banque Misr has received high acclaim through various awards from several international organizations for FY 2018/2019, including: The SME Bank in Africa for the year 2019 from Corporate Live Wire Magazine Best SME Bank in Egypt for the year 2018 from International Business Magazine Best SME Bank in Egypt for the year 2018 from the European Magazine Most Outstanding SME bank in the Middle East and North Africa for the year 2018 from Wealth & Finance International Magazine Fastest Growing SME Bank in Egypt for the year 2018 from International Finance Magazine BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 155 102-2 102-6 102-7 103-2 CAPITAL MARKETS AND INVESTMENT T o retain Banque Misr’s pre-eminent role in the Egyptian market, BM’s Capital Markets and Investment Division assures its position as the foremost choice for investors, whether individuals or companies, in terms of specialized investment services. This is in addition to optimizing the bank’s returns on its investments. At the end of June 2019, the Division reached assets under management worth EGP 58bn, up from EGP 56.5bn, with a 3% growth rate. Furthermore, the total revenues generated from the Division’s activities stood at EGP4.4bn. Therefore, the average annual growth rate produced by the Division’s revenue over the past five years was 33%. In the meantime, the Division’s fair value reserves of assets registered EGP 4.7bn as of June 30th, 2019. Capital Well Established Expertise 2014, and 2015, and Best Provider of Short-Term Investments/Money Market Funds in the Middle East Markets The capital Markets and Investment Division has a for the years 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019. The Total bank was also named Best Provider of Short-Term pool of in-house talented professionals to offer a Revenues wide range of integrated financial services, including Investments/Money Market Funds in Africa and the managing the proprietary, listed equities and bonds Middle East for 2019. EGP portfolio of the bank. They are also fully equipped Portfolio Management 4.4bn to offer corporate advisory and transaction banking businesses (trustee and securities services), sales and Banque Misr’s proprietary trading securities, worth security trading, and distribution of various mutual around EGP 4.1bn, at the end of June 2019, have been funds. managed by the Capital Markets and Investment Division, yielding revenues of around EGP 317m. Capital Markets and Investment Services The Capital Markets and Investment Division also manages and tracks the bank’s fixed income corporate Mutual Funds instruments, which amounted to approximately EGP 3bn at the end of June 2019. This is in addition In 1994, Banque Misr’s mutual funds business was to overseeing the management of mutual funds Assets initiated as one of the largest funds in the Middle issued by the bank as well as the bank’s proprietary East. Currently, the bank manages eight mutual funds: Under money market funds, balanced funds, equity funds, investments in such funds, which amounted to about EGP 851m. Management capital guaranteed funds, and Islamic funds. These funds are designed to cater to clients’ various needs, Equity Participation and Direct EGP whether they are individuals or corporations. Investments 58bn Banque Misr was granted an award by the Global Banque Misr was founded to support the Egyptian Finance Magazine as the Best Provider of Money economy and, until this day, BM constantly strives to Market Funds in Africa and the Middle East for the contribute directly to companies operating in critical years 2009 and 2010 and Best Provider of Money economic sectors, serving as one of Egypt’s largest Market Funds in the Middle East for 2008, 2012, 2013, and most active private equity investors. 156 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 102-7 102-12 103-2 The Capital Markets and Investment Division of In addition, the Capital Markets and Investment Division Banque Misr has a diversified portfolio of direct participates in both the Equity Capital Markets (ECM) equities across different sectors, including tourism and Debt Capital Markets (DCM). Thus, fulfilling the and services, building and housing, agriculture and role of Banque Misr in transactions and concentrating food, IT and communications, and more. Furthermore, on the origination, structuring, pricing, execution, as of June 30th, 2019, the Division holds shares in 154 underwriting and fundraising of the basic corporate companies with a total book value of EGP 26.1bn. fixed-income securities. As well, the Division has been active in handling eight securitized bond issuances In an effort to strengthen their capital, the bank worth EGP 6.3bn issued in Egypt during FY 2018/2019. injected EGP 943m into the capital structure of Further, BM covered and underwritten other issues eight companies within its direct equities portfolio. worth about EGP 2.9bn. Meanwhile, during the fiscal year 2018/2019, the Managing 8 capital gains achieved through divestment of equity Real Estate Services stakes in some companies amounted to EGP 2bn. Securitized Bond Investment Banking Services A dedicated team within the Capital Markets and Issuances Investment Division assumes responsibility for managing the proprietary portfolio of real estate worth EGP Based on the bank’s leading role in boosting the Egyptian assets of the bank as well as being responsible for economy, Banque Misr plays a key role in supporting 6.3bn the purchase and sale of different types of real estate the market’s debt instruments. It also funds the state projects and its initiatives to provide investors with a on behalf of our clients. As well, the team carries out one-stop-shop. Furthermore, Banque Misr works with marketing auctions for real estates, in addition to the Egyptian state within an integrated and accurate promoting industrial and touristic projects. framework, acting as a key player on both the macro and microeconomic levels. The Capital Markets Banque Misr has divested some of its non-earning and Investment Division also offers a wide array of assets i.e. those not generating any revenues, with a comprehensive and creative financial services to value of EGP 904m in FY 2018/2019, realizing capital businesses, institutions, and the government, allowing gains of EGP 460m from the disposal of such assets, them to meet their financial goals and execute their compared to EGP 794m in capital gains the previous shortand long-term strategies. year. In this regard, the Capital Market and Investment Custody and Trustees Services Division also include mergers and acquisitions, transfers, bonds (both corporate and securitized), The custodians of Banque Misr’s Capital Markets and privatization deals, initial public offerings (IPOs), Investment Division provide a wide array of services and divestments, in addition to serving as a business to meet all of our valuable customers’ demands and restructuring financial advisory entity. targets. These services include buying and selling stocks on behalf of clients, subscribing to publiclyWhile our organization is committed to collaboration owned shares and bonds on behalf of clients, issuing and partnership, the Capital Markets and Investment account statements, collecting stock coupons, and Division is working side by side with numerous providing all corporate actions to individual and sectors of the bank to aid to the development and provision of innovative and fully integrated financial institutional customers, in addition to sub-custodial approaches to our clients’ most difficult issues. services. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 157 102-2 102-6 103-2 ISLAMIC BANKING B anque Misr has successfully positioned itself as the first bank to establish full-fledged Islamic banking branches in Egypt, known as “Kenana” branches, with a range of Shariah-compliant services and products to offer so as to meet customer preferences related to the Islamic banking. BM’s “Kenana” branches comply with Islamic banking principles of accountability under the supervision of the Shariah Committee, composed of qualified professors from respectable organizations, including Al Azhar, Dar Al-Ifta and the Islamic Research Council. BM’s Islamic branch offers a host of diligently developed, Sharia-compliant products and services, as well as trading activities with a proactive approach to hedge against any potential risks. Customer Experience... A Prime Focus It also delivers alternative products, such as Education Murabaha, the Shariah-compliant Kenana Credit Banque Misr is proud to expand its range of products Islamic credit card based on Murabaha through the and services to include Shariah-compliant banking Islamic Wekala concept, which offers an emergency Portfolio solutions through a network of 44 branches and cash withdrawal option. Islamic credit cards were offices across Egypt. Our Islamic banking branches launched to fulfill our customer’s requirements and EGP are fully equipped to offer all services required to needs along with extending Murabaha’s tenure up 8.7bn fulfill any of the customers’ demands in this area. to 24-36 months. Additionally, the bank also issued BM has managed to maintain its position as a leading a new Islamic retail product (Wakala Murabaha) to Shariah-compliant bank in Egypt through integrating accommodate all the customers’ demands. its distinctive heritage and tradition with the latest technologies and digital innovations. Further, Banque Misr signed a cooperation protocol Our Islamic banking branches provide innovative with the Arab Academy for Banking & Financial banking services, keeping up with the evolving market Sciences on October 31st, 2018 to finance the tuition without compromising on Sharia compliance. Our fees for the students of the academy through the Islamic banking portfolio increased to EGP 8.7bn, as Education Murabaha product. of June 30th, 2019, up from EGP 7.5bn compared in previous year. Stimulating National Economy Furthermore, the bank's portfolio for government BM stimulates the national sustainable development treasury bills was estimated at EGP 12.5bn by the end through financing major projects in various sectors. As of June 2019, compared to EGP 14.2bn by the end of such, BM’s Islamic branches took a part in promoting June 2018. Egypt’s economy though financing national projects in fiscal year 2018/2019, such as: Living Up to Customers’ Expectations Portfolio of Roads and Transportation, at a total value of EGP Government Murabaha – Kenana 580m T-Bills Housing, at a total value of EGP 212m Our Islamic banking units continue to offer a diverse range of products, including Auto Murabaha, Durable The New Administrative Capital, at total value of EGP Murabaha and other products, in accordance with EGP 797m 12.5bn Shariah requirements. Hence, the bank’s Islamic retail Water and wastewater solutions, at total value of department applies the Islamic Murabaha concept EGP 176m to finance customers’ pilgrimage (Hajj and Omrah Productive national projects, at total value of EGP 900m Murabaha) and tourism (Tourism Murabaha) trips. 158 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 103-2 5 Products This is in addition to leading a consortium of Egyptian Financing Murabaha for working capital for banks to provide financing of EGP 1.6bn with a share companies and factories up to EGP 15m for of EGP 800m in the form of Musharakah to a major Financing Murabaha up to EGP 5m for medical Corporate real estate company to construct a residential and equipment and machinery, factory machinery and and commercial compound in New Cairo. The project will equipment, private schools and universities, and be developed through five phases with an expected Syndicated transportation for business activity total construction period of 7.5 years starting in 2018. Loans Additionally, leading another consortium of Egyptian Takaful Bancassurance banks, BM acted as a facilitator to provide financing of EGP 940m with a share of EGP 100m to provide a To ensure the highest standard of service quality, direct financing for a contracting project assigned to new competitive products and services were added construct the first stage in a residential compound in to our Islamic banking portfolio, such as the Takaful the New Administrative Capital, which will cost about bancassurance service. EGP 4.1bn. Banque Misr’s Islamic Banking Division led a banking Takaful bancassurance services contribute to alliance to sign a contract increasing the value of achieving additional revenues while accommodating the fund for a sugar manufacturing company to customers’ demands. BM launched a Takaful refinancing the investment cost for the company’s bancassurance service in partnership with Egyptian plant and funding its working capital. The total finance Life Takaful Company, one of the biggest Takaful will increase by EGP 1.35bn to EGP 3.1bn, to be insurance companies. allocated for resuming the establishment of a beet sugar plant, with a crushing capacity of up to 12,000 BM provides a variety of insurance and investment tons of beet per day, and a refining capacity of 1,700 products throughout its Islamic branches. Life Takaful tons of sugar, whereby the annual capacity rates will insurance products are also fully integrated into the 19 reach 235,000 tons in crushing, and 318,000 tons for bank’s range of savings and investment products. Products refining. for MSMEs This project bridges the gap between the supply and Additionally, BM developed a new investment demand rates for white sugar, currently estimated product, namely the Islamic Treasury Product, in at 1m tons, which will in turn reduce imports and collaboration with its Islamic Banking Division and increase foreign exchange reserves. under the provisions of the Islamic Shariah to meet the increasing demands of customers. Islamic Banking Services For MSMEs BM’s Islamic Banking Division has received BM offers Islamic financing for small and mediumseveral awards in FY 2018/2019, including: sized enterprises with an annual sales turnover of up to EGP 200m. The bank also offers other micro • Best Islamic Bank in Egypt for the years 2018 and financing products based on its initiative to finance 2019 from Global Business Outlook Magazine the MSME sector and support the country’s strategic • Best Islamic Bank in Egypt for the years 2018 and objectives and BM’s national role in boosting the 2019 from International Finance Magazine Egyptian economy. A variety of Islamic banking • Best Islamic Bank in Egypt for the year 2019 from products was offered for MSMEs, including: International Business Magazine • Best Islamic Corporate Bank for the year 2019 from Micro-financing Murabaha up to EGP 250,000 Small financing Murabaha up to EGP 6m Global Banking and Finance Review Magazine BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 159 102-2 102-6 103-2 TREASURY AND CORRESPONDENT BANKING B anque Misr’s global foothold has been manifested through its extensive network of branches, subsidiaries, and correspondent banks. With a wide network of correspondent banks, BM ensures smooth cash flows between its clients and their international counterparts. It also brings value to its clients through proximity. In collaboration with its correspondent banks, BM successfully provides funding sources for foreign currency through short-term loans, medium-term loans and business operation funding schemes. Correspondingly, Banque Misr’s Treasury Department plays a crucial role in managing liquidity through various tools to meet the retail and corporate financing needs, investing surplus to maximize returns, and managing risk levels. Moreover, the department provides tailored solutions, not restricted to products and services, using different financial and engineering tools. It is also one of the top active dealers in covering issuances of public debt auctions and maintaining a high rank in the secondary market. Network of Correspondent Banking Treasury Correspondent Banks Correspondent banking plays a crucial role in the Banque Misr is rated as one of the biggest and most rapidly evolving banking ecosystem. Banque Misr’s reliable banks in Egypt. BM’s Treasury provides retail 411 robust position in the banking industry is driven by and corporate clients with domestic and international its widespread network of branches, subsidiaries, cash management, including business finance and and correspondent banks. BM assures a seamless foreign exchange solutions. It provides a full array corporate cashflow for business between customers of solutions, helping customers achieve their cross and their counterparts with a large network of around border goals. It is renowned as pre-eminent provider 411 correspondent banks serving 75 countries, of global treasury management and correspondent with a focus on creating value through proximity. banking services. BM provides inventive time-saving Our global presence across international branches, methods, which also ensures cost efficiency. subsidiaries and associated banks enables us to provide our customers with the quickest and most BM always stays ahead of the competition in our effective services to meet their current demands and evolving industry. BM’s Treasury has an essential expectations. role within the bank’s structure, offering solutions for liquidity management, payments and foreign Foreign Banque Misr offers short-term loans, medium-term exchange (FX), as well as for the management of Currency loans and business operation funding schemes, in receivables and trade. Exchange cooperation with its correspondent banks, achieving Service foreign currency funding worth $3.9bn for fiscal year Banque Misr’s Treasury aids the bank’s role in 2018/2019. Adding to this, BM reinforces both public supporting the nation’s economy through providing $36.4bn and private import trade of strategic goods, including distinguishing liquidity management solutions. Its petroleum and foodstuff. prominent role is vital, whether in funding public debt on both the primary and secondary markets, or 160 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-2 102-6 103-2 in playing a remarkable role in alleviating the consequences of the 2008 global financial crisis, and later on in Egypt’s economic recession following the 2011 uprising, which resulted in a sharp drop in the country’s economy. It holds a share of 18.34% of the government security auctions announced by the Egyptian Ministry of Finance. On the local currency front, we held an average portfolio of EGP 446bn during FY 2018/2019, achieving revenues totaling EGP 72.12bn. Furthermore, BM’s Treasury effectively manages the bank’s investments, aiming at the highest returns and lowest risk rate. In the trade, payments and foreign exchange sectors, BM is always committed to facilitating the mobilization of imports, especially strategic goods and services. The bank allocated foreign currency for letters of credit and documentary collection transactions amounted to $8.24bn during fiscal year 2018/2019. Foreign currency exchange services through fiscal year 2018/2019 amounted to a total of $36.4bn. Combining our core values with a strategic vision of the Egyptian banking sector, BM’s Treasury offers creative solutions, cutting-edge technologies, and extensive industry expertise to assist clients in staying well ahead of the curve. It took the lead in investing in structural products, such as 'Credit Linked Note' (CLN) and 'First to Default' (FTD) services, contributing to the overall profits of the bank. Moreover, Banque Misr always capitalizes on the untapped potentials at the industry, becoming one of the first banks to adopt the US dollar interbank mechanism introduced in 2004, with the aim of enhancing foreign currency liquidity management. In addition, we reintroduced the banknote exporting services in 2017 and have continued to grow them ever since. We recorded a total volume of $1.93bn through fiscal year 2018/2019. As a pillar of Egypt’s economic development, Banque Misr and its Treasury and Correspondent Banking Division uphold a tradition of trust and excellence offered to our partners nationally and internationally. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 161 102-2 102-6 103-2 404-2 GLOBAL TRANSACTION BANKING G lobal Transaction Banking (GTB) is a new business department launched by Banque Misr in October 2017, focused on corporate customers and governmental institutions through offering advanced digital banking solutions to ensure maximum security and facilitate operations. Main Pillars main aim is to offer and implement digital solutions to automate payments and collections. As a result, the GTB Division • Cash Management extended all its banking services to the public sector, as well as tailor-made solutions whenever needed. Cash Management provides a full range of solutions to meet any cash cycle needs, such as receivables, payables, liquidity • Business Development and Digital Solutions management, and information reporting. Whether globally or locally, it offers a series of superior-quality products that GTB Division a team of professionals striving to manage all efficiently manage banking transactions and align with our corporate and consumer digital channels to fully integrate nation-wide approach to digitize all transactions and shift to the bank into digital channels that meet customer needs. The cashless using state-of-the-art technology. Division has introduced Cash Management Solutions, Digital Payments, and Receivable Management. • Trade Finance and Working Capital (TWC) Corporate Customer Service Desk The Division offers products and services that respond effectively to the financial requirements of international trade The GTB Division always strives to improve efficiency across including, documentary collections, letters of credit, letters our operations to excel in presenting service excellence. As of guarantees, working capital products/solutions, structural such, GTB has completed Corporate Customer Services in trade, and tailor-made solutions. 270 branches. Also, the bank established its second GTB Hub in South Egypt in its quest to continuously improve and deliver Our GTB trade finance relationship managers provided services with efficiency for its wide range of corporate ongoing support to our branch network team in terms of newcustomers. to-bank client acquisition, technical solutions, and consultancy. BM served around 5000 customers in trade products within this fiscal year. The TWC team increased BM’s market share in Employees Learning and Development terms of importation by 62% compared to last year. The bank has overhauled the scope of employee learning • Relationship with Governmental Institutions through developing a special-designed training plan for the GTB team. The training comprises both technical In line with the Egyptian government strategy to improve and courses provided by national and international accredited digitize the public sector, Banque Misr has a dedicated desk organizations, as well as soft skills courses taught by the best to manage relationships with governmental institutions. The local training consultants to ensure maximum benefit. 162 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 404-2 The training plan aims to fully equip the team with the best tools and knowledge to position BM as the house of expertise in GTB Products, attracting the best calibers in the market. The training also focuses on creating qualified successors and team diversity. International Awards and Recognitions Due to the major achievement for the GTB Division which was established only a year and a half ago, BM is positioned as the fastest growing bank in terms of GTB products. In 2019, BM has successfully become Egypt’s leading bank for cash services, solutions, and cash management. BM has received various awards, 1Euromoney Magazine namely: • Market leader Egypt 2019 for non-financial institutions in the cash management survey • Best Service Egypt 2019 for non-financial institutions in the cash management survey 2-Global Banking and finance review magazine namely: • Fastest Growing Cash Management Bank Egypt 2018 • Fastest Growing Trade Finance Bank Egypt 2018 & 2019 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 163 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Unas c.2375–2345 BC; Fifth Dynasty Djedkara’s successor, Unas, the last king of the Fifth Dynasty, built his pyramid in central Saqqara. It is 47,390 cubic meters in volume, each side having a length 57.75 meters, and stood 43 meters tall (Bárta 2005, Verner 2002). It is the first pyramid to have any significant decoration in its interior since Djoser’s, and the very first to feature Pyramid Texts, Egypt’s and the world’s oldest religious literature, carved in the underground rooms. They include laments, offering rituals, statue rituals, glorification spells, and protection spells for charming snakes and other dangerous beings (Lehner 1997). The primary function of these spells was to ensure the king’s resurrection and his safe journey to, and acceptance into, the realm of the gods (Allen 2005). The south face of Unas’ pyramid bears a fascinating inscription. It was carved over a thousand years its construction, during the reign of the Nineteenth Dynasty king Ramesses II (c.1279–1213 BC). The inscription was written by his son, Khaemwaset, who says that he undertook restoration work on the complex. Little is known about Unas’s political activities, except for his presence at Elephantine, trade contacts with Byblos, possible clashes with bedouins of the Sinai, and limited military incursions into Syria and Palestine, as reflected in two reliefs showing besieged Asiatic settlements. He temporarily tightened his control over the central administration; no nobles are known to have been buried in the provinces (Kanawati 1980). Unas also continued the policy of employing two viziers, both of them now residing in Memphis. Simultaneously, he significantly cut the number of mortuary priests officiating in the royal funerary complexes, likely as a consequence of the introduction of the Pyramid Texts in his pyramid (Bárta 2017). It is believed the reason why Unas included these texts in his pyramid was because of a growing uncertainty regarding the continuity of priests coming to pyramid complexes, praying for the soul of the king, and bringing him offerings. By having the Pyramid Texts carved in his pyramid, Unas thus ensured their beneficial results for all eternity. 164 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Unas in central Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 165 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Teti c.2345–2323 BC; Sixth Dynasty Teti built his pyramid, 52.5 meters high, each side of the base 78.5 meters long, and 107,835 cubic meters in volume, in central Saqqara (Verner 2002). The pyramid was poorly constructed, its core masonry partially consisting of debris fill. As a result, when its outer casing of fine limestone was removed, it lost its perfect pyramidal shape, and today looks like a hillock. The interior of the pyramid is nearly identical to Unas’. The walls are decorated with beautifully carved Pyramid Texts. By now, the pyramid complex was becoming standardized, and Teti’s follows the same guidelines as those of Djedkara Isesi and Unas (Lehner 1997). Teti was the first king of the Sixth Dynasty. That a degree of instability marked the early stage of his reign is suggested by the names of a number of contemporary dignitaries being erased in their tombs and by one his royal names, Seheteptawy, meaning “He Who Pacifies the Two Lands” (Bárta 2017). Teti ruled for no more than twelve years (Baud and Dobrev 1995). According to Manetho, who wrote a history of Egypt in the 3rd century BC, the king was assassinated (Kanawati 2003). Teti’s principal wives included Iput I, daughter of Unas and mother of Pepy I (one can observe here the continuity between the Fifth and the Sixth Dynasties), and Khuit, evidently the mother of his ephemeral successor, Userkara. His reign saw the careers of two notable viziers, Kagemni and Mereruka. Both were his sons-in-law, Kagemni having married the king’s daughter Sesheshet Nubkhetnebti and Mereruka the king’s daughter Sesheshet Waatetkhethor; thus, in evidence here is a continuation of the Fifth Dynasty policy in which kings married their daughters to influential courtiers of the period (Bárta 2017). 166 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Teti in central Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 167 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Pepy I c.2321–2287 BC; Sixth Dynasty Pepy I built his pyramid at South Saqqara. The standardization of the pyramid complex continued: with 107,835 cubic meters in volume, a height of 52 meters and 78 by 78 meters in surface area (Verner 2002), it is identical to his predecessor Teti’s. Their interiors are very similar as well, the primary difference being that more of Pepy I’s walls are covered with beautiful Pyramid Texts, with their hieroglyphs painted green, the fresh color of vegetation, and thus life and rebirth. Pepy I’s pyramid complex at South Saqqara, Men-nefer-Pepy, “Enduring is the Beauty of Pepy,” gave its name to the capital of Egypt, Men-nefer (Greek Memphis), which at that time existed east of the complex (Lehner 1997, Bárta 2017). It is in Pepy I’s reign that the official titulary of the Egyptian king finally assumed its standard form. The king took in marriage two daughters of the Abydos dignitary Khui, evidently as a strategy to retain (or regain) control over southern Egypt. They are known, respectively, by their royal names, Ankhenespepy I and II (Bárta 2017). Pepy I is known to have taken at least six other wives, as eight pyramid complexes of royal wives stand close to his own mortuary complex (Legros 2016). It is at this point that the Pyramid Texts lose their exclusivity, no longer being the sole prerogative of the king but now also appearing in the queens’ pyramids (Bárta 2017). Pepy I's long reign witnessed significant changes, one of these being the replacement of one of his royal names, Nefersahor, with “Meryra” (“Beloved of Ra”), a change that was applied even to his Pyramid Texts. Moreover, Pepy I emphatically expressed his veneration for Atum of Heliopolis and Hathor of Dendera, labeling himself as their son (Bárta 2005, 2017). 168 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Pepy I in South Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 169 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Merenra c.2287–2278 BC; Sixth Dynasty Pepy I’s successor, Merenra Nemtyemsaf I, was the son of Queen Ankhnespepy I. After his succession to the throne, Merenra married Ankhnespepy II, former wife of Pepy I. She was to become the mother of King Pepy II. Following the pattern of the standardization of the pyramid complex, Merenra’s pyramid in South Saqqara, had it been completed, would have likely been originally 52.5 meters high with a 78.5 meter square base, and had a volume of 107,835 cubic meters, the same as Teti’s and Pepy I’s (Lehner 1997, Baines and Malek 2000, Bárta 2005). The interior of the pyramid, also lavishly decorated with Pyramid Texts, is nearly identical as well. Merenra’s short reign of around nine years is marked by the emergence and development of numerous local cemeteries of high officials in the provinces south of Memphis, the most important of which were Elephantine, Qubbet el-Hawa, Edfu, Hierakonpolis, Dendera, Abydos, el-Hagarsa, el-Hawawish, elHammamiyeh, Deir el-Gebrawi, Meir, Quseir el-Amarna, Sheikh Said, and also Balat in Dakhla Oasis. These provincial tombs (with the exception of those at Balat) were rock-cut and architecturally very different from the mastabas in the residential cemeteries (Elsner 2004). Their abundance reflects the fact that many local centers were politically active in Egypt during Merenra’s reign (Bárta 2005, 2017). 170 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Merenra in South Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 171 PROMOTING THE TREASURES OF ANCIENT EGYPT Pepy II c.2278–2184 BC; Sixth Dynasty Pepy II was the last king of the Sixth Dynasty, and of the Old Kingdom overall. His standard pyramid in South Saqqara is 107,835 cubic meters in volume, 52.5 meters high, and has a base of 78.5 meters square (Lehner 1997, Baines and Malek 2000, Bárta 2005). The pyramid's substructure is very similar to those of his predecessors in layout and also in the fact that its walls are covered with Pyramid Texts. Pepy II ascended the throne at the young age of six years, and, with a reign of around ninety years, has traditionally been considered the longest-reigning monarch in Egyptian history. More recent studies have begun to question this figure, however, lowering it to—the still lengthy—rule of over sixty years (Hornung, Krauss, and Warburton 2006). The reign of Pepy II was marked by administrative reforms, which can tentatively be divided into three stages. During the first half of his rule the office of the vizier was held by members of the dignitary Khui’s family in Abydos. This was clearly a continuation of the policy put in effect under Pepy I, who married two daughters of that family. In years 25–35 of Pepy II’s reign, the office of Overseer of Upper Egypt, held by a single individual, was abolished. From then on, the title was applicable to all the nomarchs (provincial governors) of southern Egypt, who were now subordinated to a Vizier of the South. In the final stage of Pepy II’s rule, the nomarchs also assumed the office of Overseer of Priests, which indicates that they had succeeded in combining the powers of both the administration and the priesthood under their control (Bárta 2017). Significantly, at the end of Pepy II’s reign and probably earlier, Khui, the local chief of Abydos (the 13th Upper Egyptian nome), began to insert his name in a royal cartouche (the oval shape in which kings and queens wrote their names), indicating that he considered himself an autocratic ruler. Moreover, he had himself buried at the site of present-day Dara in a tomb that conspicuously resembles a pyramid. Khui brought under his authority the provincial administrative and religious centers at Meir and Deir el-Gebrawi, formerly governed by local noble families. If the duration of Khui’s career is correctly dated, this constitutes proof that the royal office—its symbolism and its incontestability—was already unprecedentedly challenged already during the reign of Pepy II himself (Kanawati and McFarlane 1992, Bárta 2005), and that the breakdown of the central government’s authority, which would signal the end of the Old Kingdom and the beginning of the First Intermediate Period, began before the king’s death. 172 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 The Pyramid of Pepy II in South Saqqara BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 173 102-14 201-1 CHAIRMAN’S REMARKS Improving Margins and Financial Results B anque Misr (BM) has come a long way with a rich heritage and proven track of excellence. It has been a remarkable year, as Banque Misr retained its outstanding performance in continuous pursuit of sustainable success. Acknowledging a milestone centennial, we will always attain leadership that secures our country's welfare. Banque Misr’s financial indicators showed significant growth. BM deposits portfolio increased by EGP 76.2bn, reaching EGP 745.8bn at the end of June 2019, compared to EGP 669.6bn in June 2018, with a growth rate of 11.4%. The net loan portfolio provided to the bank’s customers increased to EGP 271.7bn, compared to EGP 221bn last year, recording a 23% growth. The bank’s non-performing loans ratio compared to total loan portfolio recorded 2.08%, with coverage of 104.8% on the grounds of settlements with a large number of customers, as well as concluding new settlements amounted to EGP 3.7bn. The bank succeeded in collecting irregular debts from clients amounted to approximately EGP 1.9bn, despite the current economic challenges and their consequences on the banking system as a whole. BM’s retail portfolio successfully surged to 41% year-over-year, indicating strong consumer demand. Compared to EGP 22.9bn a year earlier, the portfolio increased to EGP 32.4bn by June 30th, 2019, marking a rise of EGP 9.5bn. The number of issued cards exceeded 8.7m cards this year, compared to 6.32m cards by end of June 2018; the majority of which operate on a smart chip system, ranking the Bank in second place amongst its Egyptian counterparts for the number of issued electronic payment cards. Equally remarkable, Banque Misr maintained its first ranking in the government’s payroll automation for the 14th consecutive year, with 48% of the total market share. Banque Misr always puts forward SMEs finance as attributed to its commitment. The bank’s MSMEs portfolio reached EGP 23.3bn in June 2019, compared to EGP 10.6bn in June 2018, with a 120% growth rate. As part of its leading role nationally, Banque Misr has managed to arrange, fund, and participate in eight operations, with a total of EGP 20.45bn during FY 2018/2019. The bank also targets to conclude 20 funding operations at a total value of EGP 49.2bn with a share of EGP 16.7bn. With customer-centric approach, BM’s banking services and products are usually compatible with the demands of various society segments. It is worth noting that the value of the Islamic banking credit portfolio increased to EGP 8.7bn in June 2019. With a bold commitment to our community, Banque Misr carried out prominent corporate social responsibility activities, allocating about EGP 760m to them. This year has been a rewarding year for Banque Misr driven by its tireless efforts and rich legacy. We are proudly capitalizing on our 100–year success to sustain our leading position in the banking sector. 174 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 FINANCIAL BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 175 PERFORMANCE BM HOW BM BM APPROACH FOREWORD DIVISIONS OPERATES 103-2 F INANCIAL STATEMENTS For the financial year ended on June 30th, 2019 177 AUDITORS’ REPORT 178 SEPARATE BALANCE SHEET 179 SEPARATE INCOME STATEMENT 180 SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 182 SUMMARIZED SEPARATE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 183 SUMMERIZED STATEMENT OF APPROVED SEPARATE PROFIT APPROPRIATION 184 SUMMARIZED NOTES TO THE SEPARATE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 176 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-1 Translation of Auditor’s Report Originally Issued in Arabic MAZARS Mostafa Shawki Mohamed Hany Fouad Ismaiel Chartered Accountants & Consultants Accountability State Authority (ASA) Auditors’ report On The summarized Financial Statements Of Banque Misr For The Year Ended ON June 30th, 2019 To: The Shareholders of Banque Misr (S.A.E.) We have audited the separate financial statements of Banque Misr (S.A.E) as of June 30th, 2019 from which the financial information set forth in the accompanying separate summarized financial statements have been derived. We conducted our audit according to the Egyptian Standards on Auditing and the requirements of applicable Egyptian laws and regulations. In our report dated February 19th, 2020, we expressed an unqualified opinion on the complete separate financial statements as of June 2019 from which the financial information presented in the accompanying summarized financial statements has been derived. In our opinion, the information in the accompanying separate summarized financial statements is fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the separate complete financial statements of the bank as of June 30th, 2019. For a complete understanding of the financial position of the bank as of June 30th, 2019 and its performance and cash flows of the year then ended, in addition to the scope of our audit, the summarized separate financial statements should be read in conjunction with the bank’s separate complete financial statements of the bank as of June 30th, 2019 and our audit report thereon. Cairo: March 31 ,2020 AUDITORS BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 177 102-7 Summary of Banque Misr separate financial statements Extracted from Banque Misr financial statements for the year ended on June 30th, 2019 Separate balance sheet as of June 30th, 2019 Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP thousand Assets Note no June30th,2019 June30th,2018 Cash and balances with central banks 33,518,815 62,484,692 Due from banks 233,361,747 280,288,925 Treasury bills 122,358,445 141,507,908 Financial assets held for trading 5 8,776,365 3,558,755 Loans and advances to banks 6 5,712,186 3,345,476 Loans and advances to customers 7 271,724,106 220,992,425 Financial derivatives 4,540,696 Financial investments Available for sale 8 53,333,769 34,572,705 Held to maturity 8 182,348,357 91,757,978 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 18,041,479 17,614,194 Intangible assets 314,182 299,168 Other assets 29,540,170 25,441,532 Property,Plants,and Equipment 3,725,141 2,203,355 Total Assets 967,295,458 884,067,113 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Liabilities Due to banks 61,392,000 81,681,324 Customers’ deposits 9 745,774,837 669,592,542 Financial derivatives 179,120 Other loans 10 70,476,669 46,704,066 Other liabilities 18,332,941 15,917,822 Other provisions 11 1,102,289 913,622 Deferred tax liabilities 882,727 923,240 Post retirement benefits liabilities 12 3,729,848 3,121,363 Total Liabilities 901,691,311 819,033,099 Shareholders’ equity Paid in capital 13 15,000,000 15,000,000 Reserves 14 42,002,631 45,971,440 Retained earnings 8,601,516 4,062,574 Total shareholders’ equity 65,604,147 65,034,014 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 967,295,458 884,067,113 Contingent liabilities and commitments Liabilities for letters of guarantee, letters of credit and other commitments. 64,400,541 49,814,659 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements 178 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-7 Banque Misr Separate Income Statement For the financial year ended on June 30th, 2019 Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP thousand Note no June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Interest on loans and similar income 98,789,027 82,831,934 Interest on deposits and similar expense (81,133,768) (76,751,695) Net interest income 17,655,259 6,080,239 Fee and commission income 4,647,894 4,223,311 Fee and commission expense (319,656) (226,301) Net fee and commission income 4,328,238 3,997,010 Dividend income 1,771,182 3,437,004 Net trading income 968,076 356,608 Gains from financial investments 1,717,911 3,066,455 Impairment (charge) for credit losses (864,439) (1,090,329) Administrative expenses (9,722,480) (6,611,791) Other operating revenue 1,433,660 1,140,127 Profit before income tax 17,287,407 10,375,323 Income tax expense (8,685,891) (6,312,749) Net profit for the year 8,601,516 4,062,574 Earnings per share (EGP/Share) 15 2.59 1.16 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 179 Banque Misr Separate Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity For the financial year ending June 30th, 2019 Paid in General Capital Note no Legal reserve capital reserve reserve Balance as of July 1st , 2017 15,000,000 915,142 675,607 968,122 Dividends paid Transferred to reserves 830,441 662,110 (127,458) Net change in fair value of available for sale investments (net of tax) Foreign currency translation differences Change between nominal value and present value of subordinated deposit Change in cash flow Net profit for the year Balance as of June 30th , 2018 15,000,000 1,745,583 1,337,717 840,664 Balance as of July 1st , 2018 15,000,000 1,745,583 1,337,717 840,664 Dividends paid Transferred to reserves 397,422 277,772 88,350 Transfers Net change in fair value of available for sale investments (net of tax) Foreign currency translation differences Change between nominal value and present value of subordinated deposit Change in cash flow Net profit for the year Balance as of June 30th , 2019 13,14 15,000,000 2,143,005 1,615,489 929,014 180 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP thousand Differences between F.C Banking nominal Fair value Special Supportive translation Cash flow IFRS 9 risk Retained risks value and Total reserve reserve reserve differences risk reserve reserve earnings reserve fair value of reserve subordinated deposits 7,052,731 6,927 1,682,920 3,710,839 25,283,404 1,472,552 8,176,950 64,945,194 (2,090,757) (2,090,757) 852,863 3,868,237 (6,086,193) (429,039) (429,039) 4,050 4,050 (1,420,227) (1,420,227) (37,781) (37,781) 4,062,574 4,062,574 6,623,692 6,927 2,535,783 7,579,076 23,863,177 1,476,602 (37,781) 4,062,574 65,034,014 6,623,692 6,927 2,535,783 7,579,076 23,863,177 1,476,602 (37,781) 4,062,574 65,034,014 (2,499,943) (2,499,943) 799,087 (1,562,631) (2,905,650) 2,905,650 (3,517,157) (3,517,157) (421,555) (421,555) (1,627,814) (1,627,814) 35,086 35,086 8,601,516 8,601,516 3,106,535 6,927 3,334,870 4,673,426 22,235,363 1,055,047 (2,695) 2,905,650 8,601,516 65,604,147 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 181 Banque Misr Summarized separate statement of cash flows For the financial year ending June 30th, 2019 Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th,2019 June 30th,2018 Net cash provided from (used in) operating activities 30,109,226 (51,190,041) Net cash (used in) provided from investing activities (114,696,646) 12,660,129 Net cash provided from financing activities 19,644,846 13,330,463 Net (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year (64,942,574) (25,199,449) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 248,599,272 273,798,721 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 183,656,698 248,599,272 Cash and cash equivalents are represented in: Cash and balances with central banks 33,518,815 62,484,692 Due from banks 233,361,747 280,288,925 Treasury bills 122,358,445 141,507,908 Obligatory reserve balance with CBE (22,797,613) (55,054,438) Due from banks (more than three months maturity) (63,366,671) (46,207,498) Treasury bills (more than three months maturity) (119,418,025) (134,420,317) Cash and cash equivalents 183,656,698 248,599,272 182 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 Banque Misr Summarized statement of approved separate profit appropriation For the financial year ending June 30th, 2019 Translated from Arabic Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Net profit for the year 8,601,516 4,062,574 Deduct Gains on sale of property,plant,and equipment transferred to capital (88,000) (88,350) reserve General banking risk reserve (1,517,963) (799,087) Net Distributable Profit 6,995,553 3,175,137 Distributed as follows Legal reserve 851,352 397,422 General reserve 614,420 277,772 Supportive reserve 2,160,284 State share in profits 2,523,709 1,912,400 Employees’ share in profits 845,788 587,543 Total Distributable Profit 6,995,553 3,175,137 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 183 102-5 102-8 102-1 BANQUE MISR S.A.E Summarized notes to the separate financial statements for the financial year ending June 30th, 2019 1. General Information Banque Misr (S.A.E.) was established on April 3, 1920 as a commercial bank. The head office is located at 151, Mohamed Farid Street, Cairo. The bank carries out corporate, retail and investment banking, in addition to Islamic banking through 652 branches in Arab Republic of Egypt, five branches in U.A.E, one branch in France and representative offices in Russia, China and South Korea. The number of employees at the balance sheet date is 18,142 employees. These financial statements were approved by the general assembly meeting on April 16, 2020 2. Summary of Accounting Policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied in all years presented unless stated otherwise. ABasis of Preparation These separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Egyptian Financial Accounting Standards issued in 2006 and subsequent amendments and in accordance with the Central Bank of Egypt's regulations approved by the CBE Board of Directors on December 16, 2008 under the historical cost, as modified by the revaluation of financial assets held for trading and available for sale investments. According to the bank’s statute, the financial year begins on the 1st of July and ends on June 30th and the financial statements are presented close to the nearest thousand pounds. BForeign Currency Translation B/1 Functional and Presentation Currency The separate financial statements are presented in Egyptian pounds. Items included in the financial statements of each of the bank’s foreign branches are measured using their functional currency, being the basic currency of the economic environment in which the foreign branch operates. 184 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 B/2 Transaction and Balances in Foreign Currencies Each branch maintains its accounting records in its functional currency and transactions in other currencies are recorded during the financial year using the prevailing exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated on the balance sheet date at the prevailing exchange rates. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement and translation of such transactions and balances are recognized in the income statement and reported under the following items: Net trading income. (Case of held-for-trading financial assets) Other operating revenues (expenses) for the remaining items Changes in the fair value of investments in debt instruments which represent monetary financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies and classified as available for sale assets, are analyzed into valuation differences resulting from changes in the amortized cost of the instrument, differences resulting from changes in the applicable exchange rates and differences resulting from changes in the fair value of the instrument. Valuation differences arising on the measurement of non-monetary items at fair value include gains or losses resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates used to translate those items. Total fair value changes arising on the measurement of equity instruments classified as at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in the income statement, whereas total fair value changes arising on the measurement of equity instruments classified as available-for-sale financial assets are recognized directly in equity in the ’revaluation reserve of available-for-sale investments’. B/3 Foreign Branches For the purpose of translation into Egyptian pounds, assets and liabilities of foreign branches are translated using the closing rate at the balance sheet date while items of income and expense are translated into Egyptian pounds at the rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions or average rates of exchange where these are approximate to actual rates. Resulting valuation differences are recognized as (foreign currency valuation differences) under the equity caption. CRevenue Recognition C/1 Interest Income and Expense Interest income and expense for all financial instruments except for those classified as held-for-trading or designated at fair value are recognized in ’Interest income’ and ’Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective interest method. The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties to the contract that represents an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums or discounts. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 185 C/2 Fee and Commission Income Income Fees charged for servicing a loan or facility that is measured at amortized cost, are recognized as revenue as the service is provided. Fees and commissions on non-performing or impaired loans or receivables cease to be recognized as income and are rather recorded off the balance sheet. These are recognized as revenue, on a cash basis, only when interest income on those loans is recognized in profit and loss, at that time. Fees and commissions that represent an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial asset are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate of that financial asset. Fees are recognized on the debt instruments that are measured at fair value through profit and loss on initial recognition and syndicated loan fees received by the bank are recognized when the syndication has been completed and the bank does not hold any portion of it or holds a part at the same effective interest rate used for the other participants’ portions. Fees and Commissions resulting from negotiating, or participating in the negotiation of, a transaction for a third party – such as the arrangement of the acquisition of shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses – are recognized on completion of the underlying transaction in the income statement. Administrative and other service fees are recognized as income on a time proportionate basis over the lifetime of the service. Fees charged for custodian services provided over long periods are recognized as income over the period during which the service is rendered. C/3 Dividends Income Dividends are recognized in the income statement when the right to collect it is declared. DTreasury Bills Treasury bills are recorded at par value while discount (un-earned interest) is included in Credit Balances and Other Liabilities. Treasury bills are presented on the balance sheet net of unearned interest. EPurchase and Resale Agreements and Sale and Repurchase Agreements Securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase (repos) are reclassified in the financial statements and deducted from the treasury bills balance. Securities borrowed or purchased subject to a commitment to resell them (reverse repos) are reclassified in the financial statements and added to the treasury bills balance. The difference between purchase and resale price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the agreements using the effective interest method. 186 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 FLoans and Advances to Banks and Customers Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. GFinancial Assets Held for Trading A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the near future or if it is a part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together for short-term profit taking. Financial assets held for trading are measured at fair value. Unrealized holding gains and losses are recognized in the income statement. HAvailable for Sale Investments Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated as available for sale or do not fit into any other category of financial assets. Available for sale investments are measured at fair value. Unrealized holding gains and losses are included in a separate component of equity until the financial asset is sold or impaired. At this time, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in equity is recognized in the income statement. IHeld to Maturity Investments Investments held-to-maturity are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the bank management has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. Debt investments held to maturity are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, which represent the nominal value of bonds plus the premium or minus the discount. The premium is amortized by deduction on the income statement or the discount is amortized by addition to the income statement on the (interest on treasury bills and bonds) item by using the effective interest rate method. Thus, the nominal value and the nominal recoverable value become the same on the maturity date. Banque Misr mutual funds certificates, which the bank is required by law to hold until fund liquidation, are included in held to maturity investments according to Central Bank of Egypt rules and are measured at cost. Any decrease in redemption value below cost is recognized as impairment in the income statement. Impairment loss previously recognized is reversed in case of subsequent increase. The reversal cannot result in a carrying value greater than original cost. JInvestments in Subsidiaries and Associates Subsidiaries are entities (including special purpose entities) in which Banque Misr exercises direct or indirect control over their financial and operating policies and in which the bank usually has an ownership share of more than half of its voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing whether the bank has the ability BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 187 to control the entity. Associates are entities over which Banque Misr exercises significant influence directly or indirectly, but without exercising control. Generally, the bank owns between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. The purchase method is used to account for the acquisitions of subsidiaries by the bank. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, and/or asset given and/or equity instruments issued and loans assumed at the date of exchange, plus cost directly attributable to the acquisition. Net assets including contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the minority interest. The excess of acquisition cost over the bank’s share fair value in the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the acquisition cost is less than the fair value of the net assets, the difference is recognized directly in the income statement under the item “Other operating income (expenses)”. Accounting for subsidiaries and associates in these separate financial statements is recorded using cost method. According to this method, investments recorded at cost of acquisition including goodwill if any and impairment losses are deducted. Dividends are recorded in the separate income statement when they are declared and the bank has the right to collect them. KImpairment of Financial Assets K-1 Financial Assets Carried at Amortized Cost • The bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ’loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated. • If the bank determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment according to historical default ratios. • If the bank determines that objective evidence of financial asset impairment exists that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to be recognized the assets are not included in a collective assessment of impairment 188 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 • If the bank determines that there is not an impairment loss based on the previous study, the asset is added to the group. • The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognized in the income statement. K-2 Available-for-sale Investments The bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets classify under available for sale is impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as available for sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered in determining whether the assets are impaired. The decline is considered significant when it reaches 10% of the book value of the financial instrument and is considered to be extended if it continues for a period of more than nine months. The mentioned evidence become available, then the accumulated loss is to be posted from the equity and disclosed in the income statement. Impairment losses recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. LDerivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Derivatives are recognized initially and subsequently, at fair value. Fair values of exchange traded derivatives are obtained from quoted market price. Fair value of over–the–counter derivatives is obtained for using valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. MIntangible Assets Intangible assets represent the cost of acquiring computer software and the licenses for using it. Intangible assets appear at historical cost after deducting accumulated amortization and provision of impairment losses. Intangible assets are amortized using the straightline method and using amortization rates from 20% to 100% or the duration of licenses for programs, whichever is less. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 189 NFixed Assets and Depreciation Fixed assets are recorded at historical cost minus depreciation and impairment losses. Depreciation of fixed assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their residual values over estimated useful lives, as follows: Buildings and constructions %2.5 Equipment From %10 To %20 Furniture From %10 To %25 Vehicles From %20 To %25 IT equipment From %14.5 To %25 Fixtures From %6.5 To %33.5 Lease hold improvement 12.5% or lease period, whichever is less OCash and Cash Equivalents For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances due from the Central Bank of Egypt, excluding the CBE's obligatory reserve current accounts with banks, and treasury bills maturing within three months of the acquisition date. PPost-Retirement Benefits Liabilities Banque Misr granted its employees who work in local branches some benefits after they retired. This benefits considered one of other benefits that have been charged to expenses through employee’s years of service and recognized in the liability according to Egyptian Accounting Standards prevailed in 2006 and central bank rules prevailed in 2008. Liabilities resulting from specified system benefits which employees have obtained at the end of the financial year are evaluated on the basis of the present value of expected future cash flows by the actuarial using the projected unit credit method which contains assumptions related to population sciences, employee turnover, interest rate, and inflation rates. Banque Misr granted its employees in foreign branches post-retirement benefit according to their labor laws in these countries. QOther Provisions Other provisions are recognized when the bank has present legal or constructive obligations as a result of past events, where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. In case of similar obligations, the related cash outflow should be determined in order to settle these obligations as a group. The provision is 190 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 recognized even in case of minor probability that cash outflow will occur for an item of these obligations. When a provision is wholly or partially no longer required, it is reversed through profit or loss under other operating income (expenses). Provisions are measured at the present value of the expected required expenditures to settle obligations one year from the financial statement date using the appropriate rate in accordance with the terms of settlement, which reflects the time value of money. If the settlement term is less than one year, the estimated value of obligation is calculated. RIncome Tax Income tax on the profit or loss for the year and deferred tax are recognized in the income statement except for income tax relating to unearned gain, which was recognized directly in equity. Income tax is recognized based on net taxable profit using the tax rates applicable at the date of the balance sheet in addition to tax adjustments for previous years. Deferred taxes arising from temporary time differences between the book value of assets and liabilities are recognized in accordance with the principles of accounting and valued according to the foundations of the tax. This determines the value of deferred tax on the expected manner to realize or settle the values of assets and liabilities, using tax rates applicable at the date of the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets of the bank are recognized when they are likely to achieve profits subject to tax in the future to be possible through to use that asset, and is reducing the value of deferred tax assets with part of that will come from tax benefit expected during the following years, that in the case of expected high benefit tax, deferred tax assets will increase within the limits of the above reduced. 3Financial risk management The bank’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks and those activities involve the analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of some degree of risk or combination of risks. Taking risk is core to the financial business, and the operational risks are an inevitable consequence of being in business. The bank’s aim is therefore to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return and minimize potential adverse effects on the bank’s financial performance. The most important types of financial risks are credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and other operating risks. Also, market risk includes exchange rate risk, rate of return risk and other price risks. The bank’s risk management policies are designed to identify and analyze these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date information systems. The bank regularly reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, products and emerging best practices. Risk management is carried out by a risk department under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The risk department identifies, evaluates and hedges against financial risks in close co-operation with the bank’s operating units. In addition, the risk department is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 191 103-2 Capital Management Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored periodically by the bank’s management through employing techniques based on the guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The required data is submitted to the Central Bank of Egypt on a quarterly basis. Central Bank of Egypt requires the following: Maintaining EGP 500m as a minimum requirement for the issued and paid-in capital. Maintaining a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 11.875%, calculated as the ratio between the total value of the capital elements, and the risk-weighted average of the bank’s assets and contingent liabilities. Overseas branches are subject to the supervision rules regulating banking business in the countries where they operate. The bank has complied with all local capital requirements and in countries where its oversea branches work during the last two years. The Board of the Central Bank of Egypt held on December 18th, 2012 decided to approve instructions of minimum capital adequacy in the context of applying Basel II. The following table summarizes the components of tier one capital, subordinated capital and capital adequacy ratio for the financial statements of the banking group as of the end of the year ended on June 30th, 2019 and comparative year according to CBE regulations issued on Basle II applications: Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Capital Tier 1 Capital 49,396,908 42,294,398 Tier 2 Capital 24,815,318 23,848,560 Total Capital 74,212,226 66,142,958 Total risk weighted assets and contingent liabilities 509,767,734 431,067,703 Capital Adequacy Ratio 14.56% 15.34% The financial leverage ratio according to the summarized financial statements of the banking group as of June 30th, 2019 recorded 4.03% against 3.85% in the comparative year. 4Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments The bank makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances and available information. 192 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 103-2 A. Impairment of Loans and Advances The bank reviews its loans and advances portfolio, at least on a quarterly basis to assess impairment. The bank uses its discretionary judgment in determining whether it is necessary to recognize impairment loss in the income statement. This requires it to identify any reliable evidence indicating measurable decline in the expected future cash flows from the loans portfolio before identifying any decline for each individual loan. This evidence includes data indicating negative change in the ability of a portfolio of borrowers to repay the bank, or local and economic circumstances related to defaulting. On scheduling future cash flows, the management uses estimates based on previous experience related to impairment of assets with similar credit risks. Such experience refers to impairment similar to that of the portfolio in question. The methods and assumptions used in estimating both the amount and timing of the future cash flows are reviewed on a regular basis to minimize any discrepancy between the estimated loss and actual loss based on expertise. B. Impairment of Available for Sale Equity Investments The bank determines that available-for-sale equity investments are impaired when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its cost. This determination of what is significant or prolonged requires judgment. In making this judgment, the bank evaluates, among other factors, the normal volatility in share price. In addition, impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in the financial health of the investee, operational and financing cash flows, industry and sector performance and changes in technology. 5Financial Assets Held for Trading Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Debt instruments Other debt securities 8,475,611 3,318,957 Total debt instruments 8,475,611 3,318,957 Equity instruments Local shares 291,571 228,847 Mutual fund certificates 9,183 10,951 Total equity instruments 300,754 239,798 Total financial assets held for trading 8,776,365 3,558,755 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 193 103-2 6Loans and Advances to Banks Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Term loans 5,732,077 3,367,577 Deduct: provision for loan losses (19,891) (22,101) Total 5,712,186 3,345,476 7Loans and Advances to Customers Amounts in EGP thousand June 30 , 2019 th June 30th, 2018 (1) Retail Over draft 1,931,046 1,891,665 Credit card loans 592,175 435,664 Personal loans 30,237,462 21,678,337 Mortgage loans 4,999,440 2,975,857 Total retail (1) 37,760,123 26,981,523 (2) Corporate loans (including loans to small businesses) Over draft 34,291,391 46,546,769 Direct loans 159,067,547 108,137,365 Syndicated loans 45,926,831 46,989,348 Other loans 739,682 842,916 Total corporate (2) 240,025,451 202,516,398 Total loans and advances to customers (1+2) 277,785,574 229,497,921 Deduct: provision for loan losses (5,587,937) (8,104,047) Deduct: interest in suspense (331,497) (324,554) Deduct: unearned discount (142,034) (76,895) Net loans and advances to customers 271,724,106 220,992,425 Gross loans distributed to: Current 76,634,320 62,812,527 Non-Current 201,151,254 166,685,394 Total 277,785,574 229,497,921 194 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 103-2 Impairment from loans provision for customers Movement analysis of the impairment provision of loans and advances for customers during the year:Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Non-Performing Performing Non-Performing Performing Item Total Total Loans Loans Loans Loans Balance at the beginning of the year 4,856,608 3,247,439 8,104,047 5,945,277 1,812,283 7,757,560 Transfers (9,009) (9,009) 76 5,991 6,067 Charge (release)of impairment during the year 1,099,596 (407,612) 691,984 (193,143) 1,423,015 1,229,872 Recoveries of loans previously written off 1,113,307 1,113,307 494,889 494,889 Foreign currency revaluation differences (314,988) (121,735) (436,723) (48,049) 6,150 (41,899) Write off during the year (3,873,308) ( 2 361) (3,875,669) (1,342,442) (1,342,442) Balance at the end of the year 2,872,206 2,715,731 5,587,937 4,856,608 3,247,439 8,104,047 Analysis of the Impairment provision of loans and advances for individual:Amounts in EGP thousand Item Individual Overdrafts Credit Cards Personal Loans Mortgages Total June 30th, 2019 38,972 7,664 451,947 115,544 614,127 June 30th, 2018 50,099 10,029 365,470 74,339 499,937 Analysis of the Impairment provision of loans and advances for corporate:Amounts in EGP thousand Item Corporate Overdrafts Direct Loans Syndicated Loans Other Loans Total June 30 , 2019 th 2,549,859 683,474 1,730,194 10,283 4,973,810 June 30th, 2018 2,072,280 1,744,534 3,566,317 220,979 7,604,110 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 195 103-2 8) Financial investments Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 (A) Available for sale investments Debt instruments listed 26,066,419 1,882,982 Equity instruments listed 6,438,844 10,505,960 Debt instruments unlisted 15,035,130 16,099,020 Equity instruments unlisted 5,793,376 6,084,743 Total available for sale investments (1) 53,333,769 34,572,705 (B) Held to maturity investment Debt instruments listed 165,899,818 75,403,133 Debt instruments unlisted 16,071,384 16,071,384 Equity instruments unlisted 377,155 283,461 Total held to maturity investments (2) 182,348,357 91,757,978 Total financial investments (2+1) 235,682,126 126,330,683 The following table analyzes movements on financial investments during the year: Amounts in EGP thousand Available for Sale Investments Held to Maturity Investments Beginning balance on July 1st, 2018 34,572,705 91,757,978 Additions 27,814,805 107,770,143 Deductions (3,815,317) (17,313,726) Transfers (123,962) 133,962 Revaluation differences resulting from monetary (1,482,436) foreign currency assets Gains (losses) from fair value difference (3,557,670) Impairment charges (74,356) End Balance on June 30th,2019 53,333,769 182,348,357 Beginning balance on July 1st, 2017 37,163,514 99,041,285 Addition 3,914,402 3,633,059 Deduction (5,720,756) (11,072,545) Transfers (181,273) 156,179 Revaluation differences resulting from monetary (247,311) foreign currency assets Gains (losses) from fair value difference (303,953) Impairment release (charge) (51,918) End Balance on June 30th,2018 34,572,705 91,757,978 196 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 103-2 9Customers’ Deposits Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Demand deposits 90,854,778 63,801,364 Call and time deposits 87,734,518 117,869,439 Saving certificates 362,545,660 311,684,403 Saving deposits 196,554,597 168,105,421 Other deposits 8,085,284 8,131,915 Total 745,774,837 669,592,542 Corporate deposits 153,368,769 162,094,425 Retail deposits 592,406,068 507,498,117 Total 745,774,837 669,592,542 Non-interest bearing balances 84,166,199 54,715,183 Variable interest rate balances 346,132,016 321,441,563 Fixed interest rate balances 315,476,622 293,435,796 Total 745,774,837 669,592,542 10Other Loans Amounts in EGP thousand Matured Through Balance as of Balance as of Items Interest Rate Current Year June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Subordinated deposit Nil 12,764,637 11,136,823 Social fund loans-Bright Future 8.50% 8,438 Long-term loans Egyptian Company for Refinancing 10.25% 1,333 12,111 13,444 Social fund loansEnterprise Development Project 8.50% 10,000 Social fund loansagriculture projects support 8.50% 11,000 11,000 33,000 Social fund loansBedaia SMEs Loan 8.50% 3,750 3,750 11,250 Social fund loansBedayti (1) 7.75% 80,000 200,000 260,000 Social fund loansbedayti (2) 9.50% 106,800 400,000 240,000 Long-term loans from foreign banks with interest 113 839 29,627,643 18,022,674 Short-term loans from foreign banks with interest 27,457,528 27,457,528 16,968,437 Total Other Loans 70,476,669 46,704,066 Current 27,774,250 21,570,992 Non-current 42,702,419 25,133,074 Total Other Loans 70,476,669 46,704,066 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 197 103-2 11Other Provisions Amounts in EGP thousand June 30 , 2019 th June 30th, 2018 Provision for legal claims and taxes 352,382 274,507 Provision for contingent liabilities 738,613 627,992 Other 11,294 11,123 Total 1,102,289 913,622 12Post-Retirement Benefits Liabilities Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Amounts in EGP thousand June 30 , 2019 th June 30 , 2018 th Post-retirement medical benefits 3,078,832 2,478,404 End of service benefits 651,016 642,959 Total 3,729,848 3,121,363 Amounts recognized in the income statement Liabilities for post-retirement medical benefits 786,000 327,024 Liabilities for end of service benefits 108,579 138,970 Balances at the end of the year 894,579 465,994 13Paid in Capital and Reserves A. Authorized Capital Based on the extraordinary general assembly meeting on March 22th, 2015, the authorized capital has been increased from EGP 15000 million to EGP 30000 million. B. Issued and Paid-in Capital The Issued and paid-in capital reached EGP 15000 million divided into 3000 million shares of EGP 5 per share wholly owned by the Egyptian Ministry of Finance. 198 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 103-2 14Reserves Amounts in EGP thousand June 30th, 2019 June 30th, 2018 Legal reserve 2,143,005 1,745,583 General reserve 1,615,489 1,337,717 Capital reserve 929,014 840,664 Supportive reserve 4,673,426 7,579,076 Fair value reserve 3,106,535 6,623,692 Special reserve 6,927 6,927 General banking risk reserve 3,334,870 2,535,783 Cash flow risk reserve ( 2 695) ( 37 781) Financial statements translation differences 1,055,047 1,476,602 Differences between nominal value and fair 22,235,363 23,863,177 value of subordinated deposits IFRS 9 reserve 2,905,650 Total reserves 42,002,631 45,971,440 According to the bank status 10% of net profit is allocated to increase legal reserve until it reaches 100% of paid-in capital According to the central bank rules, it is not permitted to use the special reserve balance unless approval is obtained 15Earnings per Share Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to shareholders of the bank by the weighted average of shares outstanding during the year. Amounts in EGP thousand June 30 , 2019 th June 30 , 2018 th Shareholders' share from net profit of the year 7,755,728 3,475,031 (1) Divided by weighted average number of shares 3,000,000 3,000,000 (2) Earnings per share (EGP) (1:2) 2.59 1.16 16Comparative figures Comparative figures were reclassified for the year ended on June 30th, 2018 to be consistent with current year presentation. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 199 102-4 102-3 BANQUE MISR BRANCH DIRECTORY BM Local Branch Directory Banque Misr Egypt Head Office Address: 151 Mohamed Farid St., Downtown Cairo Tel: 002 (02) 23914239/23910656 Fax: 002 (02) 23935381 Website: www.banquemisr.com Call Center: 19888 Email: BM19888@banquemisr.com www.facebook.com/BanqueMisr.1920 www.twitter.com/MisrBank www.instagram.com/banque.misr www.youtube.com/user/banquemisr1920 www.linkedin.com/company/banque-misr 200 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-4 BM Global Branch Directory Banque Misr UAE Regional Office Abu Dhabi Branch Address: City Center Tower, Third floor, Address: Khalifa Street Deena Building Street 27, Port Saeed, Deira P.O.Box: 1502, Dubai – UAE P.O.Box: 533 Abu Dhabi U.A.E Tel: 00971 (4) 2715175 Tel: 00971 (2) 6522702 Fax: 00971 (4) 2720156 Fax: 00971 (2) 6274464 Website: www.banquemisr.ae Website: www.banquemisr.ae Call Center: 00971 (2) 6522722 Email: custservice@gulf-banquemisr.ae Dubai Branch Sharjah Branch Address: City Center Tower, Ground floor, Street 27, Address: Crystal Plaza, Tower 3, Corniche Buhaira Port Saeed, Deira P.O.Box: 254 Sharjah – U.A.E P.O.Box: 1502 Dubai U.A.E Tel: 00971 (6) 5484401 Tel: 00971 (4) 2715175 Fax: 00971 (6) 5484410 Fax: 00971 (4) 2714071 Website: www.banquemisr.ae Website: www.banquemisr.ae BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 201 102-4 Al Ain Branch Banque Misr Liban Lebanon Branches • Riad El Solh • Chtoura Address: Al Ain Main Street, Al Asalya Building, Behind Al Sheikha Salama Mosque • Ashrafieh • Hammana • Ras Beirut • Jounieh P.O.Box: 59232 Al Ain U.A.E • Furn El Chebak • Nabatieh • Noueiry • Saida Tel: 00971 (3) 7511104 • Cornich El Mazraa • Tyr • Chiyah • Tripoli Fax: 00971 (3) 7514334 • Verdun • West Bekaa • Zalka • Dora Website: www.banquemisr.ae • Aley • Zahleh Head Office Ras Al Khaima Branch Address: Riad El Solh Street BML Building, Downtown Address: Red Crescent Building, Al Sadaf Square P.O.Box: 7–11 BeirutLebanon P.O.Box: 618 Ras Al Khaima U.A.E Tel: 00961 (1) 987777 / 00961 (1) 986666 Tel: 00971 (7) 2339219 Fax: 00961 (1) 964296 / 00961 (1) 964223 Fax: 00971 (7) 2339316 Website: www.bml.com.lb Website: www.banquemisr.ae Email: mail@bml.com.lb Banque Misr Paris France Misr Bank Europe GmbH Germany Address: 9 Rue Auber, 75009 Paris, France Address: Marienstr. 15, D-60329 Frankfurt am Main Tel: 0033 (1) 44 94 32 31 / 0033 (1) 44 94 32 32 Fax: 0033 (1) 42 66 59 78 / 0033 (1) 44 94 32 67 Tel: 0049 (69) 29974402 Website: www.banquemisr.fr Fax: 0049 (69) 29974414 Email: euromisr@banquemisr.fr Website: www.misr.de Email: info@misr.de 202 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-4 Banque Misr Guangzhou Rep. Banque Misr Seoul Rep. Office South Korea Office China Address: 12F #3 Hyoryung Building, 32 Mugyo-ro, JungAddress: Unit 10, 24 Floor, Chow Tai Fook (CTF) th gu, Seoul 04521, Republic of Korea Finance Center, 6 Zhujiang East Road, Zhujiang Tel: +82 70 4680 3381 New Town, Tianhe District, Guangzhou Fax: +82 70 4680 338 P.O.Box: 510623 Email: sbshim@banquemisr.com Tel: 0086 (20) 37392584 / 0086 (20) 87578806 Fax: 0086 (20) 37392764 Email: GuangzhouRepOffice@banquemisr.com Banque Misr Moscow Rep. Office Russia Banque Misr Milan Rep. Office Italy Address: 25th Floor, Vostok Tower, 12, Presnenskaya Address: Piazza San Sepolcro 1, 20123 Milano, Italia Emb., Moscow, 123317, Russian Federation Tel: +39 02 36566 220 Tel: 007 (495) 7972898 Fax: +39 02 36566 221 Fax: 007 (495) 7972899 Email: habdelhamid@banquemisr.com Email: MoscowRepOffice@banquemisr.com BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 203 REFERENCES TO THE EGYPTIAN PYRAMIDS Work Cited Allen, J. (2005). The Ancient Egyptian Pyramid Texts. Writings Hill, J. (2008). Sekhemkhet. Ancient Egypt Online. Available at from the Ancient World. Atlanta. https://ancientegyptonline.co.uk/sekhemkhet/ Arnold, D. (ed.) (1999). Egyptian Art in the Age of the Pyramids. Hill, J. (2010). Khaba. Ancient Egypt Online. Available at https:// New York. ancientegyptonline.co.uk/khaba/ Hornung, E., Krauss, R., and Warburton, D. (eds.) (2006). Ancient Egyptian Chronology. Handbook of Oriental Studies, Section 1: Baines, J., and Malek, J. (2000). Cultural Atlas of Ancient Egypt, the Near and Middle East, vol. 83. Leiden and Boston. rev. ed. Oxford. Bárta, M. (2005). Location of the Old Kingdom Pyramids in Egypt. Cambridge Archaeological Journal 15, pp. 177–191. Kuraszkiewicz, K. O. (2015). Marks on the Faience Tiles from the Bárta, M. (2017). Radjedef to the Eighth Dynasty. In W. Grajetzki Blue Chambers of Netjerykhet’s Funerary Complex. In J. Budka and W. Wendrich (eds.), UCLA Encyclopedia of Egyptology, Los et al. (eds), Non-Textual Marking Systems in Ancient Egypt (and Angeles. Available at http://digital2.library.ucla.edu/viewItem. Elsewhere), pp. 41–48. Lingua Aegyptia, Studia Monographica do?ark=21198/zz002kcsx4 16, Hamburg. Baud, M., and Dobrev, V. (1995). De nouvelles annales de l’Ancien Kanawati, N. (1980). Governmental Reforms in Old Kingdom Empire égyptien: Une “Pierre de Palerme” pour la VIe dynastie. Egypt. Warminster. Bulletin de l’Institut Français d’Archéologie Orientale 95, pp. 23– Kanawati, N. (2003). Conspiracies in the Egyptian Palace: Unis to 92. Pepy I. London and New York. Kanawati, N., and McFarlane, A. (1992). Akhmim in the Old Kingdom. Studies of the Australian Centre for Egyptology 2. Callender, V. (2011). In Hathor’s Image I: The Wives and Mothers Sydney. of Egyptian Kings from Dynasties I–VI. Prague. Klemm, D., and Klemm, R. (2010). The Stones of the Pyramids: Provenance of the Building Stones of the Old Kingdom Pyramids of Egypt. Berlin/New York. Dorman, P. (2002). The Biographical Inscription of Ptahshepses from Saqqara: A Newly Identified Fragment. Journal of Egyptian Archaeology 88, pp. 95–110. Legros, R. (2016). Stratégies mémorielles: Les cultes funéraires privés en Egypte ancienne de la VIe à la XIIe dynastie. Travaux de la Maison de l’Orient et de la Méditerranée 70. Lyon. El-Awady, T. (2009). Abusir XVI: Sahure. The Pyramid Causeway. Lehner, M. (1997). The Complete Pyramids, reprinted 2001. History and Decoration Program in the Old Kingdom. Prague. London. Elsner, P. (2004). Die Typologie der Felsgräber: Strukturanalytische Untersuchung altägyptischer Grabarchitektur. Frankfurt am Main. Magli, G. (2010). Topography, Astronomy and Dynastic History in the Alignments of the Pyramid Fields of the Old Kingdom. 204 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 Mediterranean Archaeology and Archaeometry 10(2), pp. 59–74. Martin-Pardey, E. (1976). Untersuchungen zur ägyptischen Provinzialverwaltung bis zum Ende des Alten Reiches. Hildesheimer Ä gyptologische Beiträge 1. Hildesheim. Megahed, M. (2016). The Pyramid Complex of Djedkare-Isesi at South Saqqara and its Decorative Program. Unpublished Ph.D. Dissertation, Czech Institute of Egyptology, Faculty of Arts, Charles University, Prague. Monnier, F. & Puchkov, A. (2016). The Construction Phases of the Bent Pyramid at Dahshur: A Reassessment. ENiM 9, pp. 15–36. Petrie, W. M. F. (1990). The Pyramids and Temples of Gizeh, new and revised ed., with an update by Zahi Hawass. London. Reader, C. (2013, December/2014, January). The Meidum Pyramid: Revisited. Ancient Egypt 14(3). Smith, W. S. (1962). The Old Kingdom in Egypt and the Beginning of the First Intermediate Period. Cambridge Ancient History, Revised Edition of Volumes I and II. Cambridge. Stubberfield, T. (Director). (2014, March 11). Time Scanners: Egyptian Pyramids [Motion Picture]. Verner, M. (2002). The Pyramids: their Archaeology and History. London. BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 205 102-44 103-3 205-2 103-2 103-3 403-2 BM Materiality analysis As a part of its legacy, BM significantly shows a solid the senior management nomination is responsible for screening commitment to both national and international regulations and nominating the right candidates for the senior executive related to its performance to sustain its solid reputation for positions based on the criteria adopted for the succession success. It is worth noting that no cases of law violations planning, which include superior organizational leadership skills, were recorded. In return, no significant fines related to nonstrategic thinking, insightful vision, and the ability to ensure a compliance with any of the laws and regulations that have been substantial boost in BM’s core values and management strategy imposed on the bank. Thus, BM’s organizational structure has toward sustainability. In addition to occasionally conducting been set to eliminate any potential risks related to the conflict senior management assessment process, a comprehensive of interests. BM’s effective communication channels between remuneration system is set to attractive remuneration, compared the Board members and employees contribute to promptly to the market-level benchmark, in order to ensure the efficiency handling any sort of critical concern. As the Head of Trustees, of operational management by senior-level executives. BM’s Chairman, Mohamed El-Etrby, always ensures conflicts of interest are avoided. Annual Performance Appraisal Committee also sustains the quality of operational performance to further promote the As sustainable development is clearly articulated in the Board of efficiency of performance. All of our employees received Directors’ strategy, all of BM’s Board members, headed by BM’s regular performance reviews. Regarding BM's occupational CEO, take responsible for setting up the strategic directives health and safety systems, it is worth noting that no incident related to the material topics of sustainability, overseeing the related to occupational health and safety has been reported achieved progress related to its long-term sustainability goals, this year. and ensuring the effectiveness of internal controls. It is also responsible for evaluating the bank’s performance in line with Banque Misr mainly depends on full-time employees who usually the bank’s mission and strategy toward sustainable development. dedicate their efforts through the best working environment. BM’s Board of Directors steps up to retain the requisite skills Moreover, BM offers various career opportunities for different and competencies in order to effectively monitor the bank’s categories of part-time and temporary employees as part of sustainability performance, as well as ensuring an accurate the plan of human resources development. Seeking optimal sustainability reporting process. BM’s Board of Directors employability, BM offers internships to support prime-age always steps up to gain in-depth sustainability knowledge and university students and fresh graduates who are voluntarily to be frequently informed about the recent updates related choosing to join BM’s workforce as trainees to gain tremendous to sustainable development topics, in order to lead the bank experience and expertise in the banking sector. toward sustainability. Not only focusing on maintaining its positive impact, BM’s The successful hierarchical represents a holistic approach to role toward achieving sustainability extends to addressing sustainability; thus, both senior management nomination and any adverse impacts related to its operations. Thus, the Board middle management nomination committees in BM diligently of Directors also takes into account identifying the existing adopt BM’s agile methodology to channel BM’s diverse talents negative impacts related to the bank’s operations and setting the to lead in the senior positions. Being part of the hiring process, ideal strategy for mitigating them. Due diligence enables the 206 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-43 103-3 205-2 302-5 103-2 bank to prevent or address adverse impacts related to human initiatives including the United Nations Global Compact. Our and labor rights, the environment, and corruption associated approach related to respecting human rights stipulates banning with their clients as well as avoid financial and reputational risks. all forms of child labor. As BM always shares its commitment For Banque Misr, inclusion strategy very likely encompasses to succeed responsibly, its suppliers and their subcontractors policies supporting the respect of human rights, through are requested to maintain all records necessary to demonstrate promoting equality and non-discrimination. It also contributes compliance with the laws and principles specified in the code to enabling various society segments to benefit from the of conduct. In the event that a violation occurs, the bank has development process regardless of their ethnicity, nationality, the right to take any action it deems appropriate to address class, or another status. BM to enhance and consolidate human the situation. The pursuit of carbon footprint assessment is also rights in all its operations and activities and unlikely violate integrated into our partnership agreements. them. As a leading financial institution, the positive impact of BM’s activities regarding promoting human rights extends to In line with BM’s due diligence approach, it sets various a significant scale. BM’s commitment to the UNGC is clearly mechanisms to report any sort of violations against laws embedded in its strategies and regulations. Abiding by the and regulations, and whistleblowing; these mechanisms are concept of “leaving no behind”, Banque Misr gives equal attention subjected to restrict privacy policies. to all of its stakeholders’ categories. BM’s CEO usually held the responsibility for promoting the bank’s performance through Furthermore, BM always ensures the effectiveness and aligning with national and international policies that support’s transparency of its operational-level grievance mechanism. In BM’s vision toward sustainability. The bank’s achievements in this regard, any complaints can be submitted through sending this regard are usually revealed on the bank’s official website. complaints via BM’s official website, direct e-mails, and onsite support. Such mechanisms are easy-to-use and accessible to To expand its positive footprint, BM always urges the everyone. Customer satisfaction, feedback, and complaints collaboration with its supply chain and business partners to assessment are frequently reported to the senior management. achieve a full commitment to the policies, which harness their To achieve an interactive assessment, BM provides its roles toward sustainable development. Properly conducting stakeholders various channels to communicate, including call meaningful stakeholder engagement is particularly associated center, hotlines, follow-up calls, and mystery shopping. with responsible business conduct. Policy commitments are clearly communicated to the concerned departments through Our strategic focus and respond to stakeholder expectations, newsletters and internal mails. BM is always keen on preventing optimally harness BM’s impact related to the selected materiality any potential barrier that might hinder the effective stakeholder topics to form the basis of our new five-year plan, in addition to engagement in this regard. mitigating any adverse impacts. Regarding its supplier social assessment process, Banque Misr reserves the right to verify the suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Professional and Ethical Code of Conduct. BM’s code of ethics stemmed from its commitment to international BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 207 102-42 102-43 103-2 Stakeholder Engagement Channels Engagement in Stakeholder Category Engagement Channels and Frequency Sustainability reporting Yes Staff Surveys Speak-up Meetings Employees Multi-branch communication channels (Staff intranet, emails) Annual Sustainability Report Quarterly Newsletter Yes Interactive communication channels (call center, hotlines, follow-up calls) Ongoing monitoring of customers’ feedbacks Quick response on clients’ inquiries and complaints Existing and Potential Clients Conferences, events and roadshows Effective mystery shopping Effective media presence (Press releases and PR activities) Business Partners Event-based relations Yes Suppliers and Service Providers Responsible procurement practices NO Proactive community investments Yes Government Cause-based Initiatives NO Active engagement with NGOs on ESG issues Responsible business conduct Philanthropic efforts in cooperation with NGOs Local Community Customized community investments programs and philanthropy for vulnerable groups Holistic due diligence approach and precautionary practices to mitigate actual and negative impacts in the relevant materiality topics 208 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-55 GRI Content Index For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for all disclosures included align with the appropriate sections in the body of the report. “The GRI Content Index Service was performed on the English version of the report.” GRI Standard Disclosures Page Comment/Omission GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures The report has been prepared in accordance with the Core option. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 24, 177, 184 Banque Misr (S.A.E) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-9, 22, 40-43, 55-57, 144-154, 156-162 102-3 Location of headquarters 200 102-4 Location of operations 7, 42, 54-57, 200-203 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6,23, 184 102-6 Markets served 7, 22, 40-42, 54-57, 145-154, 156-162 102-7 Scale of the organization 6-7, 22, 46, 105, 156-157, 178-179 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 7, 47, 105, 107, 184 102-9 Supply chain 36, 47, 104, 114 (No significant changes occurred 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 42, 55-57, 153, 36, 114 to BM’s supply chain) 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 104, 106, 110, 112-113 9, 22-23, 37, 43-44, 47, 100, 107,116-117, 121-126, 102-12 External initiatives 150,153, 157 102-13 Membership of associations 44, 56-57 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 39-45, 174 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 44, 47, 100, 102, 118-119 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 41, 48-50, 103,106,111, 116 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 98, 101, 103-104 102-18 Governance structure 88-92, 9499 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 36, 102 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 106, 111 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 36, 102, 208 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 36, 114, 207-208 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 206 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 24, 117 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 24-25,100 102-47 List of material topics 25 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting 25 No changes in reporting The year ending on June 30th, 102-50 Reporting period 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report March 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle 24 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 212 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 24 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 209-211 102-56 External assurance 101 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 209 102-55 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI Standard Disclosures Page Comment/Omission ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 48, 118, 146-162, 176,192-199 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6, 40, 174 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 23, 100 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 103, 206 -207 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-2 97-98, 103-104, 206 -207 and procedures No incidents of corruption were 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken reported during the year ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 23-24, 44, 57 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47,119 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 47, 112-113 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 114, 57, 146-147 302-3 Energy intensity 112 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 112 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 115, 207 GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 57, 207 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 57,113 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 113-115, 146-147 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 57 SOCIAL GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 96, 45, 106-107, 206 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 109 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 108-109 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not providedto 401-2 107-111 temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 107 210 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 102-55 GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 106, 112,114 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 109-110 We cannot divulge quantitative data about workers Workers representation in formal joint management–worker 403-1 97-98 representation in formal health and safety committees joint management due to confidentiality constraints No incident related to Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost occupational health 403-2 206 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities and safety has been reported this year this information is Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to 403-3 subject to confidential their occupation constraints this information is Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade 403-4 subject to confidential unions constraints GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 201 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 44, 206 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102, 108-109, 206 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 107 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 404-2 106-111, 162-163 programs GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 92, 104,107 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 104, 107, 206 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 104, 106 GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 106, 114-115, 207 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 106, 207 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 408-1 114-115 of child labor GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 25 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 36-37, 116, 208 approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102, 116, 118119 Operations with local community engagement, impact 413-1 43-44, 46, 56, 111, 116, 120-133 assessments, and development programs BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019 | 211 102-53 Contact Information Your feedback on BM Annual Sustainability report is appreciated. For questions about this report, or more information on BM sustainability, please contact: Mobile: (+2) 01001050587 Telephone: (+202) 223977832 E-mail: fatma.elgoully@banquemisr.com Dr. Fatma El Goully General Manager of Corporate Communication For more information, kindly visit our website www.banquemisr.com 212 | BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2018/2019
