R R Kabel Ltd. Communication on Progress 2019-20 1 Statement of Continued Support R R Kabel Ltd. has aligned its operations and strategies in tune with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Program and the Sustainable Development Goals. The company believes that sustenance, growth and progress is dependent on value system that respects human rights and labour rights, concern and care of the environment and ethical conduct of business. Company’s policies, procedures and day-to-day working is in sync with the intent of Global Compact. Sustainable Goals are equally important to us. We shall pursue activities that will lead to the achievement of targets of the goals. RR Kabel Ltd. supports the ten principles of Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals. The company will continually evolve, involve and engage in strategies to achieve the objectives and goals Mahendra Kabra Jt. Managing Director 10th December 2020 2 R R Kabel supports the ten principles of the UNGC Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 3 Human Rights The guiding principles: ▪ Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ▪ Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. R R Kabel Ltd. upholds the dignity of every individual and respects the basic rights. The company believes that social sustainability is possible only when people have the freedom to decide and act. Human rights in the areas of work, safety, education, food, water, privacy is basic to individuals. Company has policies which support the best practices in Human Rights. It does not discriminate people on the basis of caste, colour or creed. Equal employment opportunities are given to women. The company encourages employees’ spouses to seek meaningful employment in the organization. We believe that a happy employee means a happy family. Employee welfare measures include financial and non-financial rewards. The company involves spouses and children of workmen in various celebrations and activities.  Family members regularly participate in the monthly quiz  Important days like Safety Day, World Environment Day, World Earth Day, Engineers Day, World Standards Day are celebrated with events being held for employees, women folk and children. These initiatives result in building a healthy extended family. The company has reached to the community in several ways. During the year it has organized religious and medical events for the public. Free Medical Check-up Camps are organized at Waghodia and Silvassa, benefitting a large section of the community. Blood Donation Camp organized along with Indian Red Cross Society. The company is in no way complicit with human rights abuses, whether direct, beneficial or silent. 4 Labour Rights The guiding principles: ▪ Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ▪ Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ▪ Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and ▪ Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation R R Kabel Ltd. has a free and fair policy for employee communication, suggestion or grievance. Employees have an easy approach and access to the top management. Employees have an effective say in all matters that concern them. They are represented in various committees and are responsibly involved in these. Child labour is absolutely prohibited. Only those who are more than 18 years of age are permitted for interviews. Company has policies on prevention of forced labour and non-discrimination which are effectively implemented. The company is committed to value addition in its employees. Concerted efforts are taking to continually educate and train the employees. Environment The guiding principles: ▪ Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; ▪ Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and ▪ Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The company has a serious approach and concern for environment preservation. It has installed a Solar Energy Plant of 1.2 MW capacity at its Waghodia plant. Tree plantation is been carried out extensively throughout the year for a good green curtain in the manufacturing area. The company is certified for ISO 14001:2015 (Environment Management System) standard; and it meets the national and international requirements by setting and achieving objectives and targets. 5 Anti Corruption The guiding principle: ▪ Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Three important values – ETHICS, INTEGRITY and TRANSPARENCY drive the company to do business and deal with all stakeholders. Code of conduct for employees and business associates espouse highest moral values. RR Kabel Ltd. In association with Hema Foundation is carrying out a mission to inculcate moral values amongst children. It has started e-portal for taking forward the moral values this year. The website is www.hemvirtues.com SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS RR Kabel Ltd. recognizes that the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) provide a blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and planet. As a responsible corporate citizen, RR Kabel Ltd. is contributing its mite towards the following goals: Goal 3: Good Health and Well Being: Medical Check-up Camps for the Community Eye Check-up Camps Festival Celebration at the Temple where the local community participates Goal 4: Quality Education Ram Ratna Vidya Mandir and Ram Ratna International School, located in Mumbai provide quality education to children. 6 Goal 5: Gender Equality Equal opportunities, remuneration and rewards to men and women Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation Ensuring water supply and cleanliness of toilet block for women hostel at Silvassa Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy 1.2 MW Solar Plant at Waghodia Goal 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Work quality ensured for all workmen Fair wages at all levels Goal 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Focus on innovation leading to development of new products and applications; development of infrastructure. Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Responsible Consumption and Responsible Production are the foundation for sound Quality, Environment, Health & Safety and Energy Management Systems. Measurement of Performance Indicator Year: 2019-20 Sr. No Area Target Actual 1 Upholding Human Rights Zero Violation 0 2 Non-discrimination Nil Nil 3 Child Labour Nil Nil 4 Forced Labour Nil Nil 5 Violation of Ethics Nil Nil 6 Good health and well being Medical camp 2 2 7 Surveillance audits for Environment 2 2 Safety and Health 2 2 8 Safety Working Environment Accidents Nil Nil Harassments (of any kind) Nil Nil 7
