III ANNUAL REPORT 2019 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CONTENT Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Key figures 3 Group management 6 Group structure 7 Where we operate 8 Our business 9 Mission, vision og values 10 Highlights 2019 11 Well equipped for what lies ahead 13 Corporate governance 14 Enterprise risk management 18 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) 21 Director´s report 23 THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP Income statement 38 Comprehensive income 39 Statement of financial position 40 Statement of cash flows 41 Statement of changes in equity 42 Accounting principles 43 Notes 51 AGDER ENERGI AS Income statement 93 Statement of financial position 94 Statement of cash flows 95 Accounting principles 96 Notes 98 Auditor´s report 108 Alternative performance measures (APM) 112 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability 116 Sustainable energy for future generations 118 Important sustainability topics for Agder Energi 119 Group CSR goals 122 Value added statement 123 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 2 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES RESULTS NOK mill. % 3000 25 Årsresultat Ege 2500 20Driftsresultat Av 2000 EBITDA 15 1500 10 1000 5 500 0 0 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 EBITDA Operating income Net income Return on the capital employed (after tax) Return on the equity after tax Def. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 FROM INCOME STATEMENT Operating revenues mill. kr 14,097 13,980 10,358 8,086 8,260 EBITDA 1 mill. kr 3,090 1,626 1,770 1,573 2,886 Operating profit mill. kr 2,384 967 1,062 972 2,309 Profit before tax mill. kr 2,258 853 848 799 2,138 Net income for the year (controlling interest's share) mill. kr 1,122 -198 487 251 1,314 FROM BALANCE SHEET Total assets mill. kr 23,021 22,616 20,831 20,319 19,240 Equity mill. kr 4,082 3,526 4,565 4,626 4,893 Interest-bearing liabilities mill. kr 10,758 9,260 9,240 9,143 9,029 Capital employed 2 mill. kr 14,840 12,787 13,805 13,769 13,921 Unrestricted liquidity 3 mill. kr 3,108 2,864 2,372 2,023 1,969 Net interest-bearing liabilities 4 mill. kr 10,650 8,896 9,188 8,620 8,560 Interest-bearing liabilities due over coming 12 months mill. kr 2,372 1,657 1,740 2,243 1,745 Bank deposits excluding restricted assets mill. kr 108 364 52 523 469 UNDERLYING PERFORMANCE 5 Underlying operating revenues mill. kr 13,241 15,312 11,185 8,705 7,458 Underlying EBITDA 1 mill. kr 2,234 2,957 2,597 2,192 2,084 Underlying operating profit mill. kr 1,528 2,298 1,889 1,591 1,507 Underlying profit before tax mill. kr 1,249 2,117 1,645 1,328 1,230 Underlying net income for the year (controlling interest's share) mill. kr 340 874 845 738 698 CASH FLOW Net cash provided by operating activities mill. kr 502 2,049 1,189 1,779 1,502 Dividends paid mill. kr 592 608 610 660 706 Maintenance investments mill. kr 551 397 470 522 571 Investments in expansion mill. kr 801 1,000 878 733 625 Acquisition of shares/ownership interests and capital increases mill. kr 41 94 69 155 81 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 3 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES FINANCIAL POSITION 2019 2018 2017 Equity 4,082 3,526 4,565 Interest-bearing liabilities 10,758 9,260 9,240 Capital employedl 14,840 12,787 13,805 Total assets 23,021 22,616 20,831 Def. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 KEY FIGURES FOR UNDERLYING PERFORMANCE Return on capital employed before tax 6 % 10.9 17.8 13.7 11.3 11.3 Return on capital employed after tax 7 % 4.1 8.1 7.5 6.8 6.7 Return on equity after tax 8 % 9.3 21.6 18.4 12.2 14.9 Equity ratio 9 % 17.7 15.6 21.9 22.8 25.4 HYDROELECTRIC POWER EBITDA mill. kr 1,721 2,629 2,034 1,749 1,606 Actual electricity generation 10 GWh 7,288 8,686 8,812 8,880 8,996 Expected electricity generation 10 GWh 8,100 8,100 8,100 8,100 7,900 Reservoir reserves at 31 Dec. GWh 3,724 3,180 4,429 3,766 5,185 Reservoir capacity GWh 5,250 5,250 5,250 5,250 5,250 Average spot price øre/kWh 38.7 41.5 26.9 23.3 17.7 Electricity price realised øre/kWh 32.8 39.2 30.5 27.8 25.8 Cost of generation/kWh øre/kWh 9.2 10.0 10.6 11.3 10.9 DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM OPERATION EBITDA mill. kr 439 287 531 637 410 Number of transmission and distribution customers 1,000 205 202 199 195 190 Energy supplied GWh 5,547 5,670 5,573 5,581 5,624 Power grid capital (NVE capital) 11 mill. kr 5,275 5,083 4,644 4,101 3,833 KILE cost 12 mill. kr 48 187 64 53 61 ELECTRICITY SALES EBITDA mill. kr 125 75 120 97 104 EBITDA margin % 2.0 1.2 2.4 2.8 4.6 Electricity sales GWh 13,940 14,106 14,324 11,500 8,470 CONTRACTING EBITDA mill. kr 56 44 -59 -7 -8 EBITDA margin % 6.1 4.6 -6.1 -0.7 -0.8 Share of turnover from intra-group transactions % 0.0 4.9 15.1 13.2 17.5 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 4 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES Def. 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 DISTRICT HEATING EBITDA mill. kr 39 41 40 33 28 Energy supplied GWh 151 155 143 137 123 Price of heating sold øre/kWh 73 72 63 59 56 Gross margin, heating øre/kWh 43 43 38 32 24 Share of renewable generation % 99 99 99 99 98 EMPLOYEES, HEALTH AND SAFETY Number of permanent and temporary staff at 31 Dec. 1,020 1,005 1,210 1,432 1,294 Number of permanent and temporary full-time equivalents at 31 Dec. 987 976 1,162 1,401 1,270 Sickness absence % 2.6 3.6 3.5 3.5 3.5 Lost time injuries per million work hours 1.2 2.2 2.1 3.5 3.0 Total non-lost-time and lost-time injuries per million working hours 1.8 3.8 3.7 5.4 6.4 DEFINITIONS 1. Operating profit before depreciation and impairment losses 6. (Underlying operating profit + financial income) / 2. Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. Average capital employed. 3. Bank deposits and unused credit facilities. Excludes 7. (Underlying net income for the year + interest expense restricted assets. after tax) / Average capital employed. 4. Interest-bearing liabilities unrestricted liquidity. 8. Underlying net income for the year / Average equity. 5. The underlying figures take the Group’s IFRS profit and 9. Equity / total assets. adjust it for unrealised gains and losses on financial 10. All power generation figures are quoted prior to pumping instruments, material gains and losses on the disposal of and losses. businesses or ownership interests in businesses and 11. Basis for calculating the income cap. Set by the changes in the way that negative resource rent carry­ Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate forwards are calculated. See separate detailed description (NVE). of alternative performance measures on page 112. 12. Adjustment to income cap for energy not supplied THE DISTRIBUTION OF ELECTRICITY PRICES, GRID RENT AND PUBLIC FEES FOR AN AVERAGE CUSTOMER IN 2018: The electricity bill the customer pays consists of: • The electricity price, which the customer pays to its electricity retailer. Customers can choose between a fixed or variable rate electricity contract (in the same way as for a mortgage). 22% The electricity price also includes a mark-up for the electricity retailer and the cost of legally required electricity certificates. 42,5% • Network tariffs, which go to the customer’s local distribution system operator, to cover the operation, maintenance and devel35,5% opment of the electrical grid. Each year, the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) sets how much each distribution system operator can charge. • Government taxes: VAT, electricity tax and contributions to the Network tariffs Public taxes Electricity price Enova fund. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 5 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP MANAGEMENT Steffen Syvertsen Kristin A. Dale Jan Erik Eldor CEO HR & Communication Distribution Svein Are Folgerø Anders Gaudestad Pernille K. Gulowsen Innovation Energy management Finance and risk management Atle Knudsen Ingvill H. Mykland Jan T. Tønnessen Customer Technology Production AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 6 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP STRUCTURE CEO Steffen Syvertsen HR & COMMUNICATION FINANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT Kristin A. Dale Pernille K. Gulowsen TECHNOLOGY Board of Directors Ingvill H. Mykland AE Nett*) INNOVATION PRODUCTION EMT**) DISTRIBUTION CUSTOMER Svein A. Folgerø Jan T. Tønnessen Anders Gaudestad Jan Erik Eldor Atle Knudsen AE Venture AE Vannkraft AE Kraftforvaltning AE Nett LOS Enfo AE Varme Entelios CWE Entelios Norden Baltic Hydroenergy Nordgröön Craftor Administrative and shared service Business areas *) Agder Energi Nett AS has its own Board of Directors in accordance with the requirements for legal and functional separation. Subsidiaries **) Energy Management & Trading AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 7 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR WHERE WE OPERATE Power station Premises/offices District heating/cooling Power stations under construction Oslo Stockholm Medelby Berlin Holen Skarg Brussel Valle München Finndøla Brokke Nomeland Rysstad Zürich Hekni Nisserdam Tjønnefoss Hovatn Dynjanfoss Høgefoss Berlifoss Jørundland Åseral Nord Kuli Logna Longerak Finså Osen Smeland Evje Skjerka Uleberg Lislevatn Hanefoss Evenstad Håverstad Stoa ARENDAL Iveland 2 Rygene Kvinesdal Iveland Nomeland GRIMSTAD Steinsfoss FLEKKEFJORD Høylandsfoss Hunsfoss Færåsen Laudal LILLESAND Tryland LYNGDAL KRISTIANSAND FARSUND MANDAL Lindesnes AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 8 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR OUR BUSINESS Agder Energi’s subsidiaries are organised industrial companies, big and small busiMarketing into four business areas, which reflect the nesses and public enterprises to lead the The Marketing business area comprises Group’s core activities and how it generway in terms of climate-friendly energy the electrical contractor Craftor AB, the ates added value: Hydroelectric Power, solutions. Entelios specialises in managing retailing business LOS AS, the district Energy Management, Network and Marketand trading electricity in a market where heating supplier Agder Energi Varme AS, ing, as well as the parent company and energy from renewable sources such as Agder Energi Venture AS, and some strateshared services. The Group’s business areas hydro, wind and solar power is replacing gic and financial investments. and administrative departments at the fossil fuels. parent company are led by directors. They • Craftor AB is a supplier of electrical and the CEO constitute the senior man• Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS is infrastructure services that mainly agement team. responsible for managing and maxioperates in Sweden. It generates profit mising the return on the electricity by safely and efficiently implementing Parent company and shared services generated by the Group, on behalf of operation and maintenance projects Agder Energi AS provides administrative Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. It does this and contracts. functions and shared services to the by trying to optimise scheduling and by Group. It is also responsible for various managing market risks, taking into • LOS AS is responsible for supplying new ventures, including Agder Energi account hydrology, weather data and electricity to the retail market. It is the Fleksibilitet and NODES, which are organinformation about markets. AE Kraftdominant player in the Agder region ised as separate legal entities. forvaltning AS is also responsible for and also serves customers in the rest of the Group’s trading portfolios. Norway. LOS mainly generates profit Hydroelectric Power from the margin it achieves on electricity The Hydroelectric Power business area is • Entelios Nordic comprises the compasales, as well as by having a cost-efficient responsible for developing, operating and nies Entelios AS and Entelios AB. Entelios business model and good customer maintaining the Group’s wholly-owned and Nordic is one of the leading electricity relationships. part-owned hydroelectric power stations. suppliers to the commercial market in The biggest driver of value creation for the Scandinavia. • Agder Energi Varme AS supplies district business is its power generating capacity. heating and cooling in the Agder region. This is affected by the availability of plant • Our German operations consist of the AE Varme adds value by building and at power stations, reservoir volumes percompanies Entelios GmbH, Entelios AG, operating infrastructure for the generamitted by its licence terms and the addition and Nordgröön Energie GmbH. These tion and distribution of water-based of new capacity through reinvestment and businesses are involved in trading and heating and cooling for buildings. It by obtaining new licences. It operates through managing renewable energy, flexibility generates energy using waste heat and the company Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. and guarantees of origin. renewable energy sources. Energy Management Network • Agder Energi Venture AS invests in The Energy Management & Trading busiThe Network business area is responsible energy-related businesses from start-up ness area is responsible for the Agder Energi for fulfilling our duty to society to provide through to maturity, and adds value by Group’s market operations. This includes electrical energy to end users. Introducing proactively contributing to their develphysical and cash-settled electricity trading big data solutions, as well as smart meters, opment. One of its important roles is and managing market risk. is helping the company to ensure that it developing industrial options for the continues to manage the electrical grid Group. The business area is also responsible for successfully and in a way that is efficient executing the Group’s strategic focus on and forward-looking. Goals and results developing new solutions for the comThe goals and results of the business areas mercial markets in the Nordic region and The business area, which operates through are discussed in the Directors’ Report and Germany, within the context of a European Agder Energi Nett AS, is responsible for in Note 1 Segment Information to the conenergy market with strong demand for building, operating and maintaining the solidated financial statements of the Agder renewable energy. These ventures are transmission and distribution grid in the Energi Group. marketed under the joint brand Entelios. county of Agder. The company is an indeEntelios offers clean energy, cutting-edge pendent entity controlled by its own AGM expertise and technology that enable and Board. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 9 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR MISSION, VISION AND VALUES Agder Energi provides clean energy for a sustainable society, now and in the future. Agder Energi’s vision is to be one of the leading companies in the Norwegian renewable energy sector. The Group has defined its values as closeness, credibility, dynamism and innovation. Closeness Credibility Agder Energi shall be close to its customers and the We shall gain credibility by keeping promises, both to ­region. Customers shall know that we are there for them. third parties and within our organisation. The way in An open dialogue based on a joint understanding of the which we achieve our goals is just as important as facts helps us to bring out the best in each other. By reaching them. Individual employees must safeguard cooperating we preserve our regional identity and help their integrity and credibility in all of their activities, both to develop the region. within and outside the business. Dynamism Innovation We shall be dynamic, and have a clear corporate strategy We shall promote innovation and creativity, so that our that helps us to implement projects and achieve our employees become more skilled and efficient, enabling ­ goals. This dynamism shall be shown both by the them to help to grow and develop our business. Innovation organisation and by individual employees. Organisational is a process in which people build on each other’s dynamism involves having decision-making procedures contributions and ideas. We have to think in new ways that ensure successful implementation and profitability. and create new processes, while also retaining the best Individual dynamism involves exploiting any opportunities aspects of what we currently do. that exist within the framework of our overall strategy. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 10 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2019 In January Enova awarded NOK 210 million to eight projects to develop the energy In 2019 Agder Energi Varme expanded the district cooling network that systems of the future. Several Agder uses cold seawater to cool buildings in Kristiansand. Energi companies are involved in three of these projects, which were awarded NOK 86 million between them. Saint Gobain and the Eyde cluster are In September, Agder Energi was voted working on a joint research project to the third most innovative enterprise in In March, Agder Energi Varme expanded make the manufacture and recycling of Norway by Innovasjonsmagasinet. The jury its district cooling network, which means batteries more sustainable. The project highlighted Agder Energi’s operations in that more buildings in Kristiansand city has received NOK 11.75 million in support Germany and the pilot project with Microcentre can now be cooled using seawater from the Research Council of Norway. soft as good examples of innovation and from the bottom of the fjord. business development. In August, Agder Energi’s Board of Directors In the second quarter, the group purchadecided to appoint Steffen Syvertsen as the In December, Agder Energi and Glitre sing organisation for the Norwegian hosnew CEO after Tom Nysted chose to retire. Energi merged their new digital businesses pital sector chose Entelios as its energy in the electricity retailing sector into the supplier. The agreement covers all of the In the third quarter, Telenor chose Entelios newly established company Oss. The goal hospitals in Norway, and the annual as its supplier of energy and energyis to provide new services to the electricity volume of electricity supplied will be 950 related services, including management. customers of the future. GWh. Including options to renew, this The annual volume of electricity involved agreement may run until 2023. is over 400 GWh. Including options to In December, Agder Energi changed its renew, the contract may run until 2024. group structure and created a new group The municipalities of Asker and Bærum, as management team. The new structure well as around 20 other municipalities and By the end of September, several mile­ aims to create a forward-looking organisamunicipal enterprises in eastern Norway, stones had been reached in the project to tional model that is even better at helping chose Entelios as their energy supplier in upgrade the Høgefoss distribution network the company to achieve its strategic goals. the second quarter. Including options to in Nissedal Municipality in Telemark. The renew, this agreement may run until 2026. upgrade will facilitate, and is a prerequisite Agder Energi decided to sell its ownership The annual volume of electricity is 350 GWh. for, the expansion of Høgefoss power interest in Grønn Kontakt to Statkraft in station and the construction of new small December. The sale frees up capital for Agder Energi, Glencore, Elkem, Hydro, hydro plants in the area. other strategic investments. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 11 III III < > Introduction Introductrion governance governance Corporate Corporate Agder Agder The The Energi Energi Group AgderAgder Group Energi AS AS Energi CSR CSR In 2019, NOK 114 million was spent on identifying highrisk trees outside the line clearing corridor and maintaining a high level of line clearing. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 12 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR WELL EQUIPPED FOR WHAT LIES AHEAD This report is about Agder Energi’s results for 2019, but at the time of this publication going to print, one event in 2020 is putting everything that happened last year in the shade. The coronavirus epidemic is having an unprecedented impact on our society, and it has already had a big impact on people’s lives and health, as well as on economies and jobs in Norway and across the world. At the time of writing, it is very difficult to say how the situation will develop, and what impact it will have on the Group’s operations and profitability over the coming period. Agder Energi is responsible for infrastructure that is critical to society, and it has set in motion its central emergency management plan in order to prevent contagion and guarantee electricity supplies, so that sociwill continue to take a proactive approach ties and the rest of the business community ety can continue functioning, even at a time to health and safety throughout the group, in the region, we will help to speed up the of crisis like this. based around creating a good working transition and to develop the necessary environment and eliminating risks. solutions. 2019 was an eventful year, both for Agder Energi and me. The Agder Energi Group is Climate change has for a long time been an I believe that fundamentally Agder Energi is strongly positioned in an industry that is important driver in the renewable energy well equipped for what lies ahead. I am priundergoing rapid technological and marketsector, but in 2019 it moved even further up vileged to be leading a company in 2020 driven changes. For me personally, it was the political agenda. My hope and ambition whose long-term vision, strategy and opeobviously a big transition and a massive is that this will give fresh impetus to the rational goals are perfectly consistent with vote of confidence to be asked to lead Agder global transition from fossil fuels to renecreating a sustainable society based on Energi when Tom Nysted chose to retire. wable energy. renewable energy. As well as making my job I’m looking forward to leading such a talented rewarding, it creates profitable business group of people with so many opportunities I am convinced that the transition to a opportunities in a world where climate ahead of them into a new era. green economy will create business opporchange is at the top of the political agenda. tunities both here in Norway and in the Agder Energi’s number one job is making rest of Europe. It is up to us to seize them. However, as our financial results in 2019 sure that electricity reaches its customers, We have highly qualified staff and extensive show, Agder Energi will not automatically every day, all year around. In 2019 we were experience of the renewable energy sector, be the one that successfully seizes those fortunately spared the extreme weather and by combining that with expertise from opportunities. Uncertainty in fixed-income events that made 2018 unusually challenother industries we can create new, exciting and equity markets is beginning to affect ging, with extended power cuts that affecbusiness ventures. Nordic electricity prices, which are already ted many of our customers. We can’t control at record lows. On top of that, the coronathe weather, but what we can do is prepare I want Agder Energi to be known for its innvirus epidemic is adding a whole new layer ourselves by protecting the power grid ovation, and that is at the heart of many of of uncertainty and instability. That means against potential outages. In 2019 we therethe processes going on at the group. For we have a challenging time ahead of us, fore put significant resources into clearing example, in 2019 we started the pilot project but all we can do is work hard to achieve trees along our electric power grid, which NorFlex, where we are working with other the goals in our corporate strategy and to will make it more robust against the impacts organisations in the energy and technology deliver returns that meet the expectations of the weather. sectors to test solutions to encourage of our shareholders. customers to be more flexible in their elecFor us to be able to perform our mission at tricity consumption. all, we must give top priority to health and safety. I’m therefore delighted that our Agder Energi is also playing an important sickness absence rate has remained stable role in Electric Region Agder, the project to at low levels in recent years, and in 2019 it turn Agder into the world’s first fully electric Steffen Syvertsen fell to a new record low of 2.6 percent. We region by 2030. Together with the authoriCEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 13 III < > Introduction Introductrion governance governance Corporate Corporate Agder Agder The The Energi Energi Group AgderAgder Group Energi AS AS Energi CSR CSR Dam Syrtveitfossen in Otra. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 14 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance employer, with approximately 1,000 specified in the relevant internal guideIn accordance with Section 3-3b of the employees. The Group’s core business lines, and there are separate internal rules Norwegian Accounting Act, Agder Energi consists of hydropower generation, energy in place of the joint guidelines. has a duty to report on its corporate govmanagement, electricity retailing and ernance procedures. Agder Energi has operating the grid. Its other activities 3. Equity and dividends chosen to follow the corporate goverinclude contracting, district heating and At 31 December 2019, the Group had NOK nance recommendations set out in the venture capital investment. 4,082 million of equity, giving it an equity 9th edition of the Norwegian Code of ratio of 17.5%. The Board of Directors conPractice published by the Norwegian CorAgder Energi has goals, strategies and siders it important for the Group to have a porate Governance Committee (NUES), risk profiles covering the whole Group, for capital structure that provides financial published on 17 October 2018. each business area and subsidiary, and for stability, bearing in mind its stated credit certain aspects of its operations. The Board’s rating goal, strategy and risk profile. Agder Energi AS has issued bonds that review and assessment of the goals, strateare listed on Oslo Børs. Consequently, we gies and risk profiles follows an annual plan. The Group’s dividend policy reflects the have chosen to implement the Code of There is a more detailed description of the stated aim of giving shareholders a stable Practice in so far as we consider it releGroup’s business activities in a separate and predictable return on their investment vant and appropriate. section of this annual report. through cash dividends. The Group’s future dividend policy will depend on parameters 1. Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) such as the Group’s strategic priorities, The adopted corporate governance prinSection 3-3c of the Norwegian Accounting expected cash flow, investment plans, ciples regulate the relationship between Act, the Norwegian Corporate Goverfinancing requirements, the need for adethe shareholders, Board of Directors and nance Committee’s Code of Practice and quate financial flexibility and debt-servicing executive management of a company, as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) all ability. well as describing the relevant roles and establish rules on how Agder Energi must reporting structures. fulfil its corporate social responsibility Equity raising and communicate what it does. These Equity increases shall be proposed by the Each heading represents one topic covered Norwegian and international guidelines all Board and discussed by the AGM. The by the recommendations. Agder Energi emphasise the following four areas: human Board is not currently authorised to carry has chosen to adapt Sections 5, 6 and 8 rights, labour, the environment and antiout equity increases. to reflect its operations and ownership corruption. Agder Energi’s corporate social structure. Apart from this, Agder Energi responsibility strategy sets out the Group’s 4. Equal treatment of shareholders considers that it complies fully with the definitions, goals, plan of action, areas of and transactions with related parties Code of Practice. responsibility and reporting structure in For significant transactions between the relation to CSR. company and shareholders, Board memOverseas entities bers, key employees or any of their related Agder Energi also owns overseas entities. More information about CSR at Agder parties, the Board shall obtain a valuation These entities comply with their national Energi can be found in the 2019 Corporate from an independent third party. rules, as well as following the Group Social Responsibility Report, which is pubguidelines on areas such as auditing and lished alongside this annual report. 5. Shares and free negotiability internal controls. The Norwegian Corporate Governance Com­ Exemption from the Group’s joint guidelines mittee’s Code of Practice recommends 2. Business activities The operations of some the subsidiaries in that companies should not limit the ownerAgder Energi’s purpose is defined in the the Group are very remote from, and have ship, negotiability or voting rights of shares. company’s articles of association: “The little in common with, the core activities of Agder Energi AS is governed by rules that company’s purpose is to: exploit, produce Agder Energi, and there are few synergies restrict the ownership of waterfall rights in and sell energy; contribute to the safe and to be realised by integrating them more the Waterfall Rights Act. The articles of efficient supply of energy; and exploit relatclosely with the Group’s other activities. association state that only shareholders ed, profitable business opportunities within This may apply to companies in the who meet the conditions for being allocated the energy and infrastructure sectors.” Group’s development portfolio, subsidiary indefinite waterfall licences are entitled to groups or joint ventures. These companies own Class A shares. The company’s shareAgder Energi is one of Norway’s biggest are exempted from some of the Group’s holders have also signed agreements that energy companies, as well as being a major joint guidelines. Any exemptions are regulate the sale of shares. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 15 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 6. Annual General Meeting Board. Board members are elected for a internal controls and internal auditing into The Code of Practice recommends enabling two-year term. its corporate governance in line with as many shareholders as possible to attend “COSO Enterprise Risk Management – Intethe company’s Annual General Meeting, The Board members are presented in a grating with Strategy and Performance”, and enabling shareholders who cannot atseparate section of this annual report. which emphasises the link between risk tend to vote. This recommendation has not Details of who has attended Board meetings management and strategy. been implemented at Agder Energi. Under during the year can be found in Note 32 to the agreements between shareholders, the the consolidated financial statements The Group is inevitably exposed to risks in AGM is only attended by one representative a variety of areas throughout the value of the shareholder municipalities and one Entitlement of Board members to own chain. The most important risks relate to representative of Statkraft Industrial Holdshares market price movements, strategic investing. The Chair of the Board, CEO and exterThe Code of Practice recommends that ments, operational safety, the regulatory nal auditor shall also attend. The election Board members be encouraged to own environment, ICT security and data proteccommittee and Board members are also shares in the company. This recommendation. entitled to attend. tion has not been implemented at Agder Energi. Under the company’s articles of In line with the Board’s guidelines, the 7. Election committee association and the shareholders’ agreeGroup performs an annual review of interThe articles of association specify that the ment, neither Board members nor other nal controls and risk management in colcompany shall have an election committee. private individuals are entitled to own laboration with the external auditor. Risk It consists of five members, who are apshares in Agder Energi. assessments and changes to the regulapointed for a two-year term. Under the tory environment are reported regularly to current shareholders’ agreement, the mu9. The work of the Board the Board, and all subsidiaries produce an nicipal shareholders can appoint three The Board’s tasks are regulated by the annual self-declaration on their internal conmembers, while Statkraft can appoint two. Limited Liability Companies Act and other trols, which also covers the ethical guideThe election committee nominates candirelevant legislation, the company’s articles lines and corporate social responsibility. dates for the corporate assembly and for of association and the Board guidelines. the Board of Directors. The Board reviews its work and expertise The company’s internal audit service helps annually. the Board to exercise good corporate govThe shareholders’ agreement contains ernance by providing an independent, uncertain rules on the work of the election The Board appoints the CEO. The Board biased assessment of the most important committee, designed to ensure compliance has drawn up instructions for, and delegatrisks facing the company and it has a with the stipulations of the agreement. ed authority to, the CEO. mandate to communicate directly with the Board and the Board’s audit committee. 8. Board of Directors, composition Audit committee and independence In accordance with the Stock Exchange The company provides various channels The composition of the Board of Directors Regulations, the Board of Agder Energi for whistleblowing, one of which is an exis designed to safeguard the collective has established an audit committee that ternal one approved by the Norwegian interests of the shareholders and meet the assists and advises the Board in relation Data Protection Authority. company’s need for expertise, capacity to its supervision of the Group’s financial and diversity. The Code of Practice recomreporting and the effectiveness of its inThere is a more detailed description of mends that the Chair of the Board should ternal control systems. Agder Energi’s internal control and risk be elected by the AGM. This recommendamanagement systems in a separate section tion has not been implemented at Agder Conflicts of interest and abstention of this annual report. Energi. Under the shareholders’ agreeThe Board shall ensure that Board memment, twelve people sit on the Group’s bers and senior managers disclose any 11. Board fees Board of Directors. Four members, includsignificant interests they have in matters Members of the Board are paid based on ing the Chair and Deputy Chair, are elected being deliberated by the Board (even if their roles. Their fees are not profit-related. at the proposal of the municipal sharethose interests do not require abstention). No Board members are entitled to a penholders, four members are elected at the sion, options or termination compensation proposal of Statkraft and four at the pro10. Risk management and internal from the company, apart from the entitleposal of the employees. The executive controls ments of the employee representatives in management is not represented on the Agder Energi integrates risk management, their capacity as employees. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 16 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Details of the fees paid to individual Board owner is frequently updated before the goes over any significant changes in the members are presented in Note 32 to the municipalities. company’s accounting principles, key consolidated financial statements. aspects of the audit, calculations of sigThe Group publishes quarterly financial nificant accounting estimates and all 12. Management compensation reports and other information for the significant issues where there has been Management compensation reflects the benefit of its shareholders and external any disagreement between the auditor Group’s guidelines on compensation. Two stakeholders. and the executive management. Each year business area directors received a bonus the auditor also discusses the company’s in 2019, based on an assessment of the 14. Acquisitions and disposals internal controls with the Board, including results achieved against defined goals. The shareholders’ agreement defines the any weaknesses identified by the auditor The rest of the senior management team pre-emptive rights of current shareholders and proposals for improvements. have no bonus agreements for 2019. in the event of shares being sold. The Group’s central finance function is kept Details of the compensation of each indiThe disposal and acquisition of the Group’s informed of any consulting, tax advice and vidual member of the senior management ownership interests and subsidiaries is other services provided by the external team are presented in Note 31 to the conhandled in accordance with the relevant Group auditor that are not related to the solidated financial statements. authorisations at Agder Energi. Disposals normal auditing process. The external and acquisitions can take place as a result Group auditor is responsible for constantly 13. Information and communication of the strategic decisions of companies in assessing his own independence. Agder Energi satisfies all statutory requirethe Group or through the wholly-owned ments relating to financial reporting and subsidiary Agder Energi Venture. disclosure. The Group considers maintaining good, appropriate lines of communication with its owners and external stakeholders 15. External auditor to be a priority. Ernst & Young was the Group’s external auditor in 2019. The thirty municipal shareholders coordinate their activities through two forums Each year, the auditor presents an outline established for this purpose: the owners’ plan for the year’s auditing activities to meeting and the work committee. the audit committee. The municipal owners understand that the The auditor attends the meeting at which procedures for reporting financial inforthe Board reviews the annual financial mation to Statkraft mean that the latter statements. At the meeting, the auditor AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 17 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT At Agder Energi, risk management has for business areas have drawn up business relevant to the company’s business, Agder several years been an integrated part of plans. These business plans include strateEnergi has introduced an Early Warning corporate governance, both at the strategic and operational goals, areas of priority system. This system is used to carefully gic and operational levels. “COSO Enterand risk assessments covering existing monitor developments in the regulatory prise Risk Management – Integrating with activities and new business models. Areas environment and markets in which the Strategy and Performance” (2017) highthat involve trading in financial markets Group operates, as well as technological lights the importance of enterprise risk have special risk management strategies developments. The information thus management in strategic planning and of and limits on risk exposure that reflect the obtained is used to continuously update introducing enterprise risk management Board’s appetite for risk. risk assessments and in strategic and throughout an organisation. There follows commercial decision-making procedures. a brief description of how COSO’s five Implementation of Risk Assessments and components have been implemented in Risk Management Risk management and performance is the Agder Energi Group’s enterprise risk The Group’s risk management systems reviewed regularly at individual companies management system. deal with potential positive and negative and at the Group level. The Group’s risk outcomes related to the company’s stratemanagement strategy, including the assoGovernance and culture gic and operational performance. HSE has ciated appetite for risk, risk frameworks In order to ensure that the instructions of top priority and is always the first item on and authorisations, are reviewed and the owners are followed, and that the Group the agenda at management meetings, revised annually by the Board. As part of is managed appropriately, the Board has esboth at a Group level and within the indithe Group’s overall progression, corporate tablished guidelines for its own activities, vidual companies. governance will be subject to continuous instructions at subsidiaries and instructions improvement and development, in response and an authorisation matrix for the Group Individual companies are responsible for to the companies’ own initiatives, updated CEO. These documents underpin the Group’s identifying, prioritising and monitoring their guidelines from shared functions and the strategy, which in turn sets out goals and own risk exposures, and risk management results of internal audits. priorities for the Group and its business arat the operational level takes place across eas. The Board has also approved a general the organisation as an integrated part of Information, Communication, and Reporting description of its corporate governance normal business activities. Companies In order to promote integrated corporate model, which together with the adopted risk report their risk assessments and risk governance processes, the Group has immanagement strategy provides the basis for management activities to the Group. plemented a combined governance and the executive management’s integrated risk information management solution, which management activities. The analysis of Agder Energi’s overall risk helps to further integrate financial and risk exposure takes place at the Group level, management into management processes. The Board has adopted a set of core valbased on individual companies’ reports The system is used for internal communiues and ethical guidelines for Agder Energi, combined with the strategic assessments cation within business areas and for comwhich form the basis for the corporate of the senior management team, the techmunication with the group management culture at the Group. This is disseminated nical assessments of shared services and and Board of Directors. across the Group through the HR strategy’s the Group auditor’s comments. Risk assessmanagement requirements and emphasis ments are included in reports to the Board. Uncertainties with respect to key figures, on teamwork. Portfolio management helps us to see how the Group’s financial exposures, overall risk risks affect the Group as a whole. assessments and external developments are Strategy and Objective-Setting regularly reported to the management and Based on the Group’s corporate and risk Review and Revision Board, who are notified explicitly of any management strategies, all of the Group’s In order to pick up on changes that are critical scenarios. INTERNAL CONTROLS Internal controls are an integral part of that goals relating to operations, reporting ­ ge­­ment system, control mechanisms, audits a overall risk management procedures, and and compliance will be achieved. There foland whistleblowing channels promote good they shall provide reasonable assurance lows a description of how the quality man­ internal controls at Agder Energi. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 18 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Internal control system resources that we administer. For our intertional and venture capital portfolios may Internal controls at the company are imple­ nal procedures, we have established control use a different auditor. mented through clear guidelines and estabmechanisms that combine manual controls lished processes. This is documented by such as check lists, access controls such as Whistleblowing procedures the fact that governance documents have electronic approval processes following the The Group has several channels for whistlebeen made available to all employees four eyes principle and automatic notificablowing, one of which is independent of the through our quality management system tion systems such as position monitoring company. There are formal procedures in “THIS is how we do things at Agder Energi”, for trading portfolios. place for dealing with whistleblower generally abbreviated to the first word of reports. Such reports are treated in strict the Norwegian name – SLIK. In addition, all subsidiaries must submit an confidence unless criminal conduct is annual self-declaration on their internal involved. Agder Energi has established Through SLIK, the full range of the Group’s controls. This is done through a common procedures that safeguard the rights of governance documents – from steering reporting format that makes it clear what whistleblowers. The Group gives priority to documents through manuals to descripkinds of controls the Group expects its subraising awareness within the Group of its tions of work processes – are easily accessidiaries to implement. ethical guidelines, standards and whistlesible on the Group’s intranet “Energisk”. blowing systems/procedures. Subsidiaries in the Group implement SLIK Auditing across the organisation through their own Agder Energi has an internal audit service, Agder Energi has systems for reporting corporate governance systems with comwhich assists the Board, senior manageunwanted incidents and suggested impany-specific governance documents. ment team and business areas by providing provements both for its own employees an independent, unbiased assessment of and for subcontractors. The system is Control mechanisms the Group’s risk management procedures. available through several platforms, inAgder Energi has established control mechThe internal audit service’s mandate and cluding a mobile phone app and an online anisms for safety, security, emergency guidelines are approved by the Board, reporting tool, where people can report preparedness and critical aspects of its which also reviews the internal audit serand record nonconformities, observations, business processes in order to prevent, or vice’s annual report and its audit plans. suggested improvements, accidents and rapidly correct, any nonconformities. Due to near misses. The reports are analysed, and increasing levels of digitalisation, Agder The external auditor is chosen by the AGM, all high risk incidents are investigated, Energi has established an ICT model and and is responsible for the financial audit of with a view to limiting potential conseplatform with new, stricter security requirethe parent company, Group and subsidquences, ensuring that the causes are ments. In the face of growing numbers of iaries. Agder Energi has a Group-wide uncovered and implementing measures climate-related events, checking and monagreement with Ernst & Young, which must for continuous improvement. itoring weather data plays an important be used by all subsidiaries for the statutory role in helping us to manage and adapt the audit. Companies in the Group’s internaRISK MANAGEMENT The Group is inevitably exposed to risks in a from electricity sales being exposed to sold through futures contracts is continuvariety of areas throughout the value chain. electricity price risk and currency risk. ously adjusted, bearing in mind the comThe most important risks relate to market pany’s price expectations, reservoir price movements, strategic investments, Hedging strategies for the power generareserves and generating capacity. The sale operational safety, the regulatory environtion portfolio are subject to limits on how of currency futures also takes into account ment, ICT security and data protection much power can be sold through futures electricity price hedging and the total risk contracts and the results are closely moniassociated with the generation portfolio. Market risk tored. Agder Energi has built up a strong The hedging strategy both reduces risk Agder Energi is exposed to significant team specialising in energy management, and makes a positive contribution to market risk through the generation and analysis and modelling. Subject to the Agder Energi’s financial performance. trading of electricity, with its revenues above constraints, the amount of electricity Electricity prices started the year at record AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 19 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR highs, but fell sharply in February, partly assessments and long-term capital allocaRegulatory environment due to wet weather. Thermal power sources tion are designed to encourage optimal Big changes lie ahead for the electric power (such as coal and gas) also had a negative use of capital at the Group over time. industry. Changes in the regulatory environimpact on electricity prices over the course ment and political decisions affect our room of the year. Operational safety for manoeuvre and constitute a significant There are operational risks associated with element of the Group’s risk exposure. Agder Electricity retailing is considered a margin all of the processes in the value chain. The Energi works systematically to understand business and financial hedges are used most important ones are the risk of injuries how the regulatory environment is changing, to minimise the electricity price risk and to the Group’s employees and third parties, exploit any available room for manoeuvre currency risk. damage to power plants, distribution netand make strategic choices. works and other assets, negative impacts Strategic investments on the environment and climate, negative Agder Energi will need to adapt if it wants The Group is following an ambitious stratimpacts on the Group’s reputation and the to remain a key player in the electric power egy for meeting the changes facing the risk of failures in administrative and manindustry, although we do not yet know the electric power industry, centred on greater agement processes. Extreme weather and exact nature and extent of those adaptadigitalisation and exploiting renewable climate-related incidents increase the tions. The Group is making the changes energy sources. Strategic risk is managed challenges associated with grid reliability, needed to adapt itself to an industry in a through continuous improvement and innothe safety of employees, contractors and state of flux. This includes changes to its vation at existing business areas and by the general public, and the profitability of technology, such as digitalisation and cloud developing new, sustainable business grid operation, power generation, energy computing, and to its culture, such as a models. This involves designing, and posimanagement and energy retailing. Personal man­ agement development programme tioning ourselves in, new markets and safety is always our very highest priority. focusing on continuous improvement, business models associated with high levels change management and teamwork. of uncertainty. This additional risk is manOperational risk is managed through preven­ aged by using pilot projects and a gradualist t­ive measures and procedures for responding ICT security and data protection approach to build up our expertise, as well to incidents. In 2019, Agder Energi stepped In recent times, there has been a growing as through good risk assessment and portup its preventive measures for extreme focus on ICT security and data protection, folio management. weather events by carrying out extra line both within the industry and more widely. clearing on its electric power grid. Agder Agder Energi continuously and systematiAgder Energi has a clearly stated goal for Energi participates in the organisation cally works to meet external requirements its credit rating, both to ensure that the “Kraftforsyningens beredskapsorganisasjon” and internal needs for the security and company is managed well and to provide (KBO) as a power generating company, robust­ ness of ICT infrastructure, and to access to credit markets. With the power district heating company and distribution ensure that personal data are processed sector currently going through a period of system operator. For the purpose of risk appropriately. It has implemented an extenheavy investment, in power stations, grid management, Agder Energi has chosen to sive ICT security programme to protect upgrades and new business opportunities, establish contingency plans, training exeritself against cyber attacks and system Agder Energi has more investment opporcises and preventive measures even at faults, and to ensure the secure and stable tunities than it is capable of pursuing. companies not covered by the KBO requireoperation of its ICT systems. This will conPortfolio management, scenario-based ments. tinue to be a priority going forward. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 20 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Agder Energi provides clean energy for a its d­ ecision-making processes and the Labour rights sustainable society, now and in the future. ­activities of its subcontractors. Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall comply with the eight fundamental Renewable energy is part of the solution­ Agder Energi has adopted a Group strategy ­conventions of the International Labour to the global crisis arising from climate and methodology that establish guidelines Organisation (ILO) on the right to organise, change, and electricity plays a key role in for the business areas’ activities with the right to collective bargaining and the society. Consequently, the Group’s core ­respect to CSR. elimination of forced labour, child labour business is inherently sustainable. Never­ and discrimination at the workplace. theless,we realise the importance of how Agder Energi also has a separate CSR we conduct our core business at Agder strategy for the Group as a whole, with The environment Energi. associated goals. Agder Energi’s CSR goals Each company within the Agder Energi are related to the ten basic principles Group draws up environmental goals for Agder Energi’s CSR goals: of the UN Global Compact. its operations, reflecting the nature of its Agder Energi is one of Norway’s largest business. Subcontractors are required to producers of renewable energy, and its The joint goals for the Group are implehave procedures in place for environmenCSR activities are designed to ensure mented by the individual companies, which tal protection measures. that its operations are run in a sustain also draw up company-specific goals. ble and ethical way. Agder Energi requires subcontractors Anti-corruption to take into account the Group’s CSR Agder Energi’s goal is that no form of a­ ctive The Norwegian Accounting Act, N ­ orwegian ­goals. or passive corruption shall take ­place within Corporate Governance Committee’s the Group’s business activities. Code of Practice and Global Reporting The joint Group CSR goals are: Initiative (GRI) all establish rules on how More information about the Group’s CSR Agder Energi must fulfil its corporate social Human rights activities can be found in the section of responsibility and communicate what Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall the annual report on CSR and in the CSR it does. These Norwegian and international conduct themselves in accordance with appendix for 2019 on www.ae.no. guidelines all emphasise the following the UN’s internationally accepted human four areas: human rights, labour, the rights conventions. The Group and its ­evironment and anti-corruption. Agder subcontractors shall never be complicit Energi integrates social and environ­ in the breach of human rights. mental considerations into its operations, AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 21 III III < > Introduction Introductrion governance governance Corporate Corporate Agder Agder The The Energi Energi Group AgderAgder Group Energi AS AS Energi CSR CSR Agder Energi Nett supplies electricity to over 200,000 customers in Agder, including Smaken av Grimstad. This company uses local raw ingredients to produce tinned vegetables. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 22 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Agder Energy Group supplies clean energy for a sustainable society, now and in the future. The Group’s activities comprise the generation, distribution and sale of energy, as well as providing energy-related services. Its vision is to be one of the leading companies in the Norwegian renewable energy sector. Most of Agder Energi’s business is done in southern Norway, and the company has its head office in Kristiansand. The Group’s profit for the year under IFRS was NOK 1,122 million in 2019 (controlling interest’s share), compared with a loss of NOK 198 million in 2018. Underlying* net income under IFRS was NOK 340 million (controlling interest’s share), down from NOK 874 million in 2018. Agder Energi’s hydropower stations generated 7,288 GWh of clean energy in 2019 (2018: 8,868 GWh). HIGHLIGHTS In the first quarter, a new generator was risk trees outside the line clearing corridor Agder Energi sold its ownership interest in commissioned at Skjerka power station. It and maintaining a high level of line clearing. Grønn Kontakt AS to Statkraft in December. both increases the amount of power genIn 2019, NOK 114 million was spent on this erated by 18 GWh and significantly increases project. In December, Agder Energi and Glitre Energi our ability to optimise generation in response merged their new digital businesses in the to electricity prices. The upgrade to Kuli dam in Sirdal was electricity retailing sector into the newly largely completed by the end of 2019. The established company Oss. The goal is to In March, Agder Energi Varme expanded work done will not increase electricity provide new services to the electricity its district cooling network, which means generation, but it will play an important customers of the future. that more buildings in Kristiansand city role in maintaining the level of generation centre can now be cooled using seawater along the Finså river system in the future. In December, Agder Energi changed its from the bottom of the fjord. group structure and created a new group By the end of the year, several milestones management team. The new structure aims In August, Agder Energi’s Board of Direchad been reached in the project to upgrade to create a forward-looking organisational tors decided to appoint Steffen Syvertsen the Høgefoss distribution network in model that is even better at helping the as the new CEO after Tom Nysted chose Nissedal Municipality in Telemark. The upcompany to achieve its strategic goals. to retire. grade is being done to improve grid reliability, and it is also a prerequisite for the In December, we discovered that the turbine In September, Agder Energi was voted the expansion of Høgefoss power station and at Rygene power station was damaged. third most innovative enterprise in Norway the construction of new small hydro plants This run-of-the-river plant at the bottom of by Innovasjonsmagasinet. In its comments, in the area. The project involves building a the Arendal river system generates 280 the jury highlighted Agder Energi’s operanew substation at Høgefoss, creating a GWh in an average year. A major repair is tions in Germany and the pilot project with new 132 kV line between the substation required, and the power station is expected Microsoft as examples of innovation and and Dynjanfoss power station and installto be unavailable until October 2020. business development. ing new switchgear at Dynjanfoss. The remaining stages of the project will be * The underlying IFRS figures take the Group’s IFRS profit and adjust it for unrealised gains and losses on In November, in a national survey of cuscompleted in 2020. financial instruments, material gains and losses on the tomer satisfaction and loyalty covering disposal of businesses or ownership interests in businesNorway’s biggest electricity retailers, LOS In 2019, Entelios won several major energy ses and changes in the way that negative resource rent carryforwards are calculated; see page 111 and 112 for and Entelios were ranked first by domestic supply contracts. These include contracts further details. and commercial customers respectively. with Telenor, the group purchasing organThe survey is carried out by the market isation for the Norwegian hospital sector research company EPSI Rating Norge. and Asker and Bærum municipalities, as well as with around 20 other municipalities Agder Energi Nett is focusing heavily on and municipal entities in eastern Norway. grid reliability. Prosjekt Skog 2020, which The expected annual volume of these began in 2018, involves identifying highcontracts is just under 2 TWh. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 23 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In 2019, Agder Energi had NOK 14,097 million rate expense was NOK 248 (231) million. segment’s operating profit rose to NOK 153 of operating revenues, almost unchanged The Group’s interest income was NOK 24 (95) million, thanks to strong performances from NOK 13,980 million in 2018. Lower million (NOK 50 million). A NOK 15 million at the electricity retailer LOS and the elecelectricity generation and lower realised exchange rate loss (gain of NOK 27 million) trical contracting firm Craftor. prices meant that energy sales fell in 2019, was recognised. There was an unrealised while gains on electricity and currency conNOK 29 (67) million gain on our interest Capital structure and cash flow tracts related to the Group’s hedging activirate swaps. Investments in associates The aim behind the Group’s management of ties made the biggest positive contribution. contributed a NOK 110 million gain (NOK 9 its capital structure is to keep an approprimillion loss), with the improvement ate balance between financial strength and The Group reported an operating profit of attributable to a gain on the disposal of the investment capacity, while maintaining a NOK 2,384 (967) million, and its net income company Grønn Kontakt AS. strong credit rating of at least BBB+. When (controlling interest’s share) improved from considering taking out new loans, Agder a loss of NOK 198 million in 2018 to NOK The Group’s reported pre-tax profit under Energi seeks to achieve a smooth maturity 1,122 in 2019. IFRS amounted to NOK 2,258 (853) million, structure. Agder Energi is also exposed to and its tax expense was NOK 1,123 (1,057) changes in interest rates on its debt. Our The reported operating profit was signifimillion. The tax expense consists of NOK interest rate duration, which is managed by cantly affected by gains on cash-settled 485 (198) million of income tax and NOK using fixed-interest loans and interest rate hedges. Under IFRS, changes in the value of 638 (859) million of resource rent tax. The derivatives, was 4 years at the turn of the these contracts are recognised through higher income tax expense reflects higher year. profit or loss as they arise. Forward electricity pre-tax profit, while the fall in resource rent prices, particularly for the next few years, fell tax was caused by electricity generated Agder Energi’s assets had a book value of significantly in 2019, and unrealised gains having a lower spot value, due to a combiNOK 23,021 million at the close of 2019, on derivatives boosted net income by NOK nation of lower production and lower spot compared with NOK 22,616 in 2018. High 692 million. This contrasts with 2018, when prices, partly offset by a 1.3 percentage point investment levels at the Hydroelectric Power forward electricity prices rose significantly, increase in the resource rent tax rate to 37%. and Network segments pushed the value of resul­ting in a NOK 1,049 million hit to net property, plant and equipment up to NOK income. The Group’s underlying profit does not 16,123 (15,171) million at the end of the year. include unrealised gains and losses, which In 2019 there were several changes to the is the main reason for the big difference The Group’s book equity rose by NOK 556 regulations on public sector occupational between reported and underlying profit. In million to NOK 4,082 (3,526) million at the pension plans. In conjunction with the tran2019, the Group’s underlying operating year-end. This increase was the result of sition to unit benefit plans, Agder Energi profit amounted to NOK 1,528 (2,298) milhigh reported IFRS profit less dividend dishas chosen to transfer employees born in or lion, while net income (controlling interest’s tributions. The equity ratio rose to 18% after 1963 to a defined contribution plan, share) fell to NOK 340 (874) million. (16%). with effect from January 2020. The defined benefit pension plan will remain in place for The Group’s underlying performance was At the end of 2019, the Group had NOK employees born in 1962 and earlier. The significantly impacted by lower profit at the 10,758 (9,260) million of interest-bearing changes to the pension regulations have been hydroelectric power generation business, liabilities. NOK 256 million of the NOK treated as a past service pension adjustwhich made an operating profit of NOK 1,498 million increase was due to the introment, with the impact on pension liabilities 1,441 (2,358) million. The main explanation duction of a new accounting standard for recognised in the income statement, both for for this decline is lower power generation leases, IFRS 16. The standard requires the the segments and in the consolidated finanand lower realised prices. The Group generpresent value of future payments relating to cial statements. In the consolidated financial ated 7,288 GWh (8,686 GWh) of hydroelecoperating leases to be capitalised on the statements, a NOK 114 million pre-tax gain tric power in 2019, down 1,398 GWh. The statement of financial position. The average and a NOK 80 million post-tax gain have average realised price was 32.8 øre/kWh, interest rate on the Group’s liabilities was been recognised. This gain affects both the compared with 39.2 øre/kWh in 2018. 2.7%, unchanged from the previous year. IFRS figures and underlying profit. The Group had a liquidity buffer of NOK 3.1 The underlying contribution from the (2.9) billion at the end of the year, consisting Net financial expenses came to NOK 126 Group’s distribution system business was of unrestricted liquid assets and unused (114) million. Interest on the Group’s debt once again weak in 2019. The reasons for credit facilities. portfolio was NOK 271 (249) million. Capi­ this include lower recognised transmission talised interest rate expenses resulting from revenues and more line clearing activities to Cash flow from operating activities came to higher levels of investment came to NOK 23 reduce the risk of trees falling on power NOK 502 million, compared with NOK (18) million, which meant that the net interest lines and causing outages. The Marketing 2,049 million the previous year. Several AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 24 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR factors contributed to the decline. Firstly, tomers. On the statement of cash flows, payout ratio is 70%, and the proposed diviunderlying EBITDA fell by NOK 723 million. investments are presented gross, with cusdend will be based on that. Due to great unSecondly, cash flow from operating activities tomer payments included under net cash certainty about the long-term impacts of the in 2018 was boosted by the use of various provided by operating activities. The Hydronew coronavirus and future electricity pricforward and futures contracts. Within its retail electric Power and Network segments were es, the Board of Directors has decided to business, Agder Energi offers customers responsible for 89% of the investments in delay making a dividend proposal until the various management products. These typiproperty, plant and equipment. Receipts Board meeting on 7 May. cally involve the Group signing a forward from the sale of investments came to NOK contract with the customer, which is hedged 140 million, compared with NOK 481 million The parent company Agder Energi had net by a futures contract in a financial market. in 2018. The biggest component of this was income of NOK 401 (796) million, and in These two classes of financial instruments the sale of our shares in Grønn Kontakt AS the annual financial statements the net will have the same cash flows over the long in December. income for the year has been transferred term, but they may vary within individual to other reserves. periods. In 2018, the futures contracts in the NOK 592 (608) million in dividends was market produced a positive cash flow effect, paid out to controlling and non-controlling Going concern assumption which was partially reversed in 2019 through interests. Net cash provided by operating In accordance with the Norwegian Accounta negative cash flow effect arising from the activities less dividends therefore came to ing Act, the Board of Directors confirms forward contracts with customers. Thirdly, NOK -90 (1,441) million. This means that net that the annual financial statements have tax paid rose by NOK 381 million. Partially investment for the year was financed by been prepared on the basis of a going offsetting this, there was a positive contrinew borrowings. concern assumption, and that the assumpbution from the reduction in cash collateral tion is justified. for trading on Nasdaq. Proposed dividends Agder Energi’s dividend policy states that Investment in property, plant and equipthe proposed dividend should be determent and intangible assets amounted to mined on the basis of the Group’s underlyNOK 1,456 (1,489) million. NOK 104 (92) ing net income the previous year. This is to million of this comprised investments in ensure that shareholders receive a predictpower distribution networks paid for by cusable dividend income. The guideline dividend SEGMENTS Agder Energi is organised as a corporate fold og Telemark. The segment’s operating the basis of spot prices for electricity, rather group, with Agder Energi AS as the parent revenues come from the sale of the power than achieved prices, with the latter being company. The Group reports its segments in that it generates in the spot market, electricity lower in 2019. Another factor that had a line with how the management team makes, contracts with industrial customers, the sale negative impact was the resource rent tax reviews and evaluates its decisions. In 2019, of concession power and financial trading. rate being raised from 35.7% in 2018 to its activities were split into four operating 37.0% in 2019. segments: Hydroelectric Power, Network, The Hydroelectric Power segment had NOK Energy Management & Trading and Market2,785 (3,703) million of operating revenues The segment generated 7,288 GWh (8,686 ing. Figures for the segments are based on in 2019, while its operating profit was NOK GWh) of hydroelectric power in 2019, down Norwegian Generally Accepted Accounting 1,441 (2,358) million. The main reasons why 16%. This was also approximately 10% lower Principles (NGAAP), as that is what is used revenues fell by NOK 917 million are lower than the Group’s expected production in a for internal corporate governance purposes. electricity generation and lower realised prices. normal year. Hydroelectric Power In 2019, the segment made a pre-tax profit After low snowfall in the first quarter, the This segment is responsible for developing, of NOK 1,353 (2,281) million, and a profit Group’s hydrological resources (water and operating, maintaining and refurbishing the after tax of NOK 414 (950) million. snow stored in its reservoirs and drainage Group’s hydroelectric power stations, and it basins) improved due to lower electricity is one Norway’s largest producers of elecAs well as paying ordinary income tax, the generation and slightly higher precipitation tricity. Hydroelectric Power owns 49 hydrohydroelectric power business also pays than normal. Hydrological resources were electric power stations, directly or through resource rent tax. The tax expense for the better than normal at the end of the year, joint arrangements, and in a normal year it year amounted to NOK 939 (1,330) million. and reservoir reserves rose from 3.2 TWh at expects to generate 8,100 GWh. Most of its The effective tax rate rose to 69% (58%). the start of the year to 3.7 TWh at year-end. power stations are in Agder, but it also owns The main reason for the high tax rate is that All of Agder Energi’s electricity is generated some in the counties of Rogaland and Vestresource rent tax payable is calculated on in the NO2 price zone. At the end of the AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 25 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR year, the average reservoir level for all of the refurbishment project on the generator at NOK 83 million in 2019, compared with power generators in the price zone was 71% Finså power station has been completed, NOK 121 million the previous year. The dif(68%) of capacity, two percentage points and the control systems at Laudal and ference between that figure and the operbelow the average for the past ten years. Høylandsfoss power stations have been ating profit stated above reflects a NOK -80 upgraded. (105) million difference in revenue recogniIn 2019, the average spot price in Agder tion. That difference is described in greater Energi’s pricing region (NO2) was 38.7 øre/ Network detail in Note 3. kWh (41.5 øre/kWh), 7% lower than in 2018. The Network segment is responsible for Achieved prices were lower than spot prices developing, operating and maintaining the Energy Management & Trading in 2019 – 32.8 øre/kWh compared with transmission and distribution grid in Agder. This segment covers Agder Energi Kraft39.2 øre/kWh in 2018, a decline of 16%. The segment had NOK 1,452 (1,358) million forvaltning, the Entelios companies and This reflects the impacts of supplying conof operating revenues in 2019. It made an Nordgröön. cession power at regulated prices and longoperating profit of NOK 163 million, up from standing industrial supply contracts, as well NOK 16 million in 2018. Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning is responsible as a negative contribution from electricity for managing and maximising the return on price and currency hedges. Sales of guaranThe low revenues and operating profit in the electricity generated by the Group, on tees of origin increased their contribution, 2018 were due to heavy snowfall and storms. behalf of Hydroelectric Power. It does this whereas electricity trading performed sigThese events caused exceptional expenses by trying to optimise scheduling and by nificantly worse than in 2018. and KILE (quality-adjusted income cap for managing market risks, taking into account energy not supplied). KILE is a reduction in hydrology, weather data and market analyMeasured in nominal NOK, the average spot the income cap imposed in the event of sis. The company is also responsible for the price in 2019 was the second highest it has power cuts, designed to reflect the finanGroup’s trading portfolios. Revenues from been since 2010, only exceeded by 2018. cial impact of the power cuts on customers. hydroelectric power generation and gains Prices were high at the start of 2019 due to and losses on the associated hedging low reservoir reserves and cold weather. In 2019, expenses related to fault resolution instruments and trading contracts are Prices then proceeded to fall in response to came to NOK 10 million, against NOK 143 inclu­d­ed under Hydroelectric Power. rising reservoir levels and falling marginal million the previous year. An insurance paycosts for gas-fired power stations, before out linked to the extreme weather events in Entelios is one of the leading energy retailstrengthening again slightly in the final quar2018 reduced the expense for 2019 by ers in the Nordic region. In Norway, it is the ter of the year on account of slightly lower NOK 24 million. Adjusted for the insurance leading supplier of electricity to the comreservoir levels. In the NO2 region, the main payout, expenses related to fault resolution mercial market. Entelios also has a securireason why prices in 2019 were lower than were roughly in line with expectations. KILE ties trading licence for the Nordic countries in 2018 was lower German electricity pricreduced the income cap by NOK 48 (187) and significant turnover in the Swedish es. That was the result of lower gas prices million, which was around NOK 20 million market, as well as customers in Denmark and hence lower marginal costs at gas-fired lower than expected. In 2019, the costs of and Finland. power stations. During 2019, German elecfault resolution and KILE fell to their lowest tricity prices were influenced by the fact levels in a number of years, down 44% and Agder Energi’s activities in the German that it was cheaper to generate electricity 42% respectively compared with the avermarket comprise Entelios’ German busifrom gas than from coal. This increased the age for the past five years. The Network ness and the company Nordgröön. The impact of gas prices on electricity prices in segment has taken action to reduce the business involves managing renewable Germany and hence also in the NO2 region. risk of trees falling on its power lines and energy, optimising distributed generation thereby causing power cuts. NOK 114 million and selling flexibility services. NOK 680 (568) million was invested in was invested in this project during 2019. property, plant and equipment in 2019. The NOK 90 million of this has been expensed. In 2019, the segment’s turnover was NOK biggest projects were at Åseral Nord, 6,606 (7,599) million, with the reduction including building a new dam at Langevatn NOK 505 (671) million was invested in being caused by factors such as a lower and refurbishing the tunnel between 2019, of which NOK 275 (492) million managed volume in the German wind Langevatn and Nåvatn in Åseral, which has related to investments in new projects. NOK power portfolio. It made an operating loss been affected by landslides. The dam is 72 (199) million of the total was invested in of NOK 53 million, compared with a NOK almost finished, and just the final part of the smart meter project. Including NOK 105 111 million loss in 2018. the tunnel remains to be done. As well as (92) million of customer contributions, gross increasing the reservoir and transfer investment was NOK 610 (763) million. The German business made an operating capacity, the project is important as a risk loss of NOK 68 (130) million. Loss-making mitigation measure. Most of the project to The Network segment’s contribution to the areas included the sale of flexibility solurefurbish Kuli dam in Sirdal was completed Agder Energi Group’s operating profit and tions, management of renewable energy in December. In addition, a major underlying operating profit under IFRS was and optimisation of distributed generation. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 26 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR For the latter area, a NOK 80 million agreement signed with Coop on becoming CO2 emissions from space heating and impairment was recognised in 2018, relating the exclusive electricity supplier to the orhot water in Kristiansand city centre. to losses on past contracts. ganisation’s 1.7 million members boosted sales elsewhere in Norway. Agder Energi Varme’s turnover in 2019 In the Nordic countries, Entelios had turnover was NOK 116 (117) million, while its operating of NOK 5,417 (5,472) million and made an Craftor (formerly Otera Ratel) is a Swedish profit was NOK 17 (20) million. The volume of operating profit of NOK 56 (33) million. electrical contracting firm that designs, billable energy supplied in 2019 was 137 builds and maintains grid infrastructure GWh (143 GWh). Although customer growth Marketing and electric power systems at voltages up made a positive contribution, the volume The Marketing segment’s turnover was to 400 kV, specialising in substations and supplied was lower than the previous year NOK 2,461 (2,434) million in 2019, while transmission and distribution infrastrucdue to significantly milder weather than its operating profit was NOK 153 (95) milture. In 2019, the company’s turnover was normal. Our hedging of energy contracts lion. The main companies in this segment NOK 912 (737) million. It made an operatmade a negative contri­bution. Investment are LOS, Craftor and Agder Energi Varme. ing profit of NOK 54 million, up from NOK totalled NOK 32 (17) million. The Group’s venture capital portfolio is 45 million the year before. also part of it. The Group’s venture capital investments Agder Energi Varme develops, builds and are grouped in the company Agder Energi The electricity retailer LOS’s turnover was supplies district heating and cooling serVenture. The value of the companies in the NOK 979 million in 2019, compared with vices for homes and commercial buildings, portfolio rose in 2019. Netsecurity and NOK 942 million the previous year. It mainly in Kristiansand, Arendal and GrimNEG saw the biggest increases. This reflec­ made an operating profit of NOK 62 (35) stad. The company’s operations make an ted their strong underlying performances. million. In spite of growing competition, important contribution to promoting the The company EcoStor, which offers affordLOS maintained its strong market position use of green, renewable energy sources. able energy storage systems based on in Agder, and the volume of electricity it Reusing surplus heat from waste incinerasecond-hand electric car batteries, was supplied was roughly in line with 2018. The tion and a nickel refinery greatly reduces added to the portfolio in 2019. EMPLOYEES AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Health and safety A lot of effort has been put into making Women make up 26% (25%) of the The Group’s sickness absence rate has Agder Energi a safe place to work where Group’s employees, and 42% (41%) of the remained steady at low levels in recent injuries don’t occur, and into creating a parent company’s. 21% (22%) of the years, and in 2019 it was 2.6% (3.6%), good working environment. We have a sysGroup’s managers are women, and there the lowest on record. Of that, 0.7% (1%) tematic continuous improvement proare three women and six men in the senior was short-term absence and 1.9% (2.5%) gramme in place for health and safety. In management team. Women occupy 33% was long-term absence (more than 16 order to make further progress towards (42%) of the seats on the Board. days). The Group aims to have a sickness our goal of avoiding occupational injuries, absence rate below 3%, and for some in 2020 we are implementing a continuWe recruit, develop and deploy human time we have been working hard to ous improvement and training programme resources in the way that is best for improve the way in which we deal with for all employees at Agder Energi. Root achieving the Group’s goals. This involves absences. cause analysis is performed in the event of offering competitive salaries, ongoing incidents with a high risk of injury. The aim training, continuous improvement and a 3 (7) occupational accidents resulting in is to learn even more from incidents that good and safe working environment, as injury were recorded for our own employcould have led to injuries, and to share well as providing strong leadership. ees in 2019. Of these, 2 (4) resulted in total knowledge across the Group. lost time of 44 (43) days. The accident figures are equivalent to a lost time injury Staff and organisational structure frequency (number of LTIs per million work At the close of 2019, the Group had 1,020 hours) of 1.2 (2.2), a total injury frequency (1,005) full-time and temporary employees, (number of injuries, whether or not they representing 987 (976) full-time equivaresulted in lost time, per million work lents. The parent company had 173 (159) hours) of 1.8 (3.8) and an injury severity permanent employees at the end of the rate (number of days lost per million work year. During 2019, 5 (8) apprentices hours) of 25 (24). worked at Agder Energi. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 27 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND SUSTAINABILITY Renewable energy is part of the solution In its efforts to meet its responsibilities to standards. The GRI rules changed in 2018, to the global crisis created by climate society, Agder Energi bases its work on and there is now a clearer requirement to change, and as one of Norway’s biggest globally recognised initiatives and stananalyse which sustainability topics are producers of renewable energy, the dards, including the UN Global Compact, material for the Group itself, and which Group’s core business is inherently suswhich promotes sustainable and socially ones are important to the Group’s staketainable. Agder Energi shall carry out all of responsible policies, and the conventions holders. The 2019 sustainability report has its activities in a sustainable, ethical and of the International Labour Organisation been updated to reflect this. socially responsible way. Several gover(ILO). The Global Compact is based on ten nance documents have been drawn up to fundamental principles relating to human The general information at the Group level put our sustainability principles into pracrights, labour standards, the environment is presented in the section of the annual tice, and the business areas are responsible and anti-corruption. report on sustainability. More detailed for carrying out work on sustainability, company-specific information can be including setting environmental goals and Each year, Agder Energi reports on its found in a separate sustainability report implementing measures to achieve those work on CSR and sustainability in accorpublished on ae.no. goals. dance with the Global Reporting Initiative RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Risk management and internal controls plemented a combined governance and and automatic notification systems. In addiThe Board has established general guideinformation management solution, which tion, all subsidiaries must submit an annual lines for corporate governance. The Group’s helps to further integrate financial and risk self-declaration on their internal controls. corporate strategy sets out goals and primanagement into management processes. Risk management and internal controls at orities for the Group and its business areas, Agder Energi are described in greater detail which provide the basis for the executive Internal controls at the company are implein this report’s section on “Integrated risk management’s integrated risk management mented through clear guidelines and estabmanagement”. activities, together with the adopted aulished processes that are made available to thorisations and risk management strategy. the employees through our quality manageRisks ment system SLIK. Through SLIK, all of the The most significant risks relate to market Based on the Group’s corporate and risk Group’s governance documents – from price movements, strategic investments, management strategies, all of the Group’s steering documents through manuals to operational safety, the regulatory environbusiness areas have drawn up business descriptions of work processes – are availment, ICT security and data protection. plans. These business plans include strateable on the Group’s intranet. Subsidiaries There follows a brief description of these gic and operational goals, areas of priority in the Group implement SLIK across the risks. Risks and risk management are deand risk assessments. Areas that involve organisation through their own corporate scribed in greater detail in this report’s trading in financial markets have their own governance systems with company-specific section on “Integrated risk management”. risk management strategies and limits on governance documents. risk exposure. Market risk Agder Energi has established control mechAgder Energi is exposed to significant The Group’s risk management systems deal anisms for safety, security, emergency premarket risk through the generation and with potential positive and negative outparedness and critical aspects of its protrading of electricity, with its revenues comes in relation to the company’s goals. cesses in order to prevent, or rapidly correct, from electricity sales being exposed to Individual companies are responsible for any nonconformities. Due to increasing electricity price risk and currency risk. identifying and monitoring their own risk digitalisation, Agder Energi has established Hedging strategies for the power generaexposures, and risk management at the opan ICT model and platform with new, stricter tion portfolio are subject to limits on how erational level takes place across the organsecurity requirements. In the face of growmuch power can be sold through futures isation as an integrated part of normal busiing numbers of climate-related events, contracts and close monitoring of downness activities. High-level analysis of Agder checking and monitoring weather data side risks. Each year, the Board assesses Energi’s overall risk exposure takes place at plays an important role in helping us to the results achieved by the hedging stratethe Group level and is reported to the Board. manage and adapt the resources that we gies. Electricity retailing is considered a administer. For our internal procedures, we margin business and financial instruments In order to promote integrated corporate have established control mechanisms that are used to minimise the electricity price governance processes, the Group has imcombine manual controls, access controls risk and currency risk. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 28 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Strategic investments the risk of injuries to the Group’s employEnergi works systematically to understand The Group is following an ambitious stratees and third parties, damage to infraand adapt itself to changes in the regulaegy to adapt to the changes facing the structure and other assets, negative tory environment. This includes producing electric power industry, centred on greater impacts on the environment and climate, Early Warning reports that describe external digitalisation and exploiting renewable negative impacts on the Group’s reputadevelopments and uncertainties, including energy sources. This involves designing, and tion and the risk of failures in administratheir potential impacts on the Group, and positioning ourselves in, new markets and tive and management processes. Extreme helping to determine the Group’s stance business models associated with high weather and climate-related incidents on issues and processes relating to the levels of uncertainty. This risk is managed increase the challenges associated with regulatory environment. These stances unby using pilot projects, partnerships and a grid reliability, the safety of employees, derpin Agder Energi’s response to consulgradualist approach to build up our expercontractors and the general public, and tation processes, and provide a guide for tise, as well as through good risk assessoperating profitably. Personal safety is any internal adjustments that need to be ment and portfolio management. always our very highest priority. carried out by the Group. Credit rating Operational risk is managed through proICT security and data protection The most important target for the Group’s cedures governing activities at operating Agder Energi continuously and systematimanagement of its capital structure is its units, and through contingency plans. For cally works to meet external requirements long-term credit rating. Agder Energi’s the purpose of risk management, Agder and internal needs for the security and clearly stated goal is to have a credit ratEnergi has chosen to establish contingenrobustness of ICT infrastructure, and to ing of BBB+ or higher, and it has been cy plans, training exercises and preventive ensure that personal data are processed given a credit rating of BBB+ with a stable measures even at companies not covered appropriately. outlook by Scope Rating. Portfolio manby “Kraftforsyningens beredskapsorganagement, scenario-based assessments isasjon” (KBO). and long-term capital allocation are designed to encourage optimal use of capital Regulatory environment at the Group over time. Changes in the regulatory environment and political decisions affect our room for Operational safety manoeuvre and constitute a significant eleThe most important operational risks are ment of the Group’s risk exposure. Agder SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The company’s share capital consists of who meet the conditions for being allocated such as pre-emptive rights for existing 2,700,000 shares with a face value of NOK indefinite waterfall licences under the releshareholders in the event of shares in the 670. Of these, 1,800,000 are class A shares vant current legislation. company being sold. In addition, the municiand 900,000 are class B shares. Class A pal shareholders have agreed to coordinate shares can only be owned by shareholders A shareholders’ agreement regulates matters their votes at the AGM. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Agder Energi uses the Norwegian Code of Matters relating to corporate governance Practice published by the Norwegian Corpoare described in greater detail in a separate rate Governance Committee (NUES), within section of this annual report. the framework set by the company’s organisational structure and ownership. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 29 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group’s investment in R&D and innovasumption, by paying households and comnew centre for research into artificial inteltion shall lay the foundations for long-term, panies to reduce their electricity consumpligence. Agder Energi is collaborating with profitable growth and promote develoption when there is high demand on the grid. the centre on production planning and the ment activities to increase the potential of The project has been awarded a NOK 22 use of machine learning to control hydrothe core business. million government grant through Enova. electric power stations. The Group also cooperates with the university in other Agder Energi Fleksibilitet is developing new Agder Energi is participating in HydroCen areas, such as on Master’s degrees related business models, platforms and digital marwith other energy and industrial compato the Group’s operations. Through its ketplaces through its investments in nies as well as several research institutes. owner­ship interest in NORCE, the Group NODES, NODES-Tech, Flex Tools and Grid HydroCen is a Centre for Environmentsupports the renewable energy research Tools. These investments are giving Agder friendly Energy Research backed by the community in the region. Energi a foothold in the new digital ecoResearch Council of Norway. The centre system and networks of the flexible energy focuses on research relating to hydroelecAgder Energi is involved in the “Electric system of the future. tric power, including ways to reduce any Region Agder”, which aims to make Agder environmental impacts. The Group also Norway’s first fully electric region. This We are engaged in over 20 different pilot participates in CINELDI, another research innovation project is exploring possible collaborative projects in 10 European councentre supported by the Research Council business models and opportunities that will tries, which are aiming to demonstrate new of Norway. CINELDI is developing solutions arise as growing areas of society are elecsolutions through the practical application for the flexible and intelligent electrical trified. Together with Kristiansand Municiof technology and by developing new flexidistribution systems of the future. Agder pality and Agder County Council, Agder bility services. Additional aims of the pilot Energi is involved in several one-off projects Energi has developed a model to assess the projects include influencing regulators and that are part-funded by the Research electrification level and potential of a town establishing new partnerships with adjaCouncil of Norway’s ENERGIX programme, or region. This model has helped to define cent industries. NorFlex is one of Agder including a joint SINTEF-led project with oil the direction of the project. Following on Energi’s own pilot projects that will use and gas companies looking at clean energy naturally from this, tomorrow’s cities were new technology to smooth out spikes in exports from Norway. the theme for the Agder Energi Conference electricity consumption. The project aims “The Next Generation – Electric City” that to promote flexibility in electricity conIn 2017, the University of Agder opened a was held in May 2019. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no incidents in 2020 the reporting period that may impact the that have a significant impact on the Group’s future financial performance are ­financial statements for 2019. Events after discussed below under the outlook. OUTLOOK In recent years, there have been several Hydroelectric Power precipitation have a big impact on elecmergers in the electric power industry, and Electricity prices in Norway have fluctuattricity prices in the Nordic region, but electhis trend is expected to continue. The ed a great deal over the past 15 years, tricity prices here are also closely linked to Board of Directors believes that there are with the average price in the NO2 pricing German electricity prices and hence the significant synergies to be gained from region being approximately 30 øre/KWh. price of coal, gas and CO2, which are imgreater consolidation, including greater After reaching a trough of 17.7 øre/kWh in portant cost drivers for electricity generacapacity for continuous improvement and 2015, prices rose significantly over the foltion in our neighbouring markets. The innovation in the face of a rapidly-changlowing three years to 41.5 øre/kWh in price remained high in 2019 particularly ing energy system. Agder Energi wishes to 2018. In 2019, the electricity price in the on account of low snowfall in winter comactively support the continuing consolidaNO2 region was 38.7 øre/kWh, down 7% bined with reservoir storage levels being tion of the industry, provided this adds from the previous year. close to the average for the past ten years. value for our shareholders and is generally Although German electricity prices were beneficial to the company. Over the short term, temperatures and lower in 2019 than in 2018, prices remain AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 30 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR high compared with prices back in 2013. rest of Europe. According to the Norwegian Up until 2019, Energy Management & Water Resources and Energy Directorate’s Trading has used the Entelios brand for its The mild and wet winter in 2020 has led to analyses, price differences between councustomer-facing activities in the Nordic a sharp decline in forward prices, suggesting tries may decline. Having more international region and Germany. The business in the that electricity prices will be significantly inter­connectors will probably help to smooth Nordic region manages 30 TWh of eleclower in 2020 than in 2019. Meanwhile, out seasonal price fluctuations and in the tricity, and through services such as energy the coronavirus outbreak is having a big long run hydrological conditions should management it added significant value for impact on the whole global economy. It have less of an impact on electricity prices. its customers in 2019. The markets in has caused big falls on stock markets all which Entelios operates are challenging, around the world, as well as in the prices The EU’s energy and climate change poliand the business is developing its expertise of oil, coal, natural gas and CO2. A drop in cies are driving changes in the electric and systems in order to continuously manufacturing activity, and business activity power industry and growth in wind and solar improve its competitive position. in general, will reduce demand for electricpower is pushing up the proportion of ity and lead to lower electricity prices. renew­able energy in the European power The growth of renewable energy sources in However, the very low electricity prices in mix. A higher share of renewable generathe European power system is increasing the Nordic region at the moment are being tion will push European electricity prices the proportion of non-dispatchable generdriven by high precipitation, strong wind down. The price of fossil fuels and CO2 are ation, creating a growing need for flexible and high temperatures. We expect that nevertheless expected to be important resources. Entelios’ German business operthe coronavirus outbreak will primarily act factors for prices, and coal, gas and CO2 ates in the German markets for demand as a brake on any rise in electricity prices, prices will therefore continue to strongly response, short-term trading and managing which isn’t expected until after summer influence electricity prices. renewable energy generation. when the weather-related effects potentially unwind. However, the weakening of Energy Management & Trading The market for managing renewable energy the Norwegian krone against the euro may The main task of the Energy Management generation has been challenging, with high somewhat counteract low electricity prices, & Trading segment is managing the hydroimbalance costs. Demand response services as our electricity is traded in euros. The electric power generated by Agder Energi still face stiff competition in the market, Group’s hedges mean that the electricity by optimising scheduling and by controlincluding from fossil fuel-based sources of prices achieved by Agder Energi will not fall ling market risk. In addition, it adds value flexibility. Germany has decided to graduas much as market prices. through electricity-related trading which ally close down all of its coal-fired power involves using much of the same expertise stations by 2038, which is expected to At the end of the year, the Group’s hydroon hydrology, weather data and market make demand response more competitive in logical resources (water and snow) were analysis as is needed for managing the these markets, although flexible gas-fired above normal. They have continued to Group’s own production. power stations will remain a competitor. increase over the course of the winter, and they are now significantly higher than Climate change is a key driver of the big There is still a lot of focus on the carbon normal. Assuming normal precipitation changes taking place in electricity markets. footprints of companies, and hence a levels over the coming months, we expect An ever growing share of renewable energy desire to document the purchase of renewsignificantly higher hydroelectric power is displacing traditional thermal power able energy equivalent to their electricity generation and higher energy sales in generation in our neighbouring countries. consumption. Nevertheless, the price of 2020 than in 2019. This development is making the electricity guarantees of origin fell in 2019 compared market even more weather-dependent, with 2018. The Energy Management & Analyses of the electricity market forecast and price volatility is expected to rise in Trading business area is well positioned to that electricity consumption in the Nordic parallel with the rising share of wind and offer value-adding management services region will increase between now and solar power. These changes are making in this market. 2030, due to higher demand from indusexisting markets more complex, while try, the electrification of the transport secsystem and balancing markets are being Network tor and data centres. On the other hand, developed to deal with the new challenges. The Network segment implemented wideelectricity generation is expected to rise We will need to build up the necessary ranging corrective measures after the sharply, particularly as a result of new knowledge, expertise and analytical skills, extensive power cuts in 2018. Work on line wind farms. The electricity surplus in the as well as developing models and new clearing has been a priority, and there Nordic region is therefore expected to technology, in order to continue adding have also been significant upgrades to the grow between now and 2030. Viewed in value from energy management. This applies power grid. In 2020 the Agder region once isolation, this will put downward pressure both to the value we add to our own elecagain experienced periods of heavy snowon electricity prices. tricity generation and trading, and to our fall and strong winds, but this did not sigmanagement of market risk and financial nificantly affect the supply of electricity. However, interconnectors are making the challenges on behalf of market players This strongly suggests that the action Norwegian grid more integrated with the who don’t have that capacity themselves. taken has been effective. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The Network segment aims to provide cusMarketing The coronavirus crisis tomers in Agder with the highest possible The prospects of the companies in our After the financial statements for 2019 grid reliability at the lowest possible cost. Marketing business area will depend on were finalised, the coronavirus outbreak This involves continuously evaluating changes to the regulatory framework, has developed into a global pandemic. whether traditional types of investments can greater customer-orientation and technoAgder Energi has set up a dedicated emerbe replaced with alternative measures. One logical developments. gency response team that is reporting important tool that may become increa­s­ directly to the CEO. A number of meaingly significant in the future is distribution The electricity retailer LOS expects to sures have been implemented to reduce system operators being able to make achieve growth through digitalisation, valuethe risk of contagion and prepare for any greater use of load response provided by added products and services and greater deterioration in the situation. Our main both consumers and producers. In addition, use of strategic partners. focus is on protecting our own employees, more instrumentation has been added at contractors and suppliers, and as part of all levels of the grid structure, which is expec­ For the electrical contracting firm Craftor, Agder Energi’s responsibility to society, ted to support more efficient operation. we expect higher investment in the Swedish helping to reduce the risk of infection in regional and national transmission grids, society as a whole. In the coming years, society’s energy conbut lower investment in the distribution sumption will undergo a major transformagrid, particularly in rural areas. In cities and We are also focusing hard on keeping our tion. The aim is to convert it from fossil towns, the market is expected to be strong operations going, and at the time of publifuels to zero-emission sources in the space in all of the areas where the company opercation of the annual report, they had not of just a few years. Electrification will be ates. There is stiff competition in some been affected by the coronavirus outbreak. one of the most important tools in this parts of the market, but in niches requiring Agder Energi always aims to have adequate transition, and distribution system operaspecialist expertise, and for some design financial flexibility, and since the start of the tors will play a key role. Electrification and build contracts, the company enjoys a year it has further increased its liquidity doesn’t just involve changes to the power leading position. buffer by adding to its unused credit facilities. grid, it is also about transport and urban planning, etc., so there will be a need for Agder Energi Varme expects continued close cooperation between distribution sysgrowth from urbanisation and the densifitem operators and other sectors of society. cation of towns. Kristiansand, 2. April 2020 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Deputy chair Board member Board member Jon Vatnaland Marit Grimsbo Asbjørn Grundt Board member Board member Board member Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Oddvar Emil Berli Board member Board member Board member Sverre Hallvard Hamre Morten Johnsen Steffen Syvertsen Board member Board member CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 32 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR LOS is Norway’s fourth largest electricity retailer, and it supplies electricity to domestic customers in Agder and throughout the rest of Norway. The photo shows Grimstad town centre during late evening. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 33 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Lars Erik Torjussen Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Jon Vatnaland Marit Grimsbo Asbjørn Grundt Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Oddvar Emil Berli Sverre Hallvard Hamre Morten Johnsen AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 34 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Declaration pursuant to Section 5-5 of the Securities Trading Act We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge, the annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with current accounting standards, and that the information contained therein provides a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and overall results of the parent company and of the Group. We also confirm that the annual report gives a true and fair view of the performance, results and financial position of the parent company and the Group, as well as describing the most important areas of risk and uncertainty facing the Group’s businesses. Kristiansand, 2. April 2020 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Deputy chair Board member Board member Jon Vatnaland Marit Grimsbo Asbjørn Grundt Board member Board member Board member Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Oddvar Emil Berli Board member Board member Board member Sverre Hallvard Hamre Morten Johnsen Steffen Syvertsen Board member Board member CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 35 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Agder Energi Nett is responsible for fulfilling our duty to society to provide electrical energy to end users. THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 36 III III < > Introduction Introductrion governance governance Corporate Corporate Agder Agder The The Energi Energi Group AgderAgder Group Energi AS AS Energi CSR CSR THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Income statement 38 Comprehensive income 39 Statement of financial position 40 Statement of cash flows 41 Statement of changes in equity 42 General information and summary of the most important accounting principles 43 NOTES Note 1 Segment information 51 Note 2 Energy sales 55 Note 3 Transmission revenues 57 Note 4 Other operating revenues and other raw materials and consumables used 57 Note 5 Revenues from contracting services 58 Note 6 Gains and losses on electricity and currency contracts 58 Note 7 Employee benefits 59 Note 8 Property taxes and licence fees 59 Note 9 Other operating expenses 60 Note 10 Auditor’s fee 60 Note 11 Financial income and expenses 61 Note 12 Tax 62 Note 13 Depreciation and impairment losses 63 Note 14 Immaterielle eiendeler 64 Note 15 Property, plant and equipment 65 Note 16 Associates and joint arrangements 67 Note 17 Non-current Financial Assets 69 Note 18 Receivables 69 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 69 Note 20 Share capital and shareholder information 70 Note 21 Provisions 71 Note 22 Pensions 72 Note 23 Interest-bearing liabilities 75 Note 24 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 75 Note 25 Financial instruments 76 Note 26 Derivatives 79 Note 27 Financial risk management 80 Note 28 Accounting hedges 84 Note 29 Mortgaged assets, liabilities and guarantees issued 85 Note 30 Contingent liabilities and events after the end of the reporting period 86 Note 31 Management compensation, etc. 86 Note 32 Related parties 88 Note 33 Acquisitions, disposals and buy-out of non-controlling interests 88 Note 34 Group structure 89 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 37 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR INCOME STATEMENT (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2019 2018 Energy sales 2 11,182 12,648 Transmission revenues 3 1,256 1,313 Other operating revenues 4 1,412 1,406 Gains and losses on energy and currency contracts 6 247 -1,387 Total operating revenues 14,097 13,980 Energy purchases 2 -7,842 -9,012 Transmission expenses -390 -339 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -843 -766 Employee benefits 7 -812 -974 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -706 -659 Property taxes and licence fees 8 -192 -195 Other operating expenses 9 -928 -1 068 Total operating expenses -11,713 -13,013 Operating profit 2,384 967 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 110 -9 Financial income 11 25 77 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 11 29 67 Financial expenses 11 -289 -249 Net financial income/expenses -126 -114 Profit before tax 2,258 853 Income tax 12 -485 -198 Resource rent tax 12 -638 -859 Tax expense -1,123 -1,057 Net income 1,135 -204 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 34 14 -6 Of which attributable to controlling interest 1,122 -198 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 38 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2019 2018 Net income 1,135 -204 Other comprehensive income and expenses Cash flow hedges 28 -13 11 Translation differences -3 -14 Tax impact 12 3 -5 Total items that may be reclassified to income statement -13 -8 Remeasurements of pensions 22 38 -312 Tax impact 12 -17 92 Total items that will not be reclassified to income statement 21 -220 Total other comprehensive income and expenses 8 -228 Comprehensive income 1,143 -432 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 34 15 -4 Of which attributable to controlling interest 1,128 -428 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 39 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Amounts in NOK million) Note 31.12.19 31.12.18 Deferred tax assets 12 277 450 Intangible assets 14 400 326 Property, plant and equipment 15 16,123 15,171 Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 66 95 Derivatives 26 958 834 Other non-current financial assets 17 1,268 1,508 Total non-current assets 19,093 18,384 Inventories 133 158 Receivables 18 3,095 3,511 Derivatives 26 569 180 Cash and cash equivalents 19 131 383 Total current assets 3,928 4,232 TOTAL ASSETS 23,021 22,616 Paid-in capital 20 1,907 1,907 Retained earnings 2,142 1,592 Non-controlling interests 33 27 Total equity 4,082 3,526 Deferred tax 12 1,578 1 ,227 Provisions 21 2,032 2,010 Derivatives 26 825 1,148 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 23 8,386 7,603 Total non-current liabilities 12,820 11,988 Interest-bearing current liabilities 23 2,372 1,657 Tax payable 653 1,023 Derivatives 26 549 1,111 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 24 2,545 3,311 Total current liabilities 6,118 7,102 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 23,021 22,616 Kristiansand, 2. April 2020 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Jon Vatnaland Marit Grimsbo Sverre Hallvard Hamre Deputy chair Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Oddvar Emil Berli Asbjørn Grundt Morten Johnsen Steffen Syvertsen Board member Board member Board member Board member Board member CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 40 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 2,258 853 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 706 659 Unrealised gains/losses on energy, currency and interest rate contracts 6, 11 -1,393 1,558 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 -110 9 Gain/loss on sale of businesses 0 4 Tax paid -990 -609 Change in trade receivables 18 -215 -181 Change in trade payables 24 -144 474 Change in net working capital, etc. 391 -718 Net cash provided by operating activities 502 2,049 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 14, 15 -1,352 -1,397 Purchase of property, plant and equipment paid for by customers 15 -104 -92 Purchase of businesses/financial assets -41 -94 Net change in loans -2 165 Sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 1 248 Sale of businesses/financial assets 139 68 Net cash used in investing activities -1,359 -1,102 Financing activities New long-term borrowings 23 1,946 1,424 Repayment of long-term borrowings 23 -1,407 -961 Net change in current liabilities 23 658 -480 Dividends paid -592 -608 Net cash used in financing activities 605 -625 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -252 322 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 383 61 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 19 131 383 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 41 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Amounts in NOK million) Paid-in Cash flow Translation Retained Total for NonTotal capital hedges differences earnings controlling controlling equity interest interests Equity at 01/01/2018 1,907 -100 8 2,716 4,531 34 4,565 Net income for the year 0 0 0 -198 -198 -6 -204 Other comprehensive income and expenses 0 6 -15 -220 -229 1 -228 Dividends paid 0 0 0 -606 -606 -2 -608 Other changes in equity 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 Equity at 31/12/2018 1,907 -94 -7 1,693 3,499 27 3,526 Equity at 01/01/2019 1,907 -94 -7 1,693 3,499 27 3,526 Net income for the year 0 0 0 1,122 1,122 14 1,135 Other comprehensive income and expenses 0 -10 -4 21 7 1 8 Dividends paid 0 0 0 -592 -592 0 -592 Other changes in equity 0 0 0 14 14 -9 5 Equity at 31/12/2019 1,907 -104 -11 2,257 4,049 33 4,082 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 42 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GENERAL INFORMATION AND SUMMARY OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GENERAL INFORMATION Agder Energi’s activities comprise the genMost of the Group’s operations are in bility company, founded and domiciled in eration, distribution and sale of energy, as southern Norway. The parent company Norway. The address of the company’s well as providing energy-related services. Agder Energi AS is a Norwegian limited lia­ head office is Kjøita 18, 4630 Kristiansand. SUMMARY OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Basis of preparation liabilities and unrealised gains and losses Changes in ownership interests in Agder Energi’s consolidated financial statehave been eliminated in the consolidated subsidiaries ments have been prepared in accordance financial statements. Changes in the parent’s ownership interest in with International Financial Reporting Stana subsidiary that do not result in loss of condards (IFRS) as approved by the EU. The Acquisitions trol are accounted for as equity transactions. consolidated financial statements apply Purchase price allocation is performed for the historical cost principle, except in the the date when control was obtained. This is Joint operations case of certain financial assets and liabilities when the risks and rewards of ownership Ownership interests in part-owned power (including cash-settled derivatives) that have been transferred, and normally coinstations and water management associaare measured at fair value. cides with the acquisition date. Transaction tions are classified as joint operations and costs are not included in the purchase price, are accounted for by including the Group’s Changes to accounting principles and are instead expensed as incurred. The share of assets, liabilities, revenues and In 2019 Agder Energi adopted IFRS 16 – cost of shares in subsidiaries is eliminated expenses on the relevant lines in the conLeases. The way in which it has been impleagainst equity on the acquisition date. Barsolidated finan­cial statements (proportionmented is described in greater detail below. gain purchase gains are based on fair values. ate consolidation). There have been no other changes to the These gains are attributed to any of the accounting principles since 2018. company’s assets and liabilities with fair valJoint arrangements and associates ues that differ from their carrying amounts. A joint arrangement is a company that is Consolidation principles A provision is made for deferred tax relating subject to a contractual arrangement whereThe consolidated financial statements presto any such asset write-ups or write-downs. by two or more parties have joint control. ent the overall financial performance and Any part of the bargain purchase gain that Special rules on voting rights may give position of the parent company and its subcannot be attributed to identifiable assets owners more or less control than their sidiaries when considered as a single entity. and liabilities is treated as goodwill. No proownership interests would imply. Companies in which the Group holds a convision is made for deferred tax on goodwill. If trolling interest are consolidated. A controlthe value of the assets and liabilities transAssociates are companies over which the ling interest normally exists if Agder Energi ferred in conjunction with an acquisition Group wields significant influence. Normally holds more than 50% of voting rights, either exceeds the purchase price, the difference this applies to companies in which it has a through an ownership interest or through is recognised through profit and loss under 20-50% ownership interest. agreements. Subsidiaries acquired or estabother operating revenues. lished during the year are consolidated from Joint arrangements and associates are the date of acquisition or establishment. The Non-controlling interests in the acquiree are accounted for using the equity method. non-controlling interests’ share of profit or measured either at fair value, or as the nonThe Group’s proportionate share of the loss after tax is specified on a separate line. controlling interest’s share of the acquiree’s profit or loss for the year of these entities net identifiable assets. The measurement is recognised under financial income/ All of the financial statements of individual method should be chosen individually for expenses. On the statement of financial companies included in the consolidated each business combination. position, these investments are classified financial statements have been restated to as non-current financial assets, and are ensure that equivalent statement of finanFor step acquisitions, previously held carried at cost adjusted for the Group’s cial position items and transactions are assets are measured at fair value at the date share of retained earnings since acquisition, treated consistently throughout the Group. control is obtained. Any gains or losses are impairment losses and equity transactions All intra-group transactions, receivables, recognised through profit or loss. at the companies. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 43 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Revenues consideration that the Group expects to Disposal of property, plant and equipment Recognition of revenues – general receive. Agder Energi takes a practical When disposing of property, plant and Proceeds from the sale of goods and services approach to implementing IFRS 15, which equipment, any gain or loss is calculated by to customers are recognised as revenues involves recognising transmission revenues comparing the sales price with the remainwhen the goods or service are delivered. in the amount that Agder Energi is entitled ing carrying amount of the asset sold. Any The lines in the income statement for enerto invoice. The right to invoice arises when gain or loss is presented under other opergy sales, transmission revenues and other the electricity has been transported, and ating revenues or other operating expenses operating revenues include revenue from the right to invoice normally corresponds respectively. contracts with customers in accordance directly to the value to the customer. with IFRS 15. Energy sales also includes Green electricity certificates some small amounts related to electricity Each year, distribution system operators Green electricity certificates received as a certificates received by our electricity genreceive customer contributions for new result of qualifying electricity generation eration business and the sale of concession connections and grid upgrades. A critical are recognised at fair value under energy power, which both fall outside the scope of judgement in relation to the distribution sales when the electricity is generated. IFRS 15. system business is whether this is a sepaGreen electricity certificates held by the rate performance obligation in accordance electricity generation business are preEnergy sales with IFRS 15 or if it is linked to the future sented as inventories on the statement of Revenues from the sale of electricity are transport of energy. Agder Energi’s best financial position, and are measured at the recognised when the electricity is supplied. judgement is that customer contributions lower of their value when acquired and are not the consideration payable for a sepcurrent fair value less costs to sell. Energy sales include revenues from the sale arate performance obligation under IFRS 15, of electricity generated by the Group and but are rather linked to future electricity When the retail business sells electricity, energy sold to end users. The performance distribution. Therefore, the customer contrithe estimated cost of purchasing electricity obligation is to supply electricity, and the bution is recognised over a period equivacertificates to cover the volume sold is transaction price is the consideration that lent to the anticipated useful life of the asexpensed. A provision for volumes not covthe Group expects to receive. The perforset that has been built. ered by purchased electricity certificates mance obligation is fulfilled over time, which is included on the statement of financial means that the revenues shall be recogDistribution system operation is subject to position under current liabilities measured nised at the transaction price for each kWh the regulations of the Norwegian Water at fair value. Green electricity certificates supplied. Agder Energi takes a practical Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) on purchased are measured at cost. If the approach to implementing IFRS 15, which income caps. Each year, NVE specifies an company has more electricity certificates involves recognising revenues from electricity income cap for each individual distribution than it needs to cover the volume of elecsales in the amount that Agder Energi is ensystem operator. The revenues recognised tricity sold, the excess is presented under titled to invoice. The right to invoice arises in the income statement represent the volinventories. Any such excess is measured when the electricity has been generated umes delivered during the financial period at the lower of cost and fair value less and supplied, and the right to invoice normultiplied by the applicable tariff. The differcosts to sell. mally corresponds directly to the value to ence between the income cap and the actual the customer. In some cases the Group sells tariff revenues creates a surplus or shortfall. Foreign currency electricity through a market, in which case The surplus or shortfall is not taken into The consolidated financial statements are the market is defined as the customer. account in the financial statements, but the presented in Norwegian kroner (NOK). Subamount is detailed in Note 3. sidiaries with functional currencies other When electricity retailers and electricity gen­ than NOK were responsible for around e­rating companies in the Group buy and sell Revenues from contracting services 30% of the Group’s turnover in 2019. These electricity through a market, their purchases Revenues from contracting services relate are translated into NOK using the currentand sales are presented gross. This is because to contracts to design, build and maintain rate method. That involves the statement of they are separate business areas whose the electric power grid and electric power financial position being translated at the transactions are managed and executed systems. Revenues are recognised as the exchange rate on 31 December and the completely independently of one another. work related to the contract is completed. income statement being translated at The percentage of completion is normally average monthly exchange rates. Translation Transmission revenues estimated by looking at incurred expenses differences are included under other comRevenues from the transmission of elecas a percentage of total expected project prehensive income and expenses in the tricity are recognised when the electricity expenses. Accrued revenues are included on statement of comprehensive income. is supplied. the statement of financial position as contract assets (current receivables), while When preparing the accounts of the indiThe performance obligation is to transport advance payments received are included vidual companies, transactions in currenenergy, and the transaction price is the under contract liabilities (current liabilities). cies other than the functional currency of AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 44 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR the company are translated into the funccal energy sales that are settled in euros. value less any impairment losses. tional currency using the exchange rate on The performance obligations in the conthe date of transaction. Foreign currencytracts are met using electricity generated Agder Energi makes a provision for any denominated statement of financial position by the Group, so the contracts do not fall expected losses on financial assets at amitems are measured using the exchange within the scope of IFRS 9. However, the ortised cost. The provision is equivalent to rate on the statement of financial position fact that the contracts are settled in euros the difference between the contractual date. Translation differences are recognised means that they contain an embedded forcash flows and the cash flows that the under financial income/expenses. This eign currency derivative. Under the criteria Group expects to receive based on the does not apply to euro-denominated loans set out in IFRS 9, the foreign currency information available on the reporting date. used to secure future revenues from elecderi­vatives are not closely related to the tricity sales in that currency. Translation difelectricity contract. They are therefore c) Financial liabilities at amortised cost ferences relating to these loans are classiseparated from the contracts for physical On initial recognition, financial liabilities are fied as operating gains or losses. delivery and measured at fair value. measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequently finanFinancial instruments Presentation of derivatives in the income cial liabilities are carried at amortised cost The Group designates financial instruments statement and statement of financial using the effective interest rate method. in the following categories: position a) Financial assets and liabilities at fair value Derivatives are presented on separate lines Hedging through profit or loss; in the statement of financial position under In order to manage its risk exposures arising b) Financial assets at amortised cost; assets and liabilities respectively. Derivafrom fluctuations in electricity prices, c) Financial liabilities at amortised cost. tives are presented gross on the statement exchange rates and interest rates, the Group Designation is based on the type of instruof financial position, unless there exists a uses euro-denominated loans and derivament and its purpose. Instru­ments are claslegal right to offset, and that right will actutives, such as futures contracts for electricity sified when they are acquired. ally be used when the contracts are settled. and currency, as well as interest rate swaps Electricity contracts traded in markets satand basis swaps (combined interest rate a) Financial assets and liabilities at fair isfy the offsetting requirements. Contracts and currency swaps). The purpose of these value through profit or loss with the same counterparty expiring in the instruments is to secure cash flows from Financial assets and liabilities at fair value same financial period are therefore prefuture electricity generation, as well as to through profit or loss are financial instrusented net in the statement of financial avoid large variations in the interest expense ments that are not measured at amortised position. payable on the Group’s debt portfolio. cost. All derivatives must be measured at fair value through profit or loss, unless they In the income statement, gains and losses For most of its hedging relationships, the are part of an accounting hedge. For derivaon derivatives are presented on separate Group has chosen not to meet the docutives other than cash flow hedges, unrelines. Energy and foreign currency derivamentation requirements for hedge effecalised gains and losses are recognised tives used as economic hedges of operattiveness established by the accounting through profit or loss. ing exposure are presented under operating standards. These contracts are therefore not revenues, while gains and losses on interest accounted for as hedges, even if they have Physical contracts for the purchase and sale rate derivatives are presented under finanbeen entered into as hedges. These kinds of of energy, CO2 quotas, guarantees of origin cial income/expenses. Regular payments hedges are treated as financial assets or and electricity certificates that form part of relating to interest rate swaps are presented financial liabilities measured at fair value the trading portfolio are accounted for as as a financial expense. through profit or loss. financial instruments. Like their cash-settled equivalents, they are measured at fair value. b) Financial assets at amortised cost Certain interest rate swaps, including basis Financial assets are classified as being swaps, do meet the conditions for cash flow Physical contracts for the purchase and measured at amortised cost if the cash hedges under IFRS 9, and they are accoun­ sale of energy, CO2 quotas, guarantees of flows are solely payments of interest and ted for accordingly. These hedging relationorigin and electricity certificates that have principal, and if the instruments are held ships are presented in the consolidated been entered into for the purpose of obwithin a business model whose objective is finanzcial statements as follows: the effectaining electricity needed by the Group, or to collect contractual cash flows. Trade tive part of gains or losses on hedging as a means of selling the electricity it genreceivables make up by far the biggest instruments is recognised under other comerates, and which do not contain embedded proportion of the Group’s assets measured prehensive income and expenses in the derivatives, are normally recognised on deat amortised cost. On initial recognition, state­ment of comprehensive income, wherelivery. Contracts entered into for different they are measured at their transaction as the ineffective part is recognised under purposes are recorded in separate books. price. In most cases the interest component financial income/expenses in the income is insignificant, in which case the trade statement. Any effective gain or loss on a Agder Energi has some contracts for physireceivables are measured at their nominal hedging instrument is recycled to profit or AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 45 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR loss if the hedged item is recognised in the Income tax of concession power and power supplied income statement. Income tax is calculated in accordance with under long-term contracts with a duration of standard tax rules. The tax expense in the more than seven years, the actual contract Compensation income statement consists of tax payable price is applied. Actual operating expenses, The Group pays compensation to landowners and changes in deferred tax liabilities/astax-deductible depreciation and a tax-free for the right to use waterfalls and land. sets. This does not apply to deferred tax allowance are deducted from the estimated Compensation is also paid for any damage liabilities/assets relating to items recoggross rent in order to reach the net taxable to forests, land, etc. The compensation is a nised as other comprehensive income and resource rent. The tax-free allowance is combination of one-off payments and perexpenses in the statement of comprehendetermined each year by multiplying the petual charges or obligations to supply sive income or directly in equity, or to tax value of the power station’s property, electricity free of charge. The present value deferred tax liabilities/assets arising in conplant and equipment by a standard interest of annual charges and the cost of supplyjunction with business combinations. Tax rate set by the Ministry of Finance. In 2019 ing free electricity are presented under payable is calculated on the taxable profit the standard interest rate was 1.2%. Posiprovisions. If a contract to supply free for the year. Deferred tax liabilities/assets tive and negative resource rent can be electricity includes the option of settleare calculated on the basis of the temporary offset between power stations. This does ment in cash, it is considered a derivative differences that exist between accounting not apply to negative resource rent arising and is measured at fair value through profand tax values, as well as the tax effect of prior to 2007, which can only be offset at it or loss. On initial recognition, the cross any loss carryforwards. Deferred income the power station where it arose. Any negaentry of the provision is a hydropower tax liabilities and assets that are expected tive resource rent can be carried forward licence, which is presented under property, to be reversed in the same period are offset with interest to be offset against future plant and equipment. In subsequent periagainst each other. As assessment is made positive resource rent. The interest rate ods, annual compensation payments, as of the extent to which it will be possible to applied to carryforwards was 2.1% for 2019. well as changes to provisions, are considutilise deferred tax assets, and any amount ered other operating expenses, whereas that can probably be utilised is included on Deferred resource rent tax assets and one-off payments are deducted from the the statement of financial position. liabilities provision. When calculating the deferred tax liabilities Natural resource tax and assets to be included on the stateConcession power and licence fees The natural resource tax payable is not ment of financial position, temporary difEach year, the Group supplies electricity to affected by profit, and is calculated on the ferences and part of the accumulated local municipalities at a price set by the basis of the individual power station’s avernegative resource rent are taken into Norwegian parliament. Revenues from this age generation over the past seven years. account. The part of the negative resource “concession power” are recognised as The tax is charged at 1.3 øre/kWh. Natural rent tax that can be offset against tempothey are earned, based on the regulated resource tax can be deducted from income rary differences is capitalised on the stateprice. The present value of the future loss tax. Any natural resource tax that cannot be ment of financial position, as is the part of revenue due to the difference between fully offset against income tax can be carthat is likely to be used within a 10-year the regulated price and spot price is not ried forward and deducted from income tax time frame. Tax-free allowances are treated included on the statement of financial in subsequent years. In such cases, the poras a permanent difference in the year for position, but it is presented in Note 2. tion of the natural resource tax that has not which they are calculated. been offset is recognised as an asset. Each year, the Group pays licence fees to the Deferred resource rent tax liabilities and central government and municipalities for Resource rent tax assets are presented gross. the increase in generating capacity achieved Resource rent tax is calculated by applying by damming and piping water. Licence fees the Norwegian Taxation Act’s special rules Tax uncertainties are expensed as they are incurred. The capon the taxation of companies that generate In certain situations, it can be unclear how italised value of future fees is not included electricity. The expense in the income tax rules should be applied or interpreted. on the statement of financial position, but is statement consists of resource rent tax As a general rule, in such cases the financalculated and presented in Note 8. payable and changes in deferred resource cial statements will reflect Agder Energi’s rent tax liabilities/assets. interpretation of the rules. However, this Tax does not apply in cases where the tax All of the companies in the Group have to Resource rent tax is profit-related, and it authorities have issued, or notified that pay ordinary income tax. In addition, Agder is payable at a rate of 37% of the net they will issue, a ruling that conflicts with Energi Vannkraft is covered by the special resource rent estimated for each individual Agder Energi’s view. In those cases, the fin­ rules on the taxation of companies that power station. The resource rent is estiancial statements reflect the interpretagenerate electricity. The Group therefore mated from the hourly output of the indition of the tax authorities, even if Agder pays income tax, natural resource tax and vidual power station, multiplied by the spot Energi disagrees and has appealed against resource rent tax. price for the corresponding hour. In the case the ruling. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 46 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Classification of current and includes the expenses involved in acquiring pay for new connections or grid upgrades. non-current assets and liabilities and preparing the asset for use. For large These contributions are presented on the An asset is classified as a current asset if it investments, interest payable is calculated statement of financial position as unearned fulfils one of the following criteria: using the average interest rate on the revenue under provisions, and are taken to a) it is expected to be realised in, or is held Group’s borrowings during the investment income over the useful life of the relevant for sale or consumption in, the ordinary period, and the interest is capitalised as investments. business cycle; part of the acquisition cost. Costs incurred b) it is primarily held for trading; after the item entered service, such as regLeases c) it is expected to be realised within ular maintenance, are expensed. When signing contracts, Agder Energi asses­ twelve months of the end of the reportses to what extent they include a lease, i.e. ing period, or: Costs accrued in relation to internal investwhether they include a right to control the d) it is a form of cash or cash equivalent, ments within the Group are capitalised. use of an identifiable asset for a period of unless it is subject to restrictions which The acquisition cost only includes directly time in exchange for consideration. For mean that it cannot be realised or used attributable costs. leases, the present value of regular rent to settle a liability within twelve months payments is recognised as an interestof the end of the reporting period. Depreciation is calculated using the straightbearing liability, and the right of use as a line method over the expected useful life. non-current asset, from the date on which A liability is classified as a current liability if The residual value is taken into account the asset is made available to the Group. In it fulfils one of the following criteria: when calculating annual depreciation. Sites subsequent periods, the lease liability is a) it is expected to be settled as part of are not depreciated. Hydropower licences adjusted for accrued interest and rent the ordinary business cycle; are not depreciated either, as they do not payments, while the right-of-use asset is b) it is primarily held for trading; revert to public ownership. Major mainteadjusted for depreciation and impairment c) it is due for payment within twelve nance activities that do not add anything to losses. Linear depreciation is applied over months of the end of the reporting property, plant and equipment (periodic the anticipated useful life. period; or: maintenance) are capitalised and deprecid) the company has no unconditional right ated over the maintenance interval. The Impairment losses to delay settlement of the liability estimated useful life, depreciation method Property, plant, equipment and intangible beyond twelve months after the stateand residual value are reassessed each year. assets that are depreciated are also tested ment of financial position date. for impairment if there is any indication to When assets are sold or disposed of, their suggest that future cash flows cannot All other assets are classified as noncarrying amount is deducted, and any loss ­justify the carrying amount. Any difference current assets and all other liabilities are or gain is recognised in the income statebetween the carrying amount and the classified as non-current liabilities. ment under other operating expenses and recoverable amount is expensed in the ­ revenues. Repairs and regular maintenance ­income statement. The recoverable amount For non-current liabilities, any principal are expensed as incurred. Additions or imis the higher of fair value less costs to sell repayments due over the first year are provements are added to the asset’s cost and the utility value. presented as current liabilities. and are depreciated at the same rate as the asset. The distinction between mainteWhen testing for impairment, non-current Intangible assets nance and upgrades/improvements is assets are grouped at the lowest possible Intangible assets, including goodwill, are judged on the basis of the condition of the level at which it is possible to identify indecarried at cost less accumulated depreciaasset when it was acquired by the company. pendent cash flows (cash flow generating tion and impairment losses, provided that Expenses that lead to significantly higher units). Most of the Group’s non-current they meet the criteria for capitalisation. cash flows by increasing the useful life of ­assets are held by the hydroelectric power Intangible assets with an uncertain useful life, property, plant and equipment and/or and network business areas. Within hydroincluding goodwill, are not depreciated, and reducing maintenance costs, and that also electric power, any power stations on the are instead tested annually for impairment. improve functionality, are considered upsame river system that are managed grades/improvements. ­collectively are considered to be a single Property, plant and equipment cash flow generating unit. Investments in production facilities and If new parts are capitalised on the stateother property, plant and equipment are ment of financial position, the carrying In conjunction with each financial report, carried at cost, less accumulated depreciamount of the parts that were replaced is the Group assesses whether any past ation and impairment losses. Hydropower deducted, and any gain or loss is recog­impairment of non-financial assets, except licences are classified as property, plant nised in profit or loss. goodwill, should be reversed. and equipment. Depreciation starts when the assets are available for use. The acquiEach year, Agder Energi Nett receives cusInventories sition cost of property, plant and equipment tomer contributions that fully or partially Inventories are carried at the lower of cost AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 47 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR and fair value less costs to sell. The acquifair value of the pension plan assets. The interpretations that have come into force sition cost is calculated using the FIFO pension obligation is calculated annually as of the 2019 financial year. It is only the principle. by an independent actuary using the pronew standard on leases that has had a sigjected credit unit method. nificant impact on Agder Energi’s financial Reservoir reserves statements. The Group’s most valuable raw material is Remeasurements as a result of changes to the water stored in its reservoirs. The value the actuarial and economic assumptions IFRS 16 – Leases: of this water is not capitalised on the are recognised in the statement of compreIFRS 16, which replaces IAS 17 Leases, was statement of financial position. hensive income under other comprehensive implemented by Agder Energi as of income or expenses. This also applies to 01/01/2019. The standard sets out princiCash pooling arrangement the positive or negative difference between ples for recognition, measurement, preAgder Energi AS has a cash pooling arrangethe return on pension plan assets and the sentation and disclosures in relation to ment with its subsidiaries, and the Group discount rate. leases. The standard only applies to Agder has a joint bank account for short-term Energi in its capacity as a lessee. IFRS 16 deposits and short-term loans. External Changes to defined benefit pension obligarequires all leases to be treated in the interest income and interest expenses arising tions arising from plan amendments that same way, equivalent to the model used from the cash pooling arrangement are are applied retrospectively, i.e. where the for finance leases under IAS 17. Leases of presented as interest income and interest change in entitlement also applies to past low-value assets and leases of 12 months expen­ ses on the consolidated income years of service, are recognised directly in or less are exempted. At the start of the statement. On the consolidated statement of profit or loss. Changes that are not applied lease term, the lessee recognises a liability financial position, net deposits and overdrafts retrospectively are recognised through to make payments under the lease and an are presented as cash and cash equivalents profit or loss over the remaining years of asset representing the right to use the and current liabilities respectively. service. leased asset. The lessee must recognise an interest expense on the liability and deLiquid assets The net pension liabilities associated with preciate the asset. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, underfunded pension plans, and unfunded bank deposits and commercial paper with a pension plans that are treated as operating IFRS 16 has been implemented using the remaining term to maturity of less than expenses, are classified as provisions for modified retrospective method. This three months when it was acquired. non-current liabilities. For pension plans means that the comparative figures have with a surplus, the surplus is presented as a not been restated. The Group has made Dividends net pension asset under other non-current use of the exemption in the standard that Proposed dividends are classified as equity. financial assets. allows it to continue identifying leases Dividends are reclassified as current liabiliaccording to past practice. On the transities when they are adopted by the AGM. The pension expense for the period is intion date, assets are measured individually cluded under employee benefits. It consists at a value equivalent to the lease liability. Provisions, contingent assets and of the sum of the current service cost, interNo adjustments have been made for any contingent liabilities est on net pension liabilities, past service prepaid and/or accrued rent payments as A provision is recognised if the Group has a pension adjustments and employers’ NICs. the amounts involved are insignificant. present obligation arising from a past event, and if it is probable that it will have Defined contribution pension plans The tables below show the impact of impleto settle the obligation. Provisions are meaIn the case of a defined contribution plan, the menting IFRS 16. The first part shows the sured using the management’s best estiGroup makes regular contributions into a effect on the statement of financial posimate of the cost of settling the obligations separate legal entity, but has no further liabiltion on the implementation date. The secon the statement of financial position date, ities once the contributions have been made. ond part shows the effect on the income and are discounted to their present value if statement for 2019. Capitalised leases this makes a significant difference. The contributions are expensed as employee mainly comprise leased office premises. benefits when they are made. In addition, there are leased vehicles, Pensions machi­n­ery and equipment. Defined benefit plans Statement of cash flows A defined benefit plan is a pension plan The statement of cash flows has been which defines the pension benefit an prepared using the indirect method. employee will receive on retirement. The pension liability recognised for defined New accounting standards and benefit plans is the present value of the interpretations pension benefits earned as of the stateThe IASB has published a number of amend­ ment of financial position date, less the ments, new accounting standards and AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 48 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Balance sheet effects (Amounts in millions of NOK) 31/12/2018 Effect of IFRS 16 01/01/2019 Property, plant and equipment 15,171 262 15,433 Equity 3,526 0 3,526 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 7,603 215 7,818 Interest-bearing current liabilities 1,657 47 1,704 Income statement effects (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 income Effect of IFRS 16 2019 income statement excl. statement IFRS 16 Depreciation -652 -54 -706 Other operating expenses -985 57 -928 Financial expenses -282 -7 -289 Net effect on pre-tax profit -4 Cash flow effects (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 cash flow excl. Effect of IFRS 16 2019 cash flow IFRS 16 Net cash provided by operating activities 445 57 502 Net cash used in financing activities 662 -57 605 Reconciliation of lease liabilities at 01/01/2019 with operating lease liabilities at 31/12/2018 (Amounts in millions of NOK) Operating lease liabilities at 31/12/2018 296 Average marginal interest rate on loans 2,5 % Discounted operating lease liabilities at 01/01/2019 274 Non-capitalised short-term and low-value asset leases 12 Lease liabilities at 01/01/2019 262 The IASB has made amendments to existing accounting standards that had not yet entered into force at the end of 2019. None of these amendments are expected to have a material impact on Agder Energi’s financial statements. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 49 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS Below we have set out the areas where the exemption). In some cases determining Concession power and licence fees judgements made by management in applywhether a contract of this kind should be The concession power provided and the ing the Group’s accounting principles classified as cash-settled is based on best licence fees paid to the central governpotentially have a material impact on the judgement. ment and municipalities are supposed to consolidated financial statements. compensate for the damage or inconveBased on the criteria set out in IFRS 9, the nience caused by hydropower projects. Non-financial energy contracts senior management team has used its Liabilities arising from the fact that future Non-financial energy contracts, which in best judgement to assess which contracts concession power may be supplied at a accordance with IFRS 9 are considered to should be defined as financial instruments discount to the market price, as well as be contracts that can be “settled net in and which contracts should not. the cost of future licence fees, are regulacash”, are treated as though they were fin­ tory requirements and are therefore nonancial instruments. This applies unless the Contracts classified as financial instrucontractual liabilities. Consequently they contracts have been entered into and ments are carried at fair value, with gains are not included in the financial statecontinue to be held for the purpose of the and losses recognised in profit or loss, ments, but their present value has been receipt or delivery of the energy in accorwhile other contracts are recognised on calculated, and is presented in Note 2 and dance with the Group’s expected purchase, delivery. Note 8. sale or usage requirements (the “own use” UNCERTAINTIES – CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In conjunction with the preparation of the ed over its expected useful life, giving rise be indicated by changes in market prices or financial statements, the management has to depreciation in the income statement. contract structures, negative events or to make certain estimates and assumpEstimates of the useful life of assets are other operating conditions. When calcula­ tions. These affect the reported assets and based on experience and past performance, ting the recoverable amount, a number of liabilities, including contingent assets and but they also rely significantly on best estimates must be made regarding future liabilities at the end of the reporting period, judgement. The estimated useful life is cash flows, with required rates of return, and the reported revenues and expenses adjusted if new information implies that prices, operating margins and sales volfor the period. Actual results may deviate the current useful life is no longer the umes being the most important factors. from these estimates. best estimate. The residual value, which is taken into account when calculating depreDeferred tax assets The most important assumptions concernciation, is also estimated. The Group has capitalised deferred tax ing the future and other key sources of estiassets arising from negative resource rent mation uncertainty are set out below. The Group spends significant amounts on that has been carried forward. Deferred tax maintenance and upgrades to its property, assets are capitalised when it is expected Fair value of financial instruments plant and equipment. Best judgement is that it will be possible to make use of the The fair value of long-term cash-settled used to determine whether any given exnegative resource rent within a ten-year electricity contracts, embedded derivatives penditure is an upgrade (capitalised) or time frame. The timing of when it may be and electricity contracts not covered by the maintenance (expensed). Expenditures possible to make use of negative resource own use exemption is partly calculated using that lead to significantly higher cash flows rent is particularly dependent on assumpassumptions that are not observable in the by increasing the useful life of property, tions regarding future electricity prices. market. Where that is the case, the manageplant and equipment and/or reducing The management has used its best judgement has based its estimates on the informa­ maintenance costs, and that also improve ment when making assumptions about tion available in the market in combination functionality, are capitalised. Regular future electricity prices and other assumpwith its best judgement. There is a more maintenance is expensed. See Note 15 for tions that affect future resource rent. See detailed description of the assumptions a breakdown of expensed maintenance Note 12 for a more detailed description. used to value those contracts in Note 25. activities. The fair value of exchange-traded interest Pensions rate, foreign currency and electricity derivaImpairment losses Calculating pension liabilities involves using tives is calculated based on market practice The Group invests significant amounts in best judgement and estimates for a number and confirmed by external market players. intangible assets and property, plant and of parameters. See Note 22 for a more equipment. These non-current assets are detailed description of the assumptions Property, plant and equipment tested for impairment if there is an indicathat have been applied. Property, plant and equipment is depreciattion that they have fallen in value. This might AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 50 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTES NOTE 1 SEGMENT INFORMATION (Amounts in millions of NOK) HydroelecEnergy maNetwork LOS Craftor tric Power nagement 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 2,785 6,606 1,452 979 912 of which external operating revenues 2,623 6,406 1,397 967 912 of which internal operating revenues 162 200 54 12 0 Energy and transmission expenses -430 -6,241 -487 -802 0 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 0 -2 0 -3 -690 Employee benefits 7 -79 -199 -87 -41 -122 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -555 -195 -439 -70 -45 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment losses 1,721 -30 439 65 56 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -280 -23 -276 -2 -2 Operating profit 1,441 -53 163 62 54 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 0 0 0 0 0 Financial income 11 31 6 3 4 0 Financial expenses 11 -119 -12 -102 -1 -7 Net financial income/expenses -88 -7 -99 4 -7 Profit before tax 1,353 -60 64 66 47 Tax expense 12 -939 -4 -13 -15 -8 Net income 414 -64 50 51 38 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 10,028 2,255 6,313 572 200 Equity 2,303 395 863 114 -43 Total segment liabilities 7,724 1,861 5,450 458 242 Capital employed 1) 7,518 608 4,836 114 93 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 5,215 213 3,974 0 135 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1,103 -26 435 69 53 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 0 0 0 0 0 Investments in intangible assets 3) 0 0 61 22 0 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 680 12 444 -10 2 Number of full-time equivalents 141 197 172 39 127 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. The negative value for LOS is due to its reclassification. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 51 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in millions of NOK) Parent/ Eliminations Total IFRS adjusTotal Other (NGAAP) tments (IFRS) 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 899 -745 12,888 1,209 14,097 of which external operating revenues 582 0 12,888 1,209 14,097 of which internal operating revenues 317 -745 0 0 0 Energy and transmission expenses -101 276 -7,783 -449 -8,232 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -149 0 -843 0 -843 Employee benefits 7 -328 45 -812 0 -812 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -308 434 -1,177 57 -1,120 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment losses 13 11 2,273 816 3,090 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -60 0 -644 -61 -706 Operating profit -47 11 1,630 756 2,384 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 110 0 110 0 110 Financial income 11 1,004 -1,024 25 29 54 Financial expenses 11 -569 538 -274 -16 -289 Net financial income/expenses 544 -486 -139 13 -126 Profit before tax 497 -475 1,491 768 2,258 Tax expense 12 21 0 -958 -165 -1,123 Net income 518 -475 533 603 1,135 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 14,351 -13,383 20,335 2,686 23,021 Equity 3,873 -3,130 4,374 -292 4,082 Total segment liabilities 10,479 -10,253 15,961 2,977 18,938 Capital employed 1) 13,751 -12,044 14,876 -36 14,840 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 9,878 -8,913 10,502 256 10,758 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 2,585 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 66 0 66 0 66 Investments in intangible assets 3) 38 15 136 0 136 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 83 1 1,212 411 1,623 Number of full-time equivalents 312 987 987 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 52 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in millions of NOK) HydroelecEnergy Network LOS Craftor tric Power management 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 3,703 7,599 1,358 942 953 of which external operating revenues 3,532 7,296 1,266 913 907 of which internal operating revenues 171 303 92 30 47 Energy and transmission expenses -373 -7,238 -459 -802 0 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 0 0 0 -1 -626 Employee benefits 7 -119 -249 -124 -36 -210 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -582 -197 -488 -66 -74 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment losses 2,629 -84 287 37 44 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -271 -27 -271 -2 -4 Operating profit 2,358 -111 16 35 40 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 0 0 0 0 0 Financial income 11 23 8 2 4 5 Financial expenses 11 -101 -10 -91 -1 -8 Net financial income/expenses -77 -3 -89 3 -4 Profit before tax 2,281 -114 -72 38 36 Tax expense 12 -1,330 -21 31 -9 -7 Net income 950 -135 -41 29 29 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 9,509 2,945 6,368 485 253 Equity 2,481 419 908 99 -86 Total segment liabilities 7,028 2,526 5,460 386 339 Capital employed 1) 6,406 554 4,620 99 111 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 3,925 134 3,712 0 198 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1,810 -144 208 31 52 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 0 0 0 0 0 Investments in intangible assets 3) 0 1 34 0 0 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 568 18 637 10 3 Number of full-time equivalents 142 192 170 45 140 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 53 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in millions of NOK) Parent/ Eliminations Total IFRS adjusTotal Other (NGAAP) tments (IFRS) 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 912 -872 14,596 -616 13,980 of which external operating revenues 607 76 14,596 -616 13,980 of which internal operating revenues 306 -948 Energy and transmission expenses -92 273 -8,691 -660 -9,351 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -140 0 -766 0 -766 Employee benefits 7 -300 64 -974 0 -974 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -362 512 -1,257 -6 -1,263 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment losses 19 -23 2,908 -1,282 1,626 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -71 -7 -653 -6 -659 Operating profit -52 -30 2,255 -1,288 967 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 15 -24 -9 0 -9 Financial income 11 1,819 -1,784 77 67 144 Financial expenses 11 -821 770 -262 14 -249 Net financial income/expenses 1,013 -1,039 -195 81 -114 Profit before tax 961 -1,069 2,060 -1,208 853 Tax expense 12 -142 186 -1,293 236 -1,057 Net income 819 -883 768 -971 -204 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 15,370 -15,025 19,906 2,709 22,616 Equity 3,807 -3,874 3,754 -228 3,526 Total segment liabilities 11,564 -11,150 16,152 2,937 19,089 Capital employed 1) 13,528 -12,301 13,018 -232 12,787 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 9,721 -8,426 9,264 -4 9,260 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 738 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 161 -66 95 0 95 Investments in intangible assets 3) 44 -15 64 0 64 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 100 -3 1,333 92 1,425 Number of full-time equivalents 287 976 976 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. Segment information is presented consistently with internal reporting to the Group management team (the Group’s senior decisionmakers). Segment reporting is used by Agder Energi’s management to assess the performance of the various business areas, and to allocate resources to them. Operating segments are presented in accordance with the organisational structure, and are based on the internal business areas. The segments will change in 2020 to reflect the new Group structure. The Network business area is presented as a separate segment. The business area is responsible for electric power distribution in Agder. The Hydroelectric Power business area, which is responsible for operating the Group’s hydropower plants, is also reported as a separate segment. The Energy Management & Trading business area manages the Group’s generation portfolio, its retail portfolios in Scandinavia and its operations in the German demand response market. The business area includes the companies Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS, AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 54 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Entelios AS, the Entelios AB Group, Entelios AG, Entelios GmbH and Nordgröön, and its operations are located in Norway, Sweden and Germany. Revenues from the generation portfolio are presented under the Hydroelectric Power business area. Within the Marketing business area, LOS and Craftor (previously Otera AB) are presented as separate segments, due to their size and the differences between their areas of activity, while the rest of the business area is presented under parent company/other. LOS is an energy retailer that serves domestic customers, while Craftor provides electrical contracting services. The financial statements follow Norwegian generally accepted accounting principles (NGAAP), as they are also used for internal corporate governance purposes. The Eliminations segment relates to the elimination of intra-group transactions and balances. Transactions between segments are on an arm’s-length basis. The IFRS adjustments segment covers items arising from the fact that the accounts of segments are presented in accordance with NGAAP, while the consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with IFRS. The main reason for the differences between the segment reporting and the consolidated financial statements is that changes in unrealised gains/losses on derivatives are not included in the segment reporting. In addition, the segment reporting for the Network business area uses the approved income cap, whereas the consolidated statements are based on invoiced revenues; see Note 3. The majority of Agder Energi’s turnover comes from customers in Norway or from Nord Pool Spot (the marketplace for trading physical power contracts). The turnover of the subsidiary groups Craftor and Entelios AB comes from the Swedish market. The subsidiary group Entelios GmbH generates its turnover in the German market. Geographic distribution of operating revenues by location of business (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Norway 9,804 10,482 Sweden 2,536 2,987 Germany 1,131 1,782 Other countries 380 116 Total energy sales, transmission revenues and other operating revenues 13,850 15,367 Unrealised gains and losses on energy and currency contracts 247 -1,387 Total operating revenues 14,097 13,980 Geographic distribution of assets based on location of business (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Norway 21,875 21,016 Sweden 881 1,110 Germany 155 417 Other countries 111 73 Total assets 23,021 22,616 NOTE 2 ENERGY SALES Agder Energi optimises its generation of hydroelectric power based on an assessment of the value of available water in relation to current and expected future spot prices. Contracts for physical delivery and cash-settled contracts are used to secure cash flows from power generation. Energy sales only covers revenues from physical energy sales to customers, while the income statement effects of financial contracts are presented as gains and losses on electricity and currency contracts, see Note 6. Long-term physical delivery contracts with industrial customers total around 20 TWh over the period from now until 2030. The Group’s energy sales and purchases are specified in the tables below. Electricity generated by the hydropower business and sold through Nord Pool Spot and electricity bought through Nord Pool Spot for the retail business are presented gross. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 55 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR External energy sales by segment (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Hydroelectric Power 3,093 3,470 Energy Management & Trading 6,900 8,046 Network 31 42 LOS 956 904 Craftor 0 0 Other 202 186 Total 11,182 12,648 Energy sales by category (Amounts in millions of NOK) Segment 2019 2018 Power generation Hydroelectric Power and other 3,248 3,675 Retail market Energy Management & Trading and LOS 6,560 7,224 Network Network 31 43 District heating Other 197 188 Market operations 1) Energy Management & Trading 1,374 1,764 Eliminations -229 -245 Total 11,182 12,648 1) Refers to managing and providing market access for renewable energy on behalf of external generating companies, as well as selling demand response services. Energy purchases by category (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Power generation 328 226 Retail market 6,172 6,972 Network 148 178 District heating 108 92 Market operations 1,332 1,788 Eliminations -246 -244 Total 7,842 9,012 The table below shows key figures for our power generating activities 2019 2018 Net electricity generation (less pumping) (GWh) 7,288 8,686 Reservoir reserves at 31 Dec. (GWh) 3,724 3,180 Reservoir reserves as % of capacity 71% 61% The resources Agder Energi needs to generate power are available to it through licences. Agder Energi controls – either directly or indirectly through water management associations and joint arrangements – licences to regulate watercourses and to acquire owner­ ship rights to waterfalls. These licences do not revert to public ownership, with the exception of a few minor regulations of the Arendal river system, which constitute less than 1% of the total river regulation capacity. Agder Energi has a perpetual obligation to supply 553 GWh each year to local municipalities, who are entitled to buy electricity at a regulated price. In most cases this price is set by the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy, but Agder Energi has some licences where the price is established individually based on government guidelines. Revenues from concession power are recognised as income when the electricity is supplied. The loss of revenue (compared with market prices) arising from future deliveries of concession power is estimated at NOK 2.2 billion. No provisions have been made for this in the financial statements, as it is estimated that the agreed price covers electricity generation costs. The calculation of the loss of revenue is based on a nominal pre-tax interest rate of 5.0%, a price differential of 10 øre/kWh and an expected inflation rate of 2.5%. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 56 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Volume in GWh) 2019 2018 Volume of concession power (GWh) 553 555 Regulated price (øre/kWh) 11.0 11.2 NOTE 3 TRANSMISSION REVENUES Transmission revenues come from the Network segment. The Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate regulates the revenues of distribution system operators by setting an annual income cap. Based on the income caps they have been allocated and the volumes of electricity they expect to distribute, distribution system operators set the network tariffs payable by customers. In the event of any difference between actual and expected volumes, revenues from network tariffs will show a surplus or shortfall relative to the permitted revenues (income cap). In the accounts of Agder Energi Nett AS, this difference is treated as either a liability or an asset. However, in the consolidated financial statements, which are presented in accordance with IFRS, this surplus or shortfall does not qualify for inclusion on the statement of financial position, and only the actual network tariff revenues are recognised in the income statement. (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Revenues under next year’s income cap recognised in the consolidated income statement -86 105 Accumulated surplus transmission revenues not included on the statement of financial position 251 337 NOTE 4 OTHER OPERATING REVENUES AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS AND CONSUMABLES USED Other operating revenues (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Contracting 5 912 953 Other revenues 499 453 Total 1,412 1,406 Other raw materials and consumables used (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Contracting 5 689 626 Other purchases 153 140 Total 843 766 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 57 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 5 REVENUES FROM CONTRACTING SERVICES Revenues from contracting services relate to Craftor, which carries out projects for its customers. Operating revenues are recognised in proportion to the percentage of completion of the project. The percentage of completion is estimated to be the ratio between project costs incurred to date and total estimated project costs. Estimated losses on projects are also recognised in profit or loss. (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Total revenues recognised for contracts that had not been completed at 31 Dec. 1,116 575 Total expenses recognised for contracts that had not been completed at 31 Dec. 962 491 Accrued revenues included under other receivables 25 80 Deferred revenues included under other liabilities 11 38 NOTE 6 GAINS AND LOSSES ON ELECTRICITY AND CURRENCY CONTRACTS Breakdown of profit and loss effects of financial instruments by class of instrument: (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Cash-settled electricity contracts 26 860 -1,599 Supply of free electricity/Cash-settled compensation power 21 -30 -46 Other energy-related contracts at fair value 26 -136 190 Currency contracts, basis swaps and currency loans 26 205 20 Embedded derivatives 26 -42 77 Total change in unrealised gains and losses 26 856 -1,357 Realised gains and losses for the year -609 -30 Total 247 -1,387 Reversal of unrealised gains and losses at 1 January on contracts closed out during the year 1) 440 -243 Gains and losses on contracts that had not been closed out as of 31 December 416 -1,114 Total 856 -1,357 1) Value at start of 2019 (2018) of contracts that were closed out during 2019 (2018). The table above refers to financial instruments that are used in relation to electricity generation or the retail business and that must be measured at fair value through profit or loss. These are mainly designed to secure future revenues from electricity sales. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 58 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Wages and salaries 792 895 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 141 132 Pension expense (incl. employers’ NICs) 22 -20 51 Other benefits and reimbursements 47 48 Capitalised wage costs arising from own investments -148 -152 Total 812 974 Number of full-time equivalents at 31 Dec. 987 976 Wage costs were lower in 2019 than in 2018 as a result of the sale of Otera Infra in August 2018. For details of senior management compensation, please see Note 31. NOTE 8 PROPERTY TAXES AND LICENCE FEES (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Licence fees 52 52 Property taxes 140 143 Total 192 195 Licence fees are perpetual payments designed to compensate for the damage or inconvenience caused by hydropower projects. The fees are paid annually and are adjusted in line with the consumer price index, initially at the first turn of the year five years after the licence was granted and subsequently every five years. Annual and perpetual payments to compensate for the damage or inconvenience caused by the development of hydropower stations are indexed in the same way as licence fees. The present value of the Group’s future licence fees, for which no provision has been made in the financial statements, has been calculated to be NOK 1.9 billion using a discount rate of 2.5%. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 59 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 9 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Property-related expenses 40 97 Lease of machinery and office equipment 4 27 Purchase of plant and equipment 65 55 Repairs to and maintenance of equipment 16 21 Contractors 157 184 Operation/maintenance of IT systems 44 34 Technical consultants 54 55 Administrative consultants 192 193 Other external services 40 68 Office supplies, telecommunications, postage, etc. 36 32 Cost of vehicles 30 30 Leases for cars, machinery, etc. 3 34 Travel expenses, subsistence allowances, mileage expenses, etc. 30 34 Sales, advertising, representation, membership fees and gifts 40 41 Insurance premiums 28 24 Share of other operating expenses at joint arrangements 88 90 Provision for free electricity and compensation 0 6 Other operating expenses 60 43 Total 928 1,068 NOTE 10 AUDITOR’S FEE The Group’s auditor Ernst & Young audits the parent company and the most important subsidiaries. The total auditing fees paid to Ernst & Young for consolidated companies comprise: (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Statutory audit 3.4 4.6 Other certification services 0.1 0.1 Tax advice 0.0 0.0 Other services not related to auditing 0.4 0.7 Total 3.9 5.4 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 60 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 11 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 16 110 -9 Net realised exchange rate gains 0 27 Other interest income 22 47 Other financial income 3 3 Financial income 25 77 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 26 29 67 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 29 67 Interest expense on loans 1) 214 176 Interest expense on interest rate swaps 57 73 Other interest expenses 14 6 Interest on capitalised construction loans 15 -23 -18 Net realised exchange rate losses 15 0 Realised loss on shares 0 5 Other financial expenses 13 7 Financial expenses 289 249 Net financial income/expenses -126 -114 1) Relates to interest expenses on loans carried at amortised cost. Also includes NOK 7 million of lease liabilities. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 61 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 12 TAX (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Tax expense in income statement Income tax payable 82 354 Resource rent tax payable 532 671 Changes in deferred income tax 402 -156 Changes in deferred resource rent tax 106 188 Total tax expense recognised in income statement 1,123 1,057 Reconciliation of nominal and effective tax rates Profit before tax 2,258 853 Expected tax based on nominal rate of 22% (23%) 497 196 Tax effect of Permanent differences -36 23 Impact of loss carryforwards not included on the SoFP 25 1 Resource rent tax incl. deferred tax 638 859 Net impact of changes in tax rates 0 -23 Total tax expense 1,123 1,057 Effective tax rate 50% 124% The high tax rate in 2018 was the result of recognising unrealised losses on contracts that were measured at fair value. These contracts are generally only subject to ordinary income tax, and not resource rent tax. Unrealised losses on these contracts therefore significantly reduced pre-tax profit, without having any impact on the resource rent tax expense. Breakdown of temporary differences and negative resource rent carried forward Taxable income Property, plant and equipment 4,664 3,787 Current assets/liabilities -222 -270 Pension liabilities 495 401 Other non-current provisions -1,241 -948 Derivatives 261 -884 Other 5 15 Gross differences 3,962 2,100 Tax rate 22% 22% Net deferred income tax assets (-)/liabilities (+) 872 462 Resource rent Temporary differences 1,909 1,695 Negative resource rent carryforwards expected to be offset against profit over the coming 10 years -749 -846 Gross differences 1,160 850 Tax rate 37% 37% Net deferred income tax assets (-)/liabilities (+) 429 314 Of which presented in the financial statements as: Deferred tax 1,578 1,227 Deferred tax assets 277 450 Deferred tax assets arising from negative resource rent carryforwards not included on the SoFP -283 -389 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 62 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The assessment of whether the Group will be able to make use of its accumulated negative resource rent carryforwards is based on market prices for electricity and an assumption that future yields on short-term government debt will be between 1.1% and 2.4%. In accordance with the relevant accounting standards, the calculation makes an adjustment to the expected value of negative resource rent carryforwards to allow for the uncertainty associated with this. (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Changes in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/ assets (-) over the year Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. prior year 777 829 New deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) 2 0 Deferred tax liabilities (-)/assets (+) 0 2 Change in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) included in comprehensive income 14 -87 Change in deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) recognised through profit or loss 508 31 Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. 1,301 777 Changes in deferred tax on items in the SoCI Remeasurements of pensions 17 -92 Cash flow hedges -3 5 Net change in deferred tax on items in the SoCI 14 -87 Tax uncertainties Tax cases where the outcome is uncertain are described in greater detail in Note 30. NOTE 13 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 60 63 Impairment of intangible assets 14 0 10 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15 639 581 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 15 7 5 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses recognised in 706 659 operating profit Impairment of financial assets 0 0 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses recognised in 706 659 statement of cash flows AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 63 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Amounts in millions of NOK) Goodwill Software Other intan­ Total intangible assets gible assets Carrying amount at 01/01/2018 94 175 99 368 Additions 0 39 26 65 Disposals at book value 0 0 -34 -34 Depreciation 0 -36 -27 -63 Impairment losses 0 0 -10 -10 Carrying amount at 31/12/2018 94 178 54 326 Acquisition cost 94 314 127 535 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 0 -136 -73 -209 Carrying amount at 31/12/2018 94 178 54 326 Carrying amount at 01/01/2019 94 178 54 326 Additions 2 91 43 136 Disposals at book value 0 0 -2 -2 Depreciation 0 -42 -18 -60 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 96 227 77 400 Acquisition cost 96 385 157 638 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 0 -158 -80 -238 Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 96 227 77 400 Depreciation period Tested an3-5 years 3-8 years nually Goodwill impairment The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there is evidence to suggest a fall in value. No goodwill impairment was recognised in 2019. Agder Energi has not identified any other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Goodwill that has arisen in conjunction with acquisitions has been allocated as follows: Breakdown of goodwill on the SoFP (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Craftor 38 38 Entelios AB and Entelios AS 51 51 Others 7 5 Carrying amount of goodwill 96 94 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 64 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION DISTRIBUTION NETWORK (Amounts in millions of NOK) Rights and Tunnels and Machinery and Power station Regional power Local licences dams electrical buildings and transmission distribution infrastructure sites grid network Carrying amount at 01/01/2018 1,129 3,496 2,246 986 1,706 3,441 Additions 0 61 123 22 294 442 Disposals at book value 0 0 -4 0 -254 -12 Depreciation -3 -73 -151 -37 -73 -170 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2018 1,126 3,484 2,214 971 1,673 3,701 Acquisition cost 1,179 4,948 5,178 2,091 2,693 6,138 Accumulated depreciation and -53 -1,464 -2,964 -1,120 -1,020 -2,437 impairment losses Carrying amount at 31/12/2018 1,126 3,484 2,214 971 1,673 3,701 Effect of adopting IFRS 16 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 01/01/2019 1,126 3,484 2,214 971 1,673 3,701 Additions 0 107 355 47 168 383 Disposals at book value 0 0 0 0 -12 0 Depreciation -3 -70 -157 -38 -73 -169 Impairment losses 0 -2 -5 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 1,123 3,519 2,407 980 1,756 3,915 Acquisition cost 1,179 5,052 5,525 2,138 2,822 6,494 Accumulated depreciation and impair-56 -1,533 -3,118 -1,158 -1,066 -2,579 ment losses Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 1,123 3,519 2,407 980 1,756 3,915 Depreciation period (years) 67/ 67-99 20-50 50-67/ 15-50 15-50 not depreciated not depreciated DISTRICT HEATING OTHER ACTIVITIES (Amounts in millions of NOK) District Property Other Work in Leased Total property, heating progress assets plant and equipment Carrying amount at 01/01/2018 669 120 149 657 0 14,599 Additions 78 1 77 327 0 1,425 Disposals at book value 0 0 3 0 0 -267 Depreciation -27 -7 -45 0 0 -586 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2018 720 114 184 984 0 15,171 Acquisition cost 936 200 505 984 0 24,852 Accumulated depreciation and -216 -86 -321 0 0 -9,681 impairment losses Carrying amount at 31/12/2018 720 114 184 984 0 15,171 Effect of adopting IFRS 16 0 0 0 0 262 262 Carrying amount at 01/01/2019 720 114 184 984 262 15,433 Additions 59 0 39 159 44 1,361 Disposals at book value 0 -4 -9 0 0 -25 Depreciation -28 -7 -40 0 -54 -639 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 -7 Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 751 103 174 1,143 252 16,123 Acquisition cost 987 175 571 1,143 306 26,392 Accumulated depreciation and -236 -72 -397 0 -54 -10,269 impairment losses Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 751 103 174 1,143 252 16,123 Depreciation period (years) 8-60 25-99/ 3-20 ingen avskr. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 65 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Additions for work in progress are calculated as gross additions less completed projects within the relevant category. Periodic maintenance is included within the relevant category. Capitalised loan arrangement fees amounted to NOK 23 (18) million in 2019, calculated using the Group’s average interest rate of 2.7% (2.7%). See Note 11. NOK 3,015 (3,045) million of property, plant and equipment at joint arrangements is included in the main groups under hydroelectric power generation and under work in pro-gress. Of the additions under distribution networks, NOK 104 (92) million were financed through customer contributions. The stated depreciation periods apply to the majority of the assets in each category, although there may be some minor deviations from them. Maintenance expenses came to NOK 288 (225) million in 2019. NOK 440 (311) million of capitalised reinvestments in existing facilities have been included under the additions for the year. Office buildings constituted NOK 216 million of the leased assets at 31/12/2019, and the depreciation on them was NOK 43 million. The remaining leased assets were vehicles, machinery and equipment Below the useful lives of the most important assets on the SoFP are set out: Hydroelectric power stations Hydroelectric power stations Depreciation (years) Depreciation (years) Waterfall rights Not depreciated Machinery Runners 40 Structures Turbines 40 Rock-fill dams 99 Turbine hall cranes, air handling units, pumps 25 Caverns 99 Turbine regulators 15 Concrete dams 67 Grating cleaners 10 Power station buildings 67 Other buildings 50 Process equipment and communication Grid control systems 20 Penstock Control centre 10 Underground 99 Communications/Control/Logging 10 Underground pipeline 67 Above ground pipeline 40 Electrical systems Transformers 40 Gates, gratings, entrances, etc. Generators 40 Intake gates 50 Auxiliary systems (switches, low-voltage systems) 25 Dam gates 50 Switchgear and other high-voltage systems 25 Gratings 50 Entrances 50 Periodic maintenance (interval) Stream intakes 50 Refurbishment of buildings 25 Machinery – major service 20 Roads and bridges Electrical systems – major service 20 Roads/quays 67 Bridges 50 Other assets Depreciation period (years) Energy distribution networks Sites Not depreciated Depreciation period (years) District heating pipelines 60 Regional power transmission grid: Office buildings 50 Power and ground cables 50 Vehicles 8 High-voltage power lines 40 Fixtures and fittings 5 Grid control systems 20 Office and IT equipment 3 Local power distribution network: High-voltage lines and cables 50 Low-voltage lines and cables 40 Distribution substations 35 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 66 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 16 ASSOCIATES AND JOINT ARRANGEMENTS Agder Energi has various investments in associates and joint arrangements. Joint arrangements include joint ventures and joint operations. Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, whereas proportionate consolidation is used for investments in joint operations. Associates and joint ventures (accounted for using the equity method) (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Associates 40 35 Joint ventures 26 60 Carrying amount at 31 Dec. 66 95 Profit from associates -12 -18 Profit from joint ventures -25 -18 Gain on disposals 148 27 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 110 -9 The gain on disposals in 2019 arose from the sale of Grønn Kontakt AS and an adjustment to the expected settlement for the earlier disposal of Fosen Vind. Breakdown of investments in associates: (Amounts in millions of NOK) Ownership Carrying Additions Disposals ConsolidaCarrying interest amount at ted share of amount at 31/12/2018 profit/loss 31/12/2019 Otovo AS 10.4% 11 0 0 -7 3 Otera Infra AS 49.0% 19 0 0 4 24 Skagerak Venture Capital I KS/GP KS 19.6% 5 0 0 9 13 NorthConnect KS/NorthConnect AS 22.3% 0 18 0 -18 0 Total for associates 35 18 0 -12 40 Breakdown of investments in joint ventures: (Amounts in millions of NOK) Ownership Carrying Additions Disposals ConsolidaCarrying interest amount at ted share of amount at 31/12/2018 profit/loss 31/12/2019 Nodes AS 50.0% 4 10 0 -10 4 Nodes-Tech AS 50.0% 29 10 -15 -2 22 Grønn Kontakt AS 0.0% 28 38 -52 -14 0 Total for joint ventures 60 58 -67 -25 26 Grønn Kontakt AS was sold in 2019. Joint operations (proportionate consolidation) Joint operations consist of power stations and water management associations. Agreements regulate key areas of cooperation, and the joint owners receive their respective shares of the electricity generated in return for covering an equivalent proportion of the expenses. The Group uses the proportional consolidation method to account for joint operations, and the Group’s share of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are consolidated on a pro-rata basis. Agder Energi is a joint owner of the following power stations and water management associations: Otra Kraft owns the Holen, Brokke and Skarg power stations on the River Otra. Otra Kraft is owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft, which has a 68.6% interest, and Skagerak Kraft, which has a 31.4% interest, and is managed through the general meeting. The company has its head office at Rysstad in Valle. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 67 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Ulla Førre is owned by Statkraft, Lyse Energi, Skagerak Energi, Haugaland kraftlag and Agder Energi Vannkraft. Agder Energi Vannkraft has a 6.0% ownership interest in Ulla Førre, which entitles it to an equivalent proportion of the power generated by the facility. The power station Finndøla kraftverk is 50:50 owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft and Skagerak Kraft. The power station Hekni kraftverk is a statutory co-ownership between Agder Energi Vannkraft, with a 66.67% interest, and Skagerak Kraft, with 33.33%. The co-ownership is managed through a steering committee. Agder Energi Vannkraft represents the co-ownership in dealings with third parties. The water management association Otteraaens Brugseierforening comprises Agder Energi Vannkraft, Skagerak Kraft and Vigelands Brug. The association is managed through its Board. Agder Energi Vannkraft’s ownership interest, including its indirect interest through Otra Kraft, is approximately 73.8%. Otteraaens Brugseierforening has its business address in Valle. The water management association Arendals Vasdrags Brugseierforening comprises Agder Energi Vannkraft, Skafså Kraftverk, Skagerak Kraft and Arendals Fossekompani. The association is managed through a Board, and has its business address in Arendal. Agder Energi Vannkraft’s ownership interest is approximately 52.2%. No single member can have more than 50% of the votes. Sira-Kvina is owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft (12.2%), Lyse Produksjon (41.1%), Statkraft Energi (32.1%) and Skagerak Kraft (14.6%). It is managed through its Board. The company has its business address at Tonstad. Below there follows a summary of the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses at jointly controlled assets. The energy sales in the table do not represent actual revenues, and have instead been calculated by multiplying Agder Energi Vannkraft’s actual power generation by the average electricity price, and adding Agder Energi Vannkraft’s share of revenues from concession power. (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Energy sales 1,052 1,548 Other operating revenues 9 10 Total operating revenues 1,061 1,558 Transmission expenses -50 -55 Energy purchases -32 -22 Property taxes and licence fees -81 -81 Depreciation -101 -101 Other operating expenses -62 -63 Total operating expenses -326 -323 Operating profit 735 1,235 Non-current assets 3,020 3,053 Current assets 138 92 Total assets 3,158 3,145 Current liabilities 133 98 Net assets 3,026 3,048 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 68 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 17 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Investments in shares and ownership interests 5 7 Loans to associates and joint arrangements 1 2 Other receivables 1) 556 892 Pension assets 22 705 608 Total 1,268 1,508 1) The majority of the amount relates to receivables related to cash collateral for financial trading, as well as non-current trade receivables. The fair value of non-current financial assets is described in greater detail in note 25. NOTE 18 RECEIVABLES (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Face value of trade receivables 2,402 2,182 Bad debt provision 18 13 Total trade receivables 2,384 2,169 Accrued revenues 237 569 Prepaid expenses 86 144 Other receivables 250 537 Share of current assets at joint arrangements 138 92 Total receivables 3,095 3,511 Ageing analysis of trade receivables (Amounts in millions of NOK) Not overdue 0-30 days 31-60 dager 61-90 dager Over 90 days Total overdue overdue overdue 2019 2,229 111 7 5 50 2,402 2018 1,978 147 3 11 43 2,182 NOTE 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (Amounts in NOK million) 2019 2018 Deposits in cash pooling arrangement 0 95 Cash and cash equivalents 108 269 Restricted assets (e.g. term deposits, tax withholding account and client assets) 23 19 Total 131 383 The parent company has set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. Most subsidiaries in the Group in which the parent company holds an ownership interest of at least 50% take part in the cash pooling arrangement and are jointly and severally liable to the bank for the overdraft facility. A NOK 48 million bank guarantee covering the parent company and subsidiaries has been used as security for tax deductions at source. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 69 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 20 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The share capital is made up of Number Face value Share capital of shares (in NOK 000s) Share capital 2,700,000 670 1,809,000 List of shareholders in Agder Energi AS Number % Number % Total % of tot. Share capital of class A of class A of class B of class B number of number of shares shares shares shares shares shares Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 743,197 41.289% 485,990 53.999% 1,229,187 45.525% 823,555 Arendal Municipality 115,017 6.390% 57,507 6.390% 172,524 6.390% 115,591 Kristiansand Municipality 95,400 5.300% 47,700 5.300% 143,100 5.300% 95,877 Grimstad Municipality 53,327 2.963% 26,663 2.963% 79,990 2.963% 53,593 Flekkefjord Municipality 53,269 2.959% 14,650 1.628% 67,919 2.516% 45,506 Lyngdal Municipality 49,745 2.764% 13,680 1.520% 63,425 2.349% 42,495 Kvinesdal Municipality 49,254 2.736% 13,545 1.505% 62,799 2.326% 42,075 Lillesand Municipality 40,901 2.272% 20,450 2.272% 61,351 2.272% 41,105 Marnardal Municipality 44,500 2.472% 12,238 1.360% 56,738 2.101% 38,014 Sirdal Municipality 43,845 2.436% 12,057 1.340% 55,902 2.070% 37,454 Mandal Municipality 42,343 2.352% 11,644 1.294% 53,987 2.000% 36,171 Vennesla Municipality 42,343 2.352% 11,644 1.294% 53,987 2.000% 36,171 Froland Municipality 31,847 1.769% 15,924 1.769% 47,771 1.769% 32,007 Søgne Municipality 33,601 1.867% 9,240 1.027% 42,841 1.587% 28,703 Evje og Hornnes Municipality 27,511 1.528% 13,756 1.528% 41,267 1.528% 27,649 Songdalen Municipality 31,689 1.761% 8,714 0.968% 40,403 1.496% 27,070 Lindesnes Municipality 31,470 1.748% 8,654 0.962% 40,124 1.486% 26,883 Hægebostad Municipality 28,776 1.599% 7,913 0.879% 36,689 1.359% 24,582 Farsund Municipality 27,502 1.528% 7,563 0.840% 35,065 1.299% 23,494 Birkenes Municipality 22,679 1.260% 11,340 1.260% 34,019 1.260% 22,793 Åmli Municipality 21,921 1.218% 10,960 1.218% 32,881 1.218% 22,030 Risør Municipality 21,052 1.170% 10,525 1.169% 31,577 1.170% 21,157 Valle Municipality 20,327 1.129% 10,164 1.129% 30,491 1.129% 20,429 Bygland Municipality 19,995 1.111% 9,998 1.111% 29,993 1.111% 20,095 Iveland Municipality 19,155 1.064% 9,578 1.064% 28,733 1.064% 19,251 Tvedestrand Municipality 19,066 1.059% 9,533 1.059% 28,599 1.059% 19,161 Åseral Municipality 21,776 1.210% 5,988 0.665% 27,764 1.028% 18,602 Vegårshei Municipality 14,553 0.809% 7,277 0.809% 21,830 0.809% 14,626 Bykle Municipality 13,232 0.735% 6,616 0.735% 19,848 0.735% 13,298 Gjerstad Municipality 12,423 0.690% 6,211 0.690% 18,634 0.690% 12,485 Audnedal Municipality 8,284 0.460% 2,278 0.253% 10,562 0.391% 7,077 Total 1,800,000 100% 900,000 100% 2,700,000 100% 1,809,000 The NOK 1,809 million of share capital is made up of class A and class B shares. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 70 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Class A shares can only be owned by shareholders who meet the conditions for being allocated indefinite waterfall licences under the relevant current legislation. Class B shares are freely negotiable. In all other respects, class A and class B shares have equal rights. The company has entered into an industrial collaboration agreement with its biggest shareholder, Statkraft Industrial Holding AS. There is also a shareholders’ agreement between the shareholders in the company. The company has a corporate assembly with 15 members, who are elected for a two-year term. No dividend is proposed for 2019 at the presentation of the accounts. NOTE 21 PROVISIONS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2019 2018 Pension liabilities 22 303 314 Other non-current provisions 1,729 1,697 Total 2,032 2,010 Breakdown of other non-current provisions (Amounts in millions of NOK) Supply of free Supply of free Cash-settled Unearned Other Total electricity 1) electricity and electricity revenue, provisions 5) compensation contracts 3) customer 2) contributions 4) Carrying amount at 01/01/2018 657 221 5 407 234 1,524 Unrealised gains and losses 46 0 51 0 0 97 New provisions 0 6 0 93 -3 96 Provisions used 0 0 0 -13 -7 -20 Carrying amount at 31/12/2018 703 227 56 487 224 1,697 Carrying amount at 01/01/2019 703 227 56 487 224 1,697 Unrealised gains and losses 30 0 -48 0 0 -18 New provisions 0 0 0 105 9 114 Provisions used 0 0 0 -15 -49 -64 Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 733 227 8 577 184 1,729 1) Perpetual obligations to supply electricity free of charge that are presented as financial instruments at fair value in accordance with IFRS 9, as they can be settled in cash. Also see note 25. 2) Perpetual obligations to supply electricity free of charge and pay compensation that are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37. These obligations to supply free electricity cannot be settled in cash. Compensation involves annual cash payments that are adjusted by inflation every five years. 3) Non-current cash-settled contracts measured in accordance with IFRS 9. Also see note 25. 4) Customer contributions are a contractual obligation under IFRS 15 that is recognised as revenue over the useful life of the asset. The average useful life of these assets is around 30 years. Provisions used have been recognised as transmission revenues. 5) Mainly relates to a provision in conjunction with the sale of Fosen Vind DA. The final consideration depends on several parameters such as future tax rates and development costs. There is still uncertainty about several of these parameters, and the provision is updated as and when new information becomes available. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 71 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 22 PENSIONS The Group’s pension plans For people taken on before 1 April 2007, the Group has a defined benefit pension plan run by Agder Energi Pensjonskasse, which meets the legal requirements for public sector occupational pension plans. Those taken on after 1 April 2007, as well as employees at companies outside Norway, are part of a defined contribution pension plan. The Group’s pension plans satisfy the requirements laid down in the Act on Mandatory Occupational Pensions. Defined benefit pension plans The Group has a funded public pension plan for its employees in Norway, which entitles them to defined future pension benefits, based on their number of years of service and salary on reaching retirement age. Pension liabilities were calculated by an independent actuary in December, and represent an estimate of the situation at 31 December. Similarly, the gross pension plan assets at 31 December were estimated by the Group’s management in December. Certain current and former senior managers are entitled to pension benefits over and above those covered by the company pension plan; see Note 31. Provisions for these plans are presented under unfunded pension liabilities. Early retirement schemes (AFP schemes) Employees covered by a public pension plan have an early retirement scheme, known as an AFP scheme. This is a so-called public sector AFP scheme, which like all such schemes set up from 2011 onwards does not receive a government subsidy. The Group is therefore fully liable for all of its obligations under the scheme. When calculating the pension liability, it has been assumed that there will be a 100% take-up of the early-retirement scheme by the age of 64 and a half. For accounting purposes, employees start accruing early-retirement pension rights on reaching the age of 50 or on joining the Group, whichever is later. Employees in Norway covered by the defined contribution plan are entitled to a private AFP scheme, which from 2011 onwards means a lifelong supplement to their retirement pensions from the National Insurance Scheme. This AFP scheme is partly funded by contributions made by the employer. The state covers the remaining 33% of the cost. The AFP scheme is considered a defined benefit plan, but for the moment it is being accounted for as a defined contribution plan. In 2019, the annual contribution to the scheme was 2.5% (2018: 2.5%) of qualifying pay between 1 and 7.1 times the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) for each employee covered by the scheme. Assumptions When calculating the pension expense and net pension liabilities, a number of assumptions have been made (see table below). The discount rate is based on the interest rate on covered bonds. The assumptions used to calculate pension liabilities are consistent with the most recent guidelines on actuarial assumptions as of 31 December. The Group uses life table K2013 for life expectancy, probability of disability, etc. Up until 2018, the Group used a different life table called GAP07. This change resulted in a NOK 134 million increase in pension liabilities. That figure is included in the remeasurements for the year. Past service pension adjustments in 2019 In 2019 there were several changes to the regulations on public sector occupational pension plans. This includes new rules on how benefits from the National Insurance Scheme shall be integrated with occupational pension plans. It has also been decided that public sector occupational pension plans shall go from being defined benefit plans to being unit benefit plans for everyone born in 1963 or later. In conjunction with the transition to unit benefit plans, Agder Energi has chosen to transfer employees born in or after 1963 to a defined contribution plan, with effect from January 2020. As such, a unit benefit plan has not been introduced at Agder Energi. For the age group affected, pension rights accrued up to and including 2019 will continue to be included in the pension liability as an accrued pension entitlement. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 72 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The defined benefit pension plan will remain in place for employees born in 1962 and earlier. The change in the pension regulations and transition to a defined contribution plan for all employees born in or after 1963 has been treated as a past service pension adjustment, and the associated NOK 114 million reduction in pension liabilities has been recognised in the income statement. Past service pension adjustments in 2018 In 2018, Agder Energi sold 51% of the shares in Otera Infra. In conjunction with that sale, the company’s pension plan was changed to a defined contribution plan and the accrued entitlements were transferred to Agder Energi AS. The pension expense for the year was reduced by NOK 30 million as a result of the transition to a defined contribution plan. (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 The pension expense for the year has been calculated as follows Current service cost 48 51 Interest on net pension assets -8 -13 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 6 7 Past service pension adjustment recognised in the income statement -114 -30 Employee contributions -5 -5 Administration costs 4 6 Pension expense for the year, defined benefit plans -68 15 Private AFP scheme including employers’ NICs 4 5 Defined contribution pension plans (including employers’ NICs) 44 31 Total pension expense recognised in the income statement 7 -20 51 Pension liabilities and pension plan assets Change in gross pension liabilities Gross pension liabilities at 1 Jan. 2,179 1,969 Current service cost (incl. emp. NICs) 54 58 Interest cost 58 40 Benefits paid/paid-up policies -73 -66 Cap on pension benefits -114 -30 Remeasurements 219 208 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. (including employers’ NICs) 2,323 2,179 Breakdown of defined benefit pension liabilities Funded pension liabilities 2,021 1,892 Unfunded pension liabilities 302 287 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. 2,323 2,179 Change in gross pension plan assets Fair value of pension plan assets at 1 Jan. 2,473 2,584 Expected return on pension plan assets 66 53 Remeasurements 257 -104 Administration costs -4 -6 Pension contributions 0 6 Benefits paid/paid-up policies -66 -60 Fair value of pension plan assets at 31 Dec. 2,725 2,473 Net pension liabilities (-)/assets (+) at 31 Dec. 402 294 Net pension assets recognised on the SoFP 17 705 608 Pension liabilities recognised on the SoFP 21 303 314 Net pension liabilities (-)/assets (+) recognised at 31 Dec. 402 294 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 73 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Change in net defined benefit pension plan assets Net defined benefit pension plan assets at 1 Jan. 294 616 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss excluding employee contributions 64 -20 Company net contributions including employers’ NICs 0 8 Pension benefits included under operating expenses 7 3 Remeasurements 38 -312 Net pension liabilities (-)/assets (+) recognised at 31 Dec. 402 294 Remeasurements are made up of Changes in demographic assumptions 38 55 Changes in financial assumptions -123 153 Transition to new life table -134 0 Positive (+)/negative (-) deviation from expected return on pension plan assets 257 104 Total remeasurements included in the SoCI 38 312 Sensitivity analysis for a +/0.5% percentage point change in the discount rate Increase in pension liabilities if the discount rate falls 199 183 Fall in pension liabilities if the discount rate rises -176 -162 The sensitivity analysis only looks at potential changes in the discount rate, as it is the only parameter considered to have a significant impact on recognised pension liabilities. 2019 2018 Assumptions used to determine pension liabilities at 31 Dec. Discount rate 2.20% 2.70% Annual wage growth 2.50% 2.75% Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) 2.25% 2.50% Annual indexing of pensions 1.50% 1.75% Life table K2013 Gap07 Retirement age: 64.5 years on average for both years. Assumptions used to calculate the pension expense for the year Discount rate 2.70% 2.30% Annual wage growth 2.75% 2.50% Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) 2.50% 2.00% Annual indexing of pensions 1.75% 1.50% Allocation of pension plan assets by investment category at 31 Dec. Property funds 13% 14% Interest-bearing financial instruments 32% 29% Number of shares 30% 32% Hedge funds 25% 25% Total 100% 100% Pension plan assets consist of instruments traded on a stock exchange or funds that publish daily prices. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 74 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 2019 2018 Number of people covered by the pension plans Defined benefit plan: current employees 132 313 Defined benefit plan: accrued entitlements and retired employees 1,422 1,266 Defined contribution plan: current and temporary employees 844 663 Current employees entitled to public sector AFP, and early retirees 204 234 NOTE 23 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Bonds 5,684 4,869 Liabilities to financial institutions 2,494 2,721 Lease liabilities 192 0 Other interest-bearing non-current liabilities 16 13 Total 8,386 7,603 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper 500 300 Overdraft and other interest-bearing current liabilities 458 0 Lease liabilities 64 0 Current portion of non-current liabilities (principal repayments due within one year) 1,350 1,357 Total 2,372 1,657 The fair value of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities is described in Note 25. All of the above statement of financial position items are measured at amortised cost. Note 27 sets out further details of interest rates, durations, liquidity risk, credit facilities, etc. Some loans form part of hedging relationships in accordance with IFRS 9. See Note 28 for a more detailed description. (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Change in interest-bearing liabilities broken down by cash and non-cash items. Interest-bearing liabilities at 1 Jan. 9,260 9,240 New long-term borrowings (cash item) 1,946 1,424 Repayment of long-term borrowings (cash item) 1) -1,407 -961 Net change in current liabilities (cash item) 658 -480 Exchange rate fluctuations (non-cash item) -9 41 Gains/losses on fair value hedges (non-cash item) 4 -4 New lease liabilities (non-cash item) 44 0 Effect of adopting IFRS 16 (non-cash item) 262 0 Interest-bearing liabilities at 31 Dec. 10,758 9,260 1) Includes NOK 57 million in repayment of lease liabilities. NOTE 24 OTHER NON-INTEREST-BEARING CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Trade payables 916 1,059 Unpaid government taxes and duties, tax deducted at source, etc. 444 434 Share of non-current liabilities at joint arrangements 133 98 Other current liabilities 1,052 1,720 Total 2,545 3,311 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 75 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Volume of financial instruments Financial instruments constitute a significant proportion of Agder Energi’s total assets, and they have a big impact on the Group’s financial position and results. The majority of the financial instruments are used in energy trading or as financial hedges. Within energy trading, financial instruments are used as part of a hedging strategy. When managing the Group’s exposure to risks associated with future electricity prices and exchange rates, these instruments are viewed together with future physical trading; see Note 27. Physical energy trading is only recognised in the financial statements when the energy is supplied/bought, whereas energy and currency derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss. If there are large volumes of these derivatives, they can therefore cause great volatility in the Group’s reported statement of financial position and net income, without it reflecting the overall financial results. Financial hedges mainly consist of loans and interest rate swaps. When managing the Group’s interest rate risk, these two types of financial instruments are assessed together, and they are also viewed in the context of the Group’s other interest rate risks; see Note 27. In the financial statements, loans are measured at amortised cost, whereas interest rate swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss. This can cause fluctuations in the Group’s reported profit or loss, without it reflecting its overall financial performance. There are some minor exceptions to this asymmetrical treatment; see Note 28 on accounting hedges. In order to highlight the unrealised impact of these electricity, currency and interest rate contracts, their values and changes in value are presented on separate lines in the statement of financial position and income statement. Fair value of financial instruments The table below sets out to what extent observable market data are used to value financial instruments measured at fair value. The financial instruments have been broken down into the various categories used by the Group for classification purposes. (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2019 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value* 26 1,527 0 761 766 Shares and ownership interests 17 5 0 0 5 Total assets 1,532 0 761 771 Supply of free electricity and compensation 21 741 0 0 741 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value* 26 1,374 0 1,270 103 Total liabilities 2,115 0 1,270 844 2018 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value* 26 1,014 0 205 808 Shares and ownership interests 17 7 0 0 7 Total assets 1,021 0 205 815 Supply of free electricity and compensation 21 703 0 0 703 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value* 26 2,314 0 2,302 12 Total liabilities 3,017 0 2,302 715 * Includes derivatives listed on a stock exchange, embedded derivatives in electricity contracts, cash-settled electricity contracts and electricity contracts for physical delivery measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 9. Level 1 assets are financial instruments the fair values of which can be determined from market prices in an active market. Level 2 assets are financial instruments the fair values of which are estimated using a valuation model that only uses market data as its inputs. Level 3 assets are financial instruments the fair values of which are estimated using a valuation model that does not only use market data as its inputs. In 2019 the Group recognised a net loss of NOK 173 million on level 3 financial instruments. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 76 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Level 3 assets and liabilities at fair value* (Amounts in millions of NOK) Shares and Supply of free Derivatives and Total ownership electricity and electricity coninterests compensation ­tracts measured at fair value Opening balance at 01/01/2019 7 -703 796 100 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss -2 -30 -141 -173 Closing balance at 31/12/2019 5 -733 655 -73 * Liabilities are shown with a minus sign. The amount recognised relates to contracts still held by Agder Energi at the end of 2019. The valuation of contracts measured at fair value under Level 3 is most sensitive to changes in assumptions about the EUR/NOK exchange rate and electricity prices. A 10% increase (reduction) in the electricity price would have given a NOK 70 million reduction (increase) in the valuation. A 5% strengthening (weakening) of the Norwegian krone against the euro would have given a NOK 303 million reduction (increase) in the valuation. A 1 percentage point increase (reduction) in the interest rates would have given a NOK 105 million increase (NOK 226 million reduction) in the valuation. Fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost In the case of financial instruments measured at amortised cost, there may be a discrepancy between their fair value and carrying amount. This is true of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities. In the case of current assets and liabilities like trade receivables, bank deposits, trade payables, etc., the difference is insignificant. The table below therefore only shows the difference between the carrying amount and fair value for the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities. (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value 2019 2019 2018 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities measured at amortised cost Bonds 23 6,784 6,867 6,226 6,256 Liabilities to financial institutions 23 2,758 2,841 2,734 2,784 Commercial paper 23 500 500 300 300 Overdraft and other interest-bearing current liabilities 23 458 457 0 0 Lease liabilities 23 258 258 0 0 Total interest-bearing liabilities 10,758 10,923 9,260 9,340 The fair value has been estimated at Level 2, i.e. using a valuation model that only uses market data as its inputs. Assumptions used to determine fair value of energy derivatives In measuring the fair value of energy derivatives, the following parameters and assumptions have been applied: Electricity prices Listed derivatives and other bilateral contracts are measured using a smooth forward curve based on the final price on the statement of financial position date. The prices used are discounted. Agder Energi has a number of perpetual supply contracts (compensation power), which are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9. The market value of these contracts has been calculated based on a 200 year term. NASDAQ market prices are applied for the first ten years. For subsequent periods, best estimates of future prices are used. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 77 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Foreign currency For contracts quoted in foreign currency, the calculation for the first ten years is based on the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period and the associated forward exchange rates. For subsequent periods separate exchange rate assumptions are used. Commodities For certain electricity contracts, the contract price is linked to the prices of various commodities. Valuations are based on the forward prices on the relevant commodity exchanges. If there are no quoted prices for the relevant time period, the commodity prices are inflation-adjusted from the last quoted market price. Green electricity certificates Contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity certificates that do not qualify for the own use exemption under IFRS 9 are measured at fair value. Valuations are based on forward prices. For contracts with terms that run beyond the period for which market prices are available, a risk discount is applied to the available forward prices. Guarantees of origin Contracts for the purchase and sale of guarantees of origin that do not qualify for the own use exemption under IFRS 9 are measured at fair value. The valuation uses the forward prices quoted by large brokers. For contracts with terms that run beyond the period for which market prices are available, a risk discount is applied to the available forward prices. CO2 CO2 contracts are valued using the forward price of emission quotas (EUAs) on NASDAQ and ICE. Interest rates Energy derivatives are discounted by the market interest rate curve (swap curve). For the purpose of discounting perpetual supply contracts related to compensation power, a risk-adjusted nominal interest rate is used. Assumptions used to determine fair value of currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate and currency swaps, as well as currency futures (including embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts), are valued by discounting future cash flows to their present value. Expected cash flows are calculated and discounted by looking at the observed market interest rates on the various currencies (swap curves) and the observed exchange rates, which are used to derive forward exchange rates. Where possible, the estimated present values are checked against the equivalent calculations carried out by the counterparties to the contracts. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 78 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 26 DERIVATIVES Agder Energi has both independent derivatives (simply referred to as derivatives) and embedded derivatives. Agder Energi has some contracts for physical energy sales that are settled in euros. The performance obligations in the contracts are met using electricity generated by the Group, so the contracts do not fall within the scope of IFRS 9. However, the fact that the contracts are settled in euros means that they contain an embedded foreign currency derivative. Under the criteria set out in IFRS 9, the foreign currency derivatives are not closely related to the electricity contract. They are therefore separated from the contracts for physical delivery and measured at fair value. In the table below, derivatives with positive and negative fair values are broken down by whether they are electricity, currency or interest rate derivatives. The figures for energy derivatives are the accounting values of contracts which, under the criteria set out in IFRS 9, fall within the definition of financial instruments. Power contracts for physical delivery that qualify for the own use exemp­ tion under IFRS 9 are not defined as financial instruments. There are therefore significant discrepancies between accounting values and underlying financial values, as the portfolios contain both contracts that fall within the scope of IFRS 9 and ones that do not. A small proportion of the Group’s interest rate derivatives are designated as accounting hedges; see Note 28 on accounting hedges. Agder Energi offers several managed electricity trading products to the retail market. With these products, Agder Energi supplies physical electricity to a portfolio of customers, on whose behalf it actively trades electricity through NASDAQ (the marketplace for cash-settled electricity futures). These NASDAQ positions are measured symmetrically. In other words, Agder Energi recognises equivalent contracts with respect to the retail customers covered by the electricity trading products, but with the opposite exposure of the NASDAQ positions. This symmetrical treatment means that these financial positions do not have any impact on Agder Energi’s income statement, but it does result in an increase in total assets, as the gross value of derivatives on the statement of financial position rises. (Amounts in NOK million) 2019 2018 Derivative assets (non-current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 244 93 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 17 6 Embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts 697 724 Interest rate swaps 0 11 Total derivatives 958 834 Derivative assets (current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 418 91 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 61 4 Embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts 69 84 Interest rate swaps 21 0 Total 569 180 Derivative liabilities (non-current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 368 687 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 155 246 Interest rate swaps 198 214 Other contracts 103 0 Total 825 1,148 Derivative liabilities (current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 473 1,079 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 76 31 Interest rate swaps 0 0 Total 549 1,111 * Includes both the portfolio of financial production hedges and the retail customer portfolio. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 79 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 27 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Agder Energi’s business activities expose it to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. There follows a more detailed description of these risks, and of how they are managed. MARKET RISK Market risk primarily consists of electricity price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk. Risk management at Agder Energi focuses on entire portfolios of contracts, and not specifically on contracts that fall within the scope of IFRS 9. There are internal guidelines on exposure to market risk, for both the hedging and trading portfolios. Agder Energi’s risk management function has been given responsibility for continuously monitoring compliance with limits on risk exposure. Trading in both cash-settled and physical contracts is monitored systematically and reported regularly, both to senior management and to the Group’s risk management section. MARKET RISK ARISING FROM ELECTRICITY PRICES Power generation portfolio Agder Energi’s hydroelectric power generation business is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in prices and volumes, as both future prices and precipitation levels are unknown. Agder Energi enters into contracts and trades various cash-settled instruments, within set limits, in order to secure its revenues from electricity sales. This helps to stabilise revenues from one year to another, which is considered desirable on account of the great uncertainty surrounding electricity prices. Hedging activities take into account the Group’s risk profile, risk capacity and expected electricity prices. For risk management purposes, cash-settled and physical contracts are considered together. The exposure of the portfolio at any given time consists of expected future power generation, purchase and sale commitments under long-term physical contracts, as well as contracts on NASDAQ and bilateral cash-settled contracts. Bilateral financial contracts are only used to a limited extent. The physical contracts in the portfolio comprise contracts concluded on normal commercial terms, contracts to supply concession power and various contracts to supply free power and compensation power. The durations of the commercial contracts vary, but they all expire by the end of 2030. The Group has perpetual agreements to supply compensation power, and the contracts to supply concession power are also perpetual. These perpetual contracts cover less than ten percent of the Group’s mean electricity generation. Risk management takes into account the effect of resource rent tax. Retail customer portfolio The retail customer portfolio covers the sale of electricity to consumers in Norway, and to state-owned entities and private companies throughout the Nordic region. With many of our business customers we have contracts to provide management and electricity trading products that reflect their expected actual electricity consumption. This part of our business involves signing contracts with retail customers that are based on the conditions obtained by Agder Energi in the market. In so far as the customer is offered a profile or regional price that cannot be fully mirrored in the market, the residual risk is monitored carefully. Contracts for physical delivery are based on spot prices or prices that have been fixed for varying lengths of time. This creates an electricity price risk when our electricity retail business is unable or unwilling to change the price paid by the customer even if the spot price has changed. This risk is hedged by using cash-settled contracts with NASDAQ or other bilateral counterparties within or outside the Group. The retail customer portfolios are exposed to volume and market timing risks, as some of the physical fixed-price contracts are flexible in terms of the volumes delivered. Based on experience, knowledge of normal seasonal variation and knowledge of other specific issues that affect end users’ electricity consumption, Agder Energi calculates the volumes likely to be consumed, and which consequently need to be hedged. Limits have been set on the maximum unhedged exposure to price and volume risk. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 80 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The net exposure of the retail portfolios at any given time consists of sale contracts with prices that are fixed for varying lengths of time, as well as contracts on NASDAQ and bilateral cash-settled contracts. The vast majority of the contracts expire in less than three years, but there may be some contracts with longer terms. The portfolio aims to keep electricity price risk low and to protect our margins in this business area. The retail portfolio maintains a net long position in cash-settled contracts. Independent portfolios Agder Energi also has separate portfolios that are managed independently of its expected power generation and electricity retailing activities. In these independent portfolios, a distinction is made between the purchase and sale of standard products (trading) and the purchase and sale of non-standard contracts. All of the contracts in the trading portfolios are measured at fair value in the financial statements. VaR calculations are the most important tool used to manage the risk exposures arising from the trading portfolios. The financial exposure at any given time is limited in relation to the power generation portfolio. In the case of the portfolios of non-standard contracts, the most important risk management occurs before they are signed, through how they are structured and the negotiation of terms and conditions. The permitted volume of open positions in non-standard products is governed by maximum downside exposure limits derived from the scenario-based stress testing of financial market risk. Electricity trading authorisations are expressed in terms of limits on potential losses. At an operating level, risk management focuses on minimising any losses. Electricity price sensitivity Impact on profit of gains and losses on assets and liabilities at fair value in the event of electricity price (Amounts in millions of NOK) Change in electricity prices -10% 10% Total impact on profit before tax 390 -390 The table shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by changes in the values of assets and liabilities in the event of a parallel 10% decrease/increase in forward electricity prices. The analysis only covers assets and liabilities measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 9. MARKET RISK – CURRENCY Agder Energi is exposed to currency risk, mainly through its electricity generation business and retail business. The biggest exposure to currency risk arises from physical electricity sales by the electricity generation business. Nord Pool Spot contracts are settled in euros, and Agder Energi has also entered into long-term contracts to sell electricity that are payable in euros. In addition, currency risk arises as a result of financial trading on NASDAQ OMX being settled in euros. Exposure to currency risk arising from electricity generation over the coming years is hedged in accordance with adopted limits on risk exposure. Exchange rate hedging can be done separately from electricity price hedging. In the retail business, currency risk arises if the price paid by the customer is specified in a different currency from the one used to buy the physical electricity, guarantees of origin and electricity certificates, or the one used to settle cash-settled electricity futures. Currency risk is hedged externally through banks or the parent company. The company’s back and middle office function is responsible for checking that trading in foreign exchange instruments adheres to the adopted strategies and limits on risk exposure. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 81 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The table below shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by changes in the values of assets and liabilities in the event of a parallel 5% decrease/increase in the NOK/EUR exchange rate. A decrease is taken to mean the Norwegian krone strengthening in relation to the euro. The analysis covers changes in the value of currency futures, basis swaps, foreign currency loans, electricity derivatives, long-term contracts to sell electricity measured at fair value under IFRS 9 and embedded derivatives within long-term physical contracts. Impact on profit of gains and losses on assets and liabilities in the event of exchange rate fluctuations (Amounts in millions of NOK) Change in exchange rate (NOK/EUR -5% 5% Total impact on profit before tax -3 3 MARKET RISK – INTEREST RATES The vast majority of the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises from its debt portfolio. The Group also has an offsetting exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the deductible interest rate for resource rent purposes, and through the reference interest rate applied to the income cap on its distribution system business. Interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired exposure to interest rates within the Group’s debt portfolio. The fixed interest period is set by using fixed-interest loans and interest rate derivatives. Sensitivity to interest rates is measured by modified duration within a defined period of 1 to 5 years. Average duration at the close of the year was 4 years. The chosen strategy aims to minimise net financial expenses over the long term, while reducing risk to an acceptable level. It is based around making use of the Group’s natural interest rate hedges, such as the income cap on its distribution system business and the deductible interest rate used to calculate the resource rent tax payable by the power generation business. The group finance department is responsible for taking positions. Exposure to interest rate risk is measured. Current exposure to interest rate risk in relation to the limit specified in the finance strategy is reported monthly to the CFO. Impact on profit of interest rate fluctuations (Amounts in millions of NOK) Change in interest rates -1 percentage +1 percentage point point Impact on interest expense (indicates higher expense) 45 -45 Gains and losses on interest rate swaps recognised in profit or loss -141 153 Total impact on profit before tax -96 108 Gains and losses on hedging instruments, cash flow hedges -53 53 Total impact on comprehensive income (before tax) -149 161 The table shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by a parallel 1 percentage point increase/ decrease in the yield curve. It also shows the impact on other comprehensive income and expenses as a result of certain interest rate derivatives being designated as cash flow hedges. All impacts are shown before tax. The analysis only covers interest-bearing liabilities measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9 and interest rate derivatives. Breakdown of interest rates by currency 2019 2018 Nominal average interest rate, NOK 3.1% 3.3% Nominal average interest rate, euros 2.0% 2.0% Fixed-interest periods within loan portfolio* (Amounts in millions of NOK) 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-10 years NOK-denominated loans 3,293 2,854 2,854 Euro-denominated loans 2,332 2,135 2,135 Total 5,625 4,989 4,989 * The table takes into account the impact of interest rate swaps and shows the average volume of hedged loans in the three time frames. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 82 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that a party to a cash-settled or physical trade will cause his counterparty to incur a loss by failing to fulfil his obligations. Agder Energi takes on counterparty risk by selling and distributing electricity, and by selling other goods and services. For receivables measured at amortised cost, a provision is made for expected bad debts. For 2019, provisions have only been made for trade receivables; see Note 18. The credit risk exposure arising from receivables is virtually identical to the carrying amount on the statement of financial position; see Notes 17 and 18. The trading of financial instruments also gives rise to counterparty risk. The majority of cash-settled electricity contracts are cleared through NASDAQ. For these contracts, there is assumed to be little counterparty risk. For all other electricity contracts, the maximum exposure to any individual counterparty is determined based on an internal credit rating. The credit rating is based on information such as key financial figures. Counterparties are then grouped in various risk classes, each of which is allocated a maximum exposure level. Bilateral contracts are subject to limits on exposure to individual counterparties, both in terms of value and duration. In order to limit credit risk, bank guarantees are sometimes demanded when a contract is signed. Parent company guarantees are also used. In those cases, the parent company is assessed and classified in the normal way. Agder Energi has good procedures for ensuring that outstanding receivables are paid on time. An ageing analysis of customers is continuously monitored. Historically Agder Energi’s losses on its receivables have been low. The maximum credit risk arising from derivatives is virtually identical to the carrying amount on the statement of financial position; see Note 25. For energy derivatives, the credit risk associated with all contracts traded through NASDAQ is limited by the fact that counterparties provide cash collateral or bank guarantees. For bilateral contracts, including long-term electricity contracts with industrial customers, there is not normally any such security. The table below shows a reconciliation of the gross amount, amount offset and carrying amount for financial instruments with offset agreements or similar agreements. For Agder Energi, this is only relevant to derivatives. A financial asset and financial liability are shown net on the statement of financial position if Agder Energi has a legally enforceable right to set-off the asset and liability, and if it intends to settle on a net basis. Offsetting (Amounts in millions of NOK) Financial assets Gross amount Amount offset Carrying amount Derivatives (non-current and current) 3,722 2,195 1,527 (Amounts in millions of NOK) Financial liabilities Gross amount Amount offset Carrying amount Derivatives (non-current and current) 3,570 2,195 1,374 LIQUIDITY RISK Agder Energi is exposed to liquidity risk arising from the fact that its liabilities do not mature at the same time as when cash flows are generated, as well as from variations in margin requirements and settlement dates for futures traded through NASDAQ. Agder Energi manages this risk through liquidity forecasts and simulations, as well as by establishing minimum liquidity requirements. Agder Energi uses a NOK 500 million credit facility with a bank as a reserve for liquidity requirements relating to NASDAQ. In addition, Agder Energi has set up NOK 2,500 million of credit facilities with banks to protect itself against refinan­ cing risk. This amount is big enough to provide sufficient time to set up alternative financing arrangements. The parent company has also set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. At the close of the year, the Group had a total of NOK 3,000 million in unused credit facilities. The capital markets consider Agder Energi to be a low-risk borrower, and the Group has good access to credit. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 83 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Liquidity risk is reassessed regularly. The Group finance department is responsible for ensuring that the Group has adequate liquidity within the framework of the finance strategy. Key figures relating to liquidity risk are included in the Group’s risk report to the Board of Directors. Targets have been established for the minimum remaining term to maturity of the debt portfolio, and credit facilities with banks shall cover all loans maturing within at least 9 months. Maturity structure of liabilities (Amounts in millions of NOK) Due in Due in Due in Due in Due in Due after Unspecified 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2024 Bonds and liabilities to financial institutions 1,415 1,435 1,221 1,449 749 3,323 0 Commercial paper and overdraft facility 958 Lease liabilities 62 54 49 42 40 25 0 Interest payments 255 250 211 173 140 515 0 Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,690 1,739 1,481 1,664 929 3,863 0 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 549 391 109 38 56 128 836 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 2,545 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 3,094 391 109 38 56 128 836 Total 5,784 2,130 1,590 1,702 985 3,991 836 Breakdown of loans by currency (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 NOK-denominated loans 7,529 6,278 Euro-denominated loans 3,284 2,999 Total 10,813 9,277 The Group has 226 million euros of euro-denominated loans. In addition, Agder Energi has used basis swaps to convert NOK 1,000 million of loans into 107 million euros of euro-denominated loans. This is reflected in the table above. The fair value of the swaps at the end of 2019 was NOK -93 million, which was included under derivatives on the statement of financial position; see Note 26. Basis swaps are contracts to swap principal and interest payments between currencies. When the contract expires, the principal is swapped back to the original currency using the exchange rate when the contract was signed. Euro-denominated loans are used as cash flow hedges to secure future cash flows in euros, but hedge accounting is not used. NOTE 28 ACCOUNTING HEDGES Agder Energi has various interest swaps linked to specific loans that serve as cash flow hedges, i.e. they are variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps. The face value of the hedged items is 91 million euros. In addition to the above, until the end of 2013 Agder Energi had designated 168 million euros worth of loans as cash flow hedges of highly probable future revenues from electricity sales. As of 2014, Agder Energi decided not to meet the documentation require­ ments in relation to accounting for these foreign currency loans as hedges. Hedge accounting was no longer used for these loans after that point. Unrealised foreign exchange losses on the loans that arose during the period of hedge accounting will be reversed through profit or loss between now and 2028 in parallel with the recognition of the hedged electricity sales. At the start of 2019, Agder Energi had one interest rate swap that was designated as a hedging instrument in a fair value hedge. That swap was terminated in 2019. For its other financial hedging relationships, Agder Energi has chosen not to meet the extensive documentation requirements specified in the IFRS rules on hedge accounting. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 84 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Amounts in millions of NOK 2019 2018 Fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 0 -4 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges -100 -76 Total fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments -100 -80 Fair value hedges Gains/losses on derivatives used as fair value hedges 0 -4 Gains/losses on hedged items in fair value hedges, hedged risk 0 4 Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 0 0 Cash flow hedges Gains/losses recognised in the SoCI -24 0 Reclassified to profit or loss 12 11 Total gains/losses on hedging instruments recognised in the SoCI -13 11 Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 0 0 NOTE 29 MORTGAGED ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES ISSUED Mortgages Agder Energi AS has no mortgage debt. Liabilities and guarantees issued Agder Energi has no covenants relating to financial key figures in its loan agreements. Agder Energi’s loan agreements do contain negative pledge clauses, which also cover its subsidiaries. This means that any new security interests require the consent of the lenders. Agder Energi has NOK 778 (712) million in off-statement of financial position bank guarantees. NOK 327 (398) million of this relates to cash-settled electricity trading/settlement, NOK 48 (55) million to tax deductions at source, NOK 299 (177) million to settlement/ payment guarantees and NOK 98 (82) million to contractual guarantees. At the close of the year, the parent company had issued guarantees worth NOK 10 (20) million in relation to subsidiaries’ external liabilities. Off-statement of financial position contractual obligations At any given time the Group has several ongoing investment projects that involve obligations to fulfil contracts with subcontractors. The Group also has obligations arising from its ownership interests in joint arrangements and water management associations; cf. Note 16. Electricity from the generation portfolio has been sold in advance through physical contracts with industrial clients that are not included on the statement of financial position. These contracts form part of the risk management strategy for electricity generation; see Note 27. Similarly, the retail portfolio offers physical fixed-price contracts. The exposure arising from them is hedged as described in Note 27. Agder Energi Varme has entered into a long-term contract to buy heating energy from the municipally-owned enterprise Returkraft. The contract, which runs for 20 years with an optional extension, commits Agder Energi Varme to buying an agreed volume from Returkraft’s waste-to-energy plant in Kristiansand from 2010 onwards. Since 2010, Agder Energi has had its head office in leased premises at Kjøita in Kristiansand. It has signed a 15+5-year lease on the building with the lessor Kjøita 18 AS. It is not considered reasonably certain that the 5-year option to renew will be exercised, so that period is not included in the lease liability presented on the statement of financial position. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 85 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 30 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD Agder Energi’s operations are extensive, and it can therefore get involved in major and minor disputes from time to time. Contingent liabilities Tax For the purposes of calculating resource rent, the tax authorities have denied Agder Energi Vannkraft the right to deduct the value of the 85 GWh of free electricity that it has supplied annually since 2011 – most recently in a ruling by the Tax Appeals Board. Agder Energi Vannkraft is considering appealing this ruling through the courts. Due to negative resource rent carryforwards, the cash flow impact has been modest to date, but in the future the inability to make this deduction could increase the Group’s tax expense and reduce its cash flows by NOK 5-10 million per year. Agder Energi Nett has been issued a ruling on a change in the tax assessment for the smart meter project for the period since 2015. The Central Tax Office for Large Enterprises (Sfs) believes that certain items that Agder Energi has expensed for tax purposes should be capitalised. The change has caused a reduction in the deferred tax liabilities on the statement of financial position and an equivalent increase in the tax payable. It has only had a modest impact on profit. Agder Energi Nett disagrees with the ruling and has appealed it to the Tax Appeals Board. The financial statements reflect the view expressed by Sfs in its notice. Concession power in the Mandal river system In conjunction with Royal Decree of 6 December 2013 relating to further exploitation of Lake Skjerkevatn and Royal Decree of 3 February 2017 on the so-called Åseral projects, the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy (OED) has changed the price terms for some of Agder Energi Vannkraft’s existing obligations to supply concession power (approximately 30 GWh). Agder Energi Vannkraft had expected the extra electricity generated under the new licences to be subject to the OED price, but thought that electricity generated under the existing licences granted prior to 1959 would continue to be supplied at the cost at the relevant power station. The change in the price terms may result in an annual loss of revenue of NOK 2-3 million. Agder Energi considers that the OED has no grounds to change the price terms for older licences in conjunction with issuing the two aforementioned licences. Agder Energi tried to get the OED to overturn its decision on the price terms, but finally it sued the state for having taken an invalid administrative decision. The Group lost the case in the district court and appealed the decision. Events after the end of the reporting period After the financial statements for 2019 were finalised, the coronavirus outbreak has developed into a global pandemic. Agder Energi has set up a dedicated emergency response team that is reporting directly to the CEO. A number of measures have been implemented to reduce the risk of contagion and prepare for any deterioration in the situation. Our main focus is on protecting our own employees, contractors and suppliers, and as part of Agder Energi’s responsibility to society, helping to reduce the risk of infection in society as a whole. We are also focusing hard on keeping our operations going, and at the time of publication of the annual report, they had not been affected by the coronavirus outbreak. Measures have been implemented to reduce counterparty risk, particularly arising from the Group’s customer-facing activities in the business market. For Agder Energi it is a priority to maintain financial room for manoeuvre, and since the turn of the year the Group has expanded its liquidity buffer further through credit facilities with banks in order to secure access to alternative sources of financing. NOTE 31 MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION, ETC. Board of Directors The compensation of the Board of Directors and Corporate Assembly for 2019 was NOK 1,350,500 and NOK 12,400 respectively. The equivalent figures in 2018 were NOK 1,305,800 and NOK 11,200 respectively. The Board members are not entitled to any special termination benefits such as bonuses, profit-sharing or options. All of the stated figures exclude employers’ NICs. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 86 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Board of Directors (Amounts in NOK) Period Directors’ fees Board meetings attended Lars Erik Torjussen, chair Whole year 250,000 8 of 8 Tine Sundtoft, deputy chair Whole year 170,000 8 of 8 Jill Akselsen, Board member Whole year 125,000 8 of 8 Leif Atle Beisland, Board member 2) Whole year 150,000 3 of 8 Marit Grimsbo, Board member 1) Whole year 0 7 of 8 Siw Linnea Poulsson, Board member 1) 2) Whole year 0 8 of 8 Jon Vatnaland, Board member 1) Whole year 0 8 of 8 Asbjørn Grundt, Board member 1) Whole year 0 8 of 8 Johan Ekeland, employee representative Whole year 125,000 7 of 8 Sverre Halvard Hamre, employee representative Whole year 125,000 8 of 8 Oddvar Emil Berli, employee representative 2) Whole year 140,500 8 of 8 Gro Granås, employee representative 2) Until June 75,000 3 of 5 Morten Johnsen, employee representative From June 62,500 3 of 3 1) Employees of Statkraft are not paid Directors’ fees. 2) Member of the Board’s audit committee. In 2019, the audit committee appointed by the Board received NOK 50,000 in fees. In 2019, Board members’ deputies received NOK 127,500 in fees. None of the Board members received compensation from any other companies in the Group, with the exception of the employee representatives, who receive salaries for their ordinary jobs. Their compensation as Agder Energi employees is not included in the above figures. No Board members have any loans from the company. Senior management team (Amounts in 000s of NOK) Period Salary Bonus Other Total Pension benefits 1) taxable expense income Tom Nysted – CEO 1) Until 30 2,641 0 132 2,773 476 September Steffen Syvertsen – CEO From 1 925 0 30 955 152 October Steffen Syvertsen – Business Area Director, Until 30 1,604 572 90 2,266 263 Energy Management & Trading 2) September Pernille K. Gulowsen – CFO Whole year 1,974 0 112 2,086 646 Unni Farestveit – CSR Director Whole year 1,966 0 98 2,064 826 Anders Gaudestad – Business Area Director, Whole year 1,896 163 117 2,177 279 Marketing 3) Jan Tønnessen – Business Area Director, Whole year 1,966 0 112 2,078 307 Hydroelectric Power Frank Håland – Director of Shared Services Until 30 2,052 0 115 2,167 305 September Knut Hoven – Acting Director of Shared Services From 1 462 0 3 465 120 October Therese Bjerke – Acting Business Area Director, From 1 446 0 3 449 111 Energy Management & Trading October 1) Other benefits include mileage allowances, mobile phones and other benefits. A flat in Kristiansand has been made available to the CEO Tom Nysted. 2) Bonus earned in 2018 and paid out in 2019. This amount includes holiday pay that will be received in 2020. 3) Bonus earned in 2017 and paid out in 2019. This amount includes holiday pay that will be received in 2020. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 87 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Loans/guarantees issued and share option schemes No members of the senior management team have been granted loans or had guarantees issued on their behalf by Agder Energi. Agder Energi does not have any share option schemes for management or other employees. Bonuses and pension plans No members of the senior management team had bonus agreements in 2019. Steffen Syvertsen became CEO at the start of October 2019. The CEO is covered by Agder Energi’s ordinary pension plan for income up to 12G, and by its pension plan included under operating expenses for income over 12G. The retirement age for the position is 70. A mutual notice period of 6 months has been agreed for the CEO. In his contract, the CEO renounces the right to the protections against dismissal stipulated in the Working Environment Act. If the employer makes use of this clause, termination compensation is payable equivalent to 10 months’ basic salary on top of the agreed notice period. The termination compensation will not be reduced by the amount of any other income the CEO receives during the period that the compensation is payable. Tom Nysted left his position as CEO in September 2019. Nysted will remain in the employment of Agder Energi, and will be available to perform various tasks for the Group by agreement. He will receive 75% of his annual salary each year until the age of 70, at which point he will retire and start drawing a pension equivalent to around 66% of his qualifying salary. The pension benefit at 70 is equivalent to 16/30 of the full pension benefit less National Insurance Scheme benefits and the Group’s public sector occupational pension plan. For other members of the senior management team, the notice period is also six months. There are no special agreements on termination compensation. In 2019, two members of the senior management team – Pernille K. Gulowsen and Unni Farestveit – were covered by the public sector defined benefit pension plan. Their pension agreements state that their qualifying salary shall be based on their regular salary, and the pension expenses include retirement pension benefits in excess of 12G, which are not covered by the National Insurance Scheme or the Group’s public sector occupational pension plan. 30 years of qualifying service is a prerequisite. Jan Tønnessen, Frank Håland and Anders Gaudestad were covered by a defined contribution pension plan in line with the Group’s standard plan, while Knut Hoven and Therese Bjerke, who have been acting business area directors, were covered by a defined benefit pension plan in line with the Group’s standard plan. NOTE 32 RELATED PARTIES All associates and joint arrangements specified in Note 16 are classified as related parties of Agder Energi. The Group had NOK 25 million of sales to such companies in 2019 and NOK 14 million in 2018. Purchases from those companies amounted to NOK 211 million in 2019 and NOK 126 million in 2018. The people specified in Note 31, who are members of the Group’s senior management team or Board of Directors, are also related parties of Agder Energi. Agder Energi’s largest shareholder is Statkraft Industrial Holding, which owns 45.525% of the shares in the company. Sales to companies in the Statkraft Group amounted to NOK 6 million in 2019 and NOK 26 million in 2018. Purchases from those companies amounted to NOK 52 million in 2019 and NOK 53 million in 2018. Statkraft Industrial Holding AS is also a joint owner of several of the joint arrangements in which Agder Energi holds an ownership interest. In December 2019, Agder Energi sold its ownership interest in Grønn Kontakt AS to Statkraft AS, realising a gain of NOK 125 million. All transactions with related parties are carried out on an arm’s length basis. NOTE 33 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSALS AND BUY-OUT OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Business acquisitions Agder Energi did not make any significant business acquisitions in 2019. Nor were there any significant business acquisitions in 2018. Business disposals Agder Energi did not complete any significant business disposals in 2019. In 2018, it sold 51% of the shares in Otera Infra AS. The transaction was completed in August, and as of the completion date the company was reclassified from being a subsidiary to being an associate. The transaction only had an insignificant impact on the consolidated financial statements for 2018. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 88 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 34 GROUP STRUCTURE The table below shows the companies in the Agder Energi Group at 31/12/2019. Subsidiaries Ownership interest in %* Country Agder Energi Nett AS 100.0 Norway Agder Energi Vannkraft AS 100.0 Norway Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS 100.0 Norway LOS AS 100.0 Norway Entelios AS 100.0 Norway Entelios AB 100.0 Sweden Entelios Trading AB 100.0 Sweden Entelios ApS 100.0 Denmark Entelios OY 100.0 Finland Enfo AS 100.0 Norway Entelios AG 100.0 Germany Entelios GmbH 100.0 Germany Nordgröön Energie GmbH 92.0 Germany AE Alfa AS 100.0 Norway Agder Energi Fleksibilitet AS 100.0 Norway Craftor Holding AB 67.0 Sweden Craftor AB 100.0 (67.0) Sweden Agder Energi Varme AS 100.0 Norway Norsk Varmeog Energiproduksjon AS 100.0 Norway Baltic Hydroenergy AS 100.0 Norway UAB Baltic Hydroenergy 100.0 Lithuania JSC Latgales Energetika 64.0 Latvia Stoaveien 14 AS 100.0 Norway Stoa 192 AS 100.0 Norway Stoa 234 AS 100.0 Norway Alfred Uglands veg 17 AS 100.0 Norway Agder Energi Venture AS 100.0 Norway NEG AS 74.5 Norway Norsk Energigjenvinning AS 100.0 (74.5) Norway NEG Skog AS 100.0 (74.5) Norway Norsk Biobrensel AS 100.0 (74.5) Norway Norbio AB 100.0 (74.5) Sweden Norbio Energi AS 100.0 (74.5) Norway Miljøenergi AS 52.0 (38.7) Norway HPE Holding AS 100.0 Norway Bioenergy AS 70.0 Norway Bio Energy Sales AS 100.0 (70.0) Norway Lahaugmoen Drift AS 100.0 (70.0) Norway Adaptic AS 95.0 Norway Verdisikring Safety AS 100.0 (95.0) Norway Ledlight Group AS 100.0 (95.0) Norway Meventus AS 100.0 Norway Meventus ApS 100.0 Denmark Meventus AB 100.0 Sweden ReSiTec AS 92.5 Norway Netsecurity AS 85.0 Norway Eco STOR AS 59.8 Norway * Figures in brackets indicate Agder Energi AS’s indirect ownership interest in companies where it holds minority interests through intermediate companies. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 89 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Non-controlling interests The majority of the Group’s non-controlling interests relate to Nordgröön Energie GmbH and Craftor. Their turnover and profit are shown in the table below, together with a summary statement of financial position. Nordgröön Energie Craftor (Amounts in NOK million) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Operating revenues 1,372 1,740 912 737 Net income -15 -40 38 31 Non-controlling interest’s share of net income -1 -19 13 10 Assets 117 273 198 250 Liabilities 132 271 242 336 Equity 1) -15 2 -45 -86 Non-controlling interest’s share of equity -1 0 0 0 1) In the case of Craftor, the parent company is a pure holding company, and the group’s activities are carried out through the subsidiary Craftor AB. The group’s negative equity is due to a business combination that resulted in the parent company being financed through a vendor credit from another company in the Group. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 90 III < > Introduction Introductrion governance governance Corporate Corporate Agder Agder The The Energi Energi Group AgderAgder Group Energi AS AS Energi CSR CSR Agder Energi Varme provides eco-friendly district heating and cooling in several towns in southern Norway. The photo shows Vesterveien district heating plant in Kristiansand, which uses waste heat from the neighbouring Glencore nickel refinery as its energy source. AGDER ENERGI AS AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 91 III III < > Introduction Introductrion governance governance Corporate Corporate Agder Agder The The Energi Energi Group AgderAgder Group Energi AS AS Energi CSR CSR AGDER ENERGI AS FINANCIAL STATEMENT Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Income statement 93 Statement of Financial Position 94 Statement of cash flows 95 Accounting principles 96 NOTES Note 1 Intra-group transactions and balances 98 Note 2 Employee benefits, management compensation, etc. 98 Note 3 Pensions 99 Note 4 Auditor’s fee 101 Note 5 Other operating expenses 101 Note 6 Financial income and expenses 101 Note 7 Tax 102 Note 8 Intangible assets 103 Note 9 Property, plant and equipment 103 Note 10 Other non-current financial assets 103 Note 11 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 104 Note 12 Cash and cash equivalents 105 Note 13 Equity 105 Note 14 Interest-bearing liabilities 105 Note 15 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 106 Note 16 Provisions 106 Note 17 Market and financial risk 106 Note 18 Contingent liabilities 107 Note 19 Mortgaged assets, liabilities and guarantees issued 107 Auditor’s report 108 Alternative performance measures (APM) 112 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 92 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR INCOME STATEMENT (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2019 2018 Other operating revenues 1 363 355 Total operating revenues 363 355 Employee benefits 2, 3 -211 -190 Depreciation and impairment losses 8, 9 -7 -11 Other operating expenses 1, 4, 5 -227 -226 Total operating expenses -444 -428 Operating profit -81 -72 Financial income 1, 6 1,644 1,833 Financial expenses 1, 6 -1,070 -792 Net financial income/expenses 574 1,042 Profit before tax 493 969 Tax expense 7 -92 -173 Net income 401 796 Allocation of profit: Proposed dividends 13 0 592 Transferred to other reserves 13 401 204 Total appropriations 401 796 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 93 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2019 2018 Intangible assets 8 15 0 Property, plant and equipment 9 25 35 Investments in subsidiaries 11 3,418 3,379 Investments in associates 11 74 108 Other non-current financial assets 10 10,475 9,780 Total non-current assets 14,006 13,302 Receivables 1 993 1,665 Total current assets 993 1,665 TOTAL ASSETS 14,999 14,967 Paid-in capital 13 1,907 1,907 Retained earnings 13 1,897 1,518 Total equity 3,804 3,425 Deferred tax 7 79 80 Provisions 3, 16 347 369 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 14 8,166 8,940 Total non-current liabilities 8,592 9,389 Interest-bearing current liabilities 14, 17 2,036 729 Tax payable 7 0 23 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 1, 15 566 1,400 Total current liabilities 2,602 2,153 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 14,999 14,967 Kristiansand, 2. April 2020 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Jon Vatnaland Marit Grimsbo Asbjørn Grundt Deputy Chair Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Oddvar Emil Berli Sverre Hallvard Hamre Morten Johnsen Steffen Syvertsen Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 94 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2019 2018 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 493 969 Depreciation and impairment losses 6, 8, 9 79 120 Income from investments in subsidiaries -558 -1,113 Tax paid -23 -6 Change in net working capital, etc. 198 -878 Net cash provided by operating activities 189 -908 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets -11 -10 Acquisitions/financial investments and equity investments in subsidiaries -139 -250 Net change in loans -1,026 -265 Sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 0 31 Sale of businesses/financial assets 139 59 Net cash used in investing activities -1,037 -435 Financing activities New long-term borrowings 1,946 1,424 Repayment of long-term borrowings -1,352 -956 Net change in current interest-bearing liabilities -43 129 Intra-group distributions received 950 672 Intra-group distributions paid out -647 -496 Dividends received from subsidiaries 586 999 Dividends paid -592 -606 Net cash used in financing activities 848 1,166 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 0 -177 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 0 177 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 0 0 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 95 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements have been preare expensed as they are incurred. This over the contract period and the value of sented in compliance with the Norwegian means that expenses associated with intan­ the portfolio is kept off the statement of Accounting Act and generally accepted gible assets are included on the statement financial position. accounting principles. of financial position if it is considered pro­ bable that future economic benefits attri­ Foreign currency and currency Accrual, classification and measurebutable to the assets will flow to the cominstruments ment principles pany and it has been possible to reliably The finance department manages the In accordance with generally accepted measure the acquisition cost of the asset. Group’s overall exposure to currency risk. accounting principles, the financial stateTo some extent Agder Energi AS acts as a ments are based on the historical cost, Property, plant and equipment counterparty within the Group when it revenue recognition, matching, conservaProperty, plant and equipment is deprecidoes not make sense to hedge subsidiaries’ tism, hedging and congruence principles. ated in a straight line over its anticipated exposure to currency risk directly in the In the event of uncertainty, best judgeuseful life. Maintenance on property, plant market. Where the parent company has ment is applied. Financial statements are and equipment is considered an operating acted as a counterparty in conjunction prepared using uniform principles that are expense, while upgrades and replacements with the need of subsidiaries to hedge applied consistently over time. The finanare added to the acquisition cost of the their currency risk exposure arising from cial statements have been prepared on the asset and are depreciated together with electricity sales, the contracts are accounted assumption of the business being a going the asset. The distinction between mainfor as part of the Group’s currency hedgconcern. tenance and upgrades/improvements is ing activities. These contracts are presentjudged on the basis of the condition of the ed on the statement of financial position Recognition of revenues and expenses asset when it was acquired. at fair value, with changes in fair value Revenues and expenses are recognised in recognised through profit or loss. profit or loss when they are earned/inNon-current financial investments curred. Revenues from the sale of goods The historical cost method is used for Receivables are recognised on delivery. Revenues from shares, bonds and other financial instruTrade debtors and other receivables are services are recognised in the income ments. This means that shares/ownership presented on the statement of financial statement as they are supplied. interests are carried at cost, and any diviposition at their nominal value less anticidends received are recognised as other pated bad debts. Provisions for bad debts General principles for measurement financial income. Dividends and intra-group are made on the basis of individual assessand classification distributions received are recognised if ments of the individual receivables. Current assets and current liabilities cover the underlying profit was earned while the items that are due for payment within one asset was owned by the Group. Intra-group Cash pooling arrangement year of the transaction date, as well as distributions received are recognised in Agder Energi AS is part of a cash pooling items relating to the business cycle. Other the year that they are allocated by subsidarrangement with its subsidiaries. This items are classified as non-current assets iaries. Dividends from subsidiaries are also means that the Group has a joint bank acor non-current liabilities. Current assets recognised in the year that they are approcount for short-term deposits and shortare carried at the lower of cost and fair priated by the subsidiary. Investments are term loans. Interest income and interest value. Current liabilities are carried at their written down to fair value if there is eviexpenses arising from the cash pooling nominal value on the initial date. dence of other-than-temporary impairment. arrangement are classified as external in Dividends from associates are recognised the company’s income statement. Non-current assets are carried at cost, but when they are approved. are written down to the recoverable amount Pensions if there is evidence of impairment, in comInterest rate swaps Defined benefit pension plan pliance with the Norwegian accounting Interest rate swaps are used to match the Pension costs and pension liabilities are standard on the impairment of non-current duration and interest rate sensitivity of the calculated using a linear accumulation assets. company’s debt portfolio to the Group’s model based on assumptions relating to policy and strategy. Interest rate swaps are discount rates, projected salaries, the level Intangible assets managed within the context of the Group’s of benefits from the National Insurance Intangible assets are included on the stateoverall debt portfolio. Instruments in the Scheme and future returns on pension ment of financial position if they meet the hedging portfolio thus meet the criteria plan assets, as well as actuarial calculacriteria for capitalisation, with the exception for hedge accounting, which means that tions of mortality, voluntary turnover, etc. of research and development costs, which all profit and loss effects are recognised Pension plan assets are measured at their AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 96 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR fair value, and have been deducted in the likely that they will be realised in the future. be. If there is a smaller than 50% probability net pension liabilities presented on the Tax on equity transactions is recognised that an uncertain liability will need to be statement of financial position. Remeadirectly in equity. settled, information is provided in the surements over the course of the year are notes. Contingent assets are not recogrecognised in the statement of financial Liabilities nised, but if there is a greater than 50% position at the end of the year, so that the Agder Energi AS uses the amortised cost probability that the company will receive carrying amount always reflects the full principle, and consequently the effective payment, information is provided in the extent of the liabilities. In the event of interest rate method, for interest and liabilnotes. The amount is not estimated if it changes in pension obligations arising ities. Under the effective interest rate would be inappropriate to do so under from plan amendments, the portion of the method, the carrying amount of a loan is generally accepted accounting principles. change that has already been accrued at the sum of future cash flows attributable to Furthermore, under generally accepted the time of the amendment is recognised the loan discounted by the original effecaccounting principles entities shall be able directly in the income statement. Pension tive interest rate calculated for the cash to recognise liabilities/provide information expenses and net pension liabilities include flows. This means that loan arrangement based on best judgement without this a charge for employers’ national insurance fees are deducted on initial recognition, preju­dicing the outcome of any court case. contributions. and that over the duration of the loan, the difference between the nominal interest Statement of cash flows Defined contribution plan rate (the rate charged) and the effective The statement of cash flows has been For defined contribution plans, the peninterest rate (the rate expensed) is recogprepared using the indirect method. Cash sion expense is equivalent to the premiums nised in the statement of financial position and cash equivalents includes cash, bank /contributions paid over the course of the under amortisation. In practice loans are deposits and other short-term, liquid investyear. therefore initially recognised at their face ments that can be converted into known value less arrangement fees, which means cash values immediately and at insignifiTaxes that the debt is not carried on the statecant risk, and that mature less than three Income tax is calculated in accordance ment of financial position at its nominal months after their acquisition dates. with standard tax rules. The tax expense in value. the income statement consists of tax payable and changes in deferred tax liabilities/ A provision is made for Agder Energi AS’s assets. Tax payable is calculated on the proposed dividends at 31 December. taxable profit for the year. Deferred tax liabilities/assets are calculated on the basis Contingent liabilities and contingent of the temporary differences that exist assets between accounting and tax values, as well If there is a greater than 50% probability as the tax effect of any loss carryforwards. that an uncertain liability will need to be Deferred tax assets are only recognised on settled, a provision is made based on a the statement of financial position if it is best estimate of what the settlement will AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 97 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTES NOTE 1 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Intra-group balances Other non-current financial assets 10 9,608 8,580 Trade receivables 52 39 Other current receivables 885 1,548 Total receivables 10,545 10,167 Trade payables 15 4 3 Other current liabilities 15 396 647 Total liabilities 401 650 Revenues and expenses relating to intra-group transactions Other operating revenues 336 291 Total operating revenues 336 291 Other operating expenses 29 30 Total operating expenses 29 30 Income from investments in subsidiaries 6 558 1,113 Other interest and financial income 482 258 Other interest and financial expenses 239 31 Net financial income/expenses 801 1,341 NOTE 2 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION, ETC. (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Employee benefits Salary 172 163 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 25 23 Pension expense including employers’ NICs 3 -5 -11 Other benefits and reimbursements 19 15 Total 211 190 Number of full-time equivalents at 31 Dec. 176 164 The pension expense for 2019 was affected by changes in legislation on pensions that apply to all public sector defined benefit pension plans. For more detailed information, see Note 3 Pensions. For details of management compensation and non-executive Directors’ fees at Agder Energi AS, please see Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 98 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 3 PENSIONS The company’s pension plans For people taken on before 1 April 2007, the company has a defined benefit pension plan run by Agder Energi Pensjonskasse, which meets the legal requirements for public sector occupational pension plans. Employees taken on after that date are members of a defined contribution pension plan. Defined benefit pension plans The Group has a funded public pension plan for its employees, which entitles them to defined future pension benefits, based on number of years of service and salary on reaching retirement age. Pension liabilities were calculated by an independent actuary in December, and represent an estimate of the situation at 31 December. Similarly, the gross pension plan assets at 31 December were estimated by the Group’s management in December. Certain current and former senior managers are entitled to pension benefits over and above those covered by the company pension plan. Provisions for these plans are presented under unfunded pension liabilities. Early retirement schemes (AFP schemes) Employees are covered by different AFP schemes, depending on whether they are part of the defined benefit or defined contribution pension plans. Employees covered by a public pension plan have an early retirement scheme, known as an AFP scheme. This is a so-called public sector AFP scheme, set up as of 2011. The scheme does not receive any government subsidy. The company is therefore liable for all of its obligations under the scheme. Employees covered by the defined contribution plan are entitled to a private AFP scheme. This AFP scheme is partly funded by contributions made by the employer. The contribution for 2019 was 2.5%. Actuarial assumptions When calculating the pension expense and net pension liabilities, a number of assumptions have been made (see table below). The company uses life table K2013 for life expectancy, probability of disability, etc. Past service pension adjustments in 2019 In 2019 there were several changes to the regulations on public sector occupational pension plans. This includes new rules on how benefits from the National Insurance Scheme shall be integrated with occupational pension plans. It has also been decided that public sector occupational pension plans shall go from being defined benefit plans to being unit benefit plans for everyone born in 1963 or later. In conjunction with the transition to unit benefit plans, Agder Energi has chosen to transfer employees born in or after 1963 to a defined contribution plan, with effect from January 2020. As such, a unit benefit plan has not been introduced at Agder Energi. For the age group affected, pension rights accrued up to and including 2019 will continue to be included in the pension liability as an accrued pension entitlement. The defined benefit pension plan will remain in place for employees born in 1962 and earlier. The change in the pension regulations and transition to a defined contribution plan for all employees born in or after 1963 has been treated as a past service pension adjustment, and the associated NOK 23 million reduction in pension liabilities has been recognised in the income statement. In 2018, in conjunction with the sale of 51% of the shares in Otera Infra AS, the company’s defined benefit plan was transferred to Agder Energi AS and was closed. The transfer involved the pension liabilities of Otera Infra being merged into Agder Energi AS. This is what the NOK 30 million impact on net income of closing a pension plan shown in the table below relates to. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 99 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 The pension expense for the year has been calculated as follows Current service cost 16 15 Administration costs 2 2 Interest income/expenses on pension assets/liabilities -8 -6 Impact on net income of closing pension plan 0 -30 Past service cost -23 0 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 2 2 Employee contributions -1 -1 Pension expense for the year, defined benefit plans -13 -18 Defined contribution pension plans (including employers’ NICs) 8 7 Total pension expense recognised in the income statement -5 -11 The total pension expense also includes unfunded plans for senior managers. (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Pension liabilities and pension plan assets Gross funded pension liabilities 920 827 Unfunded pension liabilities 169 151 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. incl. emp. NICs 1,089 978 Fair value of pension plan assets at 31 Dec. 1,355 1,255 Net pension plan assets at 31 Dec. 266 277 Change in defined benefit pension liabilities Net defined benefit pension liabilities at 1 Jan. 277 277 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss excluding employee contributions 11 17 Pension benefits included under operating expenses 6 5 Remeasurements -29 -150 Acquisitions through business combinations 0 127 Net pension liabilities (-)/assets (+) recognised at 31 Dec. 266 277 Pension plan assets 435 429 Pension liabilities (*) 169 151 Net pension liabilities (-)/assets (+) recognised at 31 Dec. 266 277 Remeasurements are made up of: Gains (+)/losses (-) on gross pension liabilities -122 -97 Gains (+)/losses (-) on pension plan assets 93 -53 Remeasurements recognised on statement of financial position -29 -150 Assumptions used to determine pension liabilities at 31 Dec. 2019 2018 Discount rate 2.20% 2.70% Annual wage growth 2.50% 2.75% Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) 2.25% 2.50% Annual indexing of pensions 1.50% 1.75% The assumptions used to calculate pension liabilities are not considered to deviate significantly from the most recent guidelines on actuarial assumptions as of January 2020. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 100 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Number of people covered by the pension plans 2019 2018 Defined benefit plan: current employees 28 69 Defined benefit plan: accrued entitlements and retired employees 743 704 Defined contribution plan: current employees 96 90 Current employees entitled to public sector AFP, and early retirees 64 61 NOTE 4 AUDITOR’S FEE Total fees paid to auditor for auditing and other services comprise the following: (Amounts in millions of NOK excl. VAT) 2019 2018 Statutory audit 544 578 Tax advice 33 0 Other services not related to auditing 283 222 Total 859 800 NOTE 5 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) 2019 2018 Property-related expenses, lease of machinery and office equipment 33 53 Purchase of plant and equipment 8 4 External services 160 147 Office supplies, telecommunications, postage, etc. 7 4 Travel expenses, subsistence allowances, mileage expenses, etc. 9 10 Sales, advertising, representation, membership fees and gifts 5 7 Other operating expenses 4 1 Total 227 226 NOTE 6 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Income from investments in subsidiaries* 558 1,113 Profit/loss on investments in associates 110 20 Exchange rate gain 692 412 Other interest and financial income 285 289 Total financial income 1,644 1,833 Impairment charge against non-current financial assets 73 109 Exchange rate losses 694 394 Other interest and financial expenses 303 289 Total financial expenses 1,070 792 Net financial income/expenses 574 1,042 *  Profit/loss from investments in subsidiaries comprises allocated dividends, intra-group distributions from subsidiaries and gains on the disposal of subsidiaries. These amounts are recognised in the income statement as they are considered to reflect the return on the investment. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 101 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 7 TAX (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 The tax expense consists of Income tax payable 87 171 Change in deferred income tax 5 2 Corrections to previous years’ tax assessments 0 -1 Tax expense in income statement 92 173 Tax payable on the statement of financial position Profit before tax 493 969 Permanent differences -75 -199 Change in temporary differences -22 -25 Profit/loss for income tax purposes 396 746 Income tax payable 87 171 Taxable intra-group distributions -87 -149 Tax payable on the statement of financial position 0 23 Reconciliation of nominal tax rate with effective tax rate Profit before tax 493 969 Expected tax based on nominal rate 108 223 Tax effect of Non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income -16 -46 Corrections to previous years’ tax assessments 0 -1 Impact of change in tax rate 0 -4 Tax expense in income statement 92 173 Effective tax rate 19% 18% Breakdown of temporary differences/deferred tax assets Property, plant and equipment -11 -12 Pension liabilities 264 286 Derivatives 111 109 Other -4 -17 Total taxable (+)/deductible (-) temporary difference 359 366 Total capitalised deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) 79 80 Changes in net deferred income tax over the year: Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 1 Jan. 80 82 Correction to net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) for business combination 0 31 Change in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) on items recognised in equity -6 -34 Change in deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) recognised through profit or loss 5 2 Net deferred income tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. 79 80 Changes in deferred tax on items recognised in equity Remeasurements of pensions 6 34 Total change 6 34 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 102 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 8 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Amounts in millions of NOK) Software Software under Total intangidevelopment ble assets Cost as of 01/01/2019 35 0 35 Additions 1 14 15 Disposals 34 0 34 Cost as of 31/12/2019 2 14 16 Accumulated depreciation at 31/12/2019 1 1 Accumulated impairment losses at 31/12/2019 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 1 14 15 Depreciation for the year 1 0 1 Impairment losses for the year 0 0 0 Useful life/depreciation period 3-8 år NOTE 9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Amounts in millions of NOK) Properties Vehicles, fixtures, Work in progress Total property, fittings, plant and machinery, etc. equipment Cost as of 01/01/2019 35 23 5 63 Additions 0 1 0 1 Disposals 1 12 5 18 Cost as of 31/12/2019 34 12 0 46 Accumulated depreciation at 31/12/2019 14 7 0 21 Accumulated impairment losses at 31/12/2019 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2019 20 5 0 25 Depreciation for the year 2 4 0 6 Impairment losses for the year 0 0 0 0 Useful life/depreciation period 25 years – not 3-8 years depreciated NOTE 10 OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Loans to Group companies 1 9,608 8,580 Loans to associates 0 1 Investments in shares and ownership interests 2 2 Other non-current receivables 1) 430 769 Pension assets 3 435 429 Total non-current financial assets 10,475 9,780 1) Other non-current receivables includes foreign currency loans and a guarantee to NASDAQ. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 103 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 11 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES (Amounts in millions of NOK) Registered Company’s Company’s Ownership inteCarrying office equity profit/loss rest and voting amount* rights Subsidiaries Agder Energi Vannkraft AS Kristiansand 2,544 413 100% 1,937 Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS Kristiansand 16 1 100% 20 Agder Energi Nett AS Arendal 978 50 100% 612 LOS AS Kristiansand 114 51 100% 214 Entelios AB1) Stockholm 78 17 100% 146 Entelios AS Kristiansand 261 21 100% 110 Agder Energi Varme AS 1) Kristiansand 123 -1 100% 125 Agder Energi Venture AS 1) Kristiansand 180 15 100% 68 Entelios GmbH 1) Berlin 7 -72 100% 50 Stoaveien 14 AS Kristiansand 11 3 100% 1 Stoa 192 AS Kristiansand 1 0 100% 2 Stoa 234 AS Kristiansand 1 0 100% 2 Baltic Hydroenergy AS 1) Kristiansand 20 -3 100% 25 Enfo AS Bærum 13 -1 100% 28 Entelios AG Munich 6 -24 100% 42 Agder Energi Fleksibilitet AS Kristiansand 20 -11 100% 36 Craftor Holding AB 1) Stockholm -45 38 67% 0 AE Alfa AS Kristiansand 0 0 100% -1 Alfred Uglands veg 17 AS Kristiansand 0 0 100% 1 Total shares in subsidiaries 3,418 Associates 2) Otera Infra AS Kristiansand 71 10 49.0% 14 North Connect KS Kristiansand 213 -3 22.25% 53 North Connect AS Kristiansand 22 0 22.25% 6 Total for associates 74 * Carried at the lower of cost and fair value 1) Subsidiaries of Agder Energi AS with subsidiary groups. For an overview of the Group’s organisation structure, please refer to Note 34 of the consolidated financial statements. 2) The equity and profit/loss of associates has been estimated for 2019. 3) In 2019, Agder Energi AS sold its ownership interest in Grønn Kontakt AS. The disposal resulted in a NOK 86.5 million accounting gain. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 104 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Deposits in cash pooling arrangement -186 -429 Total -186 -429 Agder Energi AS has set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. Most subsidiaries in which the parent company holds an ownership interest of at least 50% take part in the cash pooling arrangement and are jointly and severally liable to the bank for the overdraft facility. A NOK 48 million bank guarantee covering Agder Energi AS and its subsidiaries has been used as security for tax deductions at source. NOTE 13 EQUITY (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note Share capital Share premium Other paid-in Other reserves Total equity account capital Equity at 01/01/2019 1,809 47 51 1,518 3,425 Remeasurements of pensions 3 -22 -22 Net income for the year 401 401 Equity at 31/12/2019 1,809 47 51 1,897 3,804 For details of share capital and shareholder information, please refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. NOTE 14 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES (Amounts in millions of NOK) 2019 2018 Non-current liabilities with a term to maturity of more than 1 year Bonds 5,684 6,230 Liabilities to financial institutions 2,482 2,710 Total interest-bearing non-current liabilities 8,166 8,940 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper and repayments of long-term debt due within one year 1,850 300 Deposits in cash pooling arrangement (overdraft facility) 186 429 Total interest-bearing current liabilities 2,036 729 Guarantees and obligations relating to interest-bearing non-current liabilities are described in greater detail in Note 19. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 105 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 15 OTHER NON-INTEREST-BEARING CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Trade payables 28 25 Intra-group trade payables 1 4 3 Unpaid government taxes and duties, tax deducted at source, etc. 16 14 Allocated dividends 0 592 Other current liabilities 122 120 Other current liabilities to Group companies 1 396 647 Total other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 566 1,400 NOTE 16 PROVISIONS (Amounts in millions of NOK) Note 2019 2018 Pension liabilities 3 169 151 Other non-current provisions 178 218 Total provisions 347 369 In 2016, Agder Energi AS sold its ownership interest in Fosen Vind DA. The final transaction price depends on various future metrics and a large proportion of the amount received has therefore not yet been recognised as income. NOK 153 million of the company’s other non-current provisions are related to this. The remaining NOK 25 million represent a provision against a lease contract. NOTE 17 MARKET AND FINANCIAL RISK Risk management policy and strategy The Group’s Board of Directors has formulated an overall risk management policy containing frameworks and guidelines to ensure a uniform approach to risk management throughout the Group. In order to manage exposure to market and financial risk, and based on the risk management policy, separate risk strategies have been drawn up for the following areas: • Production • Electricity trading • Retail market • Finance (interest rates and foreign currency) One of the main purposes of the risk management policy and strategies is to hedge against fluctuations in future cash flows. Electricity derivatives with subsidiaries and NASDAQ as counterparties Several of Agder Energi AS’s subsidiaries trade cash-settled electricity derivatives on NASDAQ. Formally, this involves Agder Energi AS acting as NASDAQ’s counterparty, and Agder Energi entering into identical contracts with the relevant subsidiaries in parallel. The company uses hedge accounting for these contracts, and so they are not capitalised. The net value of contracts with NASDAQ was NOK 104 million at 31 December 2019. The value of the company’s contracts with its subsidiaries was NOK -104 million. Debt portfolio The Agder Energi Group’s whole loan portfolio is held by Agder Energi AS. This exposes the company to a significant interest rate risk. The Group has a central finance department within Agder Energi, which has overall responsibility for banking services, financing, currency operations, corporate finance and other financial services. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 106 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Interest rate risk is measured by modified duration, which is kept within a target period of 1 to 5 years. Rules on durations and other rules relating to interest rate portfolios, liquidity risk, etc. are given in the risk policy and finance strategy. The chosen strategy aims to minimise net financial expenses over the long term, while reducing risk to an acceptable level. Exposure to interest rate risk is measured and monitored. The group finance department is responsible for taking positions. The parent company’s debt portfolios include foreign currency loans. 226 million euros in loans are used as a hedge against fluctuations in the Group’s revenues in that currency. Agder Energi AS has lent an equivalent amount in euros to Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. Agder Energi AS has also taken out interest rate and currency swaps for 107 million euros of mirrored loans provided to Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. NOTE 18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Agder Energi AS had no significant contingent liabilities at the end of the year. NOTE 19 MORTGAGED ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES ISSUED Mortgages Agder Energi AS currently has no mortgage loans. Liabilities and guarantees issued The company’s loan agreements do contain negative pledge clauses, which also cover its subsidiaries. This means that any new security interests require the consent of the lenders. Agder Energi AS has NOK 778 million in outstanding off-statement of financial position bank guarantees. Of this total, NOK 446 million comprises payment guarantees for electricity trading, NOK 181 million is an internal guarantee for network tariffs passed on to customers, NOK 98 million relates to contractual guarantees, NOK 48 million relates to tax deducted at source and NOK 6 million is a rent guarantee. At the close of the year, the parent company had issued guarantees worth NOK 10 million in relation to external liabilities. Contractual obligations Agder Energi Group leases office premises at Kjøita in Kristiansand. The lease contract is between Kjøita 18 AS and Agder Energi AS. Since 01/01/2017, the building has been owned by Arctic Securities. This has not resulted in any changes to the terms of the lease. At the end of the year, the contract had 6 years left to run, with a renewal option for a further five years. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 107 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AUDITOR’S REPORT Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 287 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Markens gate 9, NO-4662, Kristiansand www.ey.no Postboks 184, NO-4662 Kristiansand Medlemmer av Den norske revisorforening INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Agder Energi AS Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Agder Energi AS comprising the financial statements of the parent company and the Group. The financial statements of the parent company comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2019, the income statement and statements of cash flows for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The consolidated financial statements comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2019, the statements of other comprehensive income, income statement, cash flows and changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, ► the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the law and regulations. ► the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as at 31 December 2019, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting standards and practices generally accepted in Norway. ► the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2019 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company and the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Norway, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities as required by law and regulations. We have also complied with our other ethical obligations in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for 2019. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 108 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 2 Accounting for financial derivatives and long-term delivery contracts Agder Energi produces electric power that primarily is sold in the Norwegian market, where the spot price is volatile and nominated in Euro at Nord Pool Spot. The exposure for changes in the power spot price and currency exchange rates are partly hedged using financial derivatives and long-term delivery contracts. Financial derivatives comprise of energy and currency derivatives, which are accounted for at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement. Some long-termed delivery contracts are priced in Euro, where the embedded currency derivative is accounted for at fair value. Changes in spot price for power and currency lead to significant changes in the fair value of financial derivatives and embedded derivatives in long-termed delivery contracts. Financial derivatives and long-termed delivery contracts are considered to be a key audit matter basted on the number of transactions, complexity and degree of judgement related to the assessment of fair value. We have throughout our audit evaluated the group’s internal control over trading, monitoring and accounting for financial derivatives and long-termed delivery contracts. Our audit procedures included test of existence, completeness and contractual terms for the financial derivatives through external confirmations. Additionally we have tested the valuation for a sample of the group’s financial derivatives through external confirmations. Fair value of embedded derivatives were assessed through external benchmarks of future exchange rates and interest rate curves. We performed analytical procedures and evaluated management’s analysis of changes in fair value of financial instruments related to the power generating portfolio. Further we have evaluated the presentation and classification of the financial derivatives and long-termed delivery contracts in the consolidated financial statements, including information presented in the notes. See note 6, 25, 26, 27 and 28 for further information. Other information Other information consists of the information included in the Company’s annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (management) are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of management for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting standards and practices generally accepted in Norway for the financial statements of the parent company and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU for the financial statements of the Group, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Independent auditor's report Agder Energi AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 109 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 3 Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with law, regulations and generally accepted auditing principles in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also ► identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ► obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control; ► evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; ► conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern; ► evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; ► obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Independent auditor's report Agder Energi AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 110 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 4 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and on the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility concerning the financial statements, the going concern assumption and proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Opinion on registration and documentation Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, «Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information», it is our opinion that management has fulfilled its duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is properly recorded and documented as required by law and bookkeeping standards and practices accepted in Norway. Kristiansand, 2 April 2020 ERNST & YOUNG AS Finn Espen Sellæg State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) Independent auditor's report Agder Energi AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 111 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES (APM) Agder Energi’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Alternative performance measures are used to provide relevant supplementary information to the IFRS financial statements by adjusting for impacts that are not considered relevant to the underlying profit for the period. Using alternative performance measures that better reflect the underlying value added by the Group will make it easier to compare results and cash flows over time. The alternative performance measures are defined, calculated and used consistently and transparently over time. The alternative performance measures are used for internal management and governance purposes, and in May 2018 the municipal majority shareholders in Agder Energi decided that the dividend policy for the years 2018–2020 should use the previous year’s underlying profit under IFRS. Agder Energi uses the following alternative performance measures: Underlying operating revenues: Operating revenues +/the adjustments described below EBITDA: Operating profit before depreciation and impairment losses Underlying EBITDA: EBITDA +/the adjustments described below Underlying operating profit: Operating profit +/the adjustments described below Underlying net income: Net income +/the adjustments described below The following adjustments are made to calculate the Group’s underlying operating revenues, EBITDA, operating profit and net income: 1. +/Unrealised gains and losses on electricity and currency contracts, interest rate contracts at fair value and currency loans. Agder Energi has a significant volume of contracts that are measured at fair value under IFRS. These are mainly financial contracts whose aim is to hedge the value of future electricity generation. Future electricity generation is only recognised when it occurs. Fluctuations in the value of the financial contracts are excluded from the underlying results and are only included when they are settled. This ensures consistency in the timing of when the hedging instruments and hedged items are included in the underlying results. It also reduces fluctuations in the results and gives a more accurate idea of how Agder Energi has performed in the reporting period. Changes in the fair value of compensation power agreements and other contracts measured at fair value are also excluded from the underlying results. However, changes in the market value of the Group’s trading portfolios are included in the underlying results. The underlying operating revenues, EBITDA and operating profit are adjusted for the pre-tax effect of unrealised gains and losses on electricity and currency contracts and of currency loans. Underlying net income is adjusted for the post-tax effect of unrealised gains and losses on electricity and currency contracts and of currency loans. In addition, it includes the post-tax effect of unrealised gains and losses on interest rate swaps. 2. +/Changes in deferred tax assets arising from negative resource rent carryforwards at power stations The accounting rules require future tax savings from negative resource rent carryforwards to be included on the balance sheet as an asset. Agder Energi has implemented this requirement by including the estimated value of tax savings over the coming ten years on its balance sheet. This calculation is highly sensitive to changes in parameters like electricity prices in euros and the EUR/NOK exchange rate. The carrying amount of this accounting estimate is almost entirely governed by external factors such as electricity prices and the EUR/NOK exchange rate, so changes in the estimate recognised in the income statement tell us nothing about the underlying performance during the reporting period. This adjustment is reflected in the underlying net income. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 112 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 3. +/Material gains and losses on the disposal of businesses or ownership interests in businesses An adjustment is made for material gains and losses on the disposal of businesses or ownership interests in businesses, since these are not considered to be part of the underlying performance in the reporting period. Material gains and losses refers to disposals of businesses or ownership interests in businesses with an impact on net income of at least NOK 25 million in a single financial year. Even if several items individually have a smaller impact than NOK 25 million, they are considered material if their total impact is greater than NOK 50 million in a financial year. This adjustment is reflected in the underlying net income. (Amounts in NOK million) 2019 2018 IFRS operating revenues 14,097 13,980 Unrealised gains and losses, electricity and currency -856 1,357 Material gains on the disposal of businesses or ownership interests in businesses 0 -26 Underlying operating revenues 13,241 15,312 IFRS operating profit 2,384 967 Depreciation and impairment losses 706 659 IFRS EBITDA 3,090 1,626 Unrealised gains and losses, electricity and currency -856 1,357 Material gains on the disposal of businesses or ownership interests in businesses 0 -26 Underlying EBITDA 2,234 2,957 IFRS operating profit 2,384 967 Unrealised gains and losses, electricity and currency -856 1,357 Material gains on the disposal of businesses or ownership interests in businesses 0 -26 Underlying operating profit 1,528 2 298 IFRS net income (controlling interest’s share) 1,122 -198 Changes in unrealised gains and losses after tax (see Note 3) -692 1,049 Changes in deferred tax assets from neg. resource rent carryforwards 36 49 Material gains on the disposal of businesses or ownership interests in businesses -125 -26 Underlying net income (controlling interest’s share) 340 874 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 113 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Agder Energi’s core business is the generation of clean, renewable hydroelectric power. Our production of clean power is sustainable and will be important to future generations. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2019 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 114 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2019 Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Sustainability 116 Sustainable energy for future generations 118 Important sustainability topics for Agder Energi 119 Group CSR goals 122 Value added statement 123 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 115 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND SUSTAINABILITY NETWORK RELIABILITY LOST TIME INJURIES PER MILLION WORK HOURS 2019 99.98% 2019 1.20 2018 99.94% 2018 2.20 2017 99.98% 2017 2.10 AVAILABLE DISTRIBUTION 2019 2018 2017 DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE Net amount the company 26.1% 14.5% 20.6% (NOK MILL.) Net amount employees 17.1% 20.2% 21.4% Net amount lenders 6.5% 4.9% 5.1% Net amount the public sector 50.3% 44.0% 34.6% Net amount the company 860 Net amount employees 565 Net amount lenders 214 Net amount shareholders 0.0% 16.4% 18.2% Net amount the public sector 1,657 Net amount shareholders 0 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 116 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO²e) 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 Direct emissions – Scope 1: 1,892 Indirect emissions – Scope 2 Physical approach: 228 1000 Indirect emissions – Scope 2 Market-based approach: 76 Indirect emissions – Scope 3: 6,084 0 Power stations 2019 2018 2017 57 57 57 Power stations refers to power stations owned by companies ­reporting in the CSR report and varies from the numbers presented earlier in the annual report ENERGY GENERATIONS (GWH) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Water 7,237 8,688 8,809 9,003 9,068 Solar PV 0.04 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04 District heating 168 172 162 159 139 TOTAL ENERGY GENERATION 7,405 8,860 8,971 9,162 9,206 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 117 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS Agder Energi has reported on the Group’s corruption. The principles are taken from work on sustainability in accordance with international conventions, and as such the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) since they represent a shared set of values for 2010. GRI is the most widely used frameglobal businesses. work for sustainability reporting, both worldwide and in Norway. The GRI rules Agder Energi helped to establish the Global changed in 2018, and there is now a clearer Compact network in Norway in 2018. As a requirement to analyse which sustainability member of the network, we undertake to topics are material for the Group itself, and do our utmost to run our business in accorwhich ones are important to the Group’s dance with the Global Compact’s two main stakeholders. Moreover, the rules state aims: to integrate the ten principles into that disclosures shall reflect the materiality our business activities, and to catalyse assessment – so most information shall be actions and partnerships in support of the given about the most important areas. UN’s goals for sustainable development. After performing this assessment in the autumn of 2018, we found twelve topics Agder Energi has been seeking an overall that are particularly important to the Group framework for its work on the environment and its stakeholders. The 2019 sustainability and sustainability. In 2019, informed by the report has been updated to reflect this. 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals, we carried out an extensive analysis of both Agder Energi’s values and ethical guidethe parent company and subsidiaries to lines provide the foundations for our busidetermine which areas it made most sense ness activities. That also applies to our to prioritise going forwards. Six of the 17 work on sustainability. The CSR Director is goals were chosen, and based on them, responsible for the Group’s work on susgoals and action plans have been formutainability. Several governance documents lated for Agder Energi’s subsidiaries and have been drawn up to put our sustainability business areas. principles into practice, including the Group CSR and Environmental Guidelines and the As well as taking part in the UN Global CSR and Environmental Strategy. The busiCompact, Agder Energi works closely with ness areas are responsible for carrying out various other organisations that promote work on sustainability, including setting sustainable business development: Skift – environmental goals and implementing The Business Community’s Climate Leaders, measures to achieve those goals. This is ZERO and Klimapartnere. Our mission is described in more detail in the group clear: We supply clean energy so society guidelines. can prosper now and into the future. That means supplying sustainable energy for In 2000 the UN launched the Global Comgenerations. pact, which is a global network of companies that support corporate social responsibility and wish to promote responsible and sustainable business practices. The Global Compact is based on ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour Unni Farestveit standards, the environment and anti-­ CSR Director AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 118 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR IMPORTANT SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS FOR AGDER ENERGI In the autumn of 2018, Agder Energi carried out a detailed analysis which give the companies themselves responsibility for setting of which sustainability topics are material for the Group itself, which goals with respect to their environmental impacts. Agder Energi ones are important to the Group’s stakeholders and which ones are Vannkraft focuses on biodiversity in the watercourses where it operaffected by the Group’s operations. In 2019 we carried out an exates, while the impact of power lines on vulnerable species is an tensive analysis of both the parent company and subsidiaries to important topic for Agder Energi Nett. The Group regularly assesses determine which areas it made most sense to prioritise in conjuncthe need to make changes to its activities in relation to biodiversity. tion with future work on the six selected Sustainable Development Goals. Consequently, no further analysis has been done to identify Dams and power stations change the natural environment, but the the topics that are material for the Group, but an overall assessGroup’s activities do not have a bigger impact on nature or society ment was made that the topics chosen in 2018 were still valid. than is usual for this kind of business. Agder Energi has 57 partowned and wholly-owned power stations within the companies The following topics were identified as being most important: included in this report, located in Agder, Telemark, Lithuania and Latvia. Distribution system operation is not as such polluting, but • Anti-corruption power lines have an impact on the landscape, and there is a risk • Biodiversity of birds colliding with them or suffering electric shocks. Agder • Breaches of laws and regulations Energi Nett’s operations have a particularly big impact on one • Health and safety critically endangered species, the Eurasian eagle-owl. Agder Energi • Greenhouse gas emissions Vannkraft’s operations affect the eel, which is defined as vulnerable, • Laws and regulations and the salmon and bleke, which are defined as being of least concern. • Staff training • Data protection Breaches of laws and regulations • The electric power/renewable energy industry It is a priority for the Group to adhere to relevant laws and regula• Third party health and safety tions. Compliance is a line management responsibility implemented • Impacts on the local community through organisational structures, procedures and systems. In order • Economic performance – direct to assist line managers with this, a Group compliance function • Economic performance – indirect has been established. Agder Energi’s compliance system consists of functions to prevent, identify and respond to issues. The parent Anti-corruption company and the biggest business areas have their own compliance Like all businesses, Agder Energi faces risks associated with officers. Once a year, the subsidiaries in the Group give an update financial crime such as corruption, misconduct and illegal price on compliance to the parent company. Currently there is no fixing. The Board and executive management of Agder Energi are system in place for continuous reporting of breaches of laws and responsible for implementing a robust anti-corruption system, an regulations. important element of which is providing training to employees. Unwanted incidents that occurred in 2019 are described in the Within Agder Energi’s ethical framework, all employees have a section on the company in question. In 2019, Agder Energi Nett was responsibility to prevent corruption. Preventive measures have fined for breaking the rules that restrict visitor access to power been put in place, such as ethical guidelines, dilemma training infrastructure. The company has since tightened up its procedures and internal controls. All employees take nano learning courses in accordance with the relevant regulations and guidelines. Agder each year. Our anti-corruption handbook is available to all emEnergi Nett has appealed against the details of the decision and its ployees in Norway and at our international businesses. appeal is currently being reviewed by the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy. Apart from this case, the executive management is not Moreover, a new role has been created with the main aim of preaware of any unwanted incidents at subsidiaries in 2019, or of the venting corruption. Various internal and external whistleblowing authorities imposing fines or other sanctions on them. channels have been established. Agder Energi has created an interdisciplinary ethics committee to deal with matters reported Health and safety through the whistleblowing channels. All of Agder Energi’s emHealth and safety is a priority area at all levels of our organisation. ployees have received information and training on the Group’s Our health and safety activities are regulated by legislation, comanti-corruption guidelines and procedures. pany guidelines, instructions and procedures, as set out in the Group’s health and safety management system. Biodiversity Biodiversity is important to the Group as a whole, but particularly so We have a zero accident vision and we want all of our employees to to Agder Energi Vannkraft and Agder Energi Nett. All companies in experience job satisfaction. The health and safety figures for recent the Group follow the Group CSR and Environmental Guidelines, years show improvement. Health and safety has been prioritised AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 119 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR throughout the organisation, and it is the first item on the agenda based method by buying guarantees of origin for all consumption at management meetings at both the Group and company levels. in Norway and Sweden. The biggest contribution to other indirect Employees receive health and safety training that reflects their roles emissions (scope 3) comes from the use of concrete and asphalt and certain companies, such as Agder Energi Vannkraft, have for the repair and construction of hydroelectric power stations. additional health and safety training programmes. Business travel by air, employees’ own cars and hire cars also contribute to indirect emissions. The power stations have dedicated health and safety managers with responsibility for reporting and facilitating improvements to Staff training health and safety procedures, as required and in response to Agder Energi is very conscious that the expertise of its employees defined trigger points. There is an occupational health and safety is one of its most important resources. system with working environment committees covering all workers, who are given the opportunity to report dangerous situations The Group’s approach to training is informed by the innovation and accidents. Employees participate in, and contribute to, health and business development activities set out in the Group’s strategy and safety activities through the working environment committo 2020, as well as by the need for digitalisation and adaptation to tees and safety representatives at individual companies, as well new technology. The Group is therefore working to establish a strong as through departmental safety and working environment surculture of continuous improvement, modernisation and innovation. veys. We have also established a public, anonymous whistleblowing channel that our own employees, contractors and third parties In order to develop today’s managers, talented professionals and can use to report any misconduct. In addition, all of the compaspecialists, the Group has established a management developnies in the Group have a company health service. ment programme that is mandatory for all managers. Key learning goals include communication skills, interpersonal skills, dialogue Agder Energi has a range of risk assessment tools adapted to the skills, coordination and continuous improvement. This work is activities and situations they are designed for. Broadly speaking, supported by a focus on teamwork and professional development. risk assessments are carried out for emergency planning, liability during projects, restructuring and operational issues. Risk managers The Group is experiencing a growing need to mobilise expertise at individual companies are responsible for keeping assessments across its companies, and internal mobility is increasing. The up-to-date. For workplace operations, a Safe Job Analysis (SJA) is Group is therefore making increasing use of flexible working used, which is carried out by the person responsible for the work structures, which facilitate the sharing of expertise between combefore starting. This covers local issues and is designed to deal with panies without staff having to be transferred. Facilitating opporthe risks associated with the task at hand. Risk assessments may tunities for career development within the Group is a high priority. lead to physical or organisational changes, which are implemented to ensure that the working environment is completely safe. All employees at the Group are given regular feedback and performance reviews, as well as support with career development. Greenhouse gas emissions Since our business is based on the generation, distribution and Data protection sale of renewable energy, low greenhouse gas emissions provide a In 2019, protecting the personal data of our customers and emkey competitive advantage and are important to the Group’s ability ployees was once again an area of priority for Agder Energi. The to add value. The Group is working to minimise its own greenintroduction in 2018 of the GDPR – joint European rules on data house gas emissions and has chosen to sign up to the Science protection – led to a lot of work preparing, documenting and Based Targets initiative. Based on our involvement in this initiaestablishing procedures for all of our activities that involve protive, in 2020 we will set goals for our own emissions that reflect cessing personal data. GDPR compliance should be seen as an the targets in the Paris Agreement. Our GHG accounting for 2019 ongoing process, which means that there were continuous has been done using a tool created by CEMAsys based on the updates to, and reviews of, documentation and processes relating international standard the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative”. to data processing in 2019. This is the world’s most widely used method for measuring GHG emissions. Due to changes in the methodology used to calculate During the year, three employees requested access to their own GHG emissions compared with previous years, the Group has personal data. chosen not to present comparative figures as they would not be directly comparable. The Group has a dedicated data protection officer, and each com­ pany has appointed someone to be responsible for data protecThe biggest direct emissions (scope 1) are from road transport, tion. Privacy policies describe the way in which Agder Energi Nett burning fossil fuels to meet peak loads on district heating systems and LOS process personal data in accordance with the GDPR. and SF6 emissions from switchgear. Indirect emissions from elecThe way in which the personal data of staff is processed in tricity consumption (scope 2) are reduced under the marketWorkplace is set out in the Workplace Premium Privacy Policy. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 120 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The energy/renewable energy industry Energi works to ensure the best possible relationship with the The renewable energy industry has an important social mission, local communities in the areas where it operates. but it also has the potential to have a positive or negative impact on the economy, environment, climate and society. Some of the Economic performance – direct topics that are important to energy companies in general are not Our economic performance is a prerequisite for running the comas relevant to groups that base their activities on generating and pany and is of vital importance to our employees, shareholders distributing renewable hydroelectric power. Climate-friendly and the Agder Energi Group. renewable energy generation is one of the most important ways in which we can combat climate change. The value added statement, which is a reflection of how our financial performance benefits society, presents how value is Third party health and safety created and distributed amongst employees, lenders, the public Health and safety is the Agder Energi Group’s top priority, and this sector, shareholders and the company itself. also applies to third parties. Third parties are defined as people who come into contact with, or are affected by, the Group’s activi­ Economic performance – indirect ties in a variety of ways. Agder Energi is also very conscious of its indirect economic impacts. These may be generated by building infrastructure or Third party health and safety is particularly important in conjuncproviding district heating, for example. They are particularly tion with big development projects, infrastructure and power significant in the case of companies like Agder Energi Varme, lines. This is particularly important at Agder Energi Nett, as the Agder Energi Nett and Agder Energi Vannkraft. Investments in company considers itself to be partly responsible for the health infrastructure and the operation of our existing facilities provide and safety of its customers by providing them with a safe, reliwork for local contractors. District heating reduces the energy able electricity supply. A modern society cannot function withcosts of Agder Energi’s customers, because district heating is out this, so Agder Energi Nett is continuously working on immore affordable than electricity, oil or biofuel. District heating provements in areas such as clearing rights of way by overhead also reduces pressure on the electrical grid, reducing the need for power lines. further investments. When a commercial project is concluded, an assessment report is Agder Energi Nett makes an important contribution to society by written, and where relevant this includes an evaluation of work on creating jobs and economic growth in Agder. The company is a third party health and safety. The findings of the report are then significant customer for local suppliers in Agder, and it has estabused as a basis for improvements in the next project. lished ties with 597 providers of goods and services. As such, Agder Energi Nett plays a big role in ensuring the health of the Impacts on the local community business community in Agder. All projects to build new facilities or The local community and the Agder Energi Group are symbiotic. refurbish existing ones, as well as operation and maintenance, Our modern society couldn’t function without the electricity involve buying services from local suppliers. As well as giving a supplied by the Group, and without the local community, the financial boost to suppliers, this also enhances their expertise. Group would be unable to achieve its goals. That’s why Agder AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 121 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP CSR GOALS Based on the CSR and Environmental Strategy and the Group Labour rights are monitored using a risk assessment of the likeliCSR and Environmental Guidelines, and informed by the Ethical hood of them being breached. For suppliers and contractors, the Guidelines and Group HR Guidelines, we have set joint goals for importance of the delivery and the project are also taken into the Group relating to key areas of CSR. Both individual companies account. Measures used to guarantee labour rights include audits, and the Group management team are responsible for meeting visits to suppliers and the obligation to ensure compliance. The the Group CSR Goals. The goals cover four main areas: obligation to ensure compliance is an obligation to ensure that pay and working conditions at suppliers comply with the current Human rights regulations on the general application of collective agreements. Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall conduct themselves in accordance with the UN’s internationally accepted human rights Environmental impacts conventions. A subcontractor is defined as someone who performs Each company within the Agder Energi Group draws up enviservices for or sells products to Agder Energi. The Group and its ronmental goals for its operations, reflecting the nature of its subcontractors shall never be complicit in the breach of human business. Subcontractors must have procedures in place for rights. environmental protection measures. This is backed up by a risk assessment of various parts of the Individual companies are responsible for ensuring that their business focusing on the likelihood of breaches of human rights. suppliers meet this requirement. Amongst other things, some Suppliers are assessed on the basis of their importance to Agder companies require suppliers and contractors to report various Energi, and checks are carried out during audits and site visits to environmental data. suppliers. Anti-corruption Labour rights Agder Energi’s goal is that no form of active or passive corruption Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall comply with the eight shall take place within the Group’s business activities. The Board fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation and management of Agder Energi are responsible for implementing (ILO) on the right to organise, the right to collective bargaining a robust anti-corruption system, an important element of which is and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and discrimination providing training to employees. at the workplace. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 122 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR VALUE ADDED STATEMENT The value added statement gives an account of the wealth created by the Group over the year, and shows how it is distributed amongst the stakeholder groups: employees, lenders, the public sector, shareholders and the company itself. The figure for value added is adjusted for unrealised gains and losses on energy, currency and interest rate contracts. (Amounts in NOK million) 2019 2018 Operating revenues 13,850 15,367 Goods consumed/operating expenses -9,907 -11,091 Gross added value 3,943 4,276 Capital depreciation -706 -659 Net added value 3,237 3,617 Net financial items, excl. interest 59 -5 Available for distribution 3,296 3,612 DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE Employees Gross salaries and benefits 959 1,119 Tax paid by employees -253 -259 Employers' National Insurance Contributions -141 -132 Net amount received by employees 565 728 Lenders Interest, etc. paid to lenders 214 177 Net amount received by lenders 214 177 The public sector Ordinary taxes 485 198 Property taxes 140 143 Resource rent tax 638 859 Tax paid by employees 253 259 Employers' National Insurance Contributions 141 132 Net amount received by the public sector 1,657 1,591 Shareholders Allocated for distributions by the company (dividends/guarantees) 0 592 Net amount received by shareholders 0 592 The company Retained earnings 846 530 Non-controlling interest's share of profit 14 -6 Net amount received by the company 860 524 Total amount distributed 3,296 3,612 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2019 123 Design: WergelandApenes • Photo: Agder Energi • Translation: Språkverkstaden The Corporate social responsibility report for Agder Energi 2019 is available at ae.no Agder Energi P.O. Box 603 Lundsiden, 4606 Kristiansand Visiting address (head office): Kjøita 18, 4630 Kristiansand Tel. no.: +47 38 60 70 00 Organisation number: NO 981 952 324 Frontpage photo: Kuli dam in Sirdal was upgraded in 2019. The work done will not increase electricity generation, but it will play an important role in maintaining generation along the Finså river system in the future. Photo credit: Spectacular Norway/Simen Haughom
