Corporate Responsibility www.j-lauritzen.com 2019 2 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Table of contents CEO statement 3 Highlights 2019 4 J. Lauritzen overview 5 Our business 6 Human and labour rights 7 Environment and climate 8 Social and employee relations 9 Anti-corruption 10 Value chain responsibility 11 Lauritzen Bulkers 12 Lauritzen Kosan 13 About this report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act (Sec. 99a) and the UN Global Compact’s annual requirements for communication on progress. The scope of our reporting is determined by our commitment to the UN Global Compact and an assessment of materiality. The main aim of this report is to give our internal and external stakeholders an overview of our corporate responsibility policies, actions and performance. 3 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 CEO statement This corporate responsibility (CR) report covers social, ethical Humanitarian issues, corruption and transparency are key patterns, speed requirements and cargo cooling requirements and environmental topics related to our business for the challenges facing our industry and they cannot be solved by in the spot and COA markets in which we operate. This can financial year ending 31 December 2019. It provides our companies individually. Global initiatives and strong make year-to-year comparisons of our emissions difficult. stakeholders with an overview of our performance and our coordination are what is needed to achieve sustainable results. initiatives in these areas, complementing the review of our We consider ourselves accountable for our performance and financial performance included in our Annual Report 2019. We support relevant global initiatives and are proactive in believe it is important to be transparent on emissions – and we seeking and joining new partnerships that we believe will are also making efforts to decrease them. This report also serves as our annual communication on make a positive contribution to the impact shipping may have progress in relation to the UN Global Compact. on people or the environment. We look forward to continuing our efforts towards even more responsible business practices within J. Lauritzen and the Shipping markets were in general challenged by declining We apply this philosophy to new and more experimental shipping industry in general, and we are confident that the ten seaborne trade growth in 2019 due to the weakening of the initiatives, as well as those that are well established. With this principles of the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable world economy, ongoing global trade policy disputes and approach, we also participate in industry partnerships such as Development Goals will continue to guide us in the right geopolitical tensions. the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network, the Trident Alliance direction. and IMPA ACT as well as initiatives under Danish Shipping, Our CR commitment remains unchanged, and we continue to the trade and employers’ organisation for Danish shipping and I hope that you find this report interesting. be committed to the United Nations Global Compact as the offshore companies. foundation for our corporate responsibility endeavours. We Mads P. Zacho became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2011, and since In November 2019, the Danish government presented its CEO, J. Lauritzen A/S then, the ten principles of the Global Compact have guided our ambitions to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions corporate responsibility efforts and helped us identify any across sectors and industries. The Danish Shipping Climate impact our business creates that we must be aware of. Change Advisory Board was accordingly set up to advise and inform the Danish government on climate-change-related During the past couple of years, we have also increasingly matters associated with international shipping. We are been guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals honoured to have a seat on this advisory board and to therefore (SDGs). be part of fulfilling Denmark’s ambitions to drastically reduce emissions that are harmful to the environment. We believe that responsible business conduct is an essential part of delivering quality maritime transportation services. Reducing emissions in the maritime transport industry is a Accordingly, corporate responsibility remains strategically multifaceted task, as it can be affected not only by the important to us. technology onboard our ships, but also by changing trade 4 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Highlights 2019 Our corporate responsibility efforts build on our core values. In early 2020, we took a seat at the Danish Shipping Climate We did not recycle any ships in 2019. They are aligned with our commitment to the ten principles of Change Advisory Board, which is tasked to advise the Board the UN Global Compact, the UN Sustainable Development of Directors of Danish Shipping on climate-change-related Security policy Goals (SDGs) and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and matters associated with international shipping. This is part of Instability and the risk of piracy-related activities against ships Human Rights. the Danish government’s ambitions to drastically reduce remains in many countries and regions. Our security policy for greenhouse gas emissions. owned and operated vessels in high-risk areas therefore We work continuously to increase the integration of our remains paramount. The policy was reviewed and amended in corporate responsibility efforts into our business strategy and The ECOPRODIGI project, founded by the Interreg Baltic Sea 2019. day-to-day business operations. Region Programme, continued in 2019. Its tools and methodologies were further improved, and new technologies Anti-corruption Highlights 2019 are being adapted to automate and optimise the daily work of In 2019, we continued our active participation in the Maritime In 2019, we continued our efforts to improve energy efficiency operating our fleet to improve eco-efficiency. A general focus Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), the global business and to eliminate corrupt practices as a founding member of point of the ECOPRODIGI project is digitalisation and we work network working to free the maritime industry of corruption the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN). We also with our partners to gain further benefits from AIS (automatic and to enable fair trade to the benefit of society at large. continued our work in shipping industry partnerships and identification system) and autologous data from our fleet. Through the MACN, we discuss and share best practice with initiatives supporting the sustainability agenda. other representatives from the industry. Sulphur cap Environmental policy As a founding member of the Trident Alliance, we worked In 2019, we took a seat on the MACN’s Steering Committee. During 2019, we reviewed our environment and climate policy, towards the robust enforcement of the sulphur regulations – That way, we will contribute to setting the way forward for the confirming our commitment and responsibility towards a specifically the global 0.5% sulphur cap – that came into force network and for the maritime industry as a whole. greener environment. We constantly seek to minimise the on 1 January 2020. environmental and climatic impact of our operations. Outlook 2020 Responsible ship recycling In 2020, we will continue our corporate responsibility efforts Energy-efficiency initiatives Our policy on responsible ship recycling was last reviewed by and commitments with a constant focus on integration with In 2019 J. Lauritzen joined the Getting to Zero Coalition – the the Board of Directors in December 2019 and acknowledges our business strategy and thus our overall value creation. industry-led platform with a goal to make zero-emission the severe impact of some recycling practices. The policy vessels (ZEVs) commercially viable from 2030. This is in line commits J. Lauritzen to ensuring the recycling of our owned Additional information with the IMO’s goal to reduce emissions from shipping by vessels is in compliance with the requirements of both the This report serves as our Communication on Progress to the 50% by 2050. The Coalition is organised in partnership with 2009 Hong Kong Convention for the Safe and Environmentally UN Global Compact. the Global Maritime Forum, the World Economic Forum and Sound Recycling of Ships and the EU regulation on ship Friends of Ocean Action. The organisation brings together recycling – as well as being carried out with respect for human leading stakeholders from the maritime, energy, infrastructure rights. Recognising a responsibility that often goes beyond and financial sectors and is supported by key governments owned vessels, the policy further commits us to take action to and intergovernmental organisations. The Coalition’s work is prevent and mitigate severe impacts when selling vessels for aligned with the goals set out in the IMO’s Initial GHG Strategy. further trade. 5 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 J. Lauritzen overview J. LAURITZEN FACTS 2019 Owned by Lauritzen Fonden 100% 168 employees 31% ashore 69% Year-end 21 nationalities J. Lauritzen office location worldwide Headquarters in Copenhagen, Denmark. Overseas offices in Singapore, The Philippines, The United States and Dubai. 333 seafarers onboard owned vessels J. Lauritzen has served the maritime trade worldwide for more J. Lauritzen’s purpose is to enable global trade through Year-end than 135 years, with involvement in a wide range of shipping intelligent seaborne solutions – creating growth for local industry segments. Today, we provide the marine transportation communities around the world. We are committed to our Average controlled of dry bulk cargoes as well as petrochemical and liquefied clients and live by our four J. Lauritzen values: resoluteness, fleet of 104 vessels petroleum gases on a global scale. accountability, empathy and adaptability. in 2019 Lauritzen Bulkers is an owner and operator of bulk carriers Together, we use our in-depth experience with the latest engaged in the marine transportation of dry bulk cargoes technology to provide efficient, reliable and safe seaborne USD 423 m worldwide. Our main presence is in the handysize segment, transport solutions. Invested capital Year-end 2019 where we maintain a leading position. J. Lauritzen is wholly owned by Lauritzen Fonden (The Lauritzen Lauritzen Kosan is a global provider of safe and reliable ocean Foundation). USD 502 m transport solutions for liquefied gases comprising petroRevenue chemical and energy gases. Our main presence is in the in 2019 3-12,000 cbm gas carrier segment. 6 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Our business J. Lauritzen operates in excess of 100 bulk and gas carriers, leading, reliable, high-quality provider of safe and flexible which undertake worldwide ocean transportation of dry bulk transportation to our clients and to generate value for our cargoes and liquefied gases. owner. Our purpose is to enable global trade through intelligent We control and operate smaller semi-refrigerated ethylene UN SDG OUR ACTIONS GOALS seaborne solutions – creating growth for local communities and fully pressurised gas carriers in the 3-12,000 cbm size around the world. We are committed to our clients in solving segment, serving petrochemical companies, oil majors and their maritime transportation needs and we live by our four traders. Mitigating risk of accidents Enforcement of environmental regulation J. Lauritzen values: resoluteness, accountability, empathy and adaptability. The underlying long-term drivers of demand for smaller gas Responsible ship recycling carriers are the global consumption of plastics and liquefied Commitment to personal safety Enabling global trade Business model – bulk carriers petroleum gases (for fuel and heating purposes as well as Security policy onboard ship Respect for human rights The core element of our bulk carrier strategy is a strong petrochemical feedstock). presence in the handysize bulk carrier segment with the objective of delivering competitive and reliable transportation In the shorter term, the demand for transportation is Enabling global trade services to our clients. fluctuating with production cycles in the refinery and petrochemical industry. The dry bulk market is generally characterised by solid Founding member of the IMPA ACT demand growth, fragmentation among carriers and strong Managing business risks price competition. This allows ample possibilities to provide Our operations are exposed to a wide range of risk factors, dry bulk shipping services by means of a large homogeneous including commercial risk, strategic risk, financial risk, bunker Member of the Getting to Zero Coalition fleet, consisting of a core of owned as well as long-, mediumrisk, operational risk (safety at sea), risk related to corporate and short-term time-chartered vessels. governance and corporate responsibility, insurance and IT. For a detailed review of the different risk factors, please see our Our strategy to become an asset-light handysize operator was Annual Report 2019, pages 15-16. Ballast water treatment largely completed in 2019, and we are pleased to see the robust results generated from trading activities. Our business and corporate responsibility As a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2011, we have Fight against corruption Business model – gas carriers been guided by the framework and core principles addressing Lauritzen Kosan specialises in the safe and efficient carriage of human and labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption, Enforcement of environmental liquefied gases, comprising petrochemical and energy gases, as you will see in the following pages. regulation Ballast water treatment on a global basis. Member of the Maritime Founding member of the Trident Alliance During the past couple of years, we have also increasingly Anti-Corruption Network The strategy is based on our brand and rooted in years been guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals of solid operational performance. We strive to remain a (SDGs). 7 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Human and labour rights We consider respect for human and labour rights as a part of were assessed to decide which ones are salient to our our heritage and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Our respect for human rights closely correlates with our core company given our geographical and business context. Human rights values of accountability and empathy and our purpose to “enable global trade through intelligent seaborne solutions – Human rights at sea At sea, our human rights efforts are closely linked to our due diligence creating growth for local communities around the world”. health, safety and security policies and procedures. These are Our human rights due diligence is an ongoing process managed within each business unit in accordance with designed to help us address actual and potential adverse As a shipowner and operator, we face human rights challenges legislation, regulations and the nature of the operations. We human rights risks and impact that are linked to our ashore as well as at sea. We use the UN Guiding Principles on apply the Maritime Labour Convention 2006 (MLC) when business activities. Business and Human Rights as a blueprint for our endeavour assessing our impacts onboard our vessels. to respect human rights. Initiatives in 2019 Identification Managing human rights risks Towards the end of the year, a Human Rights Policy Statement We perform human rights due diligence in alignment with the was approved by the Board of Directors. The policy confirms UN Guiding Principles. This is to help us identify how our that we are committed to upholding human rights across our business may impact people’s enjoyment of their human operations and value chain. We are also committed to creating rights and how any actual and potential impact could pose a and protecting a work environment in which all individuals are Communicating Actions risk to our business. treated with respect and dignity and which prohibits any kind of discrimination and harassment. In addition to human rights due diligence ashore and at sea, we manage our human rights risks as part of our health-andDuring 2019, we actively participated in a working group on safety and risk-management systems. These are anchored in human rights under Danish Shipping, which is the trade and our two business units along with the Group’s anti-corruption employers’ organisation for Danish shipping and offshore Tracking compliance programme and responsible supply chain companies. Towards the end of 2019, this led to the release of management programme. the report “Navigating Human Rights: A Guide to Human Rights Due Diligence and Salient Human Rights Issues Aligned with the UN Guiding Principles, our due Human rights due diligence ashore in Shipping”. diligence process covers human rights assessment, We have conducted human rights assessments in order to including identification and assessment of our adverse understand our potential risks and impacts at our offices in The report is available at https://www.danishshipping.dk/en/ human rights impact, actions to prevent and mitigate Copenhagen and Singapore. This work included assessments policy/csr/human-rights/. identified impact and to address relevant policies and of our corporate policies and procedures. procedures, a system for tracking milestones and We continued our efforts in the IMPA ACT partnership on following up on action plans, and a mechanism for All human rights outlined in the International Bill of Human responsible procurement in the shipping industry, where one communicating how we address identified adverse Rights, including the International Labour Organization’s of the core elements is the protection of human rights; see impacts with relevant stakeholders. Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, page 10. 8 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Environment and climate We acknowledge the environmental impact of our operations In 2019, J. Lauritzen joined the Getting to Zero Coalition – the efficiency, and together with the other ShippingLab projects and the related risks to the climate. These mainly relate to industry-led platform with a goal to make zero-emission to pursue the long-term common goal of the initiative to create emissions to air and spill to sea. We take responsibility for vessels (ZEVs) commercially viable from 2030. This is in line “Denmark’s first autonomous, environmentally friendly ship”. minimising our environmental and climatic footprint and are with the IMO’s goal to reduce emissions from shipping by always working towards this. 50% by 2050. The coalition is organised in partnership with We have been an active partner in the Green Ship of the Future the Global Maritime Forum, the World Economic Forum and for several years. Our owner, Lauritzen Fonden, has granted Managing environmental and climate risks Friends of Ocean Action. It brings together leading donations to the project, and we have participated actively in We constantly seek to minimise the environmental and stakeholders from the maritime, energy, infrastructure and the work on exploring the use of new energy-efficiency climatic impact of our operations. We do this through our financial sectors and is supported by key governments and technologies and promoting the use of those already in policies and procedures as well as day-to-day collection, intergovernmental organisations. The coalition’s work is existence. analysis and monitoring of relevant data. aligned with the goals set out in the IMO’s Initial GHG Strategy. As a founding member of the Trident Alliance, we continued Our environmental and climate policy is annually reviewed by In early 2020, we took a seat at the Danish Shipping Climate the efforts for the robust enforcement of sulphur regulations – the Board of Directors, most recently in November 2019. It is Change Advisory Board. The board is tasked to advise the specifically the global 0.5% sulphur cap – that came into force updated when required to confirm our commitment to Board of Directors of Danish Shipping on climate-changeon 1 January 2020. reducing emissions and protecting the seas, while at the same related matters associated with international shipping. This is time creating value for our owners, clients and other part of the Danish government’s strategy to drastically reduce You can read more about our environmental efforts and results stakeholders. greenhouse gas emissions. in the environmental statements of Lauritzen Bulkers and Lauritzen Kosan respectively. See pages 11–13 in this report, Focus on reducing emissions The ECOPRODIGI project, founded by the Interreg Baltic Sea in which emissions figures are also disclosed. During the year, we continued our energy-efficiency efforts to Region Programme, continued in 2019. The tools and reduce fuel consumption and emissions through technical methodologies were further improved, and new technologies Ballast water and operational initiatives. In addition, we ensured the are being adapted to automate and optimise the daily work of Regarding the IMO ballast water management convention, collection of all relevant data to fulfil the requirement of the operating our fleet with respect to eco-efficiency. A general we have started the BWTS (Ballast Water Treatment Systems) EU-MRV (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification) scheme, as focus point of the ECOPRODIGI project is digitalisation and we installation onboard our gas carrier fleet. The full installation of well as the IMO-DCS (Data Collection System). work with our partners to gain further benefits from AIS BWTS is scheduled to be completed in 2024. On our bulk (automatic identification system) and autologous data from carriers, installation of treatment systems will commence in In terms of environmental performance, we actively promote our fleet. 2020 with scheduled completion in 2023. a performance-oriented culture both at sea and ashore. As part of the ShippingLab initiative started in 2019, we are Operational and project experience, alongside continuous Due to the nature of our business, many of the environmental participating in two projects on Vessel Operation and Engine monitoring of technological development, will secure fleet challenges we face are industry-related. We build partnerships and Equipment Performance Analytics. Both projects focus on compliance with the IMO convention and national regulations. with innovative and relevant stakeholders who can help us to the improved usage of available data to enhance digital identify the most effective solutions for environmental issues. twinning of the vessels with a goal of improved energy 9 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Social and employee relations Our ongoing engagement survey gave significant feedback on At year-end 2019, the number of nationalities working for us in Everyone has the right to work without bias, prejudice or the core drivers that make J. Lauritzen an attractive and our land-based organisation reached 21, a slight decline from harassment in a professional atmosphere that promotes equal rewarding place to work in the eyes of our staff. 24 nationalities in 2018. However, we expect international employment opportunities and prohibits unlawful diversity to increase again in the coming years to the benefit of discrimination. We are proud that our employees yet again in 2019 ranked us our clients, innovation and our overall profile as an attractive well above our benchmark. They rated highly their perception company to work for. The policy ensures equal employment opportunity without of peer relationships at J. Lauritzen and our friendly, discrimination or harassment based on, for example, race, collaborative atmosphere. We are also committed to working towards a balanced gender colour, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or origin. composition at all management levels. Our target is that the The continuing dialogue with staff on identifying areas for overall gender distribution of our shore-based workforce The non-discrimination and anti-harassment policy was improvement and creating a feedback loop was maintained in should be matched at management levels. created to ensure that all employees can work in an 2019 and will be continued in 2020. environment free from unlawful harassment, discrimination At year-end 2019, the gender distribution of the shore-based and retaliation. Managing social and employee relations risks organisation was 31% female and 69% male, regrettably The risk of violation of our non-discrimination and antidown from 34% female and 66% male at year-end 2018. We will make every reasonable effort to ensure that all harassment policy is mitigated by our whistle-blower portal, employees are familiar with this policy and know that any which enables both internal and external stakeholders to The distribution of females and males in managerial positions reports of policy violations will be investigated and resolved anonymously report non-compliance. in our shore-based organisation was 12% and 88% (15% and appropriately. 85% respectively in 2018), which was below our goal of 25% Diversity and 75%. In 2018, we joined the UN Free and Equal initiative, which Our diversity policy, previously updated by the Board of aims to tackle discrimination against lesbian, gay, bi, trans and Directors in 2018, was again reviewed in 2019. The policy In early 2020, we joined an initiative for more women in intersex people and hereby we signal our commitment to states that we consider diversity to be an important and shipping at sea as well as ashore led by Danish Shipping, the diversity. natural prerequisite for innovation and for the development of trade and employers’ organisation for Danish shipping the company. companies and offshore companies. By signing the charter of the initiative, we commit ourselves to develop a strategy for We want to remain an attractive workplace that can attract, increasing the number of women in our company and to recruit and retain the best-qualified employees and launch plans supporting the overall aim of the initiative. continuously develop them in order to realise their potential in an optimal way. Non-discrimination Our non-discrimination and anti-harassment policy, reviewed We aim to create a culture in which all employees consistently by the Board of Directors in 2019, states that we are committed experience diversity at all levels, including managerial to creating a work environment in which all individuals are positions, and in which all employees have equal opportunities treated with respect and dignity. to build a career, be it as a manager or a specialist. 10 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Anti-corruption Corrupt practices, especially in the form of demands for Working proactively to eliminate facilitation payments is still a facilitation payments, continue to pose a serious risk to the core element of our anti-corruption policy and our compliance Continued focus on shipping industry and to economic and social development in training. several countries. trade sanctions in 2019 We strongly encourage our crews to report any demands for Managing anti-corruption risks facilitation payments and share such reports with vessel Operating in a highly international business environWe work against corruption in all its forms, and our owners, operators, agents and other participants in the ment, we are subject to increasingly complex and Anti-Corruption Policy, which was reviewed by the Board in Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) via the network’s changeable sanctions regulations. 2019, provides guidance for our shore-based as well as our anonymous reporting database. seagoing personnel. Compliance with applicable trade sanctions is essential We will continue to work actively to encourage crews to report to responsible business conduct. We have intensified The policy is in line with the principles of the United Nation’s demands for facilitation payments, as it is the only way to gain our efforts to increase trade sanction transparency and Convention against Corruption along with applicable national insight into whether we are successful in reducing them. ensure continuous compliance with the various sanclaw. The policy is anchored in tions. our compliance programme, the responsibility for which is Partnering on industry challenges held by our Board of Directors and Executive Management. In 2019, we continued our active participation in the MACN, Our efforts include face-to-face training on sanctions the global business network working to free the maritime compliance, procedures for vetting of counterparties Since 2014, internal and external stakeholders have been able industry of corruption and to enable fair trade to the benefit of and online country and cargo compliance checks. to anonymously report concerns of compliance violations society at large. Through the MACN, we discuss and share through our whistle-blower portal. However, no reports have best practice with other representatives from the industry. been made to date despite efforts to increase awareness of the portal. In 2019, we took a seat on the MACN’s Steering Committee and will thereby contribute to setting the way forward for the Training and awareness network and for the maritime industry as a whole. As part of our compliance programme, we provide continuous training for both shore-based and seagoing personnel. This involves face-to-face seminars focusing on compliance and anti-corruption. In 2020, we will conduct new compliance seminars and/or training sessions for the organisation. This is to ensure that everyone is aware and updated on rules, policies and practices related to anti-corruption, gifts, hospitality and related topics. 11 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Value chain responsibility As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we the 2009 Hong Kong Convention for the Safe and recognise our role in the long and sometimes complex value Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships and the EU The centre of the dialogue between J. Lauritzen and our chains we are part of. We strive to live by the principles of the regulation on ship recycling as well as being carried out with suppliers is a Supplier Code of Conduct. This code outlines our Global Compact to avoid having any negative impact respect for human rights. minimum expectations of their policies and procedures to anywhere within our influence in the value chains, on human identify, prevent and mitigate potential impacts on human rights and labour rights, the environment or anti-corruption In accordance with the Hong Kong Convention and EU ship rights, labour rights, protection of the environment and antimeasures. recycling regulations, we have initiated a process of having corruption. our vessels’ Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) certified Managing value chain risks and taking actions for rectification, if needed. Through closer dialogue and stronger relations with suppliers, We recognise that our responsibility may go beyond our own we aim to increase transparency throughout our supply chain. operations and extends into the greater value chain. It is Recognising a responsibility that often goes beyond owned We prioritise dialogue with some of our largest suppliers therefore part of our commitment to strive to influence our vessels, our ship recycling policy further commits us to take based on spend, dependency and frequency. business partners to comply with internationally recognised action to prevent and mitigate severe impacts when selling minimum standards for responsible business conduct. vessels for further trade. As a member of the advisory committee for IMPA ACT, we According to our corporate responsibility policy, which was continue working on solutions to engage more IMPA members reviewed by the Board of Directors in 2019, we always strive We did not recycle any ships in 2019. to join the programme and encourage them to have their subto include a standard corporate responsibility clause when suppliers join the initiative. negotiating contracts and agreements on behalf of J. Lauritzen Responsible procurement or one of our business units. Responsible procurement is a core element of our corporate During 2019, we worked with suppliers already engaged in responsibility efforts. We cooperate and engage in dialogue IMPA ACT and we acted as sparring partner for the IMPA The scope of the corporate responsibility clause that we use with suppliers to ensure decent social and environmental organisation on further development of the IMPA ACT reflects our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the conditions in our supply chain. programme. Further, we assisted IMPA in the development of UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We use it to a pocket guide for easier understanding of the programme. clarify our ethical and corporate responsibility standards to As a founding member, we continue to support the IMPA ACT We also had a seat at a panel discussion at the IMPA London our business partners and to encourage them to follow responsible supply chain management programme developed 2019 conference. For additional information on the IMPA ACT internationally recognised standards for responsible business by the International Marine Purchasing Association (IMPA). programme, please visit https://www.impa-act.org/. conduct. The IMPA ACT seeks to improve the economic, social and environmental compliance of its purchaser and supplier The enrolment of suppliers to the programme, whether Ship recycling members. When working with suppliers, we aim to contribute existing or new ones, is ongoing, and we will, together with Our policy on responsible ship recycling, which was reviewed to uniformity in the industry to avoid suppliers having to other members, continue promoting this agenda in 2020. by the Board of Directors in November 2019, acknowledges comply with different expectations from different owners. the severe impact of some recycling practices. This policy commits J. Lauritzen to ensuring that the recycling of our We maintain close dialogues with selected suppliers to align owned vessels is in compliance with the requirements of both expectations on human and labour rights, environmental performance and anti-corruption. 12 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Bulkers serves clients worldwide. Our key market is In 2019, we conducted 9 routine inspections of our own fleet Since 2012, we have cut CO2 emissions by 17% across our the handysize segment, where we maintain a leading position. and the average RightShip rating for our own fleet was 4.0 stars operated fleet of bulk carriers. At year-end 2019, the main part of our fleet consisted of timeon the five-star scale, up from 3.8 in 2018. chartered tonnage together with two owned handysize bulk Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles carriers. During the year, seven bulk carriers were sold as part of Security our strategy to become more asset-light. When entering high-risk areas, we follow the shipping industry’s Segment Emission 2019 2018 2017 Best Management Practices (BMP) guidelines for protection Handysize Fleet management against piracy as well as our internal security guidelines. The Technical management, including crewing for our owned fleet, guidelines state that before scheduling a voyage into a high-risk CO2 10.9 10.9 11.5 was in 2019 performed by New Century Overseas Management area, a risk assessment must be conducted, and the necessary Sox 0. 2 0.2 0.2 Pte., Manila and Synergy Maritime Pte., Chennai, who provided precautions must be taken. Our security policy was reviewed in Supramax safe, reliable and cost-effective operations in close collaboration November 2019. CO2 7.8 7.6 9.0 with our in-house technical department. With ship management Sox 0.1 0.1 0.1 outsourced to external service providers, our in-house technical Lauritzen Bulkers’ owned fleet had zero transits in high-risk Total Fleet department specifies requirements, aligns expectations and areas in 2019, compared to three in 2018. monitors performance in terms of achieving safe, reliable and CO2 10.7 10.2 10.6 efficient operations. Environment Sox 0.2 0.2 0.2 At year-end 2019, our core fleet consisted of 35 owned, Health and safety mediumand long-term time-chartered vessels with an average Operational transparency is essential to the safety of our age of 4.6 years, which is considerably below the global EMISSIONS NOTE people, our vessels and our clients’ cargoes. Thus, building and industry average. Emissions figures are reported per segment based on actual consumption, and they are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines (MEPC.1/ maintaining open and strong relations with our external Circ. 684). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall managers is vital for our health and safety strategy. We work intensively with our day-to-day performance analysis, greenhouse gas accounting system. We have applied the operational of both our technical and our operational activities, with the control approach as defined in the GHGP because we seek to create a direct link between our business, our economic bottom line and We measure our safety performance through various objective of reducing emissions. We continuously seek to our environmental responsibility. The reported emissions are scope 1 parameters, including the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) strengthen our performance culture and increase awareness of emissions and include all operated vessels. rate, which for the owned fleet amounted to 0.7 in 2019 energy efficiency onboard our vessels and among our staff compared to 0.6 in 2018. ashore. Improvements are achieved through continued focus on voyage optimisation, day-to-day operations and weather An average of 5.1 deficiencies was reported during Port State routing. Controls in 2019, compared to 2.6 on average in 2018. In 2019, we had zero detentions (two in 2018). In 2019, relative CO2 emissions related to our transport work by our handysize fleet were unchanged compared to 2018. 13 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Lauritzen Kosan Lauritzen Kosan specialises in the transportation of liquefied programme, we carried out monthly Learning Engagement petroleum gases, comprising petrochemical and energy gases with gas carriers in the 3–12,000 cbm size segment. This is a Training (LET) and Reflective Learning or Resilience training. HIGHLIGHTS 2019 specialised segment of the shipping industry characterised by In parallel to the above, we sharpened the content of our crew complex operational demands. seminars in 2019 by increasing focus on leadership and safety ownership – and in general by conducting workshops where Based on a fleet of primarily owned but also commercially we find common ground for improving safety and commercial managed and chartered tonnage, we have earned an enduring and solid brand position and enjoy high customer retention performance. 15% cut in CO2 rates. In 2019, we also launched our “Weak Signals” campaign – as emissions since 2012 the next step towards further development of our safety Fleet management mindset to detect an incident or accident before it happens. Technical management of our owned fleet is primarily conducted in-house. The health and safety of our seafarers, as We will continue to focus on strengthening a culture that well as protection of the environment, our assets and our embraces safety until we reach our goal of incident-free clients’ cargoes, is essential for us. In 2019, we continued to operations and, ultimately, operational excellence, because we Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) work strategically on our value proposition “Chasing care for our people and we believe that safe business is good Operational Excellence” among shore and sea personnel to business. LTIF LTIF of ensure alignment throughout the organisation. We work proactively with regulators and representatives from the tanker industry to ensure that we are always at the forefront of the Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) came down to 0.6 in 2019 versus 0.9 in 2018. The LTIs in 2019 were fortunately all minor, 0.6 0.9 regulatory framework, which is increasingly demanding in with no permanent effects for individuals. terms of safety, complexity and cost. 2019 2018 We will of course not be satisfied until we reach 0.0 LTIF. Health and safety Health and safety is a top priority for us and our stakeholders. Security We always work to strengthen our safety culture in an A significant proportion of the liquefied and petrochemical environment that often presents demanding conditions. gases carried onboard our vessels are transported through Retention rate As part of our ambition to always provide safe and reliable some of the high-risk regions of the world. The risk to our crews and clients’ cargo due to piracy or violent activity in certain 93% for officers and operations, we launched several campaigns during 2019 to parts of the world has our strictest attention. 96% for ratings increase safety awareness of different risk areas. We also continued our Port State Control campaign to improve the To mitigate exposure to this type of risk, our anti-piracy overall standard of our fleet and to train seafarers to look for countermeasures include close internal dialogue, monitoring of potential dangers that could lead to unsafe situations onboard. risk patterns and the use of external experts’ risk assessments. During 2019, we continued our focus on the “Partners in Our security policy was reviewed in November 2019 and Security: 27 transits; NO incidents Safety” programme, which is propelled by Shell. As part of the updated from 2018. 14 J. LAURITZEN A/S · CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 Lauritzen Kosan had 27 transits in high-risk areas in 2019, cargo conditioning, for example by optimising routing and the Since 2012, we have cut CO2 emissions by 15% across our compared to 42 in 2018. No incidents were reported in relation speed of each voyage as well as the associated resistance operated fleet of gas carriers. to the high-risk-area transits. implications on the hull. To keep motivation for energy-efficiency efforts among landOur seafarers based and seagoing personnel high and to improve operational The IMO Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP) Our seafarers are our most valuable assets at sea, and without continues to be an important tool for implementing the various transparency, we work with an elaborate KPI structure that skilled seagoing personnel we would not be able to deliver a energy-efficiency initiatives among our onboard personnel. The clearly outlines decision support and progress. These initiatives safe and efficient service of the highest quality. SEEMP is regularly reviewed and updated to ensure compliance are also based on the work in the ECOPRODIGI and ShippingLab with MARPOL Annex VI regulation 22.2 regarding the IMO DCS projects. We recognise the challenges of working at sea over longer (Data Collection System). periods of time and have a strong focus on continuously Emissions pr segment g/ton-miles improving welfare onboard. We undertake various initiatives to Our data platform is under continuous development and ensure well-being both on and off the job. utilises as many automated sources as possible, such as Segment Emission 2019 2018 2017 satellite-based positions and weather and data from the Ethylene onboard alarm systems. In addition, we strive to limit our As mental health is important to be able to perform safely, this seafarers’ workload by sharing data reported from the vessel CO2 88.4 96.8 107.4 has been high on the agenda during 2019: onboard via guided with relevant stakeholders, e.g. operations, weather routing Sox 1.3 1.4 1.5 team and/or individual tasks and via a more formalised services and agents. awareness through the “Partners in Safety” initiative. The F/P awareness will continue in 2020 and it will also be a theme No additional Ballast Water Treatment Systems (BWTS) were CO2 0.0 0.0 159.1 during our crewing seminars. installed during 2019, but three systems are scheduled to be Sox 0.0 0.0 2.1 installed in 2020. Finalisation of the installation of BWTS on our S/R During 2019, an average of 333 seafarers were working onentire gas carrier fleet is scheduled to be completed in 2024. CO2 124.7 122.3 104.8 board our owned and bareboat chartered vessels with a In 2019 as well as in 2018, all our fully pressurised vessels were Sox 1.1 1.1 1.1 retention rate of 93% and 96%, respectively, for officers and ratings. time-chartered out; therefore, they were not within Total Fleet the operational control of Lauritzen Kosan and were reported CO2 95.4 103.2 108.7 with an emission rate of zero. Our semi-refrigerated fleet Sox 1.3 1.4 1.4 Environment executed less transport work in terms of ton-miles, which The commitment to minimise our environmental footprint is why the emission rate deteriorated compared to the previous through our performance programmes remains strong. During years. However, the ballast/laden ratio for our ethylene carriers EMISSIONS NOTE 2019, our performance management department continued to improved, resulting in an improved emission rate despite Emissions figures are reported per segment based on actual consumption, work on projects to improve the decision support and processes transporting products that required intense cooling, e.g. and they are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines (MEPC.1/ around efficient ship operation with special focus on energy ethylene. Circ. 684). The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall greenhouse gas accounting system. We have applied the operational efficiency and environmental performance. control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create In 2019, we managed to cut the relative CO2 emissions related a direct link between our business, our economic bottom line and We monitor our emissions closely and strive to keep them to a to our transport work by 7.5% compared to 2018. our environmental responsibility. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include all operated vessels. minimum in relation to the energy used for both propulsion and FINANCIAL YEAR PHILIPPINES DUBAI Questions regarding this report or J. Lauritzen’s 1 January 31 December Lauritzen Kosan Manila ROHQ J. Lauritzen A/S (DMCC) Corporate Responsibility activities, please 5th Floor, OSM Building 34th floor Gold Tower contact: HEAD OFFICE 479 Pedro Gil Street Jumeirah Lakes Towers J. Lauritzen A/S Ermita, 1000 Manila Dubai Dorte Rolff Tuborg Havnevej 15 PHILIPPINES UAE Group General Counsel 2900 Hellerup Phone +63 2231 2809/2810 Phone + 971 5093 10588 Legal, Insurance & Compliance DENMARK Phone: +45 3396 8000 SINGAPORE Phone: +45 3396 8418 www. j-l.com J. Lauritzen Singapore Pte. Ltd. Email: dor@j-l.com CVR: 55 70 01 17 1 Harbourfront Avenue #16-18 Keppel Bay Tower OWNER Singapore 098632 Lauritzen Fonden SINGAPORE Tranegaardsvej 20 Phone: +65 6275 800 2900 Hellerup DENMARK USA Phone: +45 3396 8425 J. Lauritzen (USA) Inc. www.lauritzenfonden.com 4 Landmark Square, Suite 150 Stamford, CT 06901 AUDITORS USA Ernst & Young Phone: +1 203 961 8661 Dirch Passers Allé Postboks 250 2000 Frederiksberg DENMARK Phone: +45 7323 3000
