Our Home Our Responsibility 2019 Sustainability Report UnivarSolutions.com Table of Contents Foreword on COVID-19........................ 03 Resource Use—Waste 33 Progress Against our Global Goal 34 Statement from President ............. 04 Hazardous Waste 34 and CEO David Jukes Non-Hazardous Waste 36 Our Global Sustainability Goals 06 Resource Use­—Water 38 Realizing our Vision Through Sustainable Business 07 Reducing our Impacts 39 The Foundations of Sustainable Business 07 Managing Water Risk 39 Management of Risk and Opportunity 08 Responsible Handling 40 Assigning Board Responsibility for Sustainability 08 Progress Against our Global Goal 41 Engagement, Materiality, and Disclosures 09 Responsible Remediation 41 Active Industry Involvement 11 Reporting as a Real-Time Responsibility 12 Profit................................................. 42 People............................................... 13 Sustainable Supply Chain 43 Progress Against our Global Goal 43 Safety 14 Progress Against our Global Goal 14 Behind the Figures.......................... 46 Report Assurance 47 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion 16 Changes to the Scope of Reporting 47 Progress Against our Global Goal 19 Material Restatements 47 Emissions Methodologies 47 Planet............................................... 25 GRI and SASB Content Index 48 Energy & Emissions 26 Progress Against our Global Goal 26 2019 Scope 3 Emissions 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Foreword on COVID-19 The development and publication of the 2019 Sustainability Report comes at a time of unprecedented global change. As almost every country on Earth is faced with the myriad of challenges brought about by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we know that the world left behind after this crisis subsides will look different from the one we knew before. However, as a business that is continuing to supply essential products and services across some of the world’s most heavily impacted communities, we stand in support of and solidarity with those around us. We have been relentless in our efforts to ensure all our sites that are delivering to hospitals, key manufacturers, energy providers, water treatment facilities, and other essential services remain open. Operating our warehouses, fleets, and supporting teams through this time is not without risk. We have taken every effort to minimize the risk to our people, communities, suppliers, and customers through these unprecedented, challenging times, so that we can help protect lives and support key services. To those blending, loading, driving trucks, handling goods, and staffing our sites during these challenging times, I want to say thank you. I have absolutely no doubt that the work you are all carrying out has and will continue to save countless lives and maintain at least some normality for the world. From hand sanitizer to medical supplies, N95 face masks to cleaning products, food ingredients to medicines, and so much more, it’s rewarding to see our chemicals and ingredients being used in applications directly impacting our ability to battle COVID-19. For our To our customers, suppliers, communities, and investors, colleagues who have been able to work remotely and I want to take the opportunity to thank you for your our fantastic IT teams who have enabled thousands of support throughout this crisis. While we may not yet be colleagues to keep our operations moving, I also thank clear of the danger of this epidemic, we know that we are you. Together we have shown the true value of Univar stronger together. Throughout this crisis, I have been Solutions and you have all shown me the incredible reassured knowing this too will pass and I am pleased to things we can achieve together. see how we are adapting to the new normal. Every day has its obstacles, but I’m confident that we will overcome We have seen a lot of news in the last few months, them and be stronger for it in the end. but it is important to remember the positives. Entire communities, businesses, and governments have worked We are a values based, responsive business and I am together to overcome this global pandemic and help proud to have seen everyone across our business step society as a whole. Univar Solutions is an essential up at the time when our customers and communities company that is supplying critical products, services, have needed our support most. Thank you all. and solutions during an unprecedented time. From supporting INEOS in the U.K. to deliver 1 million bottles Sincerely, of hand sanitizer to the healthcare workers every week, to our facilities supporting the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) by blending, packaging, and delivering urgently needed products to help keep essential travel operating and protecting officers, Univar Solutions David Jukes is pleased to help during this critical time. President and Chief Executive Officer SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 3 Statement from President and CEO David Jukes 2019 was a momentous year for us, as we became Univar Solutions. In this time, we have made great strides in bringing together our organizational values and mission, moving us toward our vision of redefining distribution and becoming the most valued chemical and bringing together a holistic coverage of our business impacts and actions while identifying what we are ingredient distributor on the planet. Much of striving to achieve. our efforts through 2019 have focused on the integration of our legacy organizations, However, 2019 also brings some important changes to our Sustainability Report, which we believe helps make especially in the U.S. Through these efforts, this a more useful, comparable, and comprehensive tool we have brought together the core principles for our stakeholders than ever before. Key reporting of sustainability into the way we work. It is improvements include: therefore my pleasure to present the 2019 • Integrating Univar Solutions’ sustainability Sustainability Report for Univar Solutions. performance data, where for the first time this report represents the combined impacts and aspects I want to start by highlighting what remains consistent of the entirety of our new company, making our in this year’s report. Despite the significant development reporting more transparent and complete. of our business through 2019, our common commitment to sustainable business has remained. Sustainable • Reporting in accordance with the Sustainability business is simply the right thing to do and that is why Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for the chemical I’m proud to say this report remains a platform for sector to increase the ability of our key stakeholders openness, transparency, and a reflection of our journey. to access key information. Our overarching commitments through our goals and • Expanding our toolkit of monitoring and managing our key areas of focus to deliver on our triple bottom line our global impacts through the introduction of approach—people, planet, profit—remain unchanged. scope 3 emissions reporting. As such, we have brought our sustainability goals to • Integrating the material contributions our business 2021 forward and applied them to our new business makes to the United Nations Sustainable Development as Univar Solutions. Goals (UN SDGs), highlighting the ability of responsible Similarly, our commitment to the United Nations Global business to make a positive impact on society, the Compact (UNGC) remains a constant in our reporting. The environment and our economies. principles of the initiative provide us with a cross-industry • Achieving external assurance on our global means to improve transparency and accountability on sustainability reporting claims as well as assurance matters that shape the world around us. With this focus, on our scope 1 and 2 emissions, safety, and release the report continues to cover the most materially relevant metrics. This significant milestone is a marked issues facing our business. It is through this report that development as we move to demonstrate our robust, we are typifying what it means to be Univar Solutions, honest, and open approach to better business. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 4 As our business has grown and developed over the last 12 • Furthered our action for transparency and months, so has the scope and prominence of our global accountability to stakeholders by making our CDP sustainability agenda. While this and more is covered in responses public. the report, we have made some key achievements through • Improved our rating on the Human Rights Campaign our sustainability efforts that I believe are instrumental in Foundation’s 2020 Corporate Equality Index (CEI)2 by 20 meeting our goals and building a more sustainable future. points, giving us a score of 85/100 on this platform In 2019 we: focused on highlighting organizational progress in equality, diversity, and inclusion matters. • Publicly pledged to develop and deliver on targets consistent with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) campaign to limit global temperature increases At Univar Solutions, 2019 has been a year of which we can to 1.5°C to 2050. all be proud. I am truly thankful to each one of our colleagues for their outstanding efforts this year, without • Continued to improve on our industry leading safety whom, none of this would be possible. One thing that record1 and again achieved our safest year from our will always be the same in our sustainability agenda is baseline record set in 2016. that for us, this is a journey. As we move through 2020, the “Year of the Solution” for Univar Solutions, we are • Continued our commitments to advancing the furthering our collaborative efforts within and beyond our principles of a circular economy, reducing our gates to create a more sustainable world. Our drive hazardous waste intensity by 21 percent. throughout this journey will be unrelenting as we move • Reduced our global energy and emissions intensity toward our global goals in 2021 and beyond, setting ever 9 percent and 16 percent respectively, evidencing our increasingly ambitious targets for our business. I look ongoing commitments to meet our goals to 2021. forward to having our key stakeholders join us on this journey so that we can all realize the value in this • Launched our Site Sustainability Assessment people, planet, profit approach and work toward a program with the purpose of achieving our global more sustainable future. goals through a focus on local action. American Chemistry Council, Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) for ACC member companies 1 Human Rights Campaign Foundation, Corporate Equality Index 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 5 Our Global Sustainability Goals When we first set out in formalizing our sustainability journey in 2008, we did so with belief that this is “Our home, Our responsibility.” Our global sustainability goals to 2021, set out in 2017, remain at the center of our wider sustainability strategy. These goals, on our six key areas of responsibility, run to 2021 and form the basis of how we monitor our performance against some of the most important aspects of our impact on the world around us. Equality, Diversity Energy & Safety & Inclusion Emissions Continuously improve our Demonstrate our commitment Minimize our environmental proud safety record, protecting to providing equal and equitable impact by reducing energy our workforce and demonstrating opportunities to all employees, usage and associated emissions. we are serious about safety. through training, education, and reporting. Resource Responsible Sustainable Use Handling Supply Chain Embed the principles of Protect our people, communities, Lead on transparency in the supply advancing a circular economy and environment by leading a chain as we responsibly manage into our practices globally. zero-release culture to minimize and influence the environmental major releases. and social impacts of our suppliers. Our goals remain relevant to the key aspects of our business where we have the potential to influence our economic, environmental, and social impacts and those People of our wider supply chain. The specific metrics and achievements we have set against each of our goals and our performance from 2016 to 2019 are identified more closely in the subsequent sections of this report. As highlighted in our strategy, sustainability is the common thread bringing our cultural values, mission, Planet Profit and vision together. For us this can only be realized when we consider our economic, environmental, and social value together (people, planet, and profit). It is through this people, planet, profit approach that we have structured this report and presented our key areas of focus. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 6 Realizing our Vision Through Sustainable Business Our journey to a more sustainable future belongs to every person at Univar Solutions. While we adopt a central approach to sustainability, it is only with the actions of each individual colleague that we can achieve our global goals and vision. Global Sustainable sustainability Vision Values Mission actions goals Goal-focused actions of • Energy & emissions • Serious About Safety Streamline. To redefine distribution our people, functions, • Resource use • Where People Matter Innovate. and be the most valued and leadership teams. Grow. chemical and ingredient • Responsible handling • Valuable To Others distributor on the planet • Safety • We Do What We Say • Sustainable supply • Together We Win chain • Equality, diversity & inclusion The Foundations of Sustainable Business Beneath the headlines of sustainable business is the responsibilities are through our standards and values is structure, culture, and actions that help us get there. a core part of upholding our mission. The following section highlights how stakeholder inclusiveness, context, materiality, completeness, and In 2019, we revised our Code of Conduct to incorporate our transparency underpin our agenda for better business. cultural values, which are the foundation for everything we Combined with our commitment to report in a matter do. This document applies to all employees globally and is that is accurate, balanced, clear, and comparable, we available in 21 languages. To reinforce the principles and are confident that this report serves as a reliable and directives contained within the Code of Conduct, on an timely reflection of our approach. This year for the first annual basis all employees participate in mandatory, time, we’re supporting this claim through independent interactive training. The training is based on a three-year assurance against these reporting principles. More curriculum. At the end of the three-year cycle, all topics information can be found in the “Behind the figures” contained within the Code of Conduct are covered. section of this report. Not only does the Code of Conduct apply to all employees Our Home, Our Responsibility is more than a tagline. The globally, we expect third-party representatives, vendors, simple phrase embodies our sustainability agenda across and consultants to act in a manner that is consistent with our people, planet, profit focus. Ensuring that every it as well. person across our global team understands what our SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 7 Management of Risk and Opportunity For us, 2019 marks a significant development in how advance environmentally and socially responsible means sustainability related considerations are integrated of operating, reflecting the challenges and opportunities into the financial and operational risks and opportunities presented through increased legal requirements, climate recognized by the business. This is the natural parameters, and market developments. We believe that progression of our sustainability journey as we further our ability to meet these increased sustainability demands evidence the value of better business. Risks faced will be necessary to enhance our competitive position in by our business through mismanagement of the the marketplace. In addition, for the first time this year, environment, our products and the health and wellbeing we have made our key climate change, market change, of our people are part of the core risk assessments of and policy change risks and opportunities public through our global operations. As recognized and detailed in our CDP responses. our annual financial reporting, as well as our ongoing sustainability communications, failures in these areas All of our risk identification and management on are a threat to our ability to operate and a contradiction sustainability issues is influenced by our application of of our values. the precautionary principle. By considering both immediate risks and those where potential but uncertain As well as these risks, we also recognize there are material risk exists, we are actively working to mitigate substantial opportunities that we are working to bring and manage the impacts of these on our business, the to fruition. As detailed in our financial reporting, we environment, and society. The precautionary principle expect that there will be a continued increase in demand highlighted by the United Nations Environment for products, systems, and services that meet growing Programme (UNEP) in the Rio Declaration remains customer sustainability standards, expectations, and particularly important in driving our action on limiting preferences. Our ability to continue to provide these the impacts of climate change and the subsequent products and services requires our business to further anticipated impacts. Assigning Board Responsibility for Sustainability As we move into 2020, we are strengthening our governance practices and responsibilities to ensure that our Board of Directors is engaged in the oversight of Univar Solutions’ corporate social responsibility. As of this “ Our Home, Our Responsibility is year, one of the Board committees has been renamed the more than a tagline. The simple “Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee” phrase embodies our sustainability and included within its ambit is developing and recommending to the Board policies and activities to agenda across our people, planet, support the Company’s corporate responsibilities, profit focus. ” including overall environmental, social and governance focus for the Company. Reporting to the Board at least annually, this reshaped Committee will recommend changes and direction to our global sustainability and responsible governance practices, ensuring that sustainability in our business is led with full leadership support. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 8 Engagement, Materiality, and Disclosures Our key stakeholder groups highlighted are those who are critical to our business and affect our operations directly. The channels through which we engage with these groups are listed below. Our engagement with stakeholder groups is largely organic, working as needed throughout the year listening to and feeding back on concerns and opportunities with our stakeholders with two-way open dialogue. Customers Investors and Shareholders • On-demand technical expertise • Shareholder focused sustainability • Sales team engagement in sustainability issues engagements • Customer feedback surveys • Financial reporting • Sustainability focused collaborations and • Investor information area joint programs Governing Bodies • Committee participation and policy informing • Emergency scenario training • Auditing and compliance Suppliers Industry Groups • Supplier surveys • Committee participation and information sharing • Supplier auditing • Collaborative projects • Sustainability focused cooperation • Transparent reporting Employees Unions • Training and education • Chairing committees • Competency and skills development • Collective bargaining agreements • Safety stand down events • Progressive Code of Conduct • Employee resource networks • Colleague wellbeing initiatives Local Communities • Organized charitable events • Charity and fundraising • Global employee surveys and feedback • Educational sponsorship • Senior management question sessions • Community development • All-employee meetings Through 2019, we have continued to see the profile of From our investors’ interest in increasing emissions sustainability concerns among stakeholders continue transparency to our customers’ focus on the supply of to grow, helping us understand our stakeholders’ priority “sustainable” product ranges and reducing downstream issues. This has complemented our own increased environmental impacts, we are building the outputs of assessment and recognition of how aspects of our engagement into our global efforts. business relate to our broader performance. Through this we have also welcomed the increased consideration Together, our assessment of our own operational impacts of better business from customer and investor groups and the expectations of our stakeholders have informed as a tool to support risk reduction and improved what is included in this and related sustainability business performance. reporting tools. This report and our wider sustainability agenda are influenced by the key concerns raised with stakeholders through our ongoing engagements. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 9 While the process for determining materially relevant sustainability topics in our reporting involves stakeholder engagement, reviewing independent assessments, and reflective practices, our materiality identification can be summarized with the following questions. “ We apply the same principles of active communication, Materiality Tests feedback, and action into our stakeholder Does the topic relate to the reasonable expectations and interests of the identified stakeholders? engagement across the sustainability Is the inclusion and presentation of the topic relevant to the agenda. ” broader context of sustainability beyond Univar Solutions? Does the topic reflect the significant aspects of Univar Solutions operations, including our economic, environmental, and social impacts, comprehensively? Economic Economic Performance The topics outlined in the adjacent figure are the aspects Anti-Bribery and Corruption we have determined to be relevant to our business and Anti-Competitive Behavior stakeholders. However, not all these topics are covered equally through this report and only those determined material through our assessment process are reported Environmental on in greater detail. The aspects we have determined to be material throughout this report have formed the Energy basis of our global sustainability goals, as covered in this Effluents and Waste report and linked resources. These material topics are highlighted in bold in the adjacent figure. Emissions Environmental Compliance We apply the same principles of active communication, feedback and action into our stakeholder engagement Supplier Environmental Assessment across the sustainability agenda. Naturally, this covers both our internal and external stakeholder groups, each of which have different needs, concerns, and priorities Social that we are working to meet. Occupational Health Over the last 12 months we have worked to build on Local Communities and Safety the completeness and range of disclosures made Supplier Social against our most material topics. We have continued to Training and Education Assessments use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as our main framework underpinning our disclosures and reporting Diversity and Equal Customer Health values while broadening the scope and depth of some Opportunity and Safety of these disclosures. Non Discrimination Marketing and Labeling Beyond the disclosures put forward by the GRI standards, Freedom of we have also this year increased our disclosures most Association and Customer Privacy pertinent to specific stakeholder groups. This year for Collective Bargaining the first time we have built the Chemical industry standard from the SASB into our disclosures, helping Socioeconomic Child Labor ensure that the content we share helps inform the Compliance broadest possible audience. Forced or Compulsory Labor SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 10 Active Industry Involvement Providing the safest and most Initiatives Associations well-informed service as possible to our customers requires the most National Association of United Nations Global Compact up-to-date industry knowledge. Chemical Distributors (NACD) As part of this, our teams sit on CDP decision-making groups at several American Chemistry Council key initiatives and industry Responsible Care associations across the markets Responsible Distribution Canada and geographies we serve, where Responsible Distribution we not only grow our knowledge, Roundtable on Sustainable but also share our learning to help Palm Oil (RSPO) industries grow together. EcoVadis EcoDesk CropLife Canada A great example of this is through our membership of the UNGC. In late European Association of 2019 our Global Sustainability Sedex Chemical Distributors (FECC) Manager, with regional colleagues, presented to the Global Compact Global Food Safety Initiative Vegetation Management Network Canada, sharing our Associations International Labour successes, challenges, and learnings Organization British Plastics Federation through our sustainability journey with other member organizations. ISO Certifications Canadian Paints and Coatings We are also members and Association Cosmos Organic participants of a broader range of Agriculture Warehousing these associations and initiatives, Fair for Life Standards Association listed here, all enabling further stakeholder engagement and National Association of the Operation Clean Sweep Chemical Industry Mexico (ANIQ) sharing of best practice. Brazilian Association of Chemical Distributors (Associquim) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 11 Reporting as a Real-Time Responsibility This report is an evolution on previous years as we move our most material aspects. Another key evolution in to ensure that our key annual communication is as our disclosures in 2019 has been our efforts to increase useful, holistic, and transparent to as wide an audience comparability and relatability of our actions and as possible. outputs against the globally applicable UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). One underpinning set of disclosures we report on are those of the UNGC. Through our alignment with the While this global sustainability report, like those before key 10 principles on specifics within human rights, it, remains to be a focal point of communicating our labor, environment, and anti-corruption, our policies, performance and progress on sustainability, it is not processes, and performance are all contributing to a the only means of communicating progress. We are common framework for better business. This year, for continuing to work to ensure that our approach to the first time, this report is also focused on making reporting and communicating is as continual, accurate, material disclosures against the SASB Chemical and up-to-date as possible. The below examples are just Standard. Focused on disclosing important topics some of the ways we are supporting our stakeholders to our investor groups, this report builds on previous to keep up-to-date and understand our sustainability years by providing more in-depth disclosures across performance globally. CDP Reporting In 2019, we reported our CDP response publicly for the first time. Building on our five years of CDP reporting, this additional layer of disclosure has been made to help our stakeholders understand our actions and performance more closely. We are actively working with our stakeholders to increase the comprehensiveness of our reporting on this platform and improve our performance from our current ratings in line with our industry. EcoVadis In January 2020, we received the updated report from our 2019 EcoVadis assessment. Through our efforts and against a revised assessment process, we were encouraged to maintain our overall score within the top 7 percent of our peers. Encouragingly, we have increased our environmental rating to 70/100 (advanced), which puts us in the top 3 percent of our peers on this key topic. In addition to the active platforms to which we report on information on our sustainability goals and performance sustainability, we are working to advance our reporting to our stakeholders, keeping others as informed as and performance against the passive platforms against possible. As well as directly engaging with these which we are assessed. platforms, we are working to develop resources that meet the specific needs of these assessment to improve Through 2020, we are actively working to ensure key the materials available to our stakeholders externally. passive platforms are provided with the most up-to-date SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 12 People Our responsibility for the health, safety, wellbeing, and respect of all our people is an unwavering pillar of our approach to sustainable business. Our more than 10,000-strong team is the key to our ability to provide the Univar Solutions difference. Our people are at the heart of our culture and our vision to redefine distribution and be the most valued chemical and ingredient distributor on the planet. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 13 Goal: Continuously improve our proud safety record, protecting our workforce and demonSafety strating we are serious about safety. Measurement: Achieve and exceed the global TCIR goal of 0.68 each year to 2021. Part of ensuring our people can bring their best to work is ensuring we meet our strong commitment to safety. Through our efforts to protect the safety of our At Univar Solutions our Serious About Safety mindset people and our customers, we are supporting is a core part of how we operate. When considering our the following UN SDGs: goals, we have always remained focused on ensuring these are based on the most material aspects of our business. Safety is our number one example of this. SDG 3 We do not settle for meeting minimum standards or ticking boxes. Instead, our teams globally are focused Ensure healthy lives on ensuring we remain a safety leader for our industry, and promote well-being continually working to manage risk through our mature management systems and building a Serious for all at all ages. About Safety culture through our operations from the first day a colleague joins the team. Our goal on safety 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of remains a part of every employee’s responsibility to meet, deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and no matter what role or region. air, water and soil pollution. Progress Against our Global Goal SDG 12 Safety at Univar Solutions is much more than a figure. Ensure sustainable It is a culmination of culture, infrastructure, and knowledge in preventing and minimizing the risk of consumption and harm and product release. Through our responsible production patterns. operating, clear commitments in our global EHS Policy, and working practices with our supply chain, we continue 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound to deliver chemical and ingredient products safely across management of chemicals and all wastes the world. While this key area of focus does not start and throughout their life cycle, in accordance with end with our metrics, the Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) agreed international frameworks, and significantly is a key comparable factor which helps us understand reduce their release to air, water and soil in order our performance over time. TCIR is the U.S. Occupational to minimize their adverse impacts on human health Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) method for and the environment. calculating rates of recordable injuries per 200,000 hours worked. Historic TCIR 2019 was one of our safest on record with a 1 0.96 TCIR rating of 0.58, significantly below our 0.8 0.7 0.76 0.76 0.76 0.76 global target of sub 0.68. 0.7 0.71 0.68 0.6 0.59 0.58 Actual 0.4 Univar Solutions Goals 0.2 ACC Member Performance1 0 American Chemistry Council (ACC), Total case Incident Rate (TCIR) for ACC member companies 1 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 14 This performance improves as Univar Solutions identifies to improve the safety of our operating processes, further the coming together of two cultures with a strong focus on reducing the risk to our people and environment from safety and the increased sharing of good practice. While our products. Preventing injury and illness goes beyond our performance has continued to improve and exceed those with immediate effect. Our comprehensive risk our global goal to 2021, we will not stop in our efforts assessments on employee exposure to hazards, including to improve the safety of our people and communities. chronic physical and chemical hazards, are a key Responsible handling of materials, protecting our people factor influencing our ongoing practices. While we are through this, and preventing release through unsafe proactive in providing protective equipment and training practices are some of the key ways in which we will on carrying out work safely, we also carry out health continue to contribute to bettering the world around us. surveillance across our teams, as appropriate, for the tasks our teams carry out. While TCIR is the focus of our global goal, it is not the only metric we consider as part of our safety Much like our wider sustainability agenda, improving performance. Our fleet is a key part of our operations safety does not end at our gates. Here too we have an in delivering product safely across our supply chain. opportunity to contribute to the improved health and The metrics below highlight our recent recordable safety performance of our suppliers, customers and transportation incidents of our U.S. fleet, making up communities. We are continuing our proactive practices the majority of our global vehicle numbers. The blue of working with customers to carry out safety-based line represents our longstanding goal which for several pre-delivery inspections at customer sites and furthering years has served as an industry leading metric. While the use of assessments on supplier safety practices to these figures do not include third party or release facilitate better practices in chemical handling and incidents, they do reflect our overall safety performance employee safety across our value chain. trend of continual improvement. Ensuring the safety of our products and the heath of the persons handling them through a product’s life cycle is also within our area of concern and influence. As a DOT Incident Rate3 Over Time longstanding member of Responsible Care, we are committed to proactive product stewardship, supported Goal 12MR Rate DOT by our adherence to the responsible care principles, such as providing suitable guidance on the products we sell. 1.00 Each of our products is issued with Safety Data Sheets 0.80 identifying the product hazards, handling guidance, and disposal information. Our technical specialists are an 0.60 extension of this information and help give customers 0.40 guidance on the safe and appropriate use of the products we sell, protecting the safety of those down the supply 0.20 chain, their customers, and the environment. 0.00 Jan-16 Apr-16 Jul-16 Oct-16 Jan-17 Apr-17 Jul-17 Oct-17 Jan-18 Apr-18 Jul-18 Oct-18 Jan-19 Apr-19 Jul-19 Oct-19 Jan-20 As an organization that will not be satisfied on safety so long as any person is injured at work, we are constantly looking at means of further improving our performance. As the options available to us in the field of workplace health and safety develop, so does our approach. Through 2019 and beyond, we have made increased use of technology to ensure the safe containment and handling of our materials. Working regionally, our engineering teams have been employing a greater use of telematics and infrastructure monitoring technology Department of Transportation (DOT) Incident Rate Number of injuries or extensive damage incident in transportation per one million miles driven 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 15 Goal: Demonstrate our commitment to providing equal and equitable opportunities to all employees through training, education, and Equality, Diversity an inclusive culture. & Inclusion Measurement: Engage our employees globally through structured, confidential surveys to identify our current organizational culture on areas of equality and diversity. Univar Solutions seeks to play an integral part in inclusion at Univar Solutions. We are fostering a reshaping our world. At the core of our solutions are workplace characterized by respect, where our our people—our greatest strength. The diversity shaped employees value diverse perspectives and are able by our people’s unique background and experiences to bring their authentic selves to work. undoubtedly yields a competitive advantage of innovation for our organization. In the past year, Univar Solutions has increased resources and programs aimed at advancing diversity, Advancing equality, diversity, and inclusion for all equality, and inclusion across the organization and in our people in the workplace is a responsibility we at Univar industry. In May 2019, we were pleased to formalize our Solutions all share. We have made progress across our commitment with the addition of a Director of Global regions in this area through 2019 and continue to embrace Inclusion and begin work on a comprehensive global a culture of shared insight, respect, and understanding strategy to increase focus, align stakeholders, and guide for the differences in our workforce that make us a the development of our employee-led resource networks. stronger collective. In December 2019, we published our formal diversity, equality, and inclusion purpose statement on our Our leaders and teams are working each day to foster a company website reaffirming our public commitment to culture that is inclusive, safe, and inviting for people of all provide a safe, inviting, and inclusive work environment protected characteristics including but not limited to: for every employee at Univar Solutions. Supporting the LGBT+ Community Age Disability In June 2019, Univar Solutions launched its first global LGBT+ employee resource network focused on career development, advancement, community involvement, Gender and Gender and education on issues affecting the LGBT+ community. Identification Parenthood With the launch, employees at larger sites gathered to show support and raise pride flags to honor the commitment we have to creating an inclusive workplace for all employees. Within a few short months, local LGBT+ Race Religion Network chapters launched in the USA, Europe, Brazil, and Mexico as employees embraced a sense of belonging and empowerment. Additionally, we have also taken our first steps in publicly showing support for LGBT+ Veteran status Sexual orientation employees and the community at large through social media campaigns, local pride and company events, as well as sponsoring local charities in multiple regions across the globe. We believe the path to innovation and better business exists within the diverse backgrounds, experiences, and expertise of our people and we will continue with our relentless focus on advancing diversity, equality, and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 16 Honoring Military Veterans Through our efforts to advance practices In September 2019, in recognition of Veterans Day in around equal, diverse, and inclusive workplaces the U.S., we launched our Veterans network with a we are supporting the following UN SDGs: nationwide recognition of the sacrifices and devotion that our military veteran employees have given in service to SDG 5 their country. Custom recognition coins were produced and presented to over 350 military veterans during local events at site locations across the country. This event Achieve gender equality kicked off an annual tradition of honor and recognition and empower all women for the service these employees have given to their and girls. country and our organization. 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere. Championing Achievements of Women 5.5 Ensure women’s full and effective In 2019, our USA-based Women’s Inclusion Network participation and equal opportunities for was expanded to become a global network as the leadership at all levels of decision-making company continues to put focus on providing equitable in political, economic and public life. career opportunities for all employees in a global marketplace. In July 2019, the Women’s Inclusion Network elevated the visibility of our focus on diversity and inclusion by sponsoring a live panel discussion with SDG 10 members of our Board of Directors who shared their experiences and insights around advancing diversity, equality and inclusion today. Employees organized viewing Reduce inequality within sessions at different locations around the globe to watch and among countries. a recorded version of the discussion, allowing more employees to participate and conduct local conversations on inclusion challenges and innovative solutions. 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, Expanding our Employee Resource origin, religion or economic or other status. Networks 10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of outcome, including by eliminating With the support of our Executive Committee and discriminatory laws, policies and practices and the dedication from our employees, we began the promoting appropriate legislation, policies and foundational work in 2019 to establish additional action in this regard. employee resource networks to meet the needs of our global employees. The expansion of our networks 10.4 Adopt policies, especially fiscal, wage and is a visible example of the care we place on our most social protection policies, and progressively valued resource—our people. During 2019, we put achieve greater equality. resources in place to help provide support to launch the following new networks: SDG 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. 16.B Promote and enforce non-discriminatory laws and policies for sustainable development. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 17 Black/African American Leadership Network This year, we began the foundation work to bring together passionate employees to lead a new network that would focus on creative recruiting, networking, and leadership development in an inclusive environment for all our Black/African American employees. The core team began group visioning in 2019 with expectations to launch programming in 2020. Hispanic or Latin Network Centered on cultural dexterity, this network, led by Hispanic and Latin men and women from across the globe, works to provide professional development, champions the needs of employees, and helps expose all employees to diverse ideas and heritage. All employees are welcome to join any of our networks, “ The expansion of our networks is and we encourage participation regardless of personal a visible example of the care we affinity to a particular demographic. Inclusion is place on our most valued resource— about making every voice matter, and we are committed our people. ” to providing a number of different venues for our employees to belong, be heard, and to be valued. We believe that employee-led resource networks are key to helping foster an inclusive and positive environment across Univar Solutions. It is our employees who generate the best ideas and carry out the strategy thoughtfully and proactively. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 18 Together, the core teams of our networks are Progress Against our Global Goal responsible for: We made strong progress in 2019 building a culture Employee Resource Network Strategy and consistently focused on advancing equality, diversity, Charter Validation and inclusion. Our dedicated team members and all our networks are actively creating opportunity, developing • Team recruitment, development, and engagement talent, increasing awareness, promoting advocacy, and • Creating and upholding the network purpose and creating community throughout our regions around objectives to ensure alignment with company values the world. • Establishing support for local or regional network In May 2019, we launched our “We Listen” all-employee chapters and champions global engagement pulse survey 60 days into becoming Univar Solutions. Univar Solutions is a purpose-driven, values-based company where we are serious about Programming Development safety. We are a place where people matter, where we • Organizing events that deliver impact are valuable to others, and we do what we say, so that together we win. Our “We Listen” surveys that occur • Creating educational and networking opportunities throughout the year, directly reﬂect our values and for members highlight the importance of employee feedback as we • Identifying opportunities for professional development work together to make Univar Solutions a place where and advocacy the best people want to work. Our 2019 survey served • Network recruiting efforts as an evolution of our November 2018 all-employee survey “U Speak.” While we expanded the survey in • Developing external candidate recruitment strategies 2019 to capture a greater amount of data, the common questions in 2019 showed an overwhelmingly positive Strategic Partnerships trend. Across our teams, colleagues’ confidence in understanding our shared mission and aligning with • Building strategic partnerships with customers, our common vision increased substantially. We also suppliers, community organizations, and experts noted significant improvements in our employee • Creating linkages with our Talent Acquisition teams engagement results with our people prouder than ever • Alignment with key business leaders and stakeholders to work for an organization that is a great place to work and through which we share a sense of accomplishment. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) As we move into 2020, we are further developing our employee surveys to help map our progress around • Development of KPIs that measure engagement organizational culture. Closer insights on and the networks’ impact this will remain a consistent feature in our reporting • Track performance metrics against goals in tandem as we promote transparency and openness of with overall Diversity and Inclusion objectives employee wellbeing. Much like the broader sustainability agenda, we are Improving on our External Ratings advancing in our journey to create a workplace where our people are fully comfortable in bringing their full As a result of our efforts through 2019, we have been selves to work. Ensuring that all employees feel a sense awarded an improved score of 85 out of 100 by the of complete equality and inclusivity is a journey that we Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index will continue to champion and strive to achieve each day. (CEI). This improvement was 20 points up on our 2018 We recognize that we are making quality progress and performance and a direct reflection of the individual that there is much more that we want to do. Thanks and team efforts to embed greater social inclusiveness to the dedication of employees, our core values, the across the organization. As a business made up of a commitment of our leaders, and the culture we are diverse workforce, we are proud to have received an creating where people matter, we are confident in our increase in our score from the CEI, giving a quantified abilities to further our success to date. assurance that we are making positive steps to realizing our global sustainability goal. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 19 Reporting on the Makeup of our Teams We are one team working together to deliver the best service to our customers. However, it is the unique skills, knowledge, and experience of each of our colleagues that allow us to realize our vision. The information below highlights key macro-level metrics on the breakdown and representations of 22% our global teams. Total employees The make-up of our teams reflects our commitment to providing reliable and 2,251 full-time fair work globally and making adaptations that allow our colleagues to achieve 117 part-time a positive work-life balance and allow our people to bring their best to work Employee status 57% male 43% female Employee gender EMEA CANADA 9% Total employees 954 full-time 6 part-time Employee status 66% male 34% female USA Employee gender 11% 58% Total employees Total employees 1,228 full-time 6,185 full-time 7 part-time 15 part-time REST OF Employee status Employee status THE WORLD 56% male 67% male 37% female 29% female 7% undisclosed 4% undisclosed Further information on the diversity Employee gender Employee gender of our governance bodies can be found in the 2020 Proxy Statement. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 20 Responsible Labor Practices Key highlights from our 2019 central Across our operations globally and through our supply training programs chains, our expectations of ethical practice with regards to labor conditions remain as stringent as ever. Specifically, we remain committed to upholding and In 2019, 11,525 unique employees and contractors fostering external adherence to the International Labour completed 31,745 hours of training recorded in Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental our Learning Management System and 65,500 Principles and Rights at Work. These fundamental rights, completions. covering the right to freedom of association, collective bargaining, and prohibition of all forms of modern slavery This is comprised of: and child labor, represent the absolute minimum standard • 20,512 completions of instructor-led training that we will accept across our operations and supply chains. We continue to disclose our own collective • 44,988 completions of online training bargaining metrics in our annual reporting. Our commitments to good labor practices are, however, Employees have access to over 70,000 on-demand not limited to these minimum standards. At Univar learning resources for their own professional Solutions, we want to create a place where the best development, ranging from digital transformation people want to work. skills, professional effectiveness, business skills, Our regional teams are consistently working to make productivity, and collaboration tools to leadership Univar Solutions a better place to work, supporting more development skills. flexible ways of working and delivering on great benefits to our employees, helping them enjoy life both at work and In 2019, we began integrating our Legacy Nexeo and at home. In 2019, we were pleased to have seen that our Legacy Univar businesses, and with that has come people feel the same way too. In our latest annual a significant skill development for our employees in employee survey, an even greater proportion of our people terms of products and industries, as well as business were proud to work for us and would recommend Univar systems/process training and intensive training for Solutions as a great place to work. the teams responsible for delivering this content. Training and Developing Our internal programs range from multi-day, our Employees instructor-led training to short, on-demand eLearning programs. The skills, know-how, and dedication of our people make us uniquely positioned to deliver the added value of Univar Solutions. Ensuring our people are up-to-date with the latest training and supporting our people to build their abilities is key to becoming the most valued chemical distributor on the planet. The following points highlight some of the key areas we are working on with our colleagues globally. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 21 While we deliver our all-employee training via these personal care products to the water treatment solutions central means, our role and region-specific training and food supply we are committed to support, we are efforts go well beyond these metrics. As appropriate, constantly focused on doing our part to make the world our colleagues across the world carry out many more a little bit better each day. Our business does not stop at training hours that are delivered and monitored locally, the loading dock. We go that extra mile to step out into often focusing on material handling and safety for the community and make valuable contributions with specific roles. our time, our energy, and the resources available to us. To that end, we routinely support several nonprofit and Supporting Ongoing Reflection and Helping charitable organizations that share our vision for making our People Achieve Their Best a safer and healthier planet and humanity. In 2019, we integrated Legacy Nexeo into our updated annual global performance review process. Advancing Science, Technology, Our performance management process: Engineering, and Math (STEM) • Ensures that priorities are clear Education • Provides a framework for ongoing feedback We know how important it is that we train the next and coaching generation of scientists, engineers, and mathematicians • Documents accountability to ensure that we are not just advancing our society, but • Provides a focus on living our values and doing so in responsible, ethical, and safe ways. We are communicates the expectation of how we work honored to collaborate with organizations as fully together committed as we are to advancing STEM education at every level of a student’s development. As part of our • Identifies opportunities for development to support, our employees step up and graciously give their improve in current role and prepare for future roles time and expertise to showcase and educate students on Career development planning resources are available to the importance of STEM and the impact these areas of all employees and we actively encourage every employee focus have on our lives. to continue growing their skills and abilities. We have been proud sponsors of the annual, national You Be The Chemist Challenge® for many years. This year, we Community Outreach and Goodwill expanded our support in the U.S. to host local challenges in Houston, TX, Columbus, OH, and DuPage County, IL. At Univar Solutions, we believe that our purpose is That means employees have more chances to get involved about more than the global supply lines we keep and volunteer to help kids in their local areas. moving for manufacturers. It is about improving lives in the communities in which we live and work. From the critical ingredients we source for pharmaceuticals and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 22 Champions for Cancer Research Cycling to Overcome the Challenges of and Prevention Multiple Sclerosis (MS) We are working hard each year to do our part to help While the cause of MS is still unknown, we do know that increase prevention and treatments available to fight the disease is a result of an abnormal response of the cancer. Affecting all ages, genders, races, ethnicities, body’s own immune system directed against the central and social circles, cancer does not discriminate and nervous system disrupting the flow of information poses an incredible risk as one of the leading causes of between the body and the brain. The impacts of this death worldwide. We are steadfast in our commitment disease can be frightening for anyone suffering from or to helping the medical community research prevention caring for someone with MS. It is our hope that, through methods and develop new treatments to combat cancers. our sponsorships, our local volunteer events and our advocacy, we can make a difference in the lives of those For several years, colleagues from across our business struggling with this debilitating disease. have supported these fundraising and research efforts. 2019 was no different, as our teams in the UK cycled 100 miles around the streets of London and Surrey to raise research funds in support of those who are fighting this disease and to honor those who we have lost. Over our years of fundraising, we have used much of the money to fully fund a research scientist at a prestigious UK university. The team’s research has resulted in the development of a urine test for prostate cancer and, more recently, significant advances toward a possible cure for bladder cancer. In June 2019, we were pleased to support the Prostate Cancer Foundation of Chicago with over $126,000 USD from funds raised through our inaugural Charity Golf Outing and Live Auction in Lake Geneva, WI, USA. The event kicked off an annual commitment to team with the Foundation to raise awareness and resources for prevention and early detection of prostate cancer. Through 2019, we have continued our support for the Working together, we believe that we can continue to National MS Society in the U.S., contributing to research make an impact in the lives of those suffering from, and people-focused support for those with MS and and those caring for, individuals with prostate cancer. their families. Our teams in the U.S. have established county-wide campaigns for getting our colleagues In addition, through 2019 we held events across every involved in Bike MS events in a number of states, region focused on fundraising for breast cancer research, supporting them in training and volunteering, all to including our annual “wear it pink” days through which help raise funds for a great cause. teams across entire regions come together to recognize and tackle the life changing impacts of a disease that affects so many. Delivering for Communities Through Sustainable Products Besides providing colorful and sustainable ingredients, our Earth Oils business is actively supporting meaningful community engagement. Fair trade developments “ At Univar Solutions, we believe that projects funded in part by our business include: our purpose is about more than the scholarships for workers, education for secondary school global supply lines we keep moving children, workers’ training enhancements (e.g., driving tuition, computer literacy), solar panels for communities, for manufacturers. It is about desks for local schools, additional medical support for improving lives in the communities workers, food for local schools and orphanages, bursaries in which we live and work.” for workers’ children, and water tanks for communities. The great work carried out through these fair-trade projects is just another great example of our commitment to sustainable supply chains and community engagement. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 23 Community Support Through 2020 As this report was developed, the needs of our communities and the need for business to support communities has become more clear than ever. Our community engagement and goodwill through 2020 has ramped up significantly and we are proud of the outstanding efforts of our people globally in their efforts to tackle COVID-19. Through these unprecedented times we have truly lived our organizational values, redefining our role in distribution as we adapted how we work to ensure that our operations remained open, enabling us to continue to support our customers and communities. Together, our teams have helped deliver the materials needed to keep hospitals clean, process drinking water, keep food production on-line and to keep the lights on. Our communications and subsequent reports will highlight the value and achievements from our committed colleagues. Univar Solutions delivering hand sanitizer to the London Nightingale Hospital on the first day of opening during the COVID-19 epidemic. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 24 Planet SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 25 Goal: Minimize our environmental impact by reducing energy usage and associated Energy & emissions. Emissions Measurement: Reduce energy use (MWh) and emissions (tCO2e) 15 percent by 2021 from 2016 baseline per million USD in sales. The energy consumed across our operations and the direct and indirect emissions associated with this energy use is without doubt one of our most significant environmental impacts. However, while one of the most significant, it is also an impact over which we have some degree of control. In 2016, we set out to substantially increase the efficiency of energy use to reduce overall consumption and related emissions intensity. This specifically covers every aspect of our business that is under our operational control including our fleet, forklift trucks, lighting, heating, and steam use. Through 2019, we have undergone a rigorous process of having our scope 1 and 2 emissions independently assured in order to bring a greater degree of confidence to our data and achievements to date. The following section details our performance from 2016, our efforts to achieve this, and our actions moving forward. Progress Against our Global Goal Through 2019, we have made great progress toward our global goal on energy and emissions, looking at our journey from 2016, we are pleased to see that our efforts across the business are helping put us on track to achieve our reductions targets by the end of 2021. At the end of 2019, we had achieved the following. 3.3% reduction in absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions 9.1% reduction in energy intensity 15.9% reduction in emissions intensity Performance on track to exceed our emission reduction target Reduced total electricity consumption more than 13% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 26 We have been encouraged to see an acceleration in Through our efforts to reduce our energy progress toward our specific 2021 target on emissions, use and emissions through efficiencies and with over a 9 percent reduction in energy intensity from clean technologies we are supporting the 2016 and a current performance on emissions reductions following UN SDGs: that is exceeding our 2021 ambition. SDG 7 Energy intensity (MWh per USD million sales) Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern 2016: 91.73 energy for all. 2019: 83.39 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Energy intensity reduction of 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement 9.1% from 2016 to 2019 in energy efficiency. Emissions intensity SDG 8 (tCO2e per USD million sales) Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable 2016: 23.69 economic growth, full and productive employment and 2019: 19.91 decent work for all. Emission intensity reduction of 8.4 Improve progressively, through 2030, global 15.9% from 2016 to 2019 resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavor to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead. SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries. 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 27 The intensity reductions for both energy and emissions The below figures represent the data from both of our are useful tools to help track progress against our goals legacy organizations for all years for the first time and but do not reveal the full picture of our performance. The show overall encouraging trends in light of our 15 percent tables below detail the specifics of our consumption and growth in sales (USD millions) from 2016. changes over time to our global energy and emissions. MWh 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fleets Diesel 376,547 416,732 430,280 406,090 Natural Gas 166,489 190,690 199,427 197,741 Fleet Gasoline 48,523 41,665 37,902 35,524 LPG 26,386 30,383 27,700 29,029 Gas Oil 5,563 5,869 5,163 5,256 Site Diesel 1,525 1,229 1,986 1,203 Biogas 625 668 676 Coal 720 Electricity 112,826 113,742 106,741 97,357 Renewable Electricity4 228 229 221 Steam5 2,012 1,330 1,327 1,310 Total Energy (MWh) 740,591 802,493 811,423 774,407 Net Sales (USD millions) 8,073.7 8,253.7 8,632.5 9,286.9 Energy Intensity (Total emissions per USD 91.73 97.23 94.00 83.39 millions in net sales) 4 Certified 0gCO2e/kWh renewable energy source. 5 A significant proportion of steam data has been extrapolated in 2019 from historic primary data. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 28 tCO2e 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fleet Diesel 94,703 104,790 106,506 99,288 Natural Gas 30,634 35,118 36,687 36,355 Fleet Gasoline 11,671 10,020 8,861 8,303 LPG 5,662 6,517 5,941 6,226 Gas Oil 1,537 1,619 1,428 1,349 Site Diesel 384 309 492 294 Biogas 0 0 0 0 Coal 232 0 0 0 Scope 1 total 144,823 158,373 159,915 151,815 Electricity 45,998 45,911 41,699 32,899 Renewable Electricity4 0 0 0 0 Steam5 411 95 326 231 Scope 2 total 46,409 46,006 42,025 33,130 Global Scope 1 and 2 total 191,232 204,379 201,940 184,945 Net Sales (USD millions) 8,073.7 8,253.7 8,632.5 9,286.9 Emissions Intensity (Total emissions per 23.69 24.76 23.39 19.91 USD millions in net sales) 2016-2019 2016-2019 MWh 2016 2019 tCO2e 2016 2019 % change % change Scope 1 144,823 151,815 4.83 total Scope 2 46,409 33,130 -28.61 total Total energy Scope 1 and 740,591 774,407 4.57 191,232 184,945 -3.29 use 2 total Energy Emissions 91.73 83.39 -9.09 23.69 19.92 15.92 intensity intensity While our scope 1 and 2 emissions are the focus of our of a limited number of scope 3 emissions data relating global sustainability goal, we recognize the importance to the extended aspects of our operations. Details on the of beginning the journey to reporting and influencing our scope and calculations of these metrics can be found in scope 3 emissions, those outside of our control but within the “Behind the figures” section of this report. our influence. This report marks the inaugural reporting 4 Certified 0gCO2e/kWh renewable energy source. 5 A significant proportion of steam data has been extrapolated in 2019 from historic primary data. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 29 2019 Scope 3 Emissions Scope 3 category Description 2019 (tCO2e) 1. Purchased goods and services Water-supply-related emissions 295 3. Fueland energy-related activities Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in 23,713 (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) scope 1 or scope 2) (Total Diesel WTT6) 3. Fueland energy-related activities Fueland energy-related activities (not included in scope 4,728 (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) 1 or scope 2) (Total Natural Gas WTT) 3. Fueland energy-related activities Fueland energy-related activities (not included in scope 2,244 (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) 1 or scope 2) (Total Gasoline WTT) 3. Fueland energy-related activities Fueland energy-related activities (not included in scope 783 (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) 1 or scope 2) (Total LPG WTT) 3. Fueland energy-related activities Transmission and distribution (T&D) losses (electricity 2,117 (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) that is consumed (i.e., lost) in a T&D system 3. Fueland energy-related activities Transmission and distribution (T&D) losses (steam that 10 (not included in scope 1 or scope 2) is consumed (i.e., lost) in a T&D system 5. Waste generated in operations Waste-related emissions whereby all waste is considered 3,635 commercial and industrial waste, split by destination Total scope 3 emissions 7 37,528 While limited in completeness, reporting on our scope 3 emissions is an important step in our sustainability journey. Not only are we adding transparency, but we are recognizing our accountability to act in new ways to influence the emissions related to our business but beyond our direct control. As shown in the above figures, this limited data set shows our indirect emissions totaling a significant 20 percent addition to our overall scope 1 and 2 emissions. For us, this strengthens our resolve to further identify and act on our indirect emissions. Through 2020 and beyond we intend to expand the breadth and completeness of our scope 3 emissions as an important part of assessing our emission. “ ...Our efforts...are helping put us on track to achieve our reductions targets by the end of 2021. ” WTT (Well to tank). Emissions associated with fuel extraction, processing, and transportation before combustion. 6 Total of those in scope of this report. 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 30 Addressing our Largest Energy and Emission Sources Globally, we continue to identify our most significant energy and emissions sources to ensure our actions have the greatest impacts. With increased visibility on our energy use and emissions, we are better able to take the necessary action. The figures below detail this make up of our global scope 1 and 2 energy and emissions by source. MWh consumption by source tCO2e emission by source Fleet diesel use (52.43%) Gas oil (0.68%) Fleet diesel use (53.69%) Gas oil (0.73%) Gas (25.53%) Site diesel (0.16%) Gas (19.66%) Site diesel (0.16%) Electricity (12.57%) Steam (0.17%) Electricity (17.79%) Steam (0.12%) Fleet petrol use (4.59%) Biogas (0.09%) Fleet petrol use (4.49%) LPG (3.75%) Renewable electricity (0.03%) LPG (3.36%) Site Sustainability Assessment Program assessment program to Canada, carrying out the first assessment in the region at our Weston site through Our goals, based on the key aspects of our business, October 2019. help us deliver sustainable practices across our value chain. Of course, while this is a global agenda for Univar While all of our sites share common features that we can Solutions, it is only through the local actions of our people work to improve, by giving focus to each site, alongside that we can achieve these goals globally. As such, we our Operations Managers, we are able to better identify have launched a program of sustainability opportunity the unique aspects of our operations which present us assessments which have been built to enable local action with new chances to promote sustainable business. for global goals. This move to expand the program into Canada, before Working with our Operations Managers at some of our beginning the same in the U.S. and the rest of our regions, largest EMEA locations, our teams have assessed is another action through which we are helping bring our current good practices and identified local and central key energy and emissions sources to the forefront of our opportunities for our sites to contribute to our global local considerations. From these assessments our teams goals. Building on the initial success of the program in are building and acting on a program of local and central early 2019, we have expanded the sustainability opportunities identifying for our sites to act on. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 31 Reducing Fuel Use Through Technology Installing On-Site Renewables The UK is home to our largest fleet in EMEA and is a In 2019, we made a significant step forward in our efforts significant contributor to the region’s energy use and to increase the proportion of our energy that comes from emissions. Through 2019 our fleet management teams renewable sources. In addition to our certified green elechave built on the efficiencies achieved through the tricity purchased across our sites in Spain and our supply implementation of our new Transport Management of renewable biogas in Sweden, we have for the first time Systems (TMS) and have continued to ensure that installed dedicated on-site renewable energy at our site eco-driving behavior is a contributing factor to assessing in Chiva, Spain. The installation of the 30-kWh system our driver’s performance. However, fuel use is determined will supplement the zero-emissions tariff energy that the by more than driver behavior and routes. That is why our site procures to power our operations and is expected to fleet management and procurement teams have moved continue providing renewable energy for 20 years. As we to replace our entire UK commercial fleet with the latest move into 2020, we are building on this initial success with standard Euro 6 engines, reducing emissions of nitrogen the installation of renewable energy technology at other oxides during our deliveries by as much as 77 percent. sites across the world. In 2020, we are planning further investments in energy and resource efficient buildings and infrastructure as we continue to tackle some of the most significant aspects of our energy and emission impacts. These infrastructure improvements will be supported by the expansion of our global Site Sustainability Assessment program, through which we will highlight actions for reducing our impacts through systems, behaviors, and infrastructure. In 2019, as we approached the COP25 As alternative fuel technologies develop, including electric meeting in Madrid, our President and CEO, and hydrogen fueled delivery fleets, we will continue to David Jukes, signed Univar Solutions pledge assess the options available to us. However, with the to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C Campaign. current demands of our fleet, we see intelligent route As part of this, we are making a strong management, behavior change and the use of the commitment to limiting the impacts of cleanest diesel vehicles as being our best opportunity to climate change to 2050 through a series reduce fleet energy and emissions in the short term. of aggressive emissions reduction targets to a net-zero future. Over the next 24 months, Greener Company Cars Univar Solutions will prepare and propose to the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) Following up on what we reported in 2018, we are pleased our goals and plans to achieve this 2050 to share that for a small number of sites our colleagues target. We will share more on this through can charge electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles at work. our ongoing communications channels. We are also pleased to report that in EMEA we now have an increased number of mild hybrids, plug-in hybrids, and full electric vehicles available to our company car drivers at all levels. We are working through 2020 to further expand this range of non-conventionally powered vehicles in and beyond EMEA, ensuring our people have the chance to be part of our transition to a lower carbon future. This will be supported by an active effort to increase the charging infrastructure that will make the switch an easier choice. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 32 Goal: Embed the principles of advancing a Resource Use— circular economy into our practices globally. Measurement: Reduce hazardous waste 15 Waste percent by 2021 against 2016 baseline per million USD in sales. As a business whose main activities are the processing highlights that we can distribute in greener ways, that and supply of chemical and ingredient products globally, resources should be used (or in some cases reused) with we cannot avoid the fact that our business will use reduced impacts, and that where resources and produce waste. However, as one of our possible can be reprocessed or recycled. As a most significant sustainability aspects, responsible distributor, we are more able to influence certain stages resource use is an area of our operations that demands of the circular economy than others. However, this action for continual improvement. provides us with the opportunity to work closer with our supply chain to further embed these principles Through our goal on resource use of advancing the into the way we do business. These commitments are principles of a circular economy into our practices, we supported by both our global EHS and Sustainability are setting out our commitment to move away from the Policies, highlighting the global need to bring resource historic linear process of resource use (extract-consumeconsumption within sustainable levels. dispose). As highlighted in the diagram below, our approach to advancing these circular principles broadens Through 2019, we have continued to identify where the scope of how we look at the resources we interact opportunities exist to further reduce our overall waste with and facilitates greater work on resource transparency production and increase the proportion of materials with our supply chain as we work to source products that that are sent for reuse and recycling. This is further are designed with efficiency in mind. The model also detailed on the next page. R esponsible man ufa n ctu sig re de le yc -c Life tion Material istribu extraction art d Sm Residual waste over nd rec le a cyc e R se u Re u ct co od nd itio Pr nin g an d reuse SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 33 Progress Against our Global Goal Through our commitments and actions on reducing resource use and supporting circular The ongoing efforts of our EHS and Operations teams, principles we are supporting the following in combination with our focus on waste prevention and UN SDGs: reducing resource use, have combined to result in another improvement in our key waste metrics. The highlights from 2019 are presented below and when linked back to SDG 9 our commitments to advance the principles of the circular Build resilient economy, reflect the impact we are having on the areas infrastructure, promote we are most able to impact. inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Exceeded our 2016 goal with 9.4 By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit a 21 percent intensity reduction industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of of hazardous waste clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities. Achieved absolute SDG 12 waste reductions through 15 percent sales growth Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management Reduced proportion of and efficient use of natural resources. all waste sent to landfill 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. 12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle. Increased the recovery and recycling of our non-hazardous waste globally SDG 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global Hazardous Waste partnership for sustainable development. Our reduction in waste does not signify all there is to our contribution to the principles of the circular 17.16 Enhance the global partnership for sustainable economy. However, the reduction of hazardous waste development, complemented by multi-stakeholder for us is a key indicator of our successes in other areas partnerships that mobilize and share knowledge, of this chain, such as efficient resource use and efficient expertise, technology and financial resources distribution. The reductions we have made in our to support the achievement of the sustainable hazardous waste metrics are highlighted on the development goals in all countries, in particular developing countries. following page. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 34 % Change 2016 Metric ton 2016 2017 2018 2019 to 2019 Packaging recycled 189 338 119 222 17.2 (not used in its current form) Other recycled 3,098 2,288 3,573 1,247 -59.8 Incineration with 1,737 1,691 2,097 1,934 11.3 energy recovery Incineration without 567 474 559 109 -80.8 energy recovery Landfill 1,636 1,109 325 1,188 -27.4 Other disposal 2,997 1,781 3,011 4,598 53.4 Total metric ton of hazardous 10,226 7,680 9,683 9,298 -9.1 waste8 Metric ton hazardous waste 1.27 0.93 1.12 1.00 -21.0 per million USD in sales As the figures show, we have significantly exceeded the making a meaningful impact on the way we work. We goals we had set ourselves to achieve by the end of 2021, will not relent on our commitments to efficient resource two years early. With this 21 percent reduction in waste use and responsible end of life handling. As we move intensity and the 9.1 percent absolute reduction in into 2020, we will continue to aim to reduce our waste hazardous waste, we are confident that our efforts are intensities further. 8 Waste classification as hazardous is determined under local classification and collated centrally on this basis. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 35 Non-Hazardous Waste Our global resource use goal focuses on hazardous waste, but we are also taking efforts to reduce our non-hazardous waste. Continuing to apply the principles of the circular economy, our local teams—alongside the development of the global Site Sustainability Assessments—are furthering the areas in which we can source, use, and dispose of resources more responsibly. We are pleased to see that in 2019 we have again continued our positive reduction trends against our baseline, as presented in the below waste figures. % Change 2016 Metric ton 2016 2017 2018 2019 to 2019 Packaging recycled (not used 578 330 657 322 -44.2 in its current form) Other recycled 2,587 2,002 1,918 2,457 -5.0 Incineration with energy 237 390 422 721 204.2 recovery Incineration without energy 4,010 78 66 38 -99.0 recovery Landfill 25,748 27,375 21,961 21,717 -15.7 Other disposal 1,090 2,657 8,573 7,428 561.4 Total metric ton of 34,251 32,832 33,597 32,683 -4.6 non-hazardous waste Metric ton non-hazardous waste 4.242 3.978 3.892 3.519 -17.0 per million USD in sales We are pleased to have achieved similar reductions in leaving them with containers for which they often have no both our absolute and intensity non-hazardous waste use. In other areas, we operate container asset programs metrics as we have on hazardous waste. whereby we track and return packaging from our customers. In both instances, as well as delivering product, we also work with customers to return packaging to our operations. Supporting Circular Principles Through Working with our operations teams and local packaging our Packaging reconditioners we work continually to send containers for reuse rather than recycling, extending the life of the Although for some stages of the circle of responsible resource and reducing environmental impacts. Through resource use our ability to influence is limited, this is 2019, our teams globally sent over 6,700 tons of packaging not the case for the handling and recovery of product for reuse, saving material quantities of virgin material use, packaging. Across the industries we serve, the distribution emissions, water use, and energy compared with scrapping of products is to customers to repack and blend products, used containers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 36 Moving Toward Zero Waste to Landfill Across many of our sites globally, our people have started their own recycling programs that have been successful in diverting waste from landfill. However, as identified in our sustainability opportunities program, this is not always an option due to limitations on what services can be provided by contractors. Across several Northern EMEA sites, we recognized this issue and have taken the action to engage a national waste service provider to introduce recycling facilities to many of our locations across the area. For these and the remaining sites, we have agreed with the service provider that non-recyclable waste will all be sent for energy recovery. On implementation of this agreement, these sites will effectively become zero-waste to landfill for non-hazardous waste, a great example of responsible practice across our locations. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 37 Resource Use— Water Water consumption and preservation are material aspects our business. We are committed globally to reducing both of our global operations. Fresh water across the planet the quantities of fresh water we extract and the amount is an increasingly scarce and valuable natural resource. of wastewater we produce. We are also taking action Much like the quality of the air we breathe, protecting to negate the impacts our wastewater can have on local fresh water from pollution and over extraction is a moral ecosystems and water treatment facilities. responsibility of all businesses and people. The following table and figures reflect our global water While our activities are of low water use intensity, our metrics from our 2016 baseline to the end of calendar consumption across the countries in which we operate year 2019, breaking these metrics down by source still has the potential to impact on water availability locally, and destination. much as local water availability has the potential to impact m3 water 2016 2017 2018 2019 Municipal extraction 849,695 779,936 797,826 807,592 On-site extraction 46,932 56,858 49,284 50,147 Total extraction 896,626 836,794 847,110 857,739 Water used in products 280,078 290,676 249,326 223,407 Total wastewater 616,549 546,118 597,784 634,332 Total water extraction (m3) Water extraction by source (m3) Total municipal Total own source 950,000 1,000,000 896,626 5.2% 6.8% 5.8% 5.8% 900,000 847,110 800,000 850,000 94.8% 94.2% 94.2% 93.2% 857,739 600,000 800,000 836,794 750,000 400,000 700,000 200,000 650,000 600,000 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 38 While our business has grown in terms of net sales Reducing our Impacts (USD), around 15 percent from our 2016 baseline, we are pleased to see that absolute water extraction has fallen Across our operations in EMEA, we began using the over 4.3 percent. Although the absolute reduction in water Site Sustainability Assessment program to help identify extraction shows an encouraging trend, our water use site-level opportunities to reduce water use and intensity figures show an even greater reduction of almost waste with our local management and EHS teams. 17 percent from 2016 to 2019. Through this and separate projects across our regions, we are investing in and implementing water saving However, not all performance metrics show a positive infrastructure including efficient container cleaning trend with relation to water use. In 2019, we recorded equipment and low-consumption bathroom appliances. and reported the highest volume of absolute annual wastewater of all years from our 2016 baseline. With a Where appropriate we are also working to ensure that total volume of wastewater at 2.9 percent higher than in the impacts our operations have on local water bodies 2016, there is still more work to be done on increasing are negated. Through our on-site water treatment and resource conservation across our operations, as detailed neutralization processes we are actively working within below. However, this absolute increase does not consider our discharge permits to return treated, environmentally performance against the growth of our business over this neutral water back into local systems. time frame. When considering our wastewater intensity, we are pleased to see a 10.6 percent reduction in wastewater from 2016, supporting the overall trend for Managing Water Risk increasingly efficient use of this key resource across While the majority of our locations are in areas where the our regions. availability of fresh water is not of high concern of risk, we recognize that in some areas, water availability and quality are becoming increasingly stressed. In response Wastewater intensity to this risk, we have mapped every one of our locations per million USD in sales against hydrological data on water quality metrics across our geographies to determine which operations are 80.00 76.37 within high water risk areas. Water risk may exist where 75.00 extraction of water from a source exceeds the sustained 69.25 68.30 70.00 66.17 ability for that source to meet the demand placed upon 65.00 it, now or in the future. Over time a water stressed area 60.00 may see a decline in water quality as aquifers and reservoir levels drop and eventually can be become 2016 2017 2018 2019 areas of water scarcity. At present, 15 percent of our locations, representing 28.9 percent of our annual water extraction, are located in areas of high or extremely high water risk based on data from the World Resource Institute’s Aqueduct database. By addressing the sites and water extraction in areas of high and extremely high water risk, we are now able to target water use reduction and efficiency where it is most material. Through 2020, we will be using the outputs of our global water risk assessment to advance our water efficiency efforts. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 39 Goal: Protect our people, communities, and environment by leading a zero-release Responsible culture to minimize major releases. Handling Measurement: Achieve 15 percent absolute reduction in significant spills by 2021 against 2016 baseline. There is no doubt that the millions of tons of chemicals we handle globally, if handled improperly, pose a risk Through our commitments and actions on to the health of our people, communities, and local responsible handling and release prevention environments. That is why at Univar Solutions, we remain we are supporting the following UN SDGs: steadfast in our commitment to preventing and minimizing chemical releases across our operations. Within this goal we are consistently striving toward a SDG 3 zero-release culture while measuring ourselves against a short term meaningful absolute reduction target. This commitment is supported in practice by our Ensure healthy lives comprehensive environmental management systems, and promote well-being which are designed to meet and often exceed legally for all at all ages. binding commitments, adding best practice across our regions. 3.9 By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and Our efforts to prevent material loss covers all stages air, water and soil pollution. of our handling of materials from receiving goods, processing on-site, and delivering to customers through our global fleet. We also work directly with customers and suppliers on sharing information on product hazards, SDG 12 handling instructions and reporting of issues to help prevent releases in the wider supply chain. Minimizing Ensure sustainable the impacts of any release is another key aspect of consumption and responsible handling. By focusing on prevention with production patterns. secondary and tertiary containment practices in place to prevent loss to the environment, we are working to ensure that any significant release does not have an impact on 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound the wider environment. management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with However, despite the improvements made in 2018 from agreed international frameworks, and significantly our baseline metrics of 2016, over the last 12 months we reduce their release to air, water and soil in order have seen an increase in the absolute release metrics, to minimize their adverse impacts on human health as visualized and explained below. and the environment. Significant releases Global goal Significant releases The figures at the left identify the number of significant 120 releases (>90Kg/200Lbs) from primary containment 83 for 2019 alongside our global historic data dating back 76 73 104 to 2016, against our global goal. While we recognize 80 76 this as a lagging indicator, this metric does provide a 74 71 69 40 feedback mechanism for the impact of our global efforts in reducing releases. 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 40 Progress Against our Global Goal During 2019, there was a slight increase in the number of significant release events compared to the 2016 baseline “ ...at Univar Solutions we remain (104 vs. 97). Univar Solutions was particularly challenged steadfast in our commitment to by the incidents caused by mechanical failures of valves preventing and minimizing chemical and piping. Investigation of every significant release event releases across our operations. ” produced key learnings and corrective actions that were broadly communicated across our network. As a result, we have been able to reverse the trend in early 2020 and get back on track toward meeting this important sustainability goal. The figures in this report for the first time reflect our overall performance as Univar Solutions, integrating the data for our two legacy organizations. However, this has had no material effect on the overall trend. As we move into 2020, our global Environment, Health and Safety teams, as well as our Operations and Transport teams, are working to more closely assess the root causes and sources of our recent performance to ensure we are taking action on our key areas for improvement. Responsible Remediation We recognize that there have been incidences historically where our efforts to prevent unintended releases have not been effective enough. Where land remediation has been identified as necessary, our teams are focused on implementing effective programs designed to minimize impacts on health and the environment. When evaluating remedial options (Remedy selection/Implementation), Univar Solutions looks for approaches that limit the use of energy and minimize the depletion of natural resources. Environmental remediation requires balancing a myriad of technical, regulatory, and social concerns. Univar Solutions continues to work with experts to identify and implement remediation approaches that are protective of human health and the environment while balancing the use of energy and natural resources. We will continually evaluate the application of sustainable remediation to our portfolio of remediation projects including as appropriate for historic events, land on which we no longer operate. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 41 Profit At Univar Solutions, sustainable business is simply the right thing to do. Part of this includes supporting our stakeholders such as our employees, customers, suppliers, communities, and shareholders with strong, dependable performance, both in our service and financially. Our focus on optimizing both positive environmental and social impacts, as well as financial growth, enables us to grow our business in a way that serves the needs of a wide array of stakeholders. For us, operating in a way that is environmentally and socially responsible does not mean reduced economic performance. As reflected in our key metrics through 2019, we have continued to show that doing “well” and doing “good” is not a polarized choice. Through responsible business we can, and are, achieving both. The following section highlights the interconnectivity in our actions to be economically, environmentally, and socially responsible across our business and supply chain. This includes how we monitor responsible practices of our stakeholders and the outputs of our drive to provide more sustainable solutions. Details on our economic performance, including our management approach and significant impacts can be found in our latest Annual Report. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 42 Goal: Lead on transparency in the supply chain as we responsibly manage and influence the environmental and social impacts of Sustainable our suppliers. Supply Chain Measurement: Establish and implement assessment of product suppliers for environmental and social responsibility in all regions by 2021. Our approach to sustainable supply chains is dependent on the notion that we only win if everyone wins (our Through our commitments and actions on customers and suppliers). We recognize that there are facilitating greater supply chain transparency risks in the supply chain for unethical business practices and sustainable practices we are supporting the out of our control. However, this does not allow us to stand following UN SDG: aside. Instead, we see it as important to carry out due diligence through our supply chain in order to gain confidence that our supply partners are operating SDG 8 in a socially, environmentally, and economically responsible manner. Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable Progress Against our Global Goal economic growth, Sustainable supply chains are of increasing importance full and productive to our business and to our stakeholders. We recognize employment and the need to improve transparency in supply chains across decent work for all. the world to reduce unethical practices and we are playing our part in reducing this risk. 8.7 Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and Supplier Assessments human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, In 2017, we set out to develop an extended assessment including recruitment and use of child soldiers, process for suppliers and service providers to bring and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms. additional considerations into our supplier assessment in the areas of quality, safety, environmental, social, and ethical areas. Within this, the social and ethical aspects As we move into 2020, we are making plans to include, but are not limited, to the ILO Declaration on further advance the assessments sent to all regions, Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In 2018, we giving increased focus to the environmental and social achieved this and introduced this to all new suppliers sustainability aspects that our suppliers will be across EMEA, reviewing all existing suppliers over a assessed against. five-year period. The addition of these assessment topics has added meaningful additional transparency to our Beyond this, we are also working to establish a globally processes and has helped us identify risk related to applicable supplier Code of Conduct. This key resource suppliers’ sustainability performance. Through 2019, will be made available to our indirect procurement supply we have continued to expand the use of our supplier chain over a phased introduction. The establishment of assessments to all regions and aim to assess 100% of this process will elevate the prominence of sustainable new product suppliers on these criteria. While our efforts t supply chain practices across the geographies and o carry out due diligence across our supply chain are industries in which we operate. Following the key aspects stronger than ever and we currently hold no specific of our global Code of Conduct, we will be working to set concerns on areas of risk, we cannot guarantee the out our clear expectations of our suppliers in addition to absence of supplier unethical practices. Instead we will the existing direct supplier assessments we currently continue to improve on our processes with our carry out. Through these new measures we are working supply chains. to further improve responsible practices downstream. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 43 Growth in Sustainable As 2020 is the “year of the solution” at Univar Solutions, we are working to expand the value of sustainable Supply Chains business across the industries we serve. From introducing product ranges that meet performance while cutting As one of the world’s leading chemical distributors, we environmental impacts to reducing impacts on local have a role to play in sustainable supply chains that extends communities and supporting biodiversity, we are there to well beyond minimizing environmental and social risks. add value for our customers. Through 2019, we have continued to see strong growth We are also continuing to build quantified sustainability in demand in some industries for products that are of aspects into the services we provide, working with reduced impact on the environment and societies. From suppliers and customers to help understand the benefits surfactants to solvents, cosmetics, personal care, and of responsible business and directly supporting the food ingredients, there are more options than ever for sustainability programs of our key stakeholders. consumers to make more responsible choices in the products they use. At Univar Solutions, we are actively meeting this demand and taking action to ensure we can best serve our customers in the growing markets for sustainable products. By ensuring we are meeting the more stringent transparency and accountability standards that often come with these products, we are providing our customer with the confidence that Univar Solutions is serious about sustainability. As we expand the certifications and accreditation to trade and process products under such designations as Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), organic certified product, and fair-trade products, we are supporting a reduction of our upstream and downstream impacts and helping communities beyond our operations. Sustainable Services for our Customers Ensuring the responsible transportation, treatment, recycle, and reuse of waste materials and products is not just something we take seriously within our own operations. For our colleagues at ChemCare, this is our business. Through 2019, we safely and compliantly managed hundreds of thousands of tons of waste materials and products for our customers, reducing the risk to people and the environment thanks to our expertise and unbiased treatment technologies. Not only are we helping customers with removal of waste materials and products, we are also helping ensure that these materials are managed safely while always actively seeking to apply the waste management hierarchy as appropriate. In the last 12 months, we have helped customers divert almost 200,000 tons of waste from landfill, reducing impact on land use while supporting the principles of the circular economy and resource efficiency. The efforts of our ChemCare team is another great example of how we are delivering sustainable solutions to our customers. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 44 Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and work to ensure that our employees understand that being an ethical company requires a commitment from Fair Business Practices everyone—not just to do the right thing but to speak up if you observe the wrong thing happening. To that end, we Bribery, corruption and anti-competitive practices are encourage the use of our confidential ethics “Alertline”, detrimental to good business and undermine the trust and which is hosted and managed by a third party (Navex rule of law necessary for optimized market conditions. Global) and which is a tool that can be used anonymously It is impossible for any business to eliminate the risk of if desired. Regardless, our policies confirm that anyone corruption completely. What is possible is to minimize it who uses the Alertline in good faith will be protected to the greatest extent feasible. This is what we seek to from retaliation. do—not only with our employees but with our business partners as well. We have worked hard to establish Political Spending policies and procedures that are designed to imbed ethical business practices in everything we do. Our As a general matter, Univar Solutions does not directly company culture and the tone from our leadership starts make contributions, donations, gifts, or loans to or for the from one basic premise: we will never put profits over benefit of political parties or committees, candidates for ethics. We reinforce this principle in a number of public office, or political organizations. In addition, the different ways including mandatory annual Code of Company does not engage in direct lobbying activities. Conduct training for all employees and some contractors, However, we fully respect the right of our employees and an annual “ethics month” during which time extra stakeholders to participate in these activities as private emphasis is placed on recommitting to and keeping citizens so long as there is no use of position within the forefront the need for ethical business practices, and business as a means to carry out these activities. regular company communications on a wide array of business ethics and social responsibility topics. Environmental and Social Through this, every person at Univar Solutions Legal Compliance understands their responsibilities with regards to anticorruption, bribery and fair competition practices. We are Full environmental and social compliance is the right working to ensure ethical business is something our thing to do and is also a priority to our stakeholders. At people are actively bringing to work every day. Further, we Univar Solutions we are fully committed to meeting the legal requirements placed on us across the geographies in which we operate. This includes compliance in relation to anti-bribery laws, anti-competition laws, fair labor practices, and privacy laws, as well as many other laws and regulations. In 2019, we are pleased to report that we are not aware of any criminal violations or other material, substantiated claims. By the same token, we are not aware of any material violations of marketing, labeling, product health and safety, or occupational health and safety laws, or if any such violations occurred (whether material or not) they were promptly addressed and remediated. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 45 Behind the Figures SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 46 Report Assurance Our sustainability reporting is built on the principles of transparency and continual improvement. This year for the first time, in order to advance the transparency and reliability of what we set out in this report, we engaged ERM Certification and Verification Service to undertake independent limited assurance in line with ISAE 3000 on various aspects of our report. The scope of the assurance includes reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and (Core Option) and the SASB Chemical sector disclosures, Reporting Standard, this structural change to our as well as 2019 data for specified GHG emissions, organization constitutes a significant cause for releases, and safety. You can find ERM CVS’ Independent restatement of our baseline, historic, and most recent Assurance Statement here with full details of the data sets. While this standard only applies directly to our assurance scope, assurance activities, and conclusions. GHG emissions, we have chosen to apply the same We will review the findings and recommendations from principles to our remaining sustainability metrics for the assurance process this year and consider how we consistency and transparency. As such, the data reported develop future assurance to meet management and in this document represents the entirety of our business stakeholder needs. as Univar Solutions for 2019 as well as the combined figures of our legacy organizations back to our 2016 Changes to the Scope of Reporting baseline. As well as the overall metrics on performance, these restatements have also impacted our historic 2019 has been one of the most significant periods of performance against our global sustainability goals change our company has ever undergone. Having created as we move to align our new business with our a new organization as Univar Solutions through the year historic commitments. and considering the changes that have come with this, it is important that we recognize the impact this has had on Beyond the significant changes to historic data made the structure, content, and scope of this report. due to the acquisition of Nexeo Solutions, we have also included in these wider changes updates to data from This report marks our first fully integrated sustainability the legacy Univar business. Due to increased data report as Univar Solutions and the contents and figures having been made available for calendar years 2016 throughout are representative of our new business. and 2017, we have revised historic data during the wider, The acquisition of Nexeo Solutions on March 1, 2019 material restatements. has resulted in material reporting changes to our global emissions. Emissions Methodologies Material Restatements We continue to inform our emissions data collection methodology with the GHG Protocol Corporate In line with the key changes to the scope of our Accounting and Reporting Standard alongside the GHG reporting in 2019, there are several material restatements Protocol Technical Guidance for calculating Scope 3 in this report. The acquisition of Nexeo Solutions and the Emissions. All baseline figures relating to our global subsequent reporting this year for the first time as Univar sustainability goals have been set to 2016, the first year in Solutions has led us to restate our historic data. In line SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 47 which we gained sufficient confidence to report on the In addition, we have made informed estimations and global scope of our data. For all emissions stated in extrapolations as necessary where primary data has not metric ton of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), these represent the been available for the reporting period. These estimations collective emissions of the associated CO2, CH4, and N2O. have been carried out consistently where used and Data relating to scope 1 emissions and local steam have been included to ensure we report the most distribution has been calculated using the 2019 UK comprehensive reflection of our impacts possible with government GHG factors for all conversions. For 2019 the data available. In all instances where primary data scope 2 emissions, all country specific emissions factors has not been available, largely owing to the impacts of in this report are based on the International Energy our integration, estimates have been extrapolated from Agency (IEA) latest data set (2017). For previous years, this other primary data sources, comparable either has been based on the equivalent UK 2015 GHG figures temporally or geographically. While we are confident for all countries with the exception of the UK, which until that the estimations included within our data disclosures 2019 has been based on the latest year’s available UK are reflective of our reporting scope, we are actively specific grid electricity emission factor. working to further improve the accuracy and transparency of our data. This report references emissions sources from scopes 1, 2, and 3. Our reporting on scope 1 and 2 in this report for Using the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 2019 is externally assured and represents over 97% of Reporting Standard to inform our approach, for this our operations and 99% of our employee headcount. report we have opted to follow the operational control Locations have been excluded from the reported data boundaries in our scope 1 and 2 data collection and where employee headcounts were so low as to be reporting globally. This includes data from all operations determined to be not material to the global totals. Our deemed to be under Univar Solutions operational control. scope 3 emission disclosures are based on our global As in previous years of reporting, this excludes third-party impacts highlighted in our scope 1 and 2 disclosures. warehouses and third-party operated transportation. The These disclosures of our partial indirect emissions mark limited coverage of our scope 3 emissions reporting has the beginning of our wider emissions disclosures. The similarly been carried out in line with the GHG Protocol corresponding scope 3 emission factors are based on the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 2019 UK government GHG factors with all electricity transmission and distribution attributed to UK figures. In future reporting we plan to expand the scope 3 emissions categories reported, prioritizing the introduction of the most material scope 3 emissions sources. Fugitive GRI and SASB Content Index emissions from refrigerant gases, from either scope 1 or As supported by our external assurance scope 3 sources, have not been included in data for any statement, we are pleased to confirm that this year. We will continue to build on the strength and global report has been prepared in accordance with representativeness of this data through 2020 with the GRI Standards core option and submitted intentions to report in the future. The GWPs used in the to the GRI report registration system, notifying calculation of CO2e are based on the Intergovernmental the GRI of this claim. This report has also been Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Report (AR4) over a 100-year period. Accounting Standards Board (SASB) disclosures for the Chemical industry. Where appropriate, we have made informed headcountbased estimations for a small number of sites, this is Any omissions of individual GRI Standards primarily the case for our smaller office-only locations. and SASB disclosures are detailed in our This has been done in instances where gaining data for 2019 Sustainability Report GRI and SASB these locations is deemed not materially relevant to Content Indexes. These respective Content ascertain a high degree of confidence in our global totals. Indexes are maintained separately and can These office estimations represent around 2.5% of our be accessed via the following link: https:// total number of operations and given the lower resource www.univarsolutions.com/safety-anduse intensity nature of our office operations, these sustainability/sustainability/resourcesestimates are considered reasonable. For these locations reporting/. estimated per capita metrics for energy, waste and water have been applied. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 48 © 2020 Univar Solutions Inc. All rights reserved. Univar, the collaboration insignia, and other identified trademarks are the property of Univar Solutions Inc. or affiliated companies. All other trademarks not owned by Univar Solutions Inc. or affiliated companies that appear in this material are the property of their respective owners. PC-GLB-CORP-1302-0520 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 49
