MEDCO Sustainable Development Goals Report MEDCO S.A.L. 2019 2020 MEDCO works towards Why SDG 2 ? Because we commit to do our best to make sure that malnourished people have sufficient amount of food to be able to live a healthy life. CONVENIENCE STORES X LEBANESE FOOD BANK c-stores X Lebanese Food Bank • From January 2020 till July 2020, MEDCO & Phoenicia c-stores, in collaboration with Lebanese Food Bank have placed donation boxes in their premises to collect food for the families in need • Boxes have been placed in all MEDCO & Phoenicia c-stores c-stores X Lebanese Food Bank Why SDG 9 ? We move people forward with innovation, anticipating their needs for value added services. ADAPTING NEW INNOVATIONS TO OUR COMMUNITY Online Diesel • MEDCO is the first petroleum company to introduce an online delivery platform for diesel • During 2019 – 2020 MEDCO worked on reinforcing the diesel delivery platform and mobile application for easier, faster and more accurate delivery system • Online Diesel was a very successful addition to our services • https://www.youtube.com/watch?v =ikpVzUyyxfI • https://www.youtube.com/watch?v =7ob8fxKsoN4 • https://www.youtube.com/watch?v =85vIDXOfW0A Launching of a new e-medco station • MEDCO’s purpose is to always innovate. • As part of committing to the environment, MEDCO was the First station in Lebanon to introduce EV chargers in 2018 • By beginning of 2019, MEDCO had already launched 7 stations and was the Title Sponsor of the first e-motorshow in the Middle East • By end of 2019, MEDCO launched its 8th emedco charging station at Le Charcutier Aoun – Adonis • Check out the video on this link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4k9LY B-L10 Disinfecting stations at MEDCO & Phoenicia • To protect the communities on the move, MEDCO opened 9 Disinfecting car stations • First CAR SANITIZATION STATIONS in Lebanon, to make sure that cars are always clean and reduce the risks of spreading COVID-19 and any other germs! • The system consists of a full sanitization of the car, inside out: from the handles, to the buttons, steering wheel, gear shifts, car seats, cup holders and back of the car keeping in mind that the personnel cleaning the car is fully equipped and wearing the full adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) for safety purposes Why SDG 11 ? Because we care about our communities and sustainable actions for a better world. OPERATION HEAT HOMES Operation Heat Homes • In December 2019, MEDCO decided to launch Operation Heat Homes and donate diesel to 500 families in the regions of Bekaa and Jbeil to warm their homes and hearts during the Christmas season Diesel Donation Platform • On January 2020, MEDCO introduced it’s Diesel Donation Platform • As a part of Operation Heat Homes, we wanted to give back to the community and to the needy families and NGOs responsible of them so they stay warm • Diesel Donation option was built-in in MEDCO’s Online delivery platform so that anytime someone orders online they can either • Donate 5,000 LBP on his total bill to Operation Heat Homes • Donate e-voucher diesel coupons to Beit el Baraka NGO • This initiative helped 2 NGOs stay warm • St.Therese Convent • Oum el Nour center Diesel Donation Platform THE BLUE CULTURE BOOK The Blue Culture Book • This book is about the MEDCO culture and the MEDCOers values • This book shows the 7 principles that MEDCO follows on a daily basis since 1910 1. Strategy to drive innovation in our industry 2. Mission and customer centricity 3. Objectives and commitment to excellence 4. Nature/culture 5. Execution of mission 6. Ownership of the brand 7. Culture of high performance and high values The Blue Culture Book The Blue Culture Book The Blue Culture Book INITIATIVES AND EVENTS Sober up at the station ! • Safety has always been our core concern and we have worked on many campaigns in the past with NGOs to prevent and minimize the risks of car accidents under the influence of alcohol or fatigue • Previous campaigns: creation of “Nap N Go” spots in collaboration with Kunhadi in our stations so people can park and take a nap if they don’t feel like driving • In December 2019, MEDCO introduced the “Sober up at the station” initiative to prevent car accidents accidents and placed free alcohol tests in 10 service stations Creating a safer environment • Because our customer’s safety is our top priority, all measures are being adopted across our c-stores and offices in order to stop the spread of Covid-19 ! • Truck drivers nowadays are required to follow specific safety rules (Picture on the right) • C-stores changed the traditional way of shopping: https://www.facebook.com/102544138 0925135/videos/2580172295428319/ Why SDG 17 ? Because we believe in partnership for a better world. Unifying our efforts with Organizations having purposeful goals accelerates success of good causes. Partnerships with NGOs • MEDCO took part in many initiatives on social media to help NGOs such as Lebanese Autism Society and Hayda Baytak collect funds for their activities Partnerships with NGOs Donate your jackets • In December 2019, and in partnership with Auxilia, MEDCO worked on collecting clothes in its offices • 2 giant Christmas socks were present in which employees donated a big amount of clothes to the families in need Anta Akhi X Yala Stop • During the month of December, donation boxes were placed for Anta Akhi center at all Yala Stop, Medmart and Calmart convenience stores • 2,000,000 LBP were collected Partnerships with NGOs • Christmas NGO initiative was about inciting the users of mymedco loyalty app to donate their loyalty points to their favorite NGO and in return MEDCO would double the donations to each NGO Partnerships with NGOs • MEDCO supports NGOs all year long through its app • Mymedco loyalty gives the choice to its users to either collect loyalty points and redeem them for a service at the station or donate them to 60 NGOs MEDCO is partnering with
