Corporate Social Responsibility Communication on progress 2019, UN Global Compact Compliance with sections 99a of the Danish Financial Statement Act for the financial year 2019 Columbus, Lautrupvang 6, DK-2750 Ballerup Phone: +45 70 20 50 00, Fax: +45 70 25 07 01 www.columbusglobal.com, CVR.: 13 22 83 45 Columbus in short Columbus is a global IT services and consulting company with more than 2,000 employees serving 5,000+ customers worldwide. Columbus helps ambitious companies to maximize, transform and futureproof their business digitally. Columbus’ innovative solutions and services portfolio 9 Doors to Digital Leadership® delivers end-to-end digital solutions like cloud ERP, eCommerce, Data & Analytics, and Application Management that address the lifecycle and sustainability demands of the retail, distribution, food, and manufacturing industries. Columbus was founded in 1989 and is headquartered in Denmark with offices and partners all over the world, delivering solutions and services locally—on a global scale. Contents Columbus in short 2 Contents 3 Statement from the CEO 4 UN Global Compact Principles 5 A global sustainable business 6 Digital transformation for a better tomorrow 8 Commitment to the UN SDGs 9 Helping our customers run a growing, profitable and sustainable business10 People and business growth 13 Increasing diversity in Columbus 17 Talent Program in Columbus 18 Code of Conduct 19 Environmental and climate impact 20 Social Commitment 21 Columbus 3 Statement from the CEO As a global company, we are committed to drive positive social and environmental change on a global scale. In 2019, Columbus took an important step in contributing to making the world a better place by defining our corporate purpose and committing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The UN’s world goals are challenging chemicals, reduce energy and water and Heart” many years ago and have thousands of companies to raise their consumption and optimize distribution. lived by them ever since. level of ambition to the meet the needs of society by integrating sustainability We know that advanced technology With the Columbus values; Brains, Guts into business strategy. and services such as Business and Heart, we have a guiding star that Intelligence, Analytics and Enterprise unites across countries, cultures and Columbus is committed to contributing Resource Planning are core enablers to communities. I am amazed and grateful to reaching the UN Sustainable reach sustainability goals while of how our employees has embraced Development Goals. In 2019, Columbus optimizing and growing the business. the values and have made them their launched our corporate purpose own. statement “Digital transformation for a Living the Columbus Values better tomorrow” which sets our Columbus is a people business. Our Columbus considers the overall direction for our business in the future. greatest asset is our people. During achievements in relation to the recent years, Columbus has been company’s corporate social An important part of our purpose is to growing our organization to double responsibility to be satisfactory and in contribute to the UN Sustainable line with the 10 principles of the UN size, both organic and acquisitive. The Development Goals by acting Global Compact. merger of different cultures, ways or responsible as a business and by helping our customers run a growing, working and experiences, creates a need to have a common understanding Thomas Honoré profitable and sustainable business. of how we treat each other, interact CEO & President As we enter 2020, we enter a decade with customers and how we run our where digitalization and sustainability business. are becoming two of the most powerful market influencers. Each will change Therefore, it is important that we have management practice, and more a common language and understanding broadly, business and society. of what defines Columbus. Sustainability is no longer considered a In May, we initiated a global value cost burden in business but increasingly program with the purpose of creating a a business opportunity linking value to common understanding of the sustainability. Columbus identity – our DNA. The Columbus DNA is deeply rooted with We help our customers optimize and our Chairman of the Board, Ib Kunøe, improve their business processes and resource consumption, minimize waste who founded the values “Brains, Guts in production, diminish emissions of 4 Columbus UN Global Compact Principles Columbus’s goal is to run a sustainable and profitable business. The CSR-efforts is an integrated part of our business model and comply with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Columbus has been part of the UN Global Compact since 2012, which shows our commitment to being socially and environmentally responsible. Columbus supports and enacts ten general principles of corporate social responsibility. These principles are based on internationally recognized conventions on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. With this document, we confirm our support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the principles in our business. Columbus has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2012. Columbus 5 A global sustainable business In Columbus, we are committed to take care of our customers for has increased and become an life and help them reach their goals for a sustainable, growing and integrated part of the Group’s business profitable future through digitalization. Columbus’s goal is to run a activities. By constantly monitoring and mitigating risks, Columbus aims to sustainable and profitable business. reduce risks to an acceptable level. The Executive Board is responsible for the ongoing risk management and A global business delivery model that allows us to deliver continuously considers and reviews key Columbus is a global IT services and 24/7 support to our customers. risks. Risk management is reported to consulting corporation with more than and discussed with the Audit 2,200 employees serving our customers Columbus2020 strategy Committee at committee meetings worldwide. Columbus’ five-year strategy, during the year. Columbus2020 was born with the Columbus holds a market leading ambition to be a leading global value The main drivers for Columbus’ CSR position within the manufacturing, provider of digital business solutions in actions are related to employees. retail, distribution and food industries selected industries. Employee retention and recruitment in our key markets. are important focus areas. Therefore, Columbus continues to invest in new the main risk identified within CSR is We are experts in designing, innovative business solutions, while at the failure to attract and keep our developing, implementing, upgrading the same time optimizing and skilled employees. Columbus considers and maintaining digital business streamlining our services business. stress as a risk factor to keeping a applications that help your business Ensuring satisfied and successful healthy working environment, and succeed in the digital transformation. customers is an essential focus area for therefore we continuously focus on Columbus, as well as engaged and stress handling and prevention in the We offer a comprehensive solution motivated employees. local business units. portfolio with deep industry knowledge, extensive technology Columbus2020 comprises four strategic In addition, the brand and reputation of expertise and profound customer interconnected elements; Customer Columbus is a key area as this is key in insight. Success, Digital Leadership, Our People attracting talents to Columbus. and Process Excellence. Columbus’ business model is highly Our due diligence processes and transparent, and is built on three value Risks related to CSR guidelines for good business behaviour drivers: As a global company operating in a established for employees and • Sale of consultancy and project highly competitive and rapidly changing suppliers is formulated in our Code of implementation services global marketplace, Columbus is Conduct and include firm value-based • Sale of Columbus Software licenses exposed to a number of commercial principles that address any risk that • Sale of Columbus Care, Columbus and financial risks. Consequently, it is could occur concerning these matters. Software, third-party software essential for Columbus to ensure that Columbus therefore considers the risks subscriptions, cloud and hosting risks are constantly identified, related to anticorruption to be limited. which is recurring revenue monitored and controlled in order to reduce potential negative impact on Columbus considers the risk related to Columbus’ main deliverables are growth, activities and results. negative climate and environmental services related to software and impact to be limited as activities consultancy. We operate with a global As Columbus has grown and developed related climate are limited to energy over time, focus on risk management consumption at data centres and 6 Columbus offices as well as business travel. As we do not produce any physical products the non-financial risks related to the environment are limited. As part of the risk management, Columbus has established a whistleblower function for expedient and confidential notification of possible or suspected wrongdoing. Columbus has described our main risks and the measures installed to mitigate them in the Annual Report for 2019. Columbus 7 Digital transformation for a better tomorrow Columbus has a clear goal of An important part of our corporate contributing to making the world a purpose is to work with two areas of a better place, for our employees, our better tomorrow ; we want to customers and the society. contribute to the UN Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by acting In 2019, Columbus made an important responsibly as a company and we want step towards leading in sustainability to help our customers futureproof their within our industry. In April, we business by helping them run a growing initiated a global program to formulate and sustainable business. our corporate purpose statement, Through our SDG targets, we commit to where a team of 26 purpose In September, we gathered 200 leaders achieving gender equality and ensure ambassadors across Columbus worked across Columbus at a Summit in Berlin. high quality work conditions for our in virtual teams to develop the purpose One of the key topics at the Summit people, we help our customer to run a statement for Columbus: “Digital was our corporate purpose and how we sustainable business by providing transformation for a better tomorrow”. as a global company contributes to the innovative digital solutions and we will sustainability agenda. reduce our environmental footprint. With the launch of our corporate purpose, we address how we help our Based on the output from 200 leaders, Our employees are very committed customers run a sustainable business we have chosen to focus on five of the about the sustainability focus in through digitalization and how we as a 17 SDGs and through our SDG targets Columbus and more than 90% agree global company contributes to the commit to driving positive social and that it is important for Columbus to making the world a better place by environmental change on a global contribute to the UN Sustainable supporting the UN Sustainable scale. Development Goals. Development goals. 8 Columbus Commitment to the UN SDGs In Columbus, we are committed to SDG #12: We reduce waste generation Today, Columbus report on women contribute to the UN Sustainable through reduction, recycling and reuse managers in Columbus A/S and the Development Goals. in our offices globally. We develop Group. In 2020, Columbus will set KPIs innovative digital solutions that and report on total gender distribution In 2019, we took an important step to monitor, analyse and report production globally. focus on five of the 17 SDGs. In each of patterns in order to help our customers the SDG targets, we have formulated reduce waste and loss in production Employee wellbeing and working our commitment and focus points: and optimize supply chain to enable conditions has been key part of our CSR sustainable production patterns. focus for the past 6 years and is SDG #5: We commit to gender equality reported through the of UN Global and continue to increase the SDG #13: We reduce our environmental Compact framework. proportion of women in Columbus. footprint globally by reducing flight travel, recycle and optimize our We continuously focus on reducing our SDG #8: We ensure high-quality work consumption and energy mix. environmental footprint. and safe working conditions for our people and we strive to foster an KPI and target setting 2020 Finally, helping our customers optimize inclusive workplace where people Columbus is already working with focus their infrastructure, supply chain and thrive and grow with equal career areas within the 5 SDGs. production is the core of our business. opportunities for all. For the past 7 years, gender equality During 2020, Columbus will develop SDG #9: We help our customers has been a strategic focus for Columbus and set the KPI’s for the five committed modernize their infrastructure by and is measured annually in our SDGs and we will initiative global and building new, innovative digital “Statutory report on Gender local programs to progress and reach Distribution”. The KPI and target setting solutions that help our customers run a the SDG targets. can be found under “Corporate sustainable business. Governance – Diversity”. Columbus 9 Helping our customers run a growing, profitable and sustainable business With the launch of our corporate of Information Technology. We have clear visibility into production costs, purpose, we address how we help our experience in data analytics and and finding additional revenue streams. customers futureproof their business machine learning and connecting the by helping them run a sustainable, supply chain from sheep to shelf. Rental, Lease & Equipment growing and profitable business A modern-day consumer goes through through digitalization. Food, Beverage & Process several touchpoints before making a The last few decades have seen an purchase. The Digital Commerce Columbus has strong domain infuse of IT in the food and beverage Practice at Columbus enables retailers, knowledge within key industries based industry. Increased competition from distributors, and brands to ensure a on more than 30 years of experience medium and small companies and seamless customer experience and profound customer insights with evolving consumer needs are throughout this journey. Our solutions more than 5,000 customers. As necessitating food manufacturers and enable our customers with providing a sustainability is becoming increasingly retailers to build capabilities around unified customer experience, important, we are stepping forward to technology to forecast customer optimizing costs with centralized leading our customers in creating a demand, ensure high levels of quality inventory management, increasing better tomorrow. management, traceability of materials order values, maximizing revenue from and products from field to fork. existing customers, and gaining new With ever increasing emphasis on Columbus solutions help our customers customers. sustainability, organizations seek out react to changes in customer demands new, innovative business models to while minimising waste, optimize Rental Lease and Equipment future-proof, transform and modernize product development cycles and Columbus helps Rental, Lease, and their infrastructure. Columbus offers ensure that the products adhere to the Equipment providers increase and solutions towards building a quality standards demanded by the optimize utilization rates, facilitate the sustainable business within energy business. shift to ‘as-a-service’ model, optimize management, waste management, international fleet management, and route optimization, resource Manufacturing plan and manage equipment and productivity and sustainable operation An acute shortage of skilled workforce, machinery lifecycles profitably. Increasingly. expensive machinery and increasing production costs have a high impact on Services like Data Lakes are offered to Fashion the manufacturing sector. Columbus determine physical utilization, as well Fashion is one of the most resourcesupports manufacturers to stay ahead as financial utilization, of equipment. consuming and polluting industries, of the competition curve by bringing Periodic maintenance and corrective globally. It produces nearly 0.5 million Industry 4.0 best practices into the maintenance are offered as a part of tons of synthetic microfibers a year— picture. We enable the players to global fleet management to empower equivalent to 50 billion plastic bottles. upgrade their technological capabilities the usage of the rental and lease fleet. To tackle these and other issues related and build a sustainable, reliable, and These services help maximize the to sustainability in the fashion industry, resilient infrastructure. Our services utilization of our customers’ equipment Columbus is committed to advancing include, but are not limited to efficient and machinery. the UN Sustainable Development Goals asset maintenance, data-driven talent into the Fashion Industry with the use and resource management, offering 10 Columbus Customer Success – Taking care of our customers for life Columbus aims to be widely recognized as a business partner that Taking care of our customers is a fundamental goal for Columbus. enhances our customers’ success by improving the value An important foundation for reaching that goal is our lifetime realization of their business applications investments. support offering, Columbus Care, which ensures our customers high quality support around the clock. We will extend the Therefore, we will intensify our focus on creating a unique Columbus Care offering with new services towards a total service customer experience, including an extensive focus on better concept that takes care of our customers – for life. quality and project delivery throughout our business. Digital Leadership – Accelerate business innovation Columbus helps our customers accelerate business innovation by Columbus will extend our business and build a new leadership maximizing the value realization of business applications and by position in digital business transformation. Our customers are leading them in the digital business transformation. Digital seeking a business partner that is able to lead them in the digital Leadership comprises two different, yet closely connected types transformation of their business. Columbus wants to be that of innovation: partner. We will build a leadership position using cloud, social, Columbus will continue to strengthen our leadership position analytics and IoT (Internet of Things) technologies and business within ERP and business applications . This means that we will models, to enable our customers to take advantage of the digital invest in new business applications, new methodologies and new opportunities. business processes to make the experience of buying and implementing business applications from Columbus faster, better, less risky and with high returns. Process Excellence – Quality in everything we do In Columbus, we constantly strive to optimize and streamline the the business solution to the implementation process and lifetime business operations in order to achieve global sales excellence support engagement. We want to be best in class in ensuring the and deliver high quality services to our customer. Our goal is to value realization of the project and manage the inherent risks in create the best customer experience for our customers, when the implementation. In order to reach that goal, we will optimize engaging with Columbus. our sales, services and support delivery capabilities – always striving to improve the quality. The focal point is quality in everything we do – from the initial contact with customers, over sales and design of Our People – Attract, develop and retain the best people Columbus is a people business. Our greatest asset is our people Furthermore, we want to create a customer success culture, where and therefore it is crucial for our success that we attract and meeting the customers’ expectation for high quality sets the retain the best people in the industry. We want Columbus to be a direction in everything we do. This means that we always strive to company attracting highly skilled people to join, because it is the deliver projects on time, within budget and at the highest quality. best place for competence development. We will achieve this goal by providing challenging career opportunities, attractive working conditions and professional and personal growth. Columbus 11 12 Columbus People and business growth In 2016, we launched our 5-year strategy Columbus2020 with the To support that goal Columbus is using strategic elements Our People as one of four strategic focus areas. Columbus’ Competence and Career Besides being a strategic focus, employee well-being and Framework (CCF) across the company. development is the main focus of our CSR effort. CCF is a system designed to ensure a targeted and structured effort on our employees’ competence and career development. The framework includes Columbus is a people business and our to live and act by the same values; specific and well-defined targets on employees are our greatest asset. Brain, Guts and Heart. how the employees can improve and Therefore, it is crucial that we attract, develop their career to the next level. develop and retrain the best people in All through the year, we have worked CCF is running on a digital platform, the industry. We want Columbus to be with our values both on management named GROW. a company smart people join and end employee level and today we have where they stay longer. A key focus is a strong common set of Columbus All employees participate in thus to offer challenging career values which define who we are, how performance review each year to opportunities, attractive working we make decisions and the way we identify and follow-up on specific, conditions and professional and treat each other. individual targets related to the personal development. company’s overall targets. The performance review enables Columbus is a global company with employees to see and understand their more than 2.200 employees across personal contribution to the company’s subsidiaries in 17 countries with very overall performance. different cultures, religions and traditions. The employee handbooks in Columbus continued to improve our our subsidiaries treat local policies on Competencies and Career Framework working conditions. Despite that (CCF), which synchronizes and unifies employees’ working conditions are our employees’ objectives setup in all already on a high level compared to Business Units. During 2019, CCF was local standards, we continuously work fully implemented in all acquired on improving employee well-being and With the Our People focus in companies. employee development aiming at common level across the company. Columbus2020, we execute two strategic programs that will further Columbus Academy development Columbus’ employees; In a company like Columbus, Strong culture and values Performance Excellence and Columbus continuous learning is essential. We Developing a strong common culture strive to become better, more and a common set of values are Academy educated and understanding how we important to foster a thriving working can excel in our industry and deliver Performance Excellence environment. In 2019, we took a major excellent customer experience. Columbus’ goal is to support high step in strengthening our common performance across Columbus. Our culture and values. strategic program Performance The purpose of Columbus Academy is Excellence support individuals and to attract, develop and retain the best During the spring we rolled out a global organizations in Columbus to people in the industry by ensuring a Columbus Values program in order accomplish their goals. high learning curve and professional encourage and motivate our employees development for our employees. Columbus 13 Columbus Academy is our global virtual The HEART framework guides the Appreciate you; we celebrate your training setup which is based on our behaviour and decisions of leaders and success with local and global award Competence and Career Framework employees in Columbus on an everyday programs, we give honest (CCF) and a well-established consulting basis as we believe our collective feedback, and we rate your job skills curriculum developed in efforts will contribute to Columbus satisfaction each month to ensure Columbus Denmark and US based on being the best place to work. that you feel appreciated in your internationally acknowledge research. job. All training is executed virtually The HEART framework is also used to Respect you; we strive to foster an combining the newest most modern showcase why Columbus is the best inclusive working culture with equal technologies available. place to work and is put in place to career opportunities for all. We have progressed significantly with attract new employees and retaining Your team; we are a winning team our Columbus Academy Program which our current employees. with colleagues from all over the is our global curriculum and e-learning world that carry out projects platform. The HEART acronym addresses the five together and share knowledge and values: experience globally. During 2019, more than 150 completed the consulting training courses, Help you grow; support career development and enable skills and The HEART framework forms the focus covering consulting skills, business experience to grow in our employee development modelling and change management. Empower you; self-leadership, programs, working conditions & wellWe also introduced a global onboarding mindset of success, freedom and being programs and employee program, a global leadership training trust are key to be a trusted dialogue. and a comprehensive GDPR course which has been mandatory for all advisor for our customers employees in Columbus in 2019. Launching Employee Value Proposition Having an authentic Employee Value Proposition is essential to engage our employees and to attract new talents. During 2018, we started the journey to define and boils down the essence of working in Columbus to a clear message. We engaged managers and employees globally in virtual workshops during the autumn and socializing webinars during December where more than 80% stated that they could relate to the new employee value proposition. In 2019, we launched our new Employee Value Proposition “HEART”. The key message is that Our People are the HEART at Columbus; without our employees Columbus could not be the company it is today. 14 Columbus Employee Well-being Employee well-being is a key focus in Columbus, and each month employees rate their job satisfaction through Columbus Heartbeat, our global employee satisfaction survey. Heartbeat is a simple survey, where employees are asked to answer one question: On a scale from one to ten, the employee are asked to rate their job satisfaction. The purpose of Heartbeat is continuously to improve the employee satisfaction in Columbus. The survey is not anonymous, and this makes us able to follow the development in employee satisfaction on department, country and on a global level in Columbus. In 2019, we reached the highest level of job satisfaction in our history. Our People continues as key focus The Columbus2020 strategy runs until the end of 2020, thus Our People will continue to be one of the main focus areas in Columbus’ strategy as well as in our CSR effort. Columbus 15 New Chief People Officer By taking one of our most successful Mary Hunter will ensure that we reach In December, we announced the Business Unit Executives to lead our our goals within the following SDG appointment of our new Chief People global people strategy, we empower goals which will be defined in 2020: Officer, Mary Hunter, who is moving our business with the right from a position as Business Unit understanding of business and people Goal #5: Gender equality: We commit Executive for our UK business to lead growth, thus having a strong focus on to gender equality and continue to our global people strategy. ensuring that we attract, develop and increase the proportion of women in retain the best people in our industry. Columbus. Mary Hunter has led the growth of one of our most successful business units One of the key focus areas for Mary Goal #8: Decent work and economic for 18 years, growing our UK business Hunter will be to roll out our Employer growth: We ensure high quality work from 13 to more than 200 dedicated Value Proposition “HEART” with focus and safe working conditions for our employees living a strong customer on empowering our people by building people and we strive to foster an centricity and people focused culture. market leading career and retention inclusive workplace where people programs, including focus on leadership thrive and grow with equal career and mentoring programs, mental opportunities for all. health and wellbeing initiatives, enhanced cross border communities and a diverse and inclusive culture as well as recruitment programs to attract the best new people. 16 Columbus Increasing diversity in Columbus It is essential that all employees The proportion of female managers in At the end of 2018, the gender experience that Columbus has an open Columbus A/S to obtain a minimum of distribution at management level in and unprejudiced culture where 20% by the end of 2020 (Columbus only Columbus A/S constituted 16.67% everyone is able to make the best use reports on the progress in the Danish women and 83.3% men. At the end of of his/her competencies, and that all Parent Company, Columbus A/S, 2019, the percentage of women at regardless of gender have the same according to the Danish Business management in Columbus A/S level had possibilities for career development Authority’s guidelines). increased to 20.59%. and management positions. At the Annual General Meeting in April For detailed information, please find The Board of Directors has set the 2018, a female Board member was the report on Gender distribution at following targets for gender elected, thus the target to increase the Columbus’ Investor site under distribution in Columbus: proportion of women in the Board of Corporate Governance/Diversity: The proportion of women in the Directors to 20% by the end of 2018 https://ir.columbusglobal.com/diversity Columbus Board of Directors to 20% by has been obtained. -1 the end of 2019. Columbus 17 Talent Program in Columbus In a business like Columbus, we want to One of Columbus’ Graduate Programs The results are also a testimony to the foster an inclusive and diverse runs in our Global Delivery Center in strong women talent pipeline that we workplace where people thrive and India. In 2019, we on-boarded 10 bright have in India in technology sector. grow with equal career opportunities. trainees which included 9 women. Having a diverse workplace and nurture In the coming years, we aim to tap into culture means that we attract the We follow a comprehensive approach this talent pool to help grow our young talents to our business and help to attract candidate from premier business organically. Additionally, we them innovate and grow. Columbus has institutes across the region. This will also achieve diversity in age, a long history of employing fresh includes pre-placement talks at the gender and new ideas. graduates or people who have 1-2 campus and academy-industry years of work experience and we train collaboration through internship . them to become fully-skilled program. They are now integrated into consultants. In 2019, we employed different BU teams based on their more than 60 young professionals skillset and performance during the across our Business Units in Sweden, year. UK, Norway, Russia, Denmark and India. 18 Columbus Graduate hiring program at GDC, India Code of Conduct Respecting human and labor rights is fundamental to our business. Columbus has established Code of Conduct, which is our general 2022 at the latest. ethical guideline for business conduct to ensure that we in Columbus Columbus has not been subject to any on a global level are dedicated to promoting ethical business investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights practices and protect Columbus against corruption and other violations in 2019. unethical business behavior, which we believe is incompatible with the operation of a healthy business. Diversity It is essential that all employees experience that Columbus has an open and unprejudiced culture where Complies with the requirements Whistleblower function everyone is able to make the best use Columbus complies with the As part of the risk management, of his/her competencies, and that all requirements of the Universal Columbus A/S has established a whistle regardless of gender have the same Declaration of Human Rights and The blower function for expedient and possibilities for career development United Nations Convention against confidential notification of possible or and management positions. Corruption. suspected wrongdoing. At the end of 2019, no cases have been reported For detailed information, please find Transparency and Creditability through the whistleblower scheme. the report on Gender distribution at In Columbus, we are committed to Columbus’ Investor site under show complete openness towards Human Rights Governance and CSR. customers, employees, shareholders, All employees in Columbus have been suppliers and other stakeholders. It is carefully selected on the basis of Corporate Governance essential that their understanding of professional competencies without Columbus’ commitment to run a our services and products is accurate, regard to religion, race, skin color, sustainable business is firmly based on updated and truthful. Therefore, there gender, age, disability or sexual or the company’s core values, our Code of is no incongruence between what we political orientation. We regard Conduct and our Corporate communicate within the company and multiplicity as a strength, and we will Governance Guidelines. what we do externally. not tolerate discrimination or harassment. Columbus is committed to follow the Anti-corruption Danish Recommendations for We will not tolerate corruption, money Columbus A/S’ Working Environment Corporate Governance as implemented laundering, bribery or other illegal or Council continuously on 1 June 2013 by NASDAQ unethical business activity. Our Work to create optimal work conditions Copenhagen in its Rules for Issuers of performance and competitiveness are for employees and secure the absence Shares. strengthened solely through lawful of workplace accidents. conduct. The Group’s anti-corruption position has been clearly Following Danish legislation, Columbus communicated to all subsidiaries. carries out the mandatory APV Furthermore, we have implemented (workplace assessment survey) Columbus Authorization and Risk every three years. Actions based on the Management Rules (CARMR), which results of the survey are taken. encompass rules on the authorization hierarchy and ensure the senior An APV (workplace assessment survey) management’s involvement in major was carried out in 2019, it contracts and investments. revealed no critical items. A new APV will be carried out in Columbus 19 Environmental and climate impact As part of Columbus’ commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Columbus has chosen to focus on goal #13 Climate Action. Columbus is committed to operate our As transportation constitutes Columbus will continue to focus on business in a way that respects the Columbus’ the major environmental reducing the use of resources and the planet. We have committed to the UN impact, we aim to minimize environmental impact of our business SDG #13, Clime Action, where we will unnecessary travel by plane and cars. activities. focus on reducing our environmental One important action is that we have footprint globally by reducing flight installed video equipment in all major During 2020, Columbus will formulate travel, recycle and optimize our offices and in general simplified the use KPI’s and initiate actions to further consumption and energy mix of virtual meetings to facilitate virtual minimize our climate impact globally meeting, which also improve the As Columbus’ “product“ consist of efficiency in our business. knowledge, software and services, as well as being mostly office-based, our Columbus has chosen to host our entire business’ impact on environmental data center at GlobalConnect which is impact is relatively small. using green cooling in their data centers. Green cooling systems are Being a global company, our business intelligent cooling systems that offer activities include travel, which have an considerable operational savings and is impact on environment. Furthermore, installed according to the principle of transportation by cars constitute a free cooling which saves more than necessary part of delivering our 50% of the used energy compared to services to customers. conventional system 20 Columbus Social Commitment It is essential, that we are involved in community and charitable initiatives. We have decided to emphasize these initiatives in our CSR report. Charity in Columbus Columbus Norway in the program Below is a brief description of some of In Columbus, many of our subsidiaries “P3 aksjonen” which donates to our local CSR initiatives: are engaged in community and charity give women of the world’s initiatives. We regard this as an vulnerable areas a better life. Columbus US have a strong culture expression of commitment and team Coumbus UK raised well over of contributing to charity work in spirit and the initiatives are important £40,000 for different charity causes: local communities. Leaders in in two ways: They contribute to the Tommy’s the baby charity, Cancer Columbus US has participated in employee well-being internally in research, Alderhey Children’s activities that support women, Columbus, and they promote Columbus hospital and the British Heart education and healthcare in East as a company, which engages in Foundation. One of the activities Africa and animal rescue. sustainable development in the was country manager Mary Hunter Columbus DK has supported the communities, in which we operate. who raised over £12,500 for Tommy foundation Medicins Sans baby charity by running a sponsored Frontiere (Læger uden grænser) It is essential, that we are involved in half marathon. with an amount of DKK 15,000 community and charitable initiatives. Columbus Global Delivery Center in Columbus Lithuania organize pies We have decided to emphasize these India participated in different day to collect money for initiatives in our CSR report. By charity activities such as a water underprivileged children emphasizing local community and bottle challenge to help needy Columbus Sweden organize charity initiatives in Columbus, we hope people during summer heat. In CoderDojo to learn to code. In to generate similar initiatives. However, addition, GDC contributed to help addition, they also support these must always be based solely on an orphanage with their monthly CoderDojo with location and fika. our employees’ voluntary commitment. grocery and raised money during Diwali through an auction. Columbus 21 For more information about Columbus visit www.columbusglobal.com For more information about Columbus visit www.columbusglobal.com
