2019-20 Contents Click on Page Title to navigate Mindtree at a Glance Celebrating Technology Overview...........................................................................................04 Celebrating Technology for Sustainable Business..................................................................42 View from the Top .......................................................................06 Unified Leadership Voice.........................................................08 Committed to Sustainability Talent at the Frontiers Sustainability Highlights...........................................................16 Skilling for the Future.................................................................49 Responsible Business Nurturing Talent............................................................................51 through Governance...................................................................19 Diversity & Inclusion..................................................................52 Focus on Stakeholders & Materiality.................................21 Social Impact Beyond the Billion Improving Lives at the Margin Value Creation................................................................................57 (#BeTheGiveR)...............................................................................28 Looking Ahead...............................................................................58 Projects and Impacts...................................................................30 For a Greener Planet Annexures Greening the Growth Path.......................................................37 Performance Dashboard...........................................................61 Sourcing Responsibly.................................................................40 UNGC & NVG Application.........................................................82 Scoping & Measuring the Material Goals.........................87 GRI Content Index........................................................................89 Data Assumptions........................................................................93 Assurance Statement..................................................................95 Glossary.............................................................................................99 P. 2 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 3 Overview Mindtree is a global technology solutions and consulting The company shares its carbon performance through CDP services company, with a leading edge in digital reports, discloses its sustainability performance through technologies. Born with a mission of helping GRI-based Sustainability Reports, mapped to businesses and societies flourish, UNGC principles and National Voluntary Mindtree has established itself as Guidelines. A UNGC signatory, Mindtree a globally renowned and trusted presents its Sustainability Report as company, crossing revenues of its COP (Communication of Progress) USD 1 billion in 20 years. Now a to UNGC. Evolution of Integrating part of Larsen & Toubro – an over Reporting based on IIRC framework USD 21 billion conglomerate, is also underway. Mindtree is poised for pursuing A culture-backed organization possibilities of further growth with key values of expert and expansion. thinking, relentless dedication and Mindtree continues to contribute collaborative spirit, we are looking at its profits for the wellbeing of the leveraging our depth to achieve greater society in several ways. 2019-20, the heights in the years to come. Adding 21st year of its existence, has been a year to the current foundation of deep values, of transition for the organization, with digital prowess, skilled talent and consistent the new management poised to steer the profitability, we aim to bring in higher organization towards greater heights. consistency, differentiation and scale to grow further as a digital technology A responsible corporate citizen, Mindtree leader in a market currently posing publishes business responsibility report in challenging disruptions. its Annual Report. P. 4 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Mindtree, a Sustainable Organization: Key Metrics 2019-20 Global presence: America, Europe, APAC, India, Middle East & Africa Two direct subsidiaries Headquarters in Bengaluru (Karnataka, India) and Warren (New Jersey, USA) Strong performer in digital technologies Revenue: USD 1,088.77 million (Growth of 8.70%): INR 77,643 million (Growth of 10.60%) Profits after tax: USD 88.47 million (INR 6,309 million) CSR spend: INR: 343 million Active clients: 307 High customer satisfaction results Talent pool: 21,991 Two women directors on the Board Women talent pool: 32.40% 95% virtual learning in the organization Environmental spend: INR 1,40,90,774 Renewable energy component: 56.19% 91.95% recycling of waste Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 5 View from the Top Managing change for better scale and sustainability P. 6 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Mindtree gets ready to grow much stronger as a sustainable leader in the global IT industry. Mindtree is a 20-year old, global technology and consulting services company. A part of the Larsen & Toubro (L&T) conglomerate since July 2019, we are steering it for further growth and expansion. Pursuing the renewable energy path, upskilling our people for future and leading on new technologies have been the key areas of our efforts and achievements from the sustainability perspectives. Deep impacts caused in the communities through CSR complement our responsibility profile. A sustainable company creating value on people-planet-profit bottom lines consistently, our sustainability strategy is envisaged for addressing short, medium and long-term sustainability risks for our industry, such as business continuity in the current COVID-19 crisis, challenge of automation and climate change. Our sustainability strategy leverages the opportunities in digital business, clean energy, and upskilling and so on. Going forward, we would focus on simplifying the IT environment by breaking down complexities and differentiate through next gen technologies. We would also focus on heritage and innovation for market leadership, and embracing and managing change in the market by increasing expertise through upskilling. Committed to global goals and best practices, contributing to national priorities and urgencies, we endorse and follow responsible business frameworks such as UNGC, CDP, GRIS, IIRC, NVG, and regularly share our responsibility performance with stakeholders. Being a UNGC signatory, we offer our Sustainability Report as our Communication of Progress to UNGC. Happy to share eighth Sustainability Report with our stakeholders, based on GRI Standards. The theme story of this report illustrates how our people’s creativity gets a boost for technology innovation for sustainable business of clients through a celebratory ambience we consciously create in our organization. Debashis Chatterjee CEO & MD Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 7 Unified LEADERSHIP Voice P. 8 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 People Sustainability Paneesh Rao Chief People Officer Focused on managing change and performanceoriented culture. Workplace sustainability forms a key pillar of programs. We responded with due alacrity and Mindtree’s sustainability framework. agility to the COVID-19 crisis, ensuring people safety as well as business continuity. Our An organization that calls its HR function a people have also come forward contributing ‘people function’, Mindtree’s approach places its generously to the COVID-19 crisis relief through people at the centre and offers holistic growth the Company-matched donation scheme. I find it opportunities to them. Digital skilling of our heartening to see that our people have delivered people engages them deeply with us as well as seamless client impact and higher customer giving the organization a futuristic edge in the experience results in this challenging year. digital space thus converting people and market risks into an opportunity for the medium and Going forward, our strategy focuses on long-term. managing change and strengthening a performance-oriented culture. OrganizationAll pervasive learning environment that is 95% wide adaptation to a changing world, treating in the virtual mode, a career boosting system that diversity and inclusion as part of the core is online and a plethora of internal stakeholder governance cadence, an inspiring reward and platforms for better connect and shared vision recognition system would be pursued to keep the are some of our key accomplishments. organization agile and innovative. In this year of transition, we leveraged our Happy to share our progress in sustainability for two-way communication channels to align the the year 2019-20. organization to the new growth imperatives. We redesigned a few processes, structures and Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 9 Business Sustainability Dayapatra Nevatia Chief Operating Officer Mindtree well poised to leverage opportunities amidst global challenges. Sustainability is crucial to an organization’s While we deploy our business strategy for continued success in dynamic times. Mindtree profitable growth, we would continue to place is well anchored on the triple bottom lines of our people at the centre and to serve the people, planet and profit. communities and conserve planetary resources in multiple ways. Mindtree faces a bright future in the medium and long-term because of its strategic strengths Societal consciousness is inbuilt into the relevant to a digital led future. As the world faces Mindtree values and our people come disruptions and volatility, and our industry faces forward to serve the society in their own personal the challenges of increasing protectionism and capacities. Impactful CSR initiatives by our localization, Mindtree is well geared to convert organization is a testimony to our some of the risks into strategic opportunities. social conscience. The COVID-19 crisis is expected to carve out Going forward, we lay emphasis on preparing the new business models and modes of working. way for higher growth through differentiation, We see this as an opportunity to help our simplification and change management. clients transform their businesses, accelerate Happy to share our sustainability performance their digital journey, and enable businesses to during the year 2019-20. remote working. We were born digital. Our deep investments in cloud, data and customer success practices would be helping us reap the upside of the emerging challenges in the medium to long-term horizon. P. 10 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Economic Sustainability Senthil Kumar Chief Financial Officer Mindtree’s outlook is positive for the medium and long-term. Economic sustainability of Mindtree is well balance the market, financial and several other secured for the future. risks across geographies and sectors. We have the right go-to-market strategies and alliances Our financial performance in the current year while we explore long-term contractual solutions has been good regarding revenue, order book and newer business models. and client satisfaction. The short-term global disruptions notwithstanding, we are confident of We are also heavily invested in protecting data addressing the global and sector challenges on security amidst data attack possibilities. the basis of our strengths and agility. Our quick Our Economic sustainability is strong on not response to COVID-19 enabled by our strong only financial performance but also on zero debt BCP plans has been highly effective in the fourth profile, comfortable cash reserves, sustainable quarter of the year, validating our capabilities in social funds and strong parentage by our Group crisis times. company. With generous contributions to the While the world faces geo-political risks and COVID-19 crisis, our CSR funds crossed well diverse volatilities in the medium term, the above the mandatory 2% in the year while we IT sector faces risks of drop in demand, global launch employer-employee matched contribution mobility restrictions, business model challenges, schemes for FY2020-21. data security issues and many more. Mindtree is Happy to share our sustainability performance ready with its mitigation paths and strategies. for the year 2019-20. We do see new opportunities amidst the current risks and leverage them on the basis of our strengths (e.g. Work From Home, Off-shore Work etc.). Our digital edge is a strong lever for future success. Our multiple verticals and locations Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 11 Social Responsibility Abraham Moses Head, Mindtree Foundation Mindtree’s CSR is committed to deliver stable and sustainable CSR impact. CSR has sustainable impact only when Our impacts along education, disability support commitment is continuous and stable, and sustainable livelihoods are well tracked, irrespective of internal changes. documented and also externally assessed. All our projects continued to cause expected impacts The story of our CSR precedes the days of in 2019-20. The third-party impact assessment mandatory CSR in our country! It took birth by SAN (Social Audit Network) India carried out along with the inception of the company. This this year further validates the effectiveness and was only natural for us, as societal wellbeing uniqueness of our approach for sustainable was an integral part of the organizational transformation of society, in many ways. mission right from the beginning. Our CSR commitments continued the promised support to Our CSR Charter is now poised for expansion, beneficiaries even when we were going through ready to embrace additional causes in the years tough financial situations during the early days to come. Changes in the charter, structure and – a testimony to our commitment to the dual people are expected in the CSR arena. purpose of our existence: help businesses and Going forward, we would connect with national societies flourish. priorities and emerging issues of urgency in a Deep understanding of interlinked issues at much more conscious way. We are mapping our the grassroots, sensitive need assessments, work with SDGs in a structured manner. integrated models of solutions, full spectrum We would pursue new causes and new services at taluk levels and personal and hands-on projects in the context of changing realities, involvement of the Foundation personnel are and look forward to deeper engagement with what define our characteristic approach to CSR. our stakeholders. P. 12 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Ecological Sustainability Padmanabhan Kannan Global Head, Administration & Facilities Ecological sustainability must balance resource conservation, business savings and human experience. While it is important to save the planet ecological campaigns and initiatives. and achieve smart savings for business We approach energy, water efficiency and through ecological strategies, it is of waste management not only through systems absolute importance to factor in human and technology routes but also through experience (people comfort) into the whole advocacy and sensitization – thus influencing ecological equation. behavioural change. Mindtree believes in balancing these three Over last five years, our conservation efforts factors while following ecological sustainability. have achieved good results with a steady dip in We apply the three-dimensional filter to all our consumption of natural resources. Energy and environmental decisions. People comfort is a water per capita have decreased consistently in key factor, for instance, while we strive for this period and waste recycling has improved energy efficiencies by setting ambient despite increasing scale of business. We are temperature, air quality, space management and delighted to share in this report, our efforts at so on – all of which affect productivity and resource conservation and the impacts we morale. Mindtree’s approach is conscious of this have achieved in resource efficiency in the broader responsibility. current year. We also believe sustainability must be We focus on sustaining the movement while owned by people, and we advocate the same exploring newer steps in space utilization through several ways. Lifestyle imperatives of and applying the principles of simplifying, sustainability form a constant refrain to all our standardizing and differentiating our approaches and processes. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 13 Sustainability Reporting Surendra Kumar Pendekanti Head Sustainability Pursuing a roadmap for ‘Sustaining Sustainability’ at Mindtree. Recent natural disasters and the global The impacts we have achieved in green IoT, people pandemic are a proof of the price the world upskilling and wellbeing and social responsibility pays if sustainability as a principle, policy, have demonstrated that sustainability makes good function and practice is not given the business sense too, thus busting the myth that it is significance it deserves. only cost intensive. While the COVID-19 crisis focuses our Mindtree has also benefited from its attention on business continuity at present, we evolving Sustainability Reporting and other are aware that it is value creation on the triple disclosures since they brought in transparent bottom lines of People, Planet and Profit which insights on our non-financial performance – which will make us thrive in the long run, beyond mere forms a dominant part of assessing value creation surviving the crisis. for stakeholders. Sustainability is doing well by doing good. Going forward, we want to take Mindtree into the To us, sustainability is an integral and leadership league of sustainable businesses and non-negotiable factor that helps us foster a evolve our disclosures. In this direction, we plan to nurturing environment, to realize our mission of re-shape our stakeholder engagement, rethink our helping businesses and societies to flourish. materiality matrix, set more scientific targets for As a conscientious organization, we have material issues, align closely with leading designed our sustainability programs to be frameworks, integrate all functions through impactful, strategic and evolutionary. sustainability and infuse sustainability as a way of life for Mindtree Minds. As I look back on our sustainability achievements during the past years, I realize that We thank our stakeholders for encouraging our we have made good strides in certain areas and sustainability programs. Happy to present there are few others which call for our increased Mindtree’s sustainability journey in 2019-20 and attention in times to come. invite you to share your feedback with me. P. 14 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 COMMITTED to Sustainability Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 15 Sustainability Highlights Business People 41 offices across 18 countries. 2016 Campus Mindtree Minds – ‘Engineers of Tomorrow’ joined us this year. 13 patents. Experience-centric on-boarding created for all 764 BOTs produced. new joiners at Bengaluru. Annual customer experience survey showed Arboretum microsite launched for all an upward movement with highest ever new joiners in India. scores achieved in the fourth quarter. Yorbit, our digital learning platform places Received 2019 ISG Star of Excellence 95% of learning in the virtual mode. Award as a market leader in digital business solutions in the US. 1,235 courses at Basic level, 1,000 at Intermediate level and 108 at Expert level Got reassessed at level 5 in CMMI V2.0. running at present, including the new 301 courses on AI and Cloud. Our Business Continuity Plan ensured employee safety with no client impact and zero productivity Courses completed by Mindtree Minds in the loss during the COVID-19 crisis. year: 1,06,674 (1,054,981 learning hours). Our average learning hours per person more than doubled in five years (from 36 in 2015-16 to 77.10 hours in 2019-20). Attrition was at 17.40% in the year. New career development programs launched for managers and young leaders. Online career portal launched this year. 32.40% women in the talent pool overall 45 people with disability contributing to our organization. Received Business World 5th HR Excellence Award 2020 for excellence in learning technologies and excellence in diversity and inclusion. Mindtree won the Best Enterprise Partner Award globally from Coursera. P. 16 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Communities Environment Started third-party impact assessment Energy performance consistently for all projects. improved over last six years: from 200.04 kWh/employee/month in Highly satisfactory scores received on 2014-15 to 134.60 kWh/employee/ impacts across projects. month in 2019-20. 14 NGO partners Solar plants at two locations and wheeled power at others take our share of renewables 18 CSR projects to 56.19% in total energy at present. CSR spend: INR 343 million Emissions stood at 2.05 tons CO2e/ Integrated community projects continued employee/annum in the year 2019-20. across education, livelihoods and support for disability. In six years, per capita monthly water consumption has reduced from Number of beneficiaries: 21,198 through 1.03 kl/employee/month in 2014-15 to 0.82 kl/employee/month in 2019-20. CSR projects, 10,513 through volunteering programs, by 6,777 volunteers. Waste recycling improved from Our livelihood project in Bengaluru Central 80.60% six years ago to Prison this year offered a community radio 91.95% in the current year. centre to prison inmates. IoT helps us monitor resource efficiencies at 2 buildings at present, waiting to expand. We sponsored the 20th Hellen Keller Awards to promote and celebrate achievers with disability. People advocacy continues for sustainability awareness. Our CSR Charter now poised for expansion. Expenditure for environmental initiatives in Mindtree Foundation was awarded the 2019-20: INR 1,40,90,774. “Rotary Karnataka CSR and NGO Award” for 2019-20 under the ‘Skill Development Local sourcing policy keeps our supply chain and Livelihood’ category. sustainable. 93% of our suppliers are local. Contributed generously to PM CARES Fund. We launched a digital portal for managing our supply chain this year. Our supplier meets at all Contributed to the purchase of free testing locations 2019-20, yielded a highly satisfactory kits for those who cannot afford to be feedback (4.72/5.00). tested for COVID-19. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 17 Our Sustainability Framework Workplace Governance Ecological Sustainability and Advocacy Sustainability yy Diverse Workforce yy Policies yy Carbon Footprint Reduction yy Inclusive Workspace yy Code of Conduct yy Resource Conservation yy Labour Regulation yy Risk Management yy Environmental Legislation Compliance yy Employee yy Reporting and Disclosure Engagement yy Green Infrastructure yy Financial Compliance Report Overview Mindtree started the reporting journey in 2012-13 This annual Sustainability Report pertains to FY 2019-20, at GRI3.1 A+ level and published annual Sustainability and covers all global operations for the economic Reports for each financial year. We moved to GRI-G4 category disclosures, and India operations for social and in 2015-16. Our previous report for FY 2018-19 was environmental disclosures, as all our previous reports based on the GRI Standards (GRIS). We have been did, owing to insignificant impacts of our foreign-based adopting a theme-based approach to our Sustainability leased locations. Reporting, sharing a specific aspect of our multiThis report content is generated as per the principles faceted sustainability profile, in each year of Sustainability of GRIS, advancing further on the Core criterion and Reporting. towards Comprehensive criterion, following the The current report shares its theme story on Mindtree’s norms and expectations set by the framework, and is historical way of bringing a celebratory spirit to externally verified by DNV GL. The report is mapped to innovation and collaboration in the form of Osmosis, UNGC principles and National Voluntary Guidelines for our festival to celebrate technology for business Responsible Business, Govt. of India. There have been sustainability. no significant changes in the reporting period in the structure or operations, which may have bearing on the reporting. The change in management has been shared in our Annual Report. Some parameters of the GRIS framework are mapped here to our Annual Report in order to avoid duplication. P. 18 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Responsible Business through Governance Our approach to governance stems from a set of core values and guiding principles. Our architecture of values, principles, endorsements and policies reflects our strong conviction in responsible business. Mindtree’s governance systems and processes reflect our ideology of pursuit of responsible business, and form a key pillar of the sustainability framework. Our Governance Philosophy Act in the Follow openness Provide complete in our spirit of law Do what is right transparency communication and not just and not what is on our operations to all our the letter of law stakeholders convenient Values Guiding Us Endorsements Reporting Policies in Responsible Business • Honesty • OECD Principles • CDP • Integrity Policy • Integrity • UNGC Signatory • BRR • Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption Policy • Fairness • NVG-SEERB • GRI • Whistle-blower Policy • Transparency • The Precautionary • IR • Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy Principle • UNGC • Code of Conduct for Our People • Internationally • NVG-SEERB • Code of Conduct for Suppliers Proclaimed • Non-discrimination Policy Human Rights • Equal Remuneration Policy • Environmental Health and Safety Policy • CSR Policy • Reasonable Accommodation Policy • Maternity Policy Advocacy Platforms Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 19 Governance of Sustainability Key Aspects of our Governance The Board of Directors get a periodic report on matters Respect for human rights forms a key part of our of CSR and sustainability including stakeholder concerns governance processes. Our supplier code of conduct, and progress reports, and provide the necessary our grievance mechanisms and all pervasive sensitization guidance for action. The Chairman of the Board is programs ensure adherence to human rights at all levels. a Non-Executive Chairman, bringing in the necessary Our Integrity Policy, and Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption oversight on the Board and the business. Policies reach all our employees and assess all our operations for anti-corruption, to ensure 100% Sustainability oversight rests with the CPO adherence, as we maintain a zero tolerance approach (Chief People Officer), who is in charge of overseeing to breaches on ethics. Our communication and training CSR and sustainability initiatives including reporting. regarding the same covers all our people across all The CPO brings in the due reporting on ESG performance levels. Our Whistle-blower Policy is a testimony to to the Board. the stringent commitment we have for ethics and The Board anchors and drives the values, principles, transparency. Our 95-95-95 stance insists on 95% policies, standards and norms. It reviews the sustainability of information to be made available to 95% of our performance and the Sustainability Report. people at 95% of the times. This commitment to Our governance structure allows for diverse aspects transparency is further strengthened by our Open Door of sustainability to be factored into different functions Policy on communication. A robust system of grievance across the organization – administration, infrastructure, mechanisms for stakeholder issues is set in place to and people function, and so on. CSR of Mindtree is capture and address issues that arise. guided by the CSR Policy, CSR Committee of the Board Risk management at Mindtree follows a rigorous as well as the CSR Steering Committee. The quarterly framework and addresses key business risks. The risk meetings set forth the agenda and monitor the progress management function is detailed out in the Annual on CSR needs, action and impacts. Report, along with approach to sustainability risks. Our Remuneration Policies, processes and the involvement of stakeholders regarding the key metrics are covered in the Annual Report. The updated policy is available at https://www.mindtree.com/sites/default/ files/2020-02/mindtree-remuneration-policy.pdf Critical stakeholder concerns, regarding sustainability, are put forth to the Board of Directors via periodic reporting on sustainability and CSR. Our CSR Committee of the Board and the Steering Committee on CSR follow agenda that incorporate discussions on sustainability aspects on a regular basis. Our eminent Board of Directors consists of diverse professionals with vast expertise, sensitive to larger responsibilities of business and sustainability aspects. Some of our Board Members carry sustainability goals in their mandate. Nomination, selection criteria, the Board’s role in strategy, purpose and vision of the organization and details regarding Board evaluation are described in our Annual Report and in the updated ‘Remuneration & Nomination’ Policy. Critical concerns: Complaints on any policy breaches are captured by the Whistle-blower Policy and mechanism. 43 cases out of the total 46 such cases (including sexual harassment cases) received during the year under reporting were resolved, with three cases pending. P. 20 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Focus on Stakeholders and Materiality Engaging with our Stakeholders Mindtree identifies and prioritizes its key stakeholder segments (as named in the table titles below) We are an organization born inclusive in nature and based on their impact on the organization and the purpose. Since inception, we have included diverse organization’s impact on them. We have built a vast segments of people in our talent pool, contributed to range of forums to constantly engage with all our social causes even in tough business climates, treated stakeholders. The forums collect stakeholder concerns, suppliers like our partners and our customers with which in turn act as inputs for our policies, strategies, dedicated commitment, all along driven by our inclusive actions, and materiality assessment. values and principles. Our stakeholders remain a significant part of our purpose. Flourishing societies and thriving people are core to our vision. Stakeholder Concerns Clients Employees Community yyBusiness Value yyCareer Opportunities yyAccess to Health Care yyInnovation yyEngagement yyAccess to Education yyLearning & Development yyImproving Livelihoods Government/ Suppliers & Investors Regulatory Bodies Alliance Partners yySustainable Performance yyGood Governance yyEngagement yyStability yyCompliance yyLong-term Partnership yyReputation Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 21 Stakeholder Engagement Customers Ongoing Periodic yy Request for Proposals yy Project Feedback Survey (Quarterly) yy Customer Visits yy Customer Experience Survey (Annual) yy Corporate Website yy Steering Committee Meetings yy Senior Management Interactions (Quarterly) yy Project Status Review Meetings yy Customer Touchpoints (Appreciations and Escalations) Employees Ongoing Periodic yy Peoplehub (Intranet) yy All Minds Meet yy Direct Communication (Employees-Senior with Senior Leaders Management Interactions) yy Genie (Online Issues Resolution) yy Award Functions yy Global Contact Center yy PACE (Call Center for Support) (Performance Management System) yy Communication Blogs yy Sustainability Portal yy CEO Direct Communication yy Mindspeak (Grievance Mechanism) yy Whistle-blower (Integrity Cases) yy Engagement Initiatives yy Employee Committees Investors Ongoing Periodic yy Stakeholder Relationship Committee yy Annual General Meeting yy Dedicated Email-ID yy Quarterly Stakeholder Reports yy Press Releases yy Non-deal Road Shows and Investor/ Analyst Meeting yy Quarterly Earnings Result yy Analysts Day yy Annual Report yy Sustainability Report P. 22 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Communities Ongoing Periodic yy Interaction with Communities & yy Social and Volunteer Programs NGOs through Mindtree Foundation yy Impact Assessments and CSR Projects Need Assessments yy Site Visits yy Mindtree Foundation Website Regulators & Ongoing Periodic Public Policy yy Workshops yy Steering Committees Makers yy Panel Discussions yy Industry Events Suppliers Ongoing Periodic yy Operational Reviews yy Vendor Meets yy New Supplier Portal Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 23 Materiality In 2015, the first materiality determination exercise was carried out by an external agency, and it has been refined constantly and is now done internally, capturing stakeholder views – both internal and external. Various stakeholder forums bring in the possible concerns or issues to the table. This year’s exercise has generated a much simplified output, with four material issues forming the materiality matrix across three categories. GRIS topics linked to these issues are clearly followed by the material issue owners. This year, we elaborate our clarity on Materiality remains a significant ‘Why an issue is material for Mindtree?’ part of driving Mindtree’s agenda (Please see page 87-88) on sustainability. We also sketch the scope of materiality and map the GRIS aspects and KPIs linked to the issues. The organization has set goals linked to materiality in order to bring focus on action. Our Material Goals at a Glance Material Aspect/Topic Stakeholder Priority 2019-20 Material Goals/Scope yy Hire the best of talent into the organization yy Performance oriented culture yy Recognize and reward performance yy Technology adoption in all people related processes People Employees to enhance process experience Wellbeing yy Career and personal development of different groups of Mindtree Minds through curated interventions yy Specific focus on diversity and inclusion yy Managing change within the organization yy Create sustainable livelihood opportunities Sustainable Community yy Benefit the differently-abled Livelihoods yy Promote education Business Investors and yy Simplify, Differentiate, Change Performance customers yy Reduce per-capita 1% reduction in GHG emissions, 3% in energy, 2% in water and 1% increase in Ecological Employees waste recycling over last year’s performance Stewardship yy Stringent environmental compliance with ISO 14001:2015 certification Low Medium High P. 24 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 25 Our Approach Social responsibility at Mindtree was not an add-on While sustainability at Mindtree as applied to philosophy but was an integral part of vision since its environment and workplace must wear a business lens, inception in 1999. Social inclusion was in-built into the CSR at Mindtree continues to preserve its non-strategic organizational ethos and culture. and compassionate ideology. That its first corporate logo was designed not by a The CSR Steering Committee and the Board-level brand expert but by a child with disability from CSR Committee hold CSR governance at high levels, Spastic Society of India, and its corporate walls were true to the significance we attach to CSR. Our CSR adorned with murals done by people with disability, initiatives are designed based on the needs assessment speaks volumes about how dearly Mindtree holds at the ground level, self-impact assessments as well as inclusion in our practice. third-party assessments for continual improvements. Our data monitoring systems and processes have evolved Our CSR commitment predates the mandated regime of and matured over the years. CSR related data inlcuding recent times. The non-strategic nature of our CSR was key impacts through our Mindtree.org initiatives are evident in our social contributions, which continued even made available in Mindtree’s Annual Report as well as in in economically tough times in our distant past. the Mindtree Foundation’s Annual Reports in detail. Built with a mission to make both businesses and societies flourish, Mindtree holds social impact at the core of its purpose, along with business impact. CSR for Mindtree has been a non-strategic expression of business responsibility. P. 26 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Three pronged form of Mindtree’s CSR Individual-led Individual-led Social Responsibility Social Responsibility (Volunteering) (Volunteering) CSR CSR through through thethe Mindtree Mindtree Foundation Foundation TechnologyTechnologyenabled enabled CSR CSR Thespirit The spiritofofvolunteering volunteeringatatMindtree Mindtree commits itself to social change commits itself to social change driven drivenbyby Causesour Causes peoplevolunteer ourpeople volunteerfor for individuals constantly individuals constantly Since2010, Since 2010, 54,191 54,191 totalvolunteers volunteers(cumulative). (cumulative). Blood Blood Donation Donation && Donation Donation ofof Clothes, Clothes, total Stem Cell Donation Books, Stationery Stem Cell Donation Books, Stationery 16,817 16,817 donatedblood. blood. donated Tree Tree Plantation Plantation Urban Urban Cleaning Cleaning 4,591 Campaigns 4,591 Campaigns registered forfor registered stem stem cells cells donation. donation. 9,153 9,153 donated books, clothes and toys. as Serving Serving atat NGOs NGOs Missionaries such of such Charity as Missionaries of Charity World World Autism Autism Day Day donated books, clothes and toys. InIn addition addition toto 23,630 23,630 volunteers Back2School Back2School Power Power ofof 55 Gubbachi Gubbachi for Nalli Booth Booth Kalli Camp Camp Children for Nalli Kalli Children volunteers inin other other activities. activities. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 27 Improving Lives at the Margin (#BeTheGiveR) The Mindtree Foundation Mindtree’s spontaneous and committed CSR initiatives from 1999 to 2007 were consolidated and institutionalized in 2007 in the form of the Mindtree Foundation. Guided by a CSR policy and charter, the Foundation has played a critical role in the last 13 years in keeping Mindtree’s values and ideologies alive and its social purpose impactful on the ground. We are well supported by 14 committed NGO partners at the grassroots who take our passion and conviction across the societal landscape to make our vision come true. We work in close collaboration with our partners, who have turned long-term partners, consistently visiting the filed level work in progress, addressing issues, gathering first-hand information and refining solutions along with them. The Foundation believes in first-hand, grassroots level involvement as a way to effective CSR. The focal themes of our initiatives The Foundation acts as the fulcrum for translating Mindtree’s social vision into Rehabilitation and livelihood support reality at the grassroots. for the people with disabilities Promoting education among rural children Creating sustainable livelihood opportunities for youth and women P. 28 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Our impact assessment involves internal assessment as well as third-party assessments. Impact assessment by SAN in 2019-20 on five key parameters indicate our projects are more than satisfactory (scoring more than 4 on a scale of 1 to 5) in impacts. 2019-20 2010-20 18 CSR projects 14 NGO partners 1,03,829 beneficiaries through 54,191 volunteers (cumulative) Total CSR funds: INR 54.3 crore Beneficiaries through CSR projects: 21,198 Beneficiaries through volunteering: 10,513 Volunteers: 6,777 Beneficiaries of sustainable livelihood: 2,049 Student beneficiaries: 17,671 PwD beneficiaries: 1,478 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 29 Projects and Impacts Sustainable Livelihoods Enabling Youth yy Gram Tarang imparted vocational training for unemployed rural youth in Bhubaneshwar, Odisha. 250 Beneficiaries yy Yuva Jyothi: BRDO project trains school drop-out rural youth in Bychapura, Koratgere at Tumkur district, Karnataka. 1,800 Beneficiaries Enabling Women yy Urban Micro Business Centre (UMBC), with Centurion University, enable urban poor youth and adult women in a range of vocational skills, giving them life-changing exposure. 89 Beneficiaries yy Balsevika Training Institute (BTSI) facilitated by KSCCW empowers poor young women in rural Bengaluru to earn a livelihood with dignity. 85 Beneficiaries yy Prison Women Livelihood Project works with BRDO in Bengaluru to train inmates in computer, tailoring, embroidery, mushroom cultivation and horticulture, enabling them to earn money as well as remissions in their sentence. 120 Beneficiaries P. 30 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Support for People with Disability Empowering Rural Children yy Sanchalana: Our project with APD at Vijayapura, Karnataka, improves physical wellbeing of rural children with disabilities through corrective surgeries, physiotherapies, mobility aids and access to education. 305 Beneficiaries yy Bal Roshni: With KSCCW, we identify children with disabilities from economically weaker background and support them on their school journeys as well as physical rehabilitation. 85 Beneficiaries yy Community-based Rehabilitation – Disability Inclusive Development (CBR-DID): We work with SPASTN at several places in Tiruvallur District, Tamil Nadu, offering children with disabilities early detection, early intervention and post-corrective therapies and school readiness interventions. We also conduct public awareness programs. 576 Beneficiaries yy Vachana, our project with Sparsh Foundation and in collaboration with APD conducts screening camps in rural areas in Bijapur, Karnataka and identifies children with disabilities from poor families, for complex surgeries, post-surgical physiotherapies, mobility-aids and follow-ups. 15 Beneficiaries Helping Children with Learning Difficulties yy Literacy enhancement project with SSK enhances learning in children with learning difficulties from 12 Government schools in Ramanagara, Karnataka. 285 Beneficiaries Supporting Youth yy We support AMBA Learn and Earn Centers in Andhra Pradesh by training intellectually challenged youngsters over 16 years of age in computer data entry and enable them to earn their livelihood with dignity. 247 Beneficiaries Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 31 Education Supplementing Education yy Lab-on-bike: With Agastya International Foundation in Maharashtra and Karnataka, we stimulate creative thinking, and foster curiosity to seek scientific solutions among 4th – 6th Standard Students and Teachers. 14,395 Beneficiaries yy Coaching program through BRDO spacing provides special coaching in Maths, Science, English, Social Studies, and Kannada to 7th – 10th Standard Students of five Government schools from 10 villages around Bychapura, Karnataka. 156 Beneficiaries Creating Professionals through Long-term Support yy Udaan: Our project with Narayana Hrudalaya at Kanakpura, Karnataka, inspires, mentors and coaches young bright minds from rural landscape to become medical professionals. It has now widened its scope to include children pursuing other professions too that are better aligned to their aptitude. 4 Beneficiaries Educating Migrant and Tribal Children yy Gubbacchi Learning Community project provides foundational literacy and numeracy for migrated children enrolled in 1st – 3rd Standard in Bengaluru Rural Disctrict. 71 Beneficiaries yy School support for tribal children: In Rani Kajal School in Madhya Pradesh, adivasi children are educated in modern education so as to enable them to live in modern society while preserving their rich culture and heritage for generations to come. 214 Beneficiaries yy NJPC: Not Just a Piece of Cloth, a project with Goonj at Kandhamal, Odisha, creates awareness among tribal women about menstrual challenges and offers ‘MY Pad’ kits free. 2,523 Beneficiaries P. 32 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Continuing to sponsor the Hellen Keller Award to honour individuals and organizations promoting employability for people with disabilities. The 20th Award in the series in 2019-20. Community Radio Centre set up by Mindtree Foundation at Bengaluru Central Prison with the support of Radio City 91.1 FM for the wellbeing of the inmates. (Shri. Basavaraj Bommai, Honorable Home Minister of Karnataka at the inauguration.) Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 33 Dream2 Reality Mindtree Foundation’s direct project of village adoption. Somanahalli Village in Tamil Nadu has been taken up by Mindtree Foundation to groom its young talent pool and make stars out of them. Poor, rural children with dreams in their eyes but no money, find support and succour in the hearts of Mindtree Minds and grow wings to fly into their lives of their dreams. So far 45 children have been nurtured for several years to fulfil their aspirations. 23 of the children are studying at present while the rest have finished their education in their chosen fields and 6 of them are successfully employed. The program includes a child who cracked NEET Entrance Exam and is studying MBBS! Our short film on one of the girls in this project who is now a college lecturer. (Thangam’s story: https://www.mindtreefoundation.org/video-gallery/) P. 34 Mindtree Limited Sustainability Report | Sustainability 2019-20 Report 2019-20 For a GREENER PLANET Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 35 Our Approach Beyond environmental compliance where Mindtree follows strict adherence, our strategy focuses on resource Sustainability as it applies to conservation, clean energy, sustainable infrastructure, sustainable procurement and people advocacy. the environment is a combination Resource conservation mainly involves energy and of responsibility for the planet and emission reduction initiatives, water efficiency, waste strategic advantage for Mindtree. reduction and recycling. We are striding ahead on our We endorse the philosophy of clean energy approach with solar power at two responsible business being locations – Kalinga and Pune. smart business. Under sustainable infrastructure, we have taken huge strides in green buildings and process innovations to safeguard the environment as well as business benefits Compliance: We have been following the guidelines of in the long run. Our LEED certified buildings including the ISO 14001 framework for more than 10 years and all state-of-the-art infrastructure at Kalinga location are our India locations are certified for ISO 14001:2015. testimonies to our commitment in this direction. Our We comply with all applicable environmental regulations. procurement strives to factor in responsible practices in In the reporting period, there have been no instances of its processes as it looks forward to influencing the supply environmental fines imposed or negative consequences chain towards better sustainability. or spills due to our operations. People advocacy is an important part of our responsibility towards the environment. Our numerous sensitization campaigns (such as waste reduction, We have spent INR 1,40,90,774 segregation, green commuting, carpooling and so on) towards environmental initiatives promote sustainability as a lifestyle. We believe in creating a culture of sustainability. in the year 2019-20. The goals and targets we set on the above domains are monitored on a regular basis, with periodic reporting at different levels. Heat maps are generated to monitor progress on targets and savings on per capita basis, across locations. Now, AI comes to our added support as we use our strength in AI (through Gladius, our indigenous IoT platform) to monitor resource usage on a real-time basis at two of our campuses. We also share key metrics of our progress and performance data regularly through CDP Report and Sustainability Report. P. 36 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Greening the Growth Path Gladius IoT is a full-fledged building IoT solution, which integrates all aspects of building management systems with the IT systems. The system monitors energy consumption on the building across floors and prevents avoidable energy losses. It controls energy-intensive equipment such as chillers by modifying the set point or cooling based on ambient conditions. Operational at Mindtree Kalinga and phase 1, phase 2 buildings at Bengaluru West campus now, Gladius has been saving 0.70 lakh units The initiative achieves sustainability per annum. Occupant comfort being highly important for goals without compromising on productivity, the system optimizes heating and cooling people comfort. requirements as per comfort. Resource Conservation Our resources consumption have steadily reduced in the last six years and our waste recycling performance has increased, despite increasing scale of perations. Energy and Emissions In the current year, we continued with our phase-wise In the last six years, our per capita shift from CFL to LED, continued our UPS optimization strategies and took up several initiatives, adding to energy consumption consistently energy savings. went down: from 200.04 kWh/ In the last five years, smart LED initiative has replaced employee/month in 2014-15 to over 19,636 light fixtures across pan India locations 134.6 kWh/employee/month resulting in saving 50% of energy consumption, reducing 1,412 tons CO2 emissions. Average annual saving: 1.55 in 2019-20. million watts, total Cost Saving INR 1,08,63,784. Since 2015, the UPS optimization initiative has yielded The key initiatives contributing to energy efficiency an average annualized saving of 9.91 lakh watts, and consequent reduction in emission are roof top solar which is CO2e of 902 tons per year, and has also led to at Kalinga facility, clean energy wheeling, phase-wise reduction in battery purchase/generation of hazardous installation of LED fixtures across locations, UPS battery waste. optimization, AC retrofit activity and so on. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 37 Energy Performance Index V/s Sq. Ft. 2015 – 16 1.15 2.16 2016 – 17 1.13 2.26 2017 – 18 1.04 2.32 2018 – 19 1.02 2.47 2019 – 20 1.01 2.47 Carpet Area in sq. ft. (in Million) EPI/sq. ft./Month We carried out replacement of old condenser pumps with equally efficient low capacity pumps, which yield us a monthly saving of 1.18 lakh units, that is annual saving of INR 9.44 lakh. Our turbo core chiller implementation gives us 60% lesser power consumption, saving us INR 43 lakh per year. Employee Commute System Our renewable energy component in the total energy We have methodically worked in different ways on mix stands healthy and robust at 56.19% now. containing emissions in employee commute. Starting a common bus system for all companies in Global Bengaluru West Campus runs on 76% wheeled Village, our Bengaluru West location has set an example hydro power where as East Campus uses 70% of leadership in this direction. Our Metro Shuttles wheeled solar power. Our Chennai facility runs encourage lower emissions at individual levels. on 73% wheeled wind and solar energy. 22% of We encourage green commuters by providing cycle Kalinga Campus energy needs are being met with stands and charging points. in-house solar plant. The Routematic Application that we use for end-to-end Roof top Solar at Kalinga facility: The 550 kW solar automation of employee transportation creates power plant installed at Mindtree Kalinga is designed automated optimum routes based on address data. to meet 30% of our campus power requirement. The efficient, latest technology solar units that we have installed produces up to 5.5 kW units/day via conventional panels, which produce up to 3.8 kW units/ The shift rationalization that day. Our mobile app tracks the performance of the plant we follow has reduced operation on a constant basis, enabling remote monitoring and of daily trips by 25%, reducing timely corrections. operating cost by 22% and also reducing employee carbon footprint. P. 38 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Water Increasing water-stress in the country places the responsibility of water conservation on everyone’s shoulders. In the recent years, Mindtree has been more sensitive than ever to this responsibility, and has been taking required measures to conserve water. We draw water from three sources: ground water, municipal water supplies and private purchase. While higher scale of operations and increasing employee base places higher demands on water, we have followed water and makes it available for landscaping and Reduce-Reuse-Recycle philosophy to keep the absolute construction purposes of the campus. water consumption low. Rainwater harvesting systems have been operational since 2012-13, enabling us to Incoming STP water is recycled at our installed RO plant. capitalize on water harvesting from the monsoons. The treated and desalinated water is used for chiller cooling tower, reducing the extraction of ground water by 100% of the outlet water from our facilities 12,00 kl per month and also the dependency on suppliers is treated using Sewage Treatment Plants by 13%. We recycle approximately 80% of water using (STPs) available at our own campuses and our own STPs. This water is reused internally for flushing common STPs. and landscaping purposes. We have shifted from using treated water for flushing to using RO rejected water at Our ‘Eternal Pond’, the artificial lake which we Bengaluru location. constructed at our Kalinga Campus stores rain Our water conservation efforts have been consistently successful with steady decline of per capita consumption over the last six years, despite our increasing employee base: from 1.03 kl/employee/month in 2014-15 to 0.82 kl/employee/month in 2019-20. Waste Management We continue to explore possibilities for better resource management through various environmental protection programs and adopt best practices in facility management services and workplace. Our Environment Health and Safety Policy acts as a pivot (3R method – Reduce, Recycle, Reuse) for the implementation of such programs. We have taken reduction of waste generation as a crucial objective. All our India facilities segregate the waste into around 20 sub categories. We closely monitor the waste generation and disposal. Our waste being recycled through both, in-house recycling units and tie-ups with authorized partners. As part of extended producer responsibility, we have initiated vendor audit for all our Our recycling of waste has waste management partners. increased in six years: from 80.62% We believe in waste to wealth philosophy. Our food in 2014-15 to 91.95% in 2019-20. composting projects convert waste into valuable compost for our gardening purposes. Our campus at Kalinga while being built took the philosophy to another We optimized the number of dustbins substantially level by using the mud on the site to make bricks and and introduced steel dust bins customized for using them for 2,72,000 sq. ft. walls of the construction. waste segregation, thus taking our war against plastic We call them ‘magic bricks’. a step ahead. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 39 People Advocacy We are committed to provide a safe and healthy work We encourage our people to use Metro trains for their place to our employees. Our aim is to make Mindtree a commute at Bengaluru by offering last mile connectivity zero incident campus and we are continuously working (station to office and back). Our usual support activities to enhance health & safety at workplace by adopting and campaigns in promoting such behavioural aspects of better systems, processes. sustainability continued in the year 2019-20 too. ‘People comfort’ is a big criterion in all our endeavours, This year, our Hyderabad office launched a campaign be it energy efficiency, be it water conservation. calling for people to take the Metro. The campaign We also believe sustainability is a lifestyle issue and elucidated that 500 people switching to Metro will save hence people should own the responsibility along 36,000 kg CO2 emissions per day. with the company. We run campaigns and initiatives on different aspects of sustainability such as green commuting, safe driving, and reduction of waste to influence behavioural facets of sustainability. Sourcing Responsibly rights and elimination of child labor and forced labor. We also encourage and place special emphasis on women-based organizations. At present, 2.54% of our supplier spends go towards this segment. 93% of our suppliers are local suppliers, as per our local sourcing norm. Our digital portal for suppliers went active in this year. We have been increasingly investing on ease of business for our suppliers, taking the digital route for efficiency, convenience, transparency and better responsiveness. We endorse the precautionary principle, and adopt The 24/7 availability of the service which is seamless resource conservation methods which save the planet for all stakeholders increase efficiency while stringent and also bring about business savings. system checks control data leakages and frauds. Supply chain is a huge opportunity to deploy this dual By using the new supplier portal, we are now paperless strategy. Mindtree strives to apply green procurement with all our transactions now being e-transactions. We objective to its overall procurement strategy, and is are looking at leveraging this portal for supplier surveys involved actively in identifying and generating green too next year. alternatives to traditional purchasing. This approach is We are keen to engage with and influence the supplier adopted pervasively across procurement for both big and eco-system towards better sustainability. We are glad small purchases such as building materials, equipment, that we have been successful in influencing some of our office decors, campaign displays, stationery, trash bins, suppliers shift to eco-packaging. For instance, we have and cutlery and so on. encouraged our laptop supplier to use only recyclable Our 1800+ strong supplier base consists of trusted materials for packaging. The Partners Meet in August partners, chosen with a conscious approach to local 2019 saw us engaging with our partners, both old and sourcing, and adherence to the supplier code of conduct new. The meet further strengthened our relationship which insists on self-declarations with respect to human with our supply chain, and received positive feedback. In the light of global resource We completed our supplier depletion, it is important for meetings across all locations this companies to adopt resource year, with highly positive feedback conservation methods. (4.72/5.00). P. 40 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 CELEBRATING Technology Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 41 Celebrating Technology for Sustainable Business Osmosis is an annual event at Mindtree, which takes technology to a celebratory high, rejoicing in our passion for innovation and collaboration. It brings all Mindtree Minds together to witness with collective awe and pride, the innovative tech prowess we have amidst us. Run in multiple tracks across the organization, Osmosis culminates in a grand event every year. Organization as a Nurturer Mindtree philosophy has always been to position itself as a gentle nurturer of talent – placing the individual at the centre, building a conducive environment around the individual for growth. Osmosis in its intent, design and format reflects this fundamental Mindtree way. For years, it has stood as an encouraging call to creativity and innovation to draw out our talent beyond hierarchy, linearity or protocol, to reach great heights of creative potential. P. 42 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Evolution of the Tech-Fest Inclusive Model The fest is now 15 years old, and has come a long way Within Mindtree, the fest offers opportunities for morphing its content in interesting ways, while keeping one and all, and is as open to a manager or a leader the format and core spirit of technology and celebration as it is to a techie. intact. Over the years, it grew to add more structured One of the tracks invites experts from outside of tracks, and expanded its scope and boundaries. Amidst Mindtree to talk to Mindtree Minds, thus bringing in these changes, gentle nurturing and celebration of wisdom from different perspectives. In addition, we also technology have remained the core spirit of this got our leaders to talk to interested techies outside of endeavour throughout the years. Mindtree through external webinars. Our core values of expert thinking, unrelenting The internal community has indeed blurred its dedication and collaborative spirit naturally boundaries often to include external entities as well. infused themselves into Osmosis, rendering it to go deeper, connecting ideas with solutions in an Osmosis opened its techie track (Techathlon, as it was accentuated manner. called then) to campuses, urging participation from tech graduates in the coding, debugging and related Having started in Bengaluru, Osmosis subsequently challenges. Gen Y, both within Mindtree and at the threw its gates open to Mindtree’s overseas locations. campuses, has responded quite enthusiastically Leveraging our state-of-the-art technology infrastructure, to these tracks, over the years. we were able to get our bright Mindtree Minds across locations to participate seamlessly in this celebration. We also welcomed several of our business partners Osmosis, from being a passionate local community, has into the fest in 2015. They participated with vigour and now turned into a global technology festival. shared highly positive feedback with us. Experiential zones were an interesting feature that we Last year, the Develop It Yourself (DIY) track attracted introduced along this journey. Select solutions actually people working on new technologies such as AI. simulate the end user experience in these stalls, giving This year, Osmosis offered an accentuated focus on an experiential feel. customer-specific problem solutions, challenging our techies to traverse the entire spectrum – from ideation to We offered issues from actual project realms as well successful solution. Makeathon, as we called it this year, as from the broader technology universe, challenging was about building a market-ready prototype. our bright Mindtree Minds to ideate, compete, prove ideas 2018-19 Osmosis, which is essentially a and develop prototypes. We celebration of technology prowess is now celebrated the winners, the morphing into an anchor for business contestants and the participants. sustainability in these times of enormous technological disruption. Innovation is the only way to manage and lead in times of disruptions indeed. And when we do it with celebration, the ride is even more joyful! Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 43 Osmosis 2020: ‘Possibilities Next’ Customer Hackathon: Idea-thon Osmosis brought to the forefront the future of different technologies. The platform to share ideas and feasible solutions for customer problems. 562 participants engaged themselves over 32 customer problems. Customer Hackathon: Makeathon The platform to ideate and develop innovative solutions for real customer problems. In teams of five, techies worked on a chosen solution with the help of internal experts. 116 teams worked on 28 customer problems. Campus Track The Techie of the Year (ToY) track was open to third year students from select Engineering Colleges in India. Those shortlisted in the Coding Contest qualified for the Appathon. Appathon got them to work on UI applications. It drew 11,833 registrations from 136 colleges. P. 44 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 WinnerSpeak The opportunity for applying ingenious Osmosis was fantastic, awesome, great! new technological solutions to solve The teams learn a lot from building the business problems was good. Osmosis application for a real word scenario to giving also reinforced the Mindtree values – presentations and sharing their results and Collaborative Spirit, Expert Thinking value adds. In Osmosis everyone thinks like and Unrelenting Dedication. an architect of a solution. Helps us to grow a mindset for true efforts and innovation. Anurag Thakur Chinu Subudhi Sachin Sharma Tanushree Roy Choudhury Ranjan Debnath Divyanshu Dwivedi Ishnoor Singh Khushboo The gamut of technical exposures that one It was really a great experience. Opened gets in Osmosis is boundless. Just the right the door for participants and inspired platform to prove your mettle and get the others. Got a chance to learn a from visibility you deserve! different sets of audience, their solutions as well as what is trending now. Akilan Manoharan Sylvester Daniel John Manoj Kumar Mittal Mac Puthran Palachandra Manuru Meenakshi Annamala Sayon Chakraborti Vaithishwari Devarajan Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 45 The 3 weeks was like a journey through It is a very useful platform to share ideas the technology. The best part was, we got especially for people like me who are to learn a lot of new technologies! not from a technical background. Due to multiple responsibilities within projects, Ram Anandhrs the ideation process at times remains Goutham Chandrasekaran in the background. Osmosis is the ideal platform to bring it forth. Vinith K Vijaykumar This is a unique platform with a level This competition has opened my eyes playing field that cuts across experience, to see technology in a new dimension. expertise and domain, giving an opportunity Osmosis gave me an opportunity to apply to voice opinion and be visible. my technical knowledge into the practical, An extremely rewarding experience. made me a better problem solver and also helped me to gain more knowledge. Arun Meenathethil B G Anil Osmosis, with its thousands of participants, This awesome fest helped me experience was special and unique for me in its size the “joy of coding”. I will make sure to and scope. Exposure to such a large share my experiences with my friends, competition gave me a stage to test and classmates as well as juniors and prove my abilities and also a boost to motivate them to participate too in self confidence. the coming years. Himanshu Pandey Macha Nitesh Goud P. 46 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 47 Our Approach Mindtree seeks alignment of values right from the hiring stage, and introduces Mindtree culture and values to potential talent pool experientially during the hiring process. Induction is approached as a careful planting of saplings (‘Orchard’ as it is named). Mindtree Kalinga Campus takes on the task of creating ‘Engineers of Tomorrow’. The strategy involves experiential learning and not ‘teaching’ or ‘training’ them. The goal is to inculcate the right social mind-set, apart from technical and business mind-sets. The lateral hires are consciously acclimatized with the values and culture of the organization to achieve seamless integration – just as a botanical garden nurtures and cultivates trees. (‘Arboretum’, as it is called). Our learning and development approach our agenda We foster deep engagement with our people through a holistically, covering not only role-based skills and plethora of initiatives: competencies but also communication and culture yy PACE, the performance management system has related aspects of learning and development. cascading goals, 360-degree feedback, appraisals that Leadership development programs, with their rigorous do away with ratings from mid-level onwards and rely framework and innovative methodologies, strive to on feedback. create future leaders. Feedback, mentoring, coaching yy The compensation and benefits system is designed to and career planning at individual level go a long way in differentially recognize Mindtree Mind’s performance, enabling personal growth. The strategy involves digital expertise and potential to attain business goals while leverage in the form of YORBIT, our in-house digital remaining competitive and equitable. learning platform. yy An elaborate rewards and recognition system – a A series of monitoring mechanisms are set in motivating program for our high performers. place to track progress across Orchard, Arboretum and learning and development for continual feedback yy Retention council to strengthen retention. and improvement. yy And several other programs. Clubbed with carefully crafted health and safety programs such as Healthy Mind Healthy Body and online wellness platforms, and also a range of diversity-focused and women-friendly policies and initiatives, we create a Ours is a culture-backed nurturing environment and a conducive workplace for all our people. organization, which provides an ambience for fullest creative expression of individuals. We call it ‘People Function’, not HR. P. 48 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Skilling for the Future With people wellbeing being a material theme, nurturing a performance oriented culture while managing change becomes an agenda of paramount importance to Mindtree. Change and disruptions are now macro level issues, and Mindtree has been gearing up constantly over the years to respond to and adapt to the changes called for, in an agile manner. The internal changes in 2019-20 have brought in a few new norms and orientations, while the core part of our culture and flagship programs stay intact. A series of initiatives have been carried out this year to ensure better alignment, two-way understanding and communication between new senior leaders and people. The new norms and structure are conducive for our next level of growth, preparing us for scale, replicability and calling for standardization along with innovation and customization. This augurs well for our future. In this year of transition, our people attrition was 17.40%. Skilling brings a clear competitive edge to our business Mindtree onboarded 7,209 new people in value proposition. For Mindtree, skilling has always been to its fold this year. about ‘learning’ rather than ‘teaching’ or ‘training’, and about the learner-centric approach. We created experience-centric onboarding for all Our learning strategy focuses on building business new joiners at Bengaluru and plan to replicate it across logic into digital learning – using a scalable, open and locations soon. people-friendly approach. We launched the Arboretum Microsite: The one-stop We bring in a high level of governance to our learning shop for all new Mindtree Minds caters to all joiners’ programs. Content, quality and coverage are key, guided needs in India, and will soon be expanded to cover all by relevance and context, while constantly tracking our offices across the globe. critical KPIs. Our approach consciously holds the learner at the center of all our programs, while bringing in the team context and then building business needs into the learning models. This is how we integrate the learning models. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 49 YORBIT, our digital learning platform has further evolved now. We introduced our deep dive courses (301 Level) on AI and Cloud this year. Digital Learning 2,343 Courses on YORBIT Only 5% of learning is classroom-based at Mindtree now, with 95% being in virtual mode. About 500 new courses Learning hours continued to show an upward trend, up from 36 per capita hours in 2015 to 77.10 per capita added this year 2019-20 hours in 2019-20. Digital Inside Learner feedback of 4.55/5, We believe in creating internal products with our digital prowess and deploying them for internal Manager feedback of purposes before externalizing our innovations. Over 4.42/5 and Learner 700 such products facilitate our internal processes today, creating a clear IT architecture for our policies, sentiment on courses 0.74/1 processes and systems, reducing manual components and increasing efficiencies. An example: Around two lakh queries were handled by our internal chatbots in the year. 2,500+ digital Minds, Thought Leadership 2,000+ testing Minds, 1,250+ IMTS Minds went through reskilling/upskilling 722 external certifications completed Our thought leadership in internal IT system architecture for shared services resulted in an external advocacy event under Conference Board umbrella this year, hosted at Mindtree. The event received appreciation, encouraging feedback and recommendations from external organizations including Unilever, Walmart, Texas Instruments, Metlife and ABB. P. 50 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Nurturing Talent Digital Boost for Career Planning Our career portal gets ready for dynamic and real-time support for career planning for Mindtree Minds. To make our organization a great place for people to work and for the business to use internal opportunities for talent, the portal acts as a two-way connect for the respective needs. Defining market needs, carving out specific roles and paths, helping people to assess the status, deciding the next role to grow into and choosing a path of growth and so on are an integral part of the Organizational development at Mindtree focuses on design of the portal. empowering the individual to take charge of one’s own growth, with the organization playing the catalyst. Feedback from our talent review flows into our process Our Culture App and program design regularly. Our flagship programs in development continue to foster our people for higher growth. The way forward is to take the integration route and insist on systemic but self-driven growth paths. Our key programs – Enterprise Learning Program, Future Leaders Program and Delivery Managers Program continued for a larger part of the year, taking a strategic pause in order to assimilate new thoughts before evolving further. New programs have also emerged, reflecting and responding to changing needs and realities. Manager Development Program has Mindtree Minds as facilitators developing managerial capacities, calling The digital anthology of stories and anecdotes we built attention to biases and blindspots. last year to reflect our culture and ethos continues to impart our values among our people. This year, we ran a Digital Reset aims to build digital leadership photo contest where Mindtree Minds shared pictures that capabilities at the mid-management levels. It includes reflected our ethos. sense-making and story telling modules, working on real-time projects hands-on and coaching components We also ran Culture Jam sessions where leaders and over three to four months. influencers came together, shared and discussed what they perceive as Mindtree culture. These events added Young Leader Program for beginners, hones to our people’s understanding of Mindtree values and self-leadership, perspective building and ethos, further strengthening the ‘The Living Tree Stories’ contexualizing capabilities. – our collection of culture stories available on the Culture Online, simulation-based learning modules application, which now stands 310 stories strong. We combine YORBIT with simulation games for learning look forward to growing this anthology of collective pride across all levels. and shared values of ‘Being Mindtree’. We ensure that every Mindtree Mind is covered by our learning programs across levels. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 51 Diversity & Inclusion By policy and practice, we offer equal opportunities at all Our Board of Directors has two woman members on levels of employment without discrimination. the panel. Inclusive in approach since inception, Mindtree recruited Our strategy going forward is to focus more strongly people with disability right from the first batch of its on leadership development among women, creating a recruits. Today 45 people with disability contribute more inclusive workplace, have diversity reflected across to our success, supported by the infrastructure and learning and OD (Organizational Development). reasonable accommodation policy conducive to them. Our inclusion is not limited to women and people with Being a pure meritocracy, our organizational disability. We are an organization open to a wide latitude culture brought in women talent naturally always. of ethnicities and sexual orientations, as a matter of Targeted agenda for improving gender ratios evolved principle and value. Our diversity framework EDGeS subsequently. We pursue the goal of increasing our reflects it well. overall women talent from the current 32.40% to 35% in the next two years. At present, our women talent is 32.40% at an overall level, 50% at campus recruitment level and 35.40% Ethincity/ Nationality amongst all new joiners in the year. We embed diversity goals into the KRAs of our recruiting managers, and identify and work with partners with strong credentials on diversity. We track the diversity dashboard across levels. We closely look at openings at People with the mid-levels and explore possibilities of bringing in Disabilities women talent for addressing the gaps. Our successful initiative of bringing in women in tech will reach other locations soon. Sexual Orientation Gender Mindtree is committed to diversity beyond gender to include different ethnicities, disabilities and sexual Worker representation in our various operational orientations. committees is at 4.20%. Mindtree believes in ensuring women-friendly ambience and going beyond it to enable leadership development for the women talent pool. P. 52 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Key Programs Exuberance Women in Tech Exuberance, an intensive, six month-long leadership The drive focuses exclusively on hiring women program for women at senior levels has produced with technical prowess. 3 initiatives were run this a group of 95 women leaders, year welcoming 20 women in our supporting them to take on tech world. larger and critical roles. Refresh Mi Footprints Our regular recruitment drive to bring back women Mid-level women talent go through learning modules on break to work, brought in 20 talented women to of self-discovery, career planning and coaching for our organization this year. We take them growth through this program. 400 women through reboot, boot-camp and buddy went through the program this year. programs to ease their return to work. Women-friendly Policies Equal Opportunity Policy Reasonable Accommodation Policy Flexi Work Options • Job Restructuring • Work From Home • Modified Work Schedules • Reduced Work Hours • Reassignment to Same Project • Part-time Parental Leave Child Care Facility • 6 Months Maternity Leave • Crèche-onsite & Offsite • 6 Months Adoption Leave • Night Crèche Reimbursement • 3 Months Surrogacy Leave • Lactation Counselling • Special Needs Leave • Baby’s Day Out • Open Door Policy, Kids to Workstation Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 53 Health and Safety We place utmost importance to the wellness of our people. All our locations are OHSAS certified and have a clear EHS policy. All our India locations are certified for ISO 45001:2018; majority of our locations have first aid centres, ergonomic seating and physiotherapy help available. Our Work From Home (WFH) Policy was extended quickly and effectively in March 2020 as a response to the COVID 19 crisis, and we ensured almost 100% WFH across regions to ensure safety of our people. Healthy Mind, Healthy Body has been our constant mantra through several years. Our wellness initiatives include wellness activities, counselling, ergonomic care, mental health awareness, advocacy on work-life balance, awareness on financial planning and so on. An online portal has supported our people to take on fitness as a challenge to meet, and has inspired our people to get healthier, stronger and fitter. P. 54 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 BEYOND the Billion Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 55 Our Approach Mindtree is one of the fastest growing companies in the IT space, with a clear edge in new technologies. Having factored futuristic needs into our approach and a strong business strategy, we are well-positioned with a strong digital edge. Greater quality at faster speed, Conceived as an organization with a social conscience, focus on delivery excellence, we pursue the path of helping societies flourish along investment in digital and with our business. We believe in sharing the fruits of automation capabilities, success with the society. Our CSR endeavours are a testimony to this conviction. We are proud to pursue this and fostering advantageous journey of contributing not only to our financial bottom partnerships have been the line, but also towards bettering the society and the hallmarks of our journey of environment, thus creating value across triple success so far. bottom lines. Our economic bottom line has several success factors. Booted by our holistically trained expert Minds, our relentless dedication and collaboration, we have constantly seen our strengths translating into solutions We are now specifically focused and services that lead to high client satisfaction. on simplifying our processes, Our strategic focus lies in digital solutions and managed differentiating our offerings services. Highly skilled and engaged talent pool, systems for delivery efficiency, innovation, technological prowess and adapting to change with and process intensity characterize our success. Goals and agility, and competitiveness in targets are tracked by a stringent monitoring mechanism order to attain the next level of at all levels, bringing in strict governance and scope for improvement at all stages. growth and scale. P. 56 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Value Creation Cloud, data analytics, IoT, digital commerce, mobility, agile, automation and integrated services are some of the key offerings among many others, which render us Collaborative competitive and differentiated in this dynamic IT industry. Spirit Our strengths in AI and new age technologies stands us on a firm ground in this disruptive era. Our cutting edge solutions serve diverse industry sectors such as retail, consumer packaged goods, electronics, Core manufacturing, travel and hospitality, transportation and Values logistics, BFSI, media and entertainment, and so on. Expert Unrelenting Thinking Dedication Strategy for Success Born digital and set out to make digital ‘real’ for our clients, ours is a successful journey of transformation for ourselves as well as for our partners and clients. We received the ISG Star of Consulting-led and customer-focused, we built in Excellence Award in 2019 future success factors early into our strategy. Our unprecedented growth in the recent years and an for highest cumulative client increasing contribution of the digital business further experience score for the quality validate our foresight and future-focused approach. of its core technology services. We are witnessing heartening success at the frontiers of the future. Our expertise in agile solutions and over a decade-long experience gained from 100+ agile projects benefits both us and our clients with shorter delivery cycles, bringing in competitive advantage. Strategy of success at Mindtree also includes great quality delivered faster, focus on application technology solutions and leveraging partnerships. Automation is a strong anchor for our strategic path, and so is our effort to make AI pervasive. We believe in leading with our strong offerings, delivering at high speed and automating pervasively. Our value proposition for our clients is about helping them to leverage technology and grow, and run their business efficiently. Speed, profitability, consistency and engineering excellence have proved to be great strategic focal areas, bringing in revenues over USD 1 billion last We have been re-assessed at Maturity Level 5 in year (2018-19). This has been coupled with Capability Maturity Model Integration high client satisfaction levels. The current year (2019-20) (CMMI Version 2.0) in 2019-20. We were one of garners a good business performance along with higher the earliest adopters of CMMI V2.0 in our industry. customer satisfaction. Certified at Level 5 for both the Services Model 307 active clients engaged with us during the year and Development Model views simultaneously, this 2019-20: Our emphasis on stability at the service front feat is a testimony to the excellence in our delivery and managing customer commitment during the year methodologies, systems and governance. It highlights has effectively ensured business continuity and high our capabilities in developing quality products and customer satisfaction. solutions in line with customer needs. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 57 Looking Ahead Investment in advanced technology is of high importance to us and we hare heavily invested in futuristic technologies. ‘Immersive Aurora’, a co-innovation lab with a combination of AR, VR and MR (Augmented, Virtual and Mixed Reality), is a first-of-its-kind innovation and experience centre. Digital Pumpkin continues to thrive on digital technologies, supporting customers with ideation and prototyping with the help of our design experts. Our talent pool is constantly being skilled, re-skilled and up-skilled, using YORBIT, our in-house online learning platform which helps train across basic, intermediate and advanced levels. Integration of business needs and logic into this learning system ensures alignment of our talent capabilities with the dynamic needs of the market. The details of this endeavour are shared in the chapter ‘Talent at the Frontiers’. P. 58 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Delivery Operational excellence is a key driver for delivery The approach has matured internally and has enabled excellence. Project DRIVE is an initiative to optimize us to extend it externally: We have offered LEAN as our productivity, quality, cost and time through LEAN a service to a client (a large US-based airline) since principles. It efficiently addresses the redundancies in December 2017, implemented it for two years, reducing the system, releasing and redeploying talent optimally. inefficiencies by 25% at their end. We are set to achieve Together they enable our delivery teams to build and similar goals for our other clients as well. deploy high quality solutions at great speed, ably Customer Experience: Our highly skilled, re-skilled complementing the impacts for ensuring high and up-skilled talent pool with its prowess in digital customer experience. technologies, domain expertise and culture-backed We have delivered over 70 projects since 2015 through values consistently engage in a consulting-led mode, this model, covering over 4000 Mindtree Minds. delivering high quality at high speed, evoking customer delight which reflects consistently in our CES study findings. 5.73 5.42 5.88 5.79 Satisfaction Loyalty Advocacy Value for Money Since 2017, our Quality Function team planted an avocado sapling for every response we received on our client feedback survey. That is 5,000 saplings by now benefitting 1,000 tribal families. We monitor the progress as well: 80% of them have survived. We await the fruits to benefit the tribal community in the next 1-2 years. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 59 Mindtree’s Agile Response to Business Outlook COVID-19 With the global economic scenario shrouded with various uncertainties, a cautionary outlook is what Mindtree approached the COVID-19 crisis with due prevails among the IT leaders (NASSCOM, 2019). alacrity in its response. Our business continuity However, India enjoys a major share in global capabilities kicked in during early phase itself, with services sourcing business and hence the outlook our Risk Office taking in a deep dive of analysis, remains positive with a cautionary tone. In digital mapping and planning timely interventions. We set business, India accounts for USD 48 billion of the up a ‘war room’ and a crisis management team as USD 225 billion global pie (2020 estimate). early as on 3rd March 2020. The focus was on safety of our people and zero impact on client deliverables. In the next five years, 90% of incremental spend Our Global Contact in IT would be in the digital space. Considering Centre was activated the strength and prowess of Mindtree in digital to respond to technologies, this augurs well, at the very the anxieties and fundamental level, for our continued success amidst concerns of Mindtree all uncertainties and disruptions. We aim to continue employees. Our fresh to balance our technology strategy with humancampus recruits, being centric approach, both at the market place as well as trained at Kalinga the workplace, for that has been a huge enabler for were all seen to the our consistent growth. shores of safety in two days’ time. 100% Considering the challenges newly brought in by of talent pool outside India and 70% of our talent COVID-19 towards the end of FY 2019-20, we pool within India were working from home from anticipate a softening of demand for the industry. 16th March onwards – one week before the lockdown However, based on the strengths of our business period officially started in India. We enabled 99.5% continuity plan, we are confident we will continue Work From Home mode soon after. to create value for all our clients, drive profitable growth, develop future-ready talent and maximize Agility and daily tracking model were built into our shareholder value. operating model, thanks to our agile working mode, and our client deliverables were met despite the challenge posed, with zero productivity loss. The data leakage protection we enabled on all end points ensured the security of operations. Our Current Focus Our already effective Work From Home Policy for the Way Forward and system, our active collaboration tools, our digital learning platform and our expertise in Agile approach yySimplify the IT environment by came in as a big support in this time of crisis response. breaking down complexities. No deliverables nor billings were impacted. yyDifferentiate through digital strategy, With our contributions to the PM Cares Fund and building on heritage and innovation purchase of testing kits for those who cannot afford for market leadership. testing, our responsiveness to the COVID-19 crisis yyEmbrace and manage change in has been multipronged. the market by increasing expertise through up-skilling. P. 60 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 ANNEXURES Performance Dashboard Economic Value Generated and Distributed (INR in crores) Direct Economic Value Generated (A) 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 Revenue (through core business segments) 7,764.25 7,021.55 5,462.83 Other Income (through other sources) 75.66 89.33 190.22 Total 7,839.91 7,110.87 5,653.05 Economic Value Distributed (B) 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 Operating cost 1,651.09 1,552.33 1,167.53 Personnel expenses (wages+benefits) 5,027.03 4,397.64 3,550.19 Interest charges 52.91 2.95 16.91 Taxes and royalties (given to various Govt. wherever 197.90 232.74 172.22 business units are located) – Taxes expenses Taxes and royalties (given to various Govt. wherever 101.41 37.80 25.37 business units are located) – Dividend tax paid Dividends (payments to capital providers) 493.33 180.51 148.79 Donations (political parties/politicians) – – – Community development/CSR investments – paid to 4.70 7.04 4.60 Mindtree Foundation Total 7,528.36 6,411.01 5,085.61 Economic Value Added (A-B) 311.55 699.86 567.44 Contribution to Benefit Plan (INR in crores) 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 Contributions to Provident and Other Funds 320.53 282.85 210.03 Staff Welfare Expenses 37.70 23.55 13.86 Total 358.23 306.40 223.89 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 61 Exemptions Received (INR in crores) Financial Assistance Received 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 IT exemption 334.79 339.28 301.22 Land provided at subsidised rate – – – Incentives – – – Custom, excise duties waived# 754.86 18.5 6.38 Total 1,089.65 357.78 307.60 Talent Pool 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Employee Category Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 11467 6523 17990 10560 5685 16245 9357 4672 14029 (T4-C4) Middle Management 3156 580 3736 3119 563 3682 2680 443 3123 (C5-C7) Senior Management 228 21 249 228 23 251 196 17 213 (C8-C9) Top Management 16 0 16 25 1 26 19 1 20 (C10-C12) Subsidiary 0 0 0 0 0 0 126 54 180 Employee 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Employee Contract Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Permanent 14867 7124 21991 13932 6272 20204 12378 5187 17565 Contract 1289 387 1676 1667 864 2531 991 328 1319 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Employee Type Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Full Time Employees 14867 7124 21991 13932 6272 20204 12378 5187 17565 (Headcount) Part-time Employees 1289 387 1676 1667 864 2531 991 328 1319 (Headcount) P. 62 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Region Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 11810 6337 18147 10864 5514 16378 9707 4635 14342 UK 339 81 420 358 86 444 316 91 407 US 2395 655 3050 2299 598 2897 1970 399 2369 Others 323 51 374 411 74 485 385 62 447 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Age Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 6241 4512 10753 5848 3945 9793 5285 3276 8561 30-50 8342 2562 10904 7801 2269 10070 6878 1862 8740 >50 284 50 334 283 58 341 215 49 264 Total 14867 7124 21991 13932 6272 20204 12378 5187 17565 New Hires 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Employee Category Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 4261 2448 6709 4055 2136 6191 2817 1267 4084 Middle Management 409 66 475 604 108 712 305 42 347 (C5-C7) Senior Management 18 2 20 30 5 35 25 3 28 (C8-C9) Top Management 5 0 5 1 0 1 3 – 3 (C10-C12) Subsidiary 0 0 0 0 0 0 162 69 231 Employee 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Region Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 3951 2207 6158 3896 1974 5870 2681 1162 3843 UK 22 6 28 42 8 50 142 61 203 US 692 294 986 675 249 924 445 139 584 Others 28 9 37 77 18 95 44 19 63 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 63 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Age Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 2844 1948 4792 2732 1710 4442 1971 1072 3043 30-50 1761 553 2314 1861 517 2378 1247 288 1535 >50 88 15 103 97 22 119 94 21 115 Total 4693 2516 7209 4690 2249 6939 3312 1381 4693 Attrition among New Hires 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Employee Category Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 417 218 635 416 201 617 195 67 262 Middle Management 53 12 65 52 11 63 23 7 30 (C5-C7) Senior Management 4 0 4 2 1 3 1 – 1 (C8-C9) Top Management 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (C10-C12) Subsidiary 0 0 0 0 0 0 36 15 51 Employee 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Region Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 350 179 529 331 172 503 162 58 220 UK 3 0 3 3 2 5 24 13 37 US 112 48 160 124 38 162 58 15 73 Others 9 3 12 12 1 13 11 3 14 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Age Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 230 157 387 242 154 396 105 57 162 30-50 219 70 289 208 54 262 135 29 164 >50 25 3 28 20 5 25 15 3 18 Total 474 230 704 470 213 683 255 89 344 P. 64 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Total Attrition 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Employee Category Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 3104 1541 4645 2713 1143 3856 1889 784 2673 Middle Management 575 116 691 474 85 559 399 61 460 (C5-C7) Senior Management 63 8 71 33 8 41 21 3 24 (C8-C9) Top Management 15 1 16 1 0 1 2 – 2 (C10-C12) Subsidiary 0 0 0 2 1 3 36 15 51 Employee 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Region Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 2939 1373 4312 2596 1064 3660 1854 741 2595 UK 53 19 72 65 21 86 41 17 58 US 658 243 901 489 134 623 367 88 455 Others 107 31 138 73 18 91 85 17 102 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Age Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 1466 952 2418 1491 771 2262 947 495 1442 30-50 2144 683 2827 1650 443 2093 1331 353 1684 >50 147 31 178 82 23 105 69 15 84 Total 3757 1666 5423 3223 1237 4460 2347 863 3210 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 65 Rate of Turnover 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Employee Category Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 27.10% 23.60% 25.80% 25.70% 20.10% 23.70% 20.20% 16.80% 19.10% Middle Management 18.20% 20.00% 18.50% 15.20% 15.10% 15.20% 14.90% 13.80% 14.70% (C5-C7) Senior Management 27.60% 38.10% 28.50% 14.50% 34.80% 16.30% 10.70% 17.60% 11.30% (C8-C9) Top Management 93.80% 0.00% 100.0% 4.00% 0.00% 3.80% 10.50% 0.00% 10.00% (C10-C12) Subsidiary 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 28.60% 27.80% 28.30% Employee 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Region Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 24.90% 21.70% 23.80% 23.90% 19.30% 22.30% 19.10% 16.00% 18.10% UK 15.60% 23.50% 17.10% 18.20% 24.40% 19.40% 13.00% 18.70% 14.30% US 27.50% 37.10% 29.50% 21.30% 22.40% 21.50% 18.60% 22.10% 19.20% Others 33.10% 60.80% 36.90% 16.20% 23.10% 17.20% 22.10% 27.40% 22.80% 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 By Age Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 23.50% 21.10% 22.50% 25.50% 19.50% 23.10% 17.90% 15.10% 16.80% 30-50 25.70% 26.70% 25.90% 21.20% 19.50% 20.80% 19.40% 19.00% 19.30% >50 51.80% 62.00% 53.30% 29.00% 39.70% 30.80% 32.10% 30.60% 31.80% Total 25.30% 23.40% 24.70% 23.10% 19.70% 22.10% 19.0% 16.60% 18.30% P. 66 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Standard Benefits Provided India US UK ROW By Employee Category Part-time/ Part-time/ Part-time/ Part-time/ Full Time Full Time Full Time Full Time Contract Contract Contract Contract Group Term Life Insurance Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Health Care – Medical Insurance Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Disability – E.g.: Cab Facility Yes Yes No No No No No No Parental Leave Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Retirement Provision Yes (Superannuation Yes No Yes No Yes No No (PF+Gratuity) in Australia) Yes Yes (as approved Yes (as approved Yes (as approved Stock Ownership (as approved by No by Comp No by Comp No by Comp No Comp Committee) Committee) Committee) Committee) B+ve (Counselling Program) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Healthy Mind Healthy Body Yes Yes Yes Yes No No No No (Wellness Program) Personal Accident Insurance Yes No Yes No No No No No Special Needs Leave Yes No No No No No No No No (salary No (salary No (salary advance advance advance Emergency Medical Fund Yes No covers medical No No No covers medical covers medical emergencies) emergencies) emergencies) Loans & Advances Yes (Car, House, (House Deposit, Two-wheeler, Yes No No Yes No Yes No Salary) Salary Advance) Reduced Working Hours Yes No Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Sabbatical Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Child Care Vouchers No No No No Yes No No No Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Flexible Work Hours Yes Yes No No No No No No Day Care Facility Yes No No No No No No No P. 67 Remuneration Ratio of Women to Men India (in INR) UK (in GBP) US (in USD) Others (in USD) Employee Category Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Male Female Ratio Associates 285,672 247,479 0.87 45,817 45,250 0.99 72,936 71,014 0.97 56,121 53,486 0.95 (T4-C4) Middle Management 656,610 552,929 0.84 75,235 67,799 0.90 102,096 103,365 1.01 78,234 82,633 1.06 (C5-C7) Senior Management 1,308,735 1,289,086 0.98 134,225 130,523 0.97 175,677 187,717 1.07 151,137 109,000 0.72 (C8-C9) Top Management 4,796,175 – – 199,603 – – 277,461 – – – – – (C10-C12) Associates 837,263 687,749 0.82 45,817 45,250 0.99 78,328 76,754 0.98 56,156 53,671 0.96 (T4-C4) Middle Management 2,326,780 2,029,561 0.87 83,637 73,694 0.88 120,791 123,155 1.02 85,672 93,302 1.09 (C5-C7) Senior Management 4,976,252 4,643,192 0.93 166,933 155,094 0.93 224,090 247,125 1.10 179,674 136,250 0.76 (C8-C9) Top Management 18,271,513 – – 275,531 – – 453,741 – – – – – (C10-C12) Note: For UK and Others, Annual Gross has been considered for the basic salary Training and Development Total No. of Employees No. of Hours of Training per Average hours of training per Category Category per year per employee Employee Category Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates (T4-C4) 11467 6523 17990 1,011,061 685,005 1,696,066 88.17 105.01 94.28 Middle Management 3156 580 3736 103,159 23,325 126,484 32.69 40.22 33.86 (C5-C7) Senior Management 228 21 249 1,540 133 1,673 6.75 6.33 6.72 (C8-C9) Top Management 16 0 16 100 – 100 6.25 – 6.25 (C10C12) Total without SC 14867 7124 21991 1,115,860 708,463 1,824,323 75.06 99.45 82.96 Sub-Contractors 1289 387 1676 827 300 1,127 0.64 0.78 0.67 Total with SC 16156 7511 23667 1,116,687 708,763 1,825,450 69.12 94.36 77.13 P. 68 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Career Development Reviews Review Male Female Total Number of employees 16992 7870 24862 Number of eligible employees 12946 5719 18665 Number of employees submitting annual performance 12751 5640 18391 appraisal Percentage of submission 98.50% 98.60% 98.50% Parental Leave and Retention No. of employees No. of No. of who returned employees employees that to work after Return to Retention Category who returned took parental leave ended Work Rate Rate to work after leave and were still leave ended employed after 12 months Maternity Leave 338 319 280 94% 83% Paternity Leave 819 819 746 100% 91% Our Supply Chain No. of Active Region % of Suppliers Spend (USD) % Spend Suppliers India 1041 55% 93558121 40.31% ROW 238 13% 8361393 3.60% UK 135 7% 13299073 5.73% US 473 25% 116876656 50.36% Total 1887 100% 232095243 100.00% No. of Active Category % of Suppliers Spend in USD % Suppliers Women owned 14 1% 5,903,100 2.54% enterprises Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 69 Workplace Injuries By Gender By Region Overall Bengaluru Bengaluru Male Female Hyderabad Global Village Whitefield Total No. of Injury Incidents This can include:* Injuries inflicted at the workplace* Injuries inflicted during travel, 167 95 72 153 13 1 commuting etc.* Occupational Disease Incidents like ergonomic injuries, both major and minor like RSI, Stress, etc. No. of lost days due to injuries* 30 30 0 3 0 27 Total No. of Person Hours Worked 34497144 23320069 11177074.66 25677432 3615876 5203836 Total No. of Employees 14519 9815 4704 10807 1522 2190 Incident Rate per 100 employees = No. of incidents 1.05 0.97 1.53 1.42 0.85 0.05 X 100/ Total No. of Employees Frequency Rate = No. of incidents X 100000/ 0.48 0.41 0.64 0.60 0.36 0.02 Total Person Hours Worked Severity Rate = Total No. of Lost Days/ 0.02 0.32 0.00 0.02 0.00 27.00 Total No. of Incidents Wellness Activities Online Wellness Programs No. of Campaigns 2 Total No. of Employees participation 2115 No. of Health Challenges taken 1033 No. of Online Sessions conducted 29 No. of Onsite Sessions – No. of Newsletters sent 40 Employee Assistance Initiatives In-house Sessions No. of Sessions No. of People Impacted Total No. of Counselling Sessions 410 Health Talks 6 106 Total No. of Self Assesment Tests 483 Health Camps 3 3254 Total No. of Articles 934 Wellness Sessions 11 264 Total No. of Counselling Follow ups 311 Marathon Training Classes 57 12300 Total No. of Prority Alerts 140 Service Used by 559 Yoga Classes 6 270 Registrations 1420 No. of Newsletters sent 40 – P. 70 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Carbon Footprint 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Category Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance Performance Target Performance GHG EMISSIONS tons CO2e/ 3.38 3.39 3.29 2.44 2.29 2.17 2.04 2.02 2.05 employee/ annum ENERGY kWh/ 201 200.04 189.22 167.6 170.74 167.25 157.59 152.86 13.60 employee/ month WATER kl/employee/ 1.05 1.28 1.03 0.91 1.02 0.85 0.85 0.82 0.82 month WASTE 65% 89.68% 80.62% 89.66% 89.28% 88.99% 91.01% 92.01% 91.95% recycled Note: Our per capita measures in this year include our sub-contractor staff, unlike in the previous year, as a step towards more stringent adherence to GRI Standards. Emissions Performance Emission Footprint (Tons CO2e) 65% 24,760 31% 11,815 4% 1,638 Scope1 Scope2 Scope3 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 71 Emissions Location-wise (Tons CO2e) 6868 Pune Pune 1,890 1,890 1,650 1,650 154 154 Hyderabad Hyderabad 2,720 2,720 2,810 2,810 435 435 Kalinga Kalinga 2,153 2,153 654 654 109 109 Chennai Chennai 1,037 1,037 2,625 2,625 374 374 Bengaluru-MTE Bengaluru-MTE 1,276 1,276 2,099 2,099 498 498 Bengaluru-MTW Bengaluru-MTW 2,738 2,738 14,922 14,922 Scope1 Scope1 Scope2 Scope2 Scope3 Scope3 Emissions Year-On-Year (Tons CO2e) 1,461 1,461 Scope1 Scope1 1,062 1,062 1,638 1,638 10,157 10,157 Scope2 Scope2 8,741 8,741 11,815 11,815 19,814 19,814 Scope3 Scope3 22,379 22,379 24,760 24,760 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 P. 72 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Scope1 Emissions Source-wise (Tons CO2e) 88 Owned OwnedVehicles Vehicles 88 88 726 726 Fugitive Fugitive 313 313 Emissions Emissions(HFC) (HFC) 752 752 119 119 Fuel FuelUsage Usage(LPG) (LPG) 154 154 142 142 Fuel FuelUsage/ Usage/ 608 608 Energy EnergyGenerated Generated 587 587 (Diesel) (Diesel) 736 736 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Scope3 Emissions Source-wise (Tons CO2e) 48 48 Freight Freight 112 112 75 75 134 134 Waste Waste 137 137 188 188 8,419 8,419 Business Business 10,398 10,398 Travel Travel 9,139 9,139 11,213 11,213 Employee Employee 11,732 11,732 Commute Commute 15,357 15,357 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 73 Business Travel (km) 5,47,498 5,47,498 Rail Rail 3,48,588 3,48,588 1,89,995 1,89,995 2,26,252 2,26,252 Road Road 2,44,571 2,44,571 2,27,837 2,27,837 2,50,139 2,50,139 Client ClientCabsCabs 2,27,981 2,27,981 2,55,965 2,55,965 1,54,152 1,54,152 Air-Domestic Air-Domestic 81,19,642 81,19,642 78,14,603 78,14,603 15,73,059 15,73,059 Air-Short Air-ShortHaulHaul 1,26,170 1,26,170 1,72,508 1,72,508 7,16,00,433 7,16,00,433 Air-Long Air-LongHaul Haul 8,28,49,048 8,28,49,048 6,79,40,320 6,79,40,320 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Ozone Depleting Substances (kg) 195195 R22R22 7676 (Refrigerant) (Refrigerant) 96 96 1111 CFC CFC 44 Equivalent Equivalent 55 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 P. 74 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Air Emissions (kg) 231 231 SPM SPM 222 222 166 166 591 591 SOx SOx 136 136 129 129 327 327 NOx NOx 338 338 214 214 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Energy Performance Energy Footprint (kWh) 97% 2,93,10,922 3% 8,10,923 Electricity Purchased DG Units Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 75 Electricity Location-wise (kWh) Pune Pune 20,59,257 20,59,257 Hyderabad Hyderabad 29,56,336 29,56,336 Kalinga Kalinga 30,00,751 30,00,751 Chennai Chennai 41,26,245 41,26,245 Bengaluru-MTE Bengaluru-MTE 45,57,400 45,57,400 Bengaluru-MTW Bengaluru-MTW 1,26,10,933 1,26,10,933 DG Units Location-wise (kWh) Pune Pune 39,385 39,385 Hyderabad Hyderabad 80,185 80,185 Kalinga Kalinga 2,02,604 2,02,604 Chennai Chennai 33,988 33,988 Bengaluru-MTE Bengaluru-MTE 1,15,835 1,15,835 Bengaluru-MTW Bengaluru-MTW 3,38,926 3,38,926 Energy Performance 7,17,083 7,17,083 2017-18 2017-18 2,84,08,536 2,84,08,536 6,69,923 6,69,923 2018-19 2018-19 2,91,48,300 2,91,48,300 8,10,923 8,10,923 2019-20 2019-20 2,93,10,922 2,93,10,922 DG DGUnits Units Electricity ElectricityPurchased Purchased P. 76 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Renewable Energy (%) 0.22 0.22 Pune Pune 0.26 0.26 0.24 0.24 00 Hyderabad Hyderabad 00 00 00 Kalinga Kalinga 16.13 16.13 21.99 21.99 00 Chennai Chennai 95.11 95.11 72.68 72.68 72.76 72.76 Bengaluru-MTE Bengaluru-MTE 74.22 74.22 69.56 69.56 97.00 97.00 Bengaluru-MTW Bengaluru-MTW 88.20 88.20 76.40 76.40 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Water Performance 2% 4,120 Water Footprint (kl) 66% 2% 1,21,134 4,141 27% 50,003 3% 4,821 Private Suppliers Municipal Corporation Ground Water Extraction Packaged Water Rain Water Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 77 Water Consumption Location-wise (kl) 3636 00 Pune Pune 10,718 10,718 00 537 537 Hyderabad Hyderabad 14,477 14,477 00 00 3535 Kalinga Kalinga 00 39,285 39,285 00 421 421 23,040 23,040 Chennai Chennai 00 00 645 645 Bengaluru-MTE Bengaluru-MTE 11,187 11,187 00 4,141 4,141 2,816 2,816 Bengaluru-MTW Bengaluru-MTW 72,430 72,430 00 00 Packaged Packaged Water WaterSupply Supply Private Private Water Water Supply Supply Municipal Municipal Corporation CorporationWater Water Ground GroundWater Extraction Water Extraction Water Conservation (kl) Recharged Recharged to toGround Ground 00 Rainwater Rainwater Harvested Harvested 1,890 1,890 4,248 4,248 2,810 2,810 Total TotalWater Water Recycled Recycled 44,340 44,340 Rechargedto Recharged Ground toGround Rainwater RainwaterHarvested Harvested Total TotalWater WaterRecycled Recycled P. 78 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Water Performance 4,082 4,082 Rain RainWater Water 3,038 3,038 4,120 4,120 4,375 4,375 Packaged Packaged Water Water 4,702 4,702 4,821 4,821 74,094 74,094 Private Private 97,332 97,332 Suppliers Suppliers 1,21,134 1,21,134 43,610 43,610 Municipal Municipal 52,371 52,371 Corporation Corporation 50,003 50,003 26,339 26,339 Ground Ground Water Water Bengaluru Bengaluru 6,393 MTE 6,393 MTE Extraction Extraction 4,141 4,141 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Year-On-Year (kl) Waste Management Waste Disposal (kg) 91.95% 4,34,507 7.87% 37,172 0.18% 843 Recycle Landﬁll Incineration Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 79 Waste Footprint (kg) 50% 18% 2,41,003 87,638 4% 20,913 6% 12% 29,906 58,219 10% 48,761 Electronic Organic Hazardous Packaging Inorganic Other Waste Location-wise (kg) 5,900 5,900 689 689 Pune Pune 3,679 3,679 2,229 2,229 1,620 1,620 1010 10,256 10,256 Hyderabad Hyderabad 60,134 60,134 19,444 19,444 15,898 15,898 00 1,159 1,159 Kalinga Kalinga 26,514 26,514 1076 1076 14,856 14,856 1760 1760 00 Chennai Chennai 1,483 1,483 6,575 6,575 1,385 1,385 00 1,807 1,807 Bengaluru-MTE Bengaluru-MTE 32,550 32,550 4,737 4,737 13,268 13,268 22,236 22,236 7003 7003 Bengaluru-MTW Bengaluru-MTW 1,16,644 1,16,644 24,159 24,159 89,371 89,371 Electronic ElectronicWaste Waste Hazardous Hazardous Organic Organic Inorganic Inorganic Packaging/Other Packaging/Other P. 80 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Waste Management Performance (kg) 15,620 29,906 Electronic Electronic 14,389 14,389 15,620 29,906 8,598 20,913 Hazardous Hazardous 31,975 31,975 8,598 20,913 58,219 40,153 Inorganic Inorganic 48,463 48,463 40,153 58,219 1,92,555 2,41,003 Organic Organic 2,18,303 2,18,303 2,41,003 1,92,555 26,261 48,761 Packaging Packaging MTE BengaluruMTE Bengaluru 26,884 26,884 26,261 48,761 79,489 87,638 Other Other 80,643 MTE 80,643 Bengaluru Bengaluru MTE 87,638 79,489 2017-18 2017-18 2018-19 2018-19 2019-20 2019-20 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 81 Sustainability FRAMEWORKS The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Guidelines THE TEN PRINCIPLES Principles Statement Page No. HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 1 19, 20 of internationally proclaimed human rights Make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 2 40 human rights abuses LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Principle 3 NA and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 4 40 compulsory labour Principle 5 The eﬀective abolition of child labour 40 The elimination of discrimination in Principle 6 52 respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 7 19, 40 approach to environmental challenges Undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 36-40 environmental responsibility Encourage the development and diﬀusion Principle 9 36-40 of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 19, 20 extortion and bribery P. 82 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 NVG Report Application Sub Part Aspects Page No. Part A of the report includes basic information and data about the operations of the business entity. Thus, the reading of the report becomes more A contextual and comparable with other similarly placed businesses. It may be written in a free format incorporating at least the following: Name 4 Nature of ownership AR Details of the people in top management AR Basic information about the business Location of its operations – National AR and International Products and services oﬀered AR Markets served AR A-1 Sales 5 Net proﬁt 5 Tax paid 61 Economic and Financial Data Total assets AR Market capitalisation AR Number of employees 5, 62 Management’s commitment statement to the ESG Guidelines 7 Priorities in terms of the principle and the core elements 7 Reporting period/cycle 18 A-2 Whether the report is based on this framework or any other framework 18, 83-86 Any signiﬁcant risk that the business would like its stakeholders to know AR Any goals and targets that were set by the top management for improving their 24 performance during the reporting period Part B of the report incorporates the basic parameters on which the business may report their performance. Eﬀorts have been made to keep the reporting simple keeping in view the fact that this framework is equally applicable to the small B businesses as well. The report may be prepared in a free format with the basic performance indicators being included in the same. In case the business entity has chosen not to adopt or report on any of the principles, the same may be stated along with, if possible, the reasons for not doing so. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 83 Sub Part Aspects Page No. Governance structure of the business, including Principle 1 – ethics, committees under the Board responsible for transparency and organizational oversight. In case no committee 20 accountability is constituted, then the details of the individual responsible for the oversight Mandate and composition (including number of independent members and/or non-executive AR members) of such committee with the number of oversight review meetings held State whether the person/committee head responsible for oversight review is independent 20 from the executive authority or not. If yes, how Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the AR Board/Chief Executive Processes in place for the Board/Chief Executive to AR ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided Internally developed statement on ethics, codes of conduct and details of the process followed to 19, 20 ensure that the same are followed Frequency with which the Board/Chief Executive B-1 20 assesses BR performance Statement on the use of recyclable raw NA materials used Statement on use of energy-eﬃcient technologies, designs and manufacturing/ 36-40 service-delivery processes Principle 2 – products life cycle sustainability Statement on copyrights issues in case of the products that involve use of traditional knowledge NA and geographical indicators Statement on use of sustainable practices used in 40 the value chain Total number of employees with percentage of 62 employees that are engaged through contractors Statement on non-discriminatory employment Principle 3 – employees’ 52 policy of the business entity wellbeing Percentage of employees who are women 16, 52 Number of persons with disabilities hired 52 Amount of the least monthly wage paid to 67, 68 any skilled and unskilled employee P. 84 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Sub Part Aspects Page No. Number of training and skill upgradation programmes organized during the reporting period 68 for skilled and unskilled employees Number of incidents of delay in payment of wages NONE during the reporting period Number of grievances submitted by the employees AR Statement on the process of identiﬁcation of 21 stakeholders and engaging with them Principle 4 – stakeholder engagement Statement on signiﬁcant issues on which formal dialogue has been undertaken with 21 any of the stakeholder groups Statement on the policy of the business entity on observance of human rights in 19, 20 Principle 5 – their operation human rights Statement on complaints of human rights violations 94 (NONE) ﬁled during the reporting period Percentage of materials used that are recycled NA input materials B-1 Total energy consumed by the business entity for 75, 76, 77 its operations Statement on use of energy-saving processes and the total energy saved due to use of 37 such processes Use of renewable energy as percentage of total 17, 38, 77 energy consumption Principle 6 – environment Total water consumed and the percentage of water 39, 77, 78, that is recycled and reused 79 Statement on quantum of emissions of greenhouse 37, 38 gases and eﬀorts made to reduce the same Statement on discharge of water and eﬄuents indicating the treatment done before discharge, and 39, 94 the destination of disposal Details of eﬀorts made for reconstruction 39 of bio-diversity Principle 7 – policy Statement on signiﬁcant policy advocacy eﬀorts 19 advocacy undertaken with details of the platforms used Details of community investment and development Principle 8 – work undertaken indicating the ﬁnancial resources 26-34 inclusive growth deployed and the impact of this work with a longer-term perspective Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 85 Sub Part Aspects Page No. Details of innovative practices, products and services that particularly enhance access and 26-34 allocation of resources to the poor and the marginalized groups of the society Statement on whether the labelling of their products has adequate information regarding B-1 product-related customer health and safety, NA method of use and disposal, product and process Principle 9 – standards observed customer value Details of the customer complaints on safety, Nil negative labelling and safe disposal of the products consequences received during the reporting period Part C of the report incorporates two important aspects on BR reporting. Part C-1 is a disclosure on by the business entity on any negative consequences of its operations on the social, environmental and economic fronts. The objective is to C encourage the business to report on this aspect in a transparent manner so that it can channelize its eﬀorts to mitigate the same. Part C-2 is aimed at encouraging the business to continuously improve its performance in the area of BR. • Brief report on any material/significant negative consequences of the operations C-1 of the business entity • Brief on goals and Social 24 targets in the area of social, environmental and economic C-2 Environmental 24 responsibilities that the business entity has set for itself for the Economic 24 next reporting period P. 86 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Scoping & Measuring the Material Goals Pillar-PriorityStakeholder Linkage to GRI – Material Goal/Scope How is it Material Materiality Topic Boundary Topic SOCIAL-HIGH-EMPLOYEES People • Hire the best of Our organization’s success is Employment (Internal) Wellbeing talent into the directly linked to our human 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 organization capital and its competencies, Non-discrimination (Internal) knowledge and experience. • Performance 406-1 Our people are our greatest oriented culture assets and we rely on them to Occupational Health • Recognize and deliver meaningful engineering and Safety (Internal) reward performance solutions to our customers. 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4 • Technology adoption Hence attracting, retaining, Training and Education in all people nurturing right mind-set and (Internal) related processes recognizing the best talent is 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 to enhance process our top most priority. Being born a digital company, we focus Diversity and Equal experience on technology adoption in our Opportunity (Internal) • Career and personal people related processes that 405-1, 405-2 development of focus on enhancing diversity, different groups overall wellbeing, providing high of Mindtree Minds performance and a fulfilling long through curated career. It also enables employee interventions. This engagement for strong business will include specific performance which is another of focus on diversity our key material issues. and inclusion • Managing change within the organization SOCIAL-MEDIUM-COMMUNITY Sustainable • Create sustainable Mindtree, right from inception, Indirect Economic Impacts Livelihoods livelihood has cared for the community (External) opportunities and has been an early adapter of 203-1, 203-2 CSR ahead of the law. Through • Benefit the Local Communities (External) Mindtree Foundation’s initiatives, differently-abled 413-1, 413-2 we have stayed responsive to • Promote education societal issues/needs. Thus, Socio-Economic Compliance as a humane organization, (External) deeper engagement with 419-1 community and active contribution to its development are our key priorities. Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 87 ECONOMIC-HIGH-INVESTORS, CUSTOMERS Business Simplify, Integral to the sustainability Economic Performance (Internal Performance Differentiate, of the organization. Our & External) Change reputation as perceived by 201-1, 201-3, 201-4 external stakeholders including Anti-corruption customers, investors and general (Internal & External) public depends on our business 205-1, 205-2, 205-3 performance. Ethical governance and good management results in Anti-competitive behaviour sustainable business practices (Internal & External) and strong performance, which 206-1 in turn drives financial inclusion. Child Labor Our strategy and focus enables (Internal & External) our customers’ businesses to 408-1 be sustainable and cascade the benefits to internal and external Forced or Compulsory Labor stakeholders. (Internal & External) 409-1 ENVIRONMENT-LOW-EMPLOYEES Ecological • Reduce per-capita in Mindtree is aware of its Environmental Compliance Stewardship next one year – 1% responsibility to reduce its (External) reduction in GHG carbon foot print. Managing 307-1 emissions, 3% in and rationalizing resource Energy (Internal) energy, 2% in water consumption is important as we 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, and 1% increase believe climate change could 302-4 in waste recycling significantly affect the way we over last year do business. This also provides Water (Internal) performance an opportunity for us to manage 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 risks, spur sustainable growth Emission (Internal) • Stringent and catalyze transition to low305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, environmental carbon economy which is a 305-5, 305-6, 305-7 compliance with national priority now. We have ISO 14001:2015 Effluents and Waste (Internal) a focused approach to make our certification 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, campuses and operations more sustainable. 306-4, 306-5 P. 88 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 GRI Content Index Disclosure Title Individual Page Disclosure GRI Standard disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) number(s) Number are not listed here and/or URL(s) 102-1 Name of the organization FRONT PAGE 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services AR 102-3 Location of headquarters 5 102-4 Location of operations AR 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 102-6 Markets served AR 102-7 Scale of the organization 5 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 62 102-9 Supply chain 40, 69 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes to the organization and its supply chain NO CHANGE 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 19, 40 102-12 External initiatives 19 General 102-13 Membership of associations 19 Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 7 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 7, AR 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 20, AR 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 20, 21, AR 102-18 Governance structure 20, AR 102-19 Delegating authority 20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and 102-20 20 social topics Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 20, 21, AR environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest 102-22 AR governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 102-25 Conﬂicts of interest AR Role of highest governance body in setting 102-26 20, AR purpose, values, and strategy Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 89 Disclosure Title Individual Page Disclosure GRI Standard disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) number(s) Number are not listed here and/or URL(s) 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 20, AR 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance AR Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 102-29 AR and social impacts 102-30 Eﬀectiveness of risk management processes AR 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 20 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Sustainability Reporting 20 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 20 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 20, 21, AR 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio AR 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio AR 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21 General Disclosures 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 21 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21-23 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 21 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements AR 102-46 Deﬁning report content and topic boundaries 18, 87, 88 102-47 List of material topics 24 102-48 Restatements of information NO CHANGE 102-49 Changes in reporting NO CHANGE FRONT PAGE, 102-50 Reporting period 18 102-51 Date of most recent report 18 102-52 Reporting cycle 18 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report BACK PAGE 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 18 102-55 GRI content index 89-92 102-56 External assurance 95 P. 90 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Disclosure Title Individual Page Disclosure GRI Standard disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) number(s) Number are not listed here and/or URL(s) 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 87-88 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 26, 36, 48, 56 Approach 25, 35, 41, 47, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 55, 61-81 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 61 Economic 201-3 Deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations and other retirement plans 61 Performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from the Government 62 Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 30-32, AR Economic Impacts 203-2 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts 30-32 Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 40 Practices 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 100% Coverage Anti-corruption Communication and training about 205-2 100% Coverage Anti-corruption policies and proceduress 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken NONE AntiLegal actions for anti-competitive behavior, competitive 206-1 NONE Behavior anti-trust and monopoly practices 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 75, 76, 77 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 73, 74, 75 Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 71 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 37, 38 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 77, 78, 79 Water 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water NONE 303-3 Water recycled and reused 39 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 71-73 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 71-73 Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 37, 71-75 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 71 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 37, 72-75 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 37, 74 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), 305-7 37, 75 and other significant air emissions Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 91 Disclosure Title Individual Page Disclosure GRI Standard disclosure items (‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’, etc.) number(s) Number are not listed here and/or URL(s) 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 94 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 79, 80, 81 Eﬄuents and Waste 306-3 Signiﬁcant spills NONE 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste NA 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff NONE Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations NONE Compliance 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 63-65 Employment Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees 401-2 67 that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 69 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker 403-1 52 health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 403-2 70 Occupational days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Health and Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Safety 403-3 70 related to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 403-4 70 with trade unions 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 68 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Training 404-2 50 assistance programs and Education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 404-3 69 career development reviews Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 62, AR and Equal Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 68 Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken AR discrimination Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for Child Labor 408-1 40 (NONE) incidents of child labor Forced or Operations and suppliers at signiﬁcant risk for incidents of Compulsory 409-1 40 (NONE) Labor forced or compulsory labor Operations with local community engagement, impact 413-1 29 assessments and development programs Local Communities Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative 413-2 NONE impacts on local communities Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-1 NONE Compliance economic area P. 92 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Data Assumptions The company owns four vehicles. An assumed average of 30 km per day is used. Mindtree has arrived at the average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Company Mindtree facilities from the center of the city. Thus, by multiplying the average km per day owned by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) we arrive at the total kilometers vehicles travelled. Emission factors are bifurcated into petrol and diesel based on the make of the vehicle. Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5 kg. This figure has been utilized Fuel usage in the event that locations have provided the number of LPG gas cylinders being used as opposed to the kg. For HFC’s the global warming potential of the refrigerant with a conversion factor of Refrigerant 0.001 is used in standard formula to convert into CO2e. a. For company leased vehicles, the fuel make of the vehicle is considered to determine petrol vs. diesel vehicles. An average of the monthly petrol and diesel prices of all major Indian cities has been considered to compute the total litres consumed. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. b. Assumed an average of 30 km per passenger per day for public transport. We have arrived at the average distance commuted by assuming the average round distance of Mindtree facilities from the center of the city. Thus, by multiplying the average passenger km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) and the number of employees who use the service, the total kilometers travelled are computed. It is assumed that the emission factor for public transport to be that of bus (type unknown) as Employee a majority of employees using public transport commute by bus services. Commute c. Public transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference, i.e. by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Mindtree operated buses from the total number of employees in the India operations. d. Mindtree uses parking lot figures to determine a factor of the employees using four-and two-wheelers. e. For four-and two-wheelers, the emissions on account of employee commuting have been computed based on the assumption arrived from the company leased vehicles that 70% of fuel costs assumed are be associated with petrol, 30% of fuel costs assumed to be associated with diesel. The kilometers are calculated by assuming an average of 30 km per passenger per day – with a similar principle to that of public transport. a. GHG protocol provides different emission factors for domestic, short haul and long haul flights. A distance based classification into these categories is more appropriate. Based on an assumption and a study of available literature, Mindtree has considered the following Business travel categorisation to classify all flights as per the categorization below: (international & domestic) Domestic, less than 463 km • Short haul, between 464 and 1,108 km • Long haul, greater than 1,108 km Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 93 a. Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of batteries being used as opposed to the kg. b. Weight of 1 litre of used oil is considered as 0.88 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of litres of used oil being disposed of as opposed to the kg. c. Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126 g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of CFLs being disposed of as opposed to the kg. d. Weight of one tubelight is considered as 250 g. This figure has been utilized in the event that locations have provided the number of tubelights being disposed of as opposed to the kg. e. Weight of one DG filter is considered as 1.50 kg. This figure has been utilized in the event Waste that locations have provided the number of DG filters being disposed of opposed to the kg. f. The average weight of Municipal solid waste (wet/dry) generated is considered as 0.50 kg/person/month. 50% of this is considered as dry waste which is recycled. g. In the event that waste (Oil soaked cotton and DG filters) have been disposed but there is no record of the same, averages of the available data have been considered for those months. h. Emissions associated with waste disposed have been considered as opposed to disposed + generated + stored. i. Since clarity on the disposal methodology is not available, more conservative emission factors are used. Emission factor for domestic is used for domestic air freight and emission factor for Freight international is that of long haul. »» For smaller locations where the builder maintains the total water consumed, figures are obtained by the total water consumed in with accurate measure by the total number of Water employees. »» Drinking water is collected in the form of number of cans. This is multiplied by 20 litres (capacity of the bubble top) to provide the total number of litres. »» Air emissions are not measured monthly, and hence are extrapolated for the Air emissions months not measured. Notes yy The rupee-US dollar exchange rate taken as INR 64.5118 for the year 2017-18, INR 70.12 for 2018-19 and INR 76.42 for 2019-20. yy No significant changes in structure or nature of operations during the year, which may have a bearing in the Sustainability Reporting. yy All our employees and security personnel are trained in human rights policies, procedures and also in Integrity policy. They follow a code of conduct. yy None of our operations are complicit in child/forced/compulsory labour; Our contracts with suppliers include clauses covering the same. yy We have no trade unions and no collective bargaining agreements. yy The GRI Standards Content Index prepared as per GRI Standards 2016. yy No human rights violation found in our organization or our value chain. yy During our STP upgradation, 2.2 kl treated water discharged into common STP of Pune Municipal Corporation. P. 94 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement Scope and Approach DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited (DNVGL), has been commissioned by Mindtree Limited (‘Mindtree’ or ‘the Company’,Corporate Identity Number (CIN)L72200KA1999PLC025564) to undertake independent assurance of the Company’s Sustainability Report 2019-20, in its printed format (‘the Report’) including references to the Annual Report 2019-20for the financial year ending 31st March 2020. The sustainability disclosures in this Report have been prepared based on the identified material topics and related performance disclosures based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards (‘GRI Standards’) coveringthe economic, environmental and social performance for the activities undertaken by the Company for the financial year 1st April 2019 31st March 2020. The reporting scope and boundary encompasses economic, environment and social performance of Mindtree’s operations i.e. economic performance pertains to global operations, whereas social and environmental performance is limited to Indian operations, as brought out in the Report in the section ‘Report Overview’. We performed a limited level of verificationbased on our assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practices including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised* and GRI Principles for Defining Report Content and Quality. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out duringMarch 2020– June 2020.The intended user of this assurance statement is the management of Mindtree. Responsibilities of the Management of Mindtreeandthe Assurance Provider The Management has the sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report and are responsible for all information disclosed in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, analysing and reporting the information presented in the printed Report and maintaining integrity of online versions of the Report and related references. In performing this assurance work, DNV GL’s responsibility is to the Management of the Company; however,this statement represents our independent opinion and is intended to inform the outcome of the assurance to the stakeholders of Mindtree. We did not provide any services to Mindtree, which in our opinion, would have constituted a conflict of interest with this assurance work. Our assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by Mindtree to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith and free from mis-statements. We were not involved in the preparation of any statement or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Basis of our Opinion As part of the assurance process, a multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed remote assessment through DNV GL remote assessment methodology and sampled the disclosures related to its material topics across key locations.We undertook the following activities: 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on www.dnvgl.com * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Project No: PRJN-178560-2020-AST-IND Page 1 of 4 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 95  Reviewedthe approach to stakeholder engagement and materiality determination process and the outcome as brought out in this Report;  Reviewed the process of reporting on Organisational Profile, Strategy, Ethics and Integrity, Governance, Stakeholder Engagement andReporting Practices based on GRI Standard 102: 2016;  Reviewed the performance disclosure of identified material topics and related GRI standards i.e remote assessment of the processes for gathering and consolidating performance data related to identified material topics and, for a sample, checking the data consolidation to assess the Reliability and Accuracy of reported performance disclosures based on GRI Topic Specific Standards;  Interviewed responsible personnel for management of sustainability issues and reviewed selected evidences to support issues disclosed in the Report.  Considering the COVID 19 issue, we carried out remote audits of Mindtree operations to review the processes and systems for aggregating site level sustainability information i.e. reviewed sustainability disclosures for selected sites i.e. Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar(Kalinga campus),Chennai, Pune and Hyderabad, and overall data aggregation and consolidationby sustainability team at the Corporate Office, Bengaluru;  Reviewed draft and final sustainability report and presented a gap assessment report. During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement.The reported data on economic performance, expendituretowardsCorporate Social Responsibility(CSR)activities,andother financial data are based on audited financial statements issued by the Company’s statutory auditors. Opinion On the basis of the verification undertaken, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe Mindtree’ssustainability performance including adherence to the Principles for Defining Report Content and following material topics:  GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 – 201-1, 201-3, 201-4;  GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1, 203-2;  GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1;  GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 – 205-1, 205-2;  GRI 302: Energy 2016 – 302-1 to 4;  GRI 303: Water 2016 – 303-1, 303-3;  GRI 305: Emissions 2016 – 305-1to7;  GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 – 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4;  GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 – 307-1;  GRI 401: Employment 2016 – 401-1, 401-2, 401-3;  GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 – 403-1, 403-2;  GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 – 404-1, 404-2, 404-3;  GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 – 405-1, 405-2;  GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 – 406-1;  GRI 408: Child Labour 2016 – 408-1;  GRI 409: Forced and Compulsory Labour – 409-1;  GRI 413:Local Communities 2016 – 413-1, 413-2;  GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1. Observations Without affecting our assurance opinion, we provide the following observations against the principles of VeriSustain and GRI reporting principles: Project No: PRJN-178560-2020-AST-IND Page 2 of 4 P. 96 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Materiality The process of determining the issues that is most relevant to an organization and its stakeholders. The Report explains the process of the materiality determination based on GRI reporting principles as adopted by the Company. The process was based on an internal materiality determination exercise conducted in past, inputs from senior management of the Company, and applicable sustainability reporting frameworks such as the Carbon Disclosure Project, UN Global Compact, Business Responsibility Report and National Voluntary Guidelines. Report states that there was no change in material topics during the reporting period. Nothing has come to our attention to believe that the materiality process has not missed out any known material topics based the current business of Mindtree and sustainability context. Stakeholder Inclusiveness The participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to Sustainability. The Report has explained the process of identification of stakeholders and their key concerns in section 'Focus on Stakeholders and Materiality' of the Report. Mindtree identifies and prioritizes its key stakeholdersegments based ontheir impact on the organization and the organization’simpact on them. Further the Report articulates how various forumspromoted by Mindtree constantly engage with all the stakeholders and collect stakeholder concerns, which in turn act asinputs for strengthening the Company's policies, strategies, actions, andmateriality assessment. Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness. Responsiveness The extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues. The Report bring out details on howMindtree responds to key material issues through organizational policies, strategies and management systems including key performance indicators for the identified material topics based on identified GRI standards.It will be good to further strengthen management approach,impacts created and governance in line with the ESG frameworks. Nothing has come to our attention to believe that the organization has not met the principle of Responsiveness. Reliability The accuracy and comparability of information presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data management systems. Mindtree has developed aspreadsheet-based sustainability disclosure system to capture key sustainability disclosures across its reporting boundary. The majority of data and information verified by us were found to be fairly accurate and reliable.Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process of the sample data setsverifiedwere found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors. The data inaccuracies have been communicated for correction and the related disclosures were reviewed for correctness. Completeness Project No: PRJN-178560-2020-AST-IND Page 3 of 4 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 97 How muc ch of all the information n that has been b identifiied as mateerial to the organisation o n and its stakeh holders is re eported. The Repo ort has appllied GRI’s Principle P of CCompletene ess as defined in GRI 101: 1 Founda ation 2016, in relation to coverage e of material topics for f its chosen reportiing bounda aries; however, Mindtree may furth her strengtthen its disclosures related to Human rights assessme ent and Supplier social assessmentt in future re eporting perriods. Nothing has h come to o our attention to sugge est that the e Report doe es not meett the Princip ple of Complete eness with respect to th he identified e d scopei.e. economic ass global, env vironmentall and social performance limited l to Indian I opera ation as sig gnificant impact has be een reporte ed to occur within Indiaforr the reporting period. Neutralitty The exten nt to which a report prrovides a ba alanced acco ount of an o organization n’s performa ance, delivered in a neutra al tone. The Repo ort brings ou ut disclosurres related tto Mindtree’s sustainab bility performmance inclu uding key conce erns and ch hallenges faced during the reportin ng period inn a neutral tone t in termms of content anda presenta ation. Nothing has come to our atttention to suggest that the Re eport does not meet the requireme ents related d to the Prin nciple of Neu utrality. For DNV GL G Business s Assurance India Private Limited Thamizh harasiKaliap perumal Vadakepattth Nandkum mar Praasun Kundu Lead Ve erifier Head – Reg gional Asssurance Rev viewer DNV GL Business Assurance Sustainability Operatio ons DNNV GL Busin ness Assurance India Private Limite ed, India. DNV GL Business Assurance Inddia Private Limited, L India. India Privatte Limited, India. I 19thJune2019, Bengaluru, India a. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------DNV GL Bus siness Assuran art of DNV GL – Business As ate Limitedis pa nce India Priva ssurance, a glo obal provider of certificattion, verificatiion, assessmeent and trainin h ng services, helping custom mers to buildd sustainable business peerformance. ww ww.dnvgl.com P. 98 Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 Glossary of Acronyms Acronym Expansion ADM Application Development & Maintenance AR Annual Report BCP Business Continuity Planning BoD Board of Director BOT Build-Operate-Transfer BRR Business Responsibility Report CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CO2e Carbon Dioxide equivalent COO Chief Operating Oﬃcer COVID-19 Coronavirus Disease of 2019 CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DG Diesel Generator EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization EDGES Ethnicity, Disability, Gender and Sexual Orientation EES Economic, Environmental and Social EHS Environmental, Health and Safety ESG Environmental, Social and Governance FY Financial Year GHG Green House Gases GJ Giga Joules GRIS Global Reporting Initiative Standards HFC Hydro Flouro Carbon IIRC International Integrated Reporting Council IoT Internet of Things IR Integrated Reporting ISG Information Services Group KRA Key Responsibility Areas kWh Kilowatt-hour LED Light-Emitting Diode LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design NOx Oxides of Nitrogen OECD The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development NVG RBSEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Sequence PwD People with Disability SDG Sustainability Development Goal SOx Oxides of Sulphur SPM Suspended Particulate Matter STP Sewage Treatment Plant UNGC United Nations Global Compact Mindtree Limited | Sustainability Report 2019-20 P. 99 Mindtree, Global Village, RVCE Post, Contact Details: Mysore Road, Bengaluru 560 059 Surendra Kumar Pendekanti Karnataka, India. Head – Sustainability Telephone: +91 80 6706 4000 surendrakp@mindtree.com We welcome any feedback & suggestions to further strengthen our sustainability programs Online report http://www.mindtree.com/sustainability/ mindtree-sustainability-report.pdf Sustainability Report Partner: Bhairavi Business & Consultancy
