Corporate Social Responsibility Communication on Progress Grant Thornton Armenia February 2020 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Grant Thornton CJSC 8/1 Vagharshyan Str. 0012 Yerevan, Armenia T + 374 10 260 964 F + 374 10 260 961 www.grantthornton.am STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Yerevan, Armenia February, 2020 Living in the 21st century, both as citizens and as organizations, we bear full responsibility over not only how we act, behave and treat others, but collectively over how we act, behave and treat our community, our country and the world at large. Corporate social responsibility is no longer a fancy concept for holding large corporates accountable, it is an integral part of any living and breathing organism. True believers of the concept need to undertake greater responsibility for role modeling and involving more and more people into doing something good for our community, doing it better and making conscious and sustainable choices. That is one of the reasons Grant Thornton Armenia joined the UN Global Compact in 2006. As part of the United Nations Global Compact since 2006, we have committed to the principles of the Compact and adhere to them on policy and practice levels. The values and principles of the Global Compact are reflected in all aspects of our internal and external activity. Grant Thornton CJSC reiterates its full commitment to the ten principles of the Compact and believes that by being part of the Compact, we benefit as an organization and make our contribution to promotion of the principles and achieving greater sustainability within our community. We hereby report on implementation of the Global Compact principles and commit to remain true to them in the future. Yours sincerely, Gagik Gyulbudaghyan Chairman of the Board Grant Thornton CJSC Member of Grant Thornton International Ltd Audit, Tax, Advisory ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Foreword Welcome to the 2020 edition of our “Communication on progress” report, capturing our commitment to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and demonstrating how we bring them to life in our everyday life! At Grant Thornton, in Armenia and across the world, we remain true to the values of our global organization and work together for the greater good of our people, our clients and our communities. Gagik Gyulbudaghyan Chairman of the Board 3 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. • Grant Thornton is a founding partner of IMPACT2030 and in 2018 Peter Bodin, Grant Thornton International CEO, was named as its new Chair of the Board. • IMPACT2030 is a private sector led coalition which aims to direct the collective skills, experience and passion of corporate volunteers towards helping the United Nations achieve their Sustainable Development Goals. Peter Bodin CEO, Grant Thornton International Ltd 4 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Grant Thornton values Collaboration Leadership Excellence Agility Respect Responsibility Unite through Demonstrate Promote a Act with Ensure Take global Leadership consistent Agility deep Responsibility Collaboration in all we do culture of Respect for for our actions Excellence people 5 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Our Global Strategy • Founded on our six guiding principles, Growing Together in the community is Grant Thornton's commitment to community engagement. • It advocates the impact each person can make by being passionately involved in their community. • Many inspiring people from Grant Thornton across the globe provide innovative, generous and resourceful services to the communities they work and live in. 6 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Celebrating CSR together • Every year in September all Grant Thornton people unite for a common cause to make a difference in their local communities and to spread this message of unity for better future around the world. Our 2019 CSR day was marked with a visit to “Bari Tnak”, where professional services are provided to children with disabilities and their families, as well as it serves as a shelter for them. Follow our hashtag to see how our people are making a difference. 7 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. We know CSR is about believing and translating the words and promises into real actions! We helped Bari Tnak clean the territory of the 2nd building from trash and construction waste, as well as add some colors by painting inside and outside the main building. 8 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Equality Human Grant Thornton Armenia exercises equal treatment to the employees throughout the entire chain from recruitment, assessment of performance to termination of employment. No distinction of race, rights color, gender, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, is made when employing, further retaining or terminating employment of persons in the company (Article 2 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights). Assessment of human resource is made only on the basis of relevance of education, professional qualifications and behavioral competencies to the requirements of the job position. The assessment methodology and logic is communicated to the employees prior the exercise. Gender balance Grant Thornton does not discriminate on the basis of gender distinction among its employees. Grant Thornton signifies the potential of youth and as a socially responsible employer Promotion of male and female employees in carried out on equal basis. More than 55% of senior is committed to encourage youth and their professional development. The company and managerial positions in the company are occupied by women. has a stable cooperation history with educational institutions in Armenia and within this cooperation a number of young students every year are provided with the Equal treatment opportunity to gain tangible work experience and practice. Everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work, everyone who works has the right to just and Grant Thornton regularly hosts student interns, seeking to fulfill course requirements favorable remuneration. The Human Resources Policies and Procedures Manual, the main and acquire practical skills. On average each internship lasts 4-12 weeks. Annually regulation of the firm for HR matters, illustrates the firm’s organizational structure, as well as the over 20 internships are hosted by the firm. The company provides them with policy on remuneration, which is equal for equal positions and equal amount of work. Along with respective technical resources, allocates specialists to provide support and training to the rights of employees to work in equal and favorable conditions, the firm also respects the right to rest and leisure. Each employee is entitled to 24 business days of paid vacation, which exceeds interns. Upon completion of the internship those students, whose performance has the minimum set out by the Labor Code of the Republic of Armenia by 4 additional days, as per the been assessed as highly satisfactory, often are offered with employment Employment Contract provisions. opportunities. Education In 2019, Grant Thornton sponsored two hackathons organized for supporting professional growth of IT students, as well as identifying any gaps in cybersecurity of Employee’s right to education is respected and continuous professional and educational development is target organizations to support them cover those. The firm awarded winners with encouraged on all levels. Per the Human Resources Policies and Procedures Manual, employees in prizes, but more importantly, provided a 3-month internship at the firm’s Business certain positions are required to fulfill annually at least 40 hours of continuous professional education. In the reporting period, 64 employees of the company were enrolled in special professional education Risk Services department, that offers one of a kind services within the whole region. courses, the expenses for which are covered by the company. 10 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Business should support the effective abolition of child labor Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Labour and occupation standards Equal employer Grant Thornton does not discriminate on the basis of race, age, sex, origin, marital status, religious or political conviction, and other characteristics. The company follows the policy of equal opportunity in employment and aims to create an environment free of direct or indirect discrimination and harassment. The recruitment and termination of employment are carried out in complete accordance with the Labor Code of the Republic of Armenia. The minimum age of employees is 18 years. Policies and procedures The firm has deployed a new system, MyPerformance, which combines self-assessment and line manager’s assessment. The new program includes evaluation by objectives and behavioral The internal policies of Grant Thornton are in full consistency with the firm’s commitment to competencies, as well as measures the impact an employee has in achieving organizational corporate social responsibility. They are set out in the Human Resources Policies and and team goals. The new approach focuses on ongoing feedback and coaching conversations Procedures Manual, which is updated on regular basis to accommodate the human resource between the employee and manager. needs of the firm. The policies and procedures of Grant Thornton are in line with the labor legislation of the Republic of Armenia. Recruitment Employment When recruiting within Grant Thornton, the following procedures are followed: Grant Thornton Armenia continuously invests in improvement of working conditions and • Public announcement of a new or vacant position is made based on which interested ensures that labor standards are met at all levels of its activity. The personnel of the company applicants submit their applications; is provided with up to date equipment and convenient working conditions. The office of the • Initial screening of applications is carried out and short-listed applicants are required to company is equipped with consideration of necessary safety and technical parameters and complete a test developed especially for the specificities of the job, based on which it is fully complies with commonly accepted standards. possible to assess their knowledge and skills outlined in the job specification. Written test of Personnel evaluation the professional aspect of a foreign language (usually English) is mandatory. A second round of face-to-face interviews is then organized. Grant Thornton, guided by the Human Resources Policies and Procedures Manual, fully adheres to its commitment to provide equal opportunities for all. For this purpose annually all • When hired, a probation period of up to 3 months is assigned to the newly recruited employees within the company undergo an appraisal. employees, during which they undergo training in the areas of specific programs and topics required for their work. 11 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. …continued Education Grant Thornton is committed to: Labour • encouraging and sustaining professional development of its employees and their training aimed at acquiring job-related knowledge, skills and abilities. standards • supporting the employees on their path of professional development, through both formal and on-job training, as well as assisting them in attaining professional qualification. • creation of multicultural and diverse working environment, and hence encourages crossborder internships and secondments. • sponsoring participation of employees in service line conferences, technical trainings and Benefit package workshops. Throughout the reporting period the company covered expenses for qualification exams, professional trainings and publications of more than 25 staff members. Compensation scheme is developed based on factors indicating proper levels of motivation, loyalty The company also organizes series of internal professional developments programs and aspiration for continuous professional growth. The company also offers other benefits to developed to meet the needs of individual staff members as they progress in the firm. employees, which aim to provide tools, conditions and mechanisms for staff to perform assigned These include professional trainings for personnel that advance to positions of consultants, duties, create vigorous social atmosphere, enforce corporate culture, as well as stimulate lawyers, auditors, in-charge auditors, and managers and induction program for newly hired professional and academic growth of all staff members. employees. All of these trainings supplement the professional qualification trainings (MBA certification programs or Association of Chartered Certified Accountants), the accountant • mobile telephones and SIM cards for all professional staff members, except assistants; qualification and auditor license trainings (Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Armenia). • transportation by company vehicles for staff members travelling on company business on daily • Grant Thornton strongly encourages professional personnel to attain membership of an basis and/or reimbursement of travel expenses incurred; appropriate professional body. For the personnel of the company such professional bodies • additional 4 days of paid vacation per annum; include, but are not limited to: • reimbursement of expenses incurred in obtaining professional qualifications, and fees related to  the Association of Accountants and Auditors of Armenia (AAAA, Armenia), membership in professional associations, obtaining and maintaining licenses and certifications;  the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA, UK), • reimbursement of costs incurred in connection with attendance of professional conferences,  the Project Management Institute (PMI, USA) seminars, training programs;  the Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM, UK). • provision of health insurance to the employees and members of their immediate family. The company covers up to 70% of insurance expenses, depending on the income level of the employee. 12 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment Within Grant Thornton all necessary steps are taken to ensure maximal decrease of utilization of environmental resources and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. On annual basis the company updates its technological base to ensure that equipment with lower electricity spending is used. Among these updates are the introduction and intensive use of double-sided printers, which allow a significant decrease in the usage of paper. For the past 8 years already, Grant Thornton CJSC has stopped printing of hard copy Christmas / New Year cards for the purposes of reducing paper consumption. Only electronic greeting cards are used by the firm. Overall printed matter is reduced to the possible minimum, and employees are encouraged to use electronic copies of documents. Since 2019, Grant Thornton has established partnership with “Apaga” community, which is a platform that brings together like-minded people and organizations who are interested in bringing to the minimum the waste in their communities. The firm now separates plastic and paper waste and recycles them with “Apaga”. There are no small steps when you want to do something good. 13 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption Ethical standards and anti-corruption in Grant Thornton The Ethics and Quality Control Manual (EQCM), published by Grant Thornton International, and updated on regular basis, incorporates the organization’s policy on ethical standards within the profession and standards against which quality is to be ensured. Among many of the issues targeted by the EQCM, the issue of maintaining independence is of primary importance. Specifically, the ECQM states that: – Personnel and the member firm should not engage in any business, occupation or activity that impairs or might impair integrity or objectivity where professional standards require us As part of its strategy to maintain transparency and accountability to the public, the to maintain independence. company closely cooperates with media. Grant Thornton always speaks out on matters – Persons of certain positions, such as partners, managers of members of the assurance that are important from the perspective of its sphere and to the wide society in general. team, are restricted from having any interest in an entity which is restricted globally. Annually, the company organizes press conferences, issues several dozen press – Employees are restricted from accepting any gifts or hospitality from a client of the firm unless the value is clearly insignificant. Gifts and hospitality with a value of less than USD releases and remains fully transparent and open to the public. 100 will be assumed to be insignificant. Accountability and Transparency global Accountability and Transparency local Grant Thornton CJSC, as a member of Grant Thornton International, reports to the organization on its activity. Besides that, regularly Grant Thornton International carries – Grant Thornton annually reports to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of out review on member firm compliance with the set requirements and standards. This Armenia. By means of this reporting, the company once again ensures that all procedure ensures that each member firm abides the requirements of membership and, internal procedures and its activity are transparent and fair. upon breach of the standards, immediate measures are taken. Transparency of the global organization and its member firms is of unquestionable importance in this – Internal transparency and accountability is ensured by the existence of 11partners in profession. Earning and retention of credibility of public and clients is again of utmost the company. Each partner is fully accountable to others, providing sound basis for importance. With this in mind, Transparency Report is issued by Grant Thornton transparent and fair activity. International each year. The report is publicly available through the websites of the global organization and its member firms and is disseminated among stakeholders. 14 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved. Contact us Grant Thornton Armenia Address 1: 8/1 Vagharshyan Str.,Yerevan 0012, Armenia Address 2: Piazza Grande, Suite 109, 1st floor, 10 V. Sargsyan Str., Yerevan, 0010, Armenia T +374 (0)10 26 09 64 / +374 (0)10 54 51 48 E gta@am.gt.com W www.grantthornton.am 15 ©2020 Grant Thornton CJSC. All rights reserved.
