2018 Sustainability Update Making Life Better Through Sustainability COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS Ingredion is a Fortune 500 global ingredient solutions Our Purpose company with 2018 net sales of $5.8 billion. We bring the potential of people, nature and We are a leading global ingredient solutions provider. technology together Headquartered outside Chicago, Illinois, we serve more to create ingredient than 60 diverse sectors in the food, beverage, animal solutions that make nutrition, brewing and other industries. life better. Our Values Ingredients Launched in 2018, our refreshed company values describe the We provide on-trend ingredient solutions to help our customers meet 11,000 approximately commitments that define our character. The values are being rapidly evolving consumer demands. Our starches, sweeteners, gums, assimilated within our global organization to strengthen the biomaterials and specialty ingredients address key consumer trends employee experience and support our business. in health and nutrition, clean and simple labels, texture and sensory appeal, convenience and affordability. employees CARE FIRST. We actively work to safeguard and enable the well-being of our people, the quality of our products, and our reputation for trust and integrity. Innovation Ingredion and innovation are synonymous. We turn ideas into science120 customers in more than BE PREFERRED. We earn the right to be customer-preferred based solutions for customers through an expanding portfolio of by delivering mutual enduring value at every touchpoint of the starches, sweeteners, nutritional ingredients, natural concentrates, customer experience. fibers and pulse proteins. countries EVERYONE BELONGS. We embrace diversity and proactively foster an inclusive work environment where each person is valued and feels inspired to contribute their best. FOOD 1,000 more than INNOVATE BOLDLY. We courageously strive for breakthrough 53% BEVERAGE 11% innovations driven by our relentless curiosity, bold thinking, ANIMAL NUTRITION speed of decision-making, and agile execution. 10% BREWING 7% OTHER ingredient solutions OWNER’S MINDSET. We think and act like owners — where everyone takes personal responsibility to anticipate Based on 2018 net sales challenges, proactively search for opportunities and make 19% decisions that are in the best interest of the company. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS <1> Global Presence Company Headquarters Production Facility Ingredion Idea Labs® Headquarters Ingredion Idea Labs® Innovation Center Sales/Representative Office NORTH AMERICA 2018 SOUTH AMERICA 2018 ASIA PACIFIC 2018 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA 2018 $3.5B $545MM 39% 7% $943MM $99MM 21% 6% $803MM $104MM 25% 57% $584MM $116MM 15% 30% of net sales operating of customers of world’s of net sales operating of customers of world’s of net sales operating of customers of world’s of net sales operating of customers of world’s income population income population income population income population Ingredion Value Chain Our value chain extends from the sourcing of agricultural and other raw materials to our global manufacturing network, and on to our customers who make food, beverages, paper, personal care products and more for consumers around the world. • Agricultural crops • Food Corn • Specialty Starches • Food • Beverage Tapioca • Sweeteners • Beverage Raw Global • Brewing Potato • Industrial Starches Customers Consumers • Brewing Materials Rice Manufacturing • Biopolymer Innovation • Paper and Corrugating • Paper • Animal Nutrition Fruits and Vegetables • Personal Care • Beauty and Home • Beauty and Home • Gums COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS <2> “Sustainability guides the way we do business and is essential to our planet and the communities where we operate.” To Our Customers, Shareholders, Employees and Neighbors: Sustainability at Ingredion is essential for the operate sustainably as we strive to be the second-best performance ever. On a daily basis, contemporized values. I have a tremendous long-term growth and health of our business. This Company of Choice for a Sustainable Tomorrow we are committed to providing our employees passion for building a diverse and inclusive report commemorates our eighth Sustainability for our employees, customers, neighbors and with a safe and secure workplace as we strive to organization that attracts and develops great Update reflecting our commitment to our people, investors. achieve zero injuries. talent and operates within a high-performance, the individuals with whom we do business, the Because consumers are at the heart of In 2018, Ingredion celebrated our 10th conpurpose-driven team culture. communities in which we operate and the planet our business, everything we do starts with our secutive year on Fortune’s list of the World’s Most As we embark on the next chapter of our we all share. It outlines our sustainability vision passion for providing on-trend, high-quality Admired Companies, our sixth consecutive year sustainability journey, we will continue to add and the goals we are pursuing, and the belief ingredients. Now, more than ever, our customers, on Ethisphere’s list of the World’s Most Ethical rigor and discipline to our future plans, goals and that business has a vital role to play in creating stakeholders and consumers expect more from Companies and our second consecutive year approaches, while simultaneously challenging a sustainable future for years to come. We have us. Our stakeholders rightfully expect us to be on Bloomberg’s Gender-Equality Index. These ourselves to fulfill our purpose of bringing made significant progress against our 2020 goals, transparent about our progress against goals, as acknowledgements serve as important markers together the potential of people, nature and but we know that we must continue to establish well as our business practices. Our sustainability of our progress. We are committed to operating technology to create ingredient solutions that new milestones to continually drive progress, efforts have always been strengthened by open with integrity and maintaining high ethical make life better. I am truly energized about which is why we are busy working on new 2030 dialogue with many stakeholders. The diverse outstandards everywhere we do business. Likewise, what is possible in the future. sustainability targets. side perspectives that we cultivate will continue we are committed to the principles of the United It has been a year of progress on many to help shape and influence our actions and how Nations Global Compact, and use this update as fronts, and this report highlights some of the we implement initiatives around the world. It is an opportunity to communicate our progress. Sincerely, 2018 activities in our much broader sustainability important that our efforts not only bring value We continue to focus on our themes of journey — enhancing the transparency and to Ingredion, but also lead to measurable and health and education. We do this with continued sustainability of our supply chain, creating new meaningful improvements in the communities support from organizations such as The Global programs to drive performance, continuing to in which we operate. FoodBanking Network, as we proudly enter our collaborate with stakeholders, and launching The safety and health of our employees seventh year of collaboration. And finally, in James P. Zallie refreshed values and a new purpose. I am proud continue to be at the top of my list of priorities. response to shifting consumer trends, we made President and Chief Executive Officer of the progress we have made on these fronts Our safety programs continue to facilitate safe great strides to sharply align our specialties April 22, 2018 as well as the early achievement of our carbon performance and work environments, and in 2018 strategy toward future growth opportunities, emission reduction and sustainable sourcing we exceeded our internal annual safety goals for underpinned by significant investments targets. It is critical to our success that we employees and contractors and registered our and supported by a new core purpose and COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS <3> The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) outline the global 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The SDGs call for all countries to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. The SDGs outline 17 Goals for making the world more sustainable, with a focus on topics such as eliminating poverty, promoting gender equality and taking action to mitigate climate change. The Goals recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic growth and address a range of social needs including education, health, social protection and job opportunities while tackling environmental protection. We are working to further align our efforts with the SDGs, as demonstrated in our summary of progress on the next page. See a summary of our progress on the next page. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 4 > Focal Area Company Target Goal Actual SDG Alignment • GRI Index • Report on the business-relevant elements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) by Reported the end of 2017 • Achieve employee Total Recordable Incidence Rate (TRIR) of 0.20 by 2020 • 0.26* • 100% of our manufacturing sites have SMETA audits by the end of 2016 • 95% • 1 00% of our key suppliers are registered in Sedex and have SMETA audits by the end of 2017 • 66% • Reduce carbon emission intensity 10% by the end of 2020 (versus 2010 baseline) • –9.5% • Reduce water use intensity 10% by the end of 2020 (versus 2010 baseline) • –10.1% • All sites Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certified for pathogen testing by the end of 2017 • 100%** • 100% of microbiological labs ISO 17025 certified for pathogen testing by end of 2017 • 81% • 80% of all employees trained in Lean Six Sigma (LSS) by the end of 2018 • 79% • Sustainably source 1 million metric tons of crops by the end of 2018 • 2 ,170,000 • 1 00% of new innovation platforms assessed for sustainability considerations • 100% by the end of 2018 • Triple our engagements in food bank-related activity by 2020 • 680%*** * Exclusive of recent acquisitions: Sun Flour and Huanong. ** Exclusive of Huanong acquisition. *** Goal completed in 2017. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS <5> Materiality Matrix Ingredion Sustainability Materiality Matrix In addition to our efforts to incorporate key stakeholder views into our materiality matrix, Ingredion has also referenced the • Continuous Improvement • Occupational Safety & Health • Water Management Social Accountability Standards Board (SASB) • Quality / Food Safety • Sustainable Agriculture VERY HIGH Materiality Matrix to determine additional considerations. “Developing and continually updating a Sustainability Matrix helps us • Diversity & Inclusion • Climate Change prioritize items that will deliver shared value to both Ingredion and our stakeholders,” says • Ethical Business Operations • Sustainable Innovation Brian Nash, senior director of sustainability. Engaging our Stakeholders RELEVANCE TO INGREDION Ingredion continues to engage our stakeholders in dialogue around sustainability topics that are important to them and how those topics might align with our current efforts. These topics also helped inform efforts such as our • Supplier Ethical Audits (SMETA) • Renewable Energy • Human Rights Audits (SMETA) materiality matrix. In 2018, we met with a • Employee Training • Community Engagement HIGH variety of stakeholders, including customers, investors, suppliers, NGOs and community members. “At the heart of our sustainability agenda is the belief that our efforts should provide shared value with our stakeholders,” says Larry Fernandes, senior vice president, chief commercial and sustainability officer. Ingredion believes engagement with our stakeholders is critical to our success. • Local Land Rights • GRI Reporting • Biodiversity MODERATE • Better for our employees • Better for our customers • Better for our communities • Better for our shareholders MODERATE HIGH VERY HIGH RELEVANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 6 > Employer of Choice BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES GOAL: Achieve a Total Recordable Incidence Rate of 0.20 by end of 2020 Continuing Excellence in Safety 2018 Actual: 0.26 Following are highlights from our 2018 safety performance: • Guadalajara celebrates 11 years without a Lost Time Case • Ingredion Japan celebrates 16 years without a Lost Time Case; • Kalasin, Thailand, site wins 2018 Outstanding Workplace Safety, Occupational Health and Working Environment award 2018 Safety Performance In 2018, Ingredion was pleased to achieve our second-best employee safety Mid-Year Safety Campaign performance. While we started off the year with a slightly higher number of Once again, Ingredion engaged in a mid-year safety campaign aimed at putting injuries, improved performance from July through December helped deliver overall additional emphasis on safety and reducing the statistical rise in injuries that has improvement in results. Our 2018 Lost Time Incidence Rate was 0.09. While this historically occurred in the mid-year months. This campaign was a success, resulting was slightly higher than our aspirations, we did see an overall 10% reduction in lost in our second-best mid-year safety results (behind 2017). The mid-year campaign workday rate. This shows that progress was made in both reducing injury severity, as was followed up with a “Line of Fire” campaign to further drive safety excellence. well as managing employees back to work. We are pleased that our efforts continue to drive year-on-year progress toward our 2020 targets. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS <7> BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES “Ingredion is committed to ensuring the safety of our employees, our communities 2018 Safety Poster Contest and the environment. In 2018, For the past several years, Ingredion has held an annual contest for our employees around the world to design a we were pleased to exceed our safety poster that will be displayed in Ingredion’s global internal safety goals for both facilities. The winning poster serves as a reminder of our employees and contractors deep commitment to the safety of our employees and those with whom we do business. In 2018, the winner and registered our second-best came from the Joint Health and Safety Committee in performance ever.” our Mississauga, Canada, office. The winning selection, chosen from more than 175 global entries, places awareness on hand safety and highlights that people are the 5 ZEROreasons to – Ron McCrimmond Vice President, Environment, Health, Safety and Security most important reason to work safely at all times. in on safety 21.2 2018 Winning Poster Design by: Mississauga, Ontario Canada Office Joint Health & Safety Committee Corrine Beneteau, Karen Howatt, Sandy Leane, Rick Pulfer & Bojana Zuna Winning Slogan by: Sherry LaMorticella, Indianapolis Indiana Average number of EHS training hours per employee within the organization In 2018, we conducted 233,778 hours of TRIR Performance Chart* TRIR Performance Chart* Environmental, Health and Safety training across Employees Contractors the organization. That is an average of 21.2 hours per employee, and represents a 4% increase from 2017 average training hours. Year TRIR Year TRIR ’10 1.02 ’10 1.01 ’11 0.68 ’11 0.61 North Charleston Plant ’12 0.50 ’12 0.42 Wins Safety Award ’13 0.31 ’13 0.54 ’14 0.23 ’14 0.41 Ingredion’s North Charleston, ’15 0.29 ’15 0.30 USA, plant received a safety ’16 0.28 ’16 0.31 award from the South Carolina ’17 0.28 ’17 0.13 ’18 0.26 ’18 0.23 Manufacturers Alliance, recognizing it for exceptional * New acquisitions are incorporated into safety statistics after the first full calendar year with the company. 2018 results for employees do not include acquisitions of Sun Flour and Huanong. workplace safety performance in 2018. Members of Ingredion’s North Charleston plant receive a safety award from Emily Farr, director of the South Carolina Department of Labor, Licensing, and Regulation. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 8 > BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Expanding Our Business Resource Groups (BRGs) In 2017, Ingredion launched two business resource groups (BRGs) aimed at supporting diversity and inclusion across the organization. ABLE – the Alliance of Black Employees – and WIN – the Women of Ingredion Network – provide platforms to help promote gender and racial equality. Since then, 11 new chapters of ABLE and WIN have launched across Ingredion, furthering these efforts. • INSPIRE – Ingredion’s Network for Supporting Intercultural Relations and Exchange; • NExT – Ingredion’s Network of Early Talent; and Advancing Women in Leadership • PRIDE at Ingredion – a network for LGBTQ+ employees and allies. Elizabeth Adefioye, senior vice president and chief human resources officer, was featured in the Women We believe that these BRGs will help provide a rewarding experience for all employees and Worth Watching issue of Profiles in Diversity Journal. enable them to meet their goals. These groups make Ingredion a magnet for extraordinary talent that will better enable us to deliver on performance objectives for the company and Profiles in Diversity Journal promotes and advances provide a better experience for our customers. diversity and inclusion in the corporate, government, nonprofit, higher education and military sectors. “Championing diversity and inclusion is a global & priority for Ingredion, and being included in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index is an important marker on the progress of our journey.” – Jim Zallie President and Chief Executive Officer INSPIRE: Ingredion’s Network for Supporting Intercultural Relations and Exchange NAMWOLF In 2018, Ingredion more than doubled our 2017 spend with NExT: Ingredion’s Network of Early Talent the National Association of Minority and Women Owned Pride at Ingredion (Network for LGBTQ+ Law Firms (NAMWOLF). While this support represents a employees and allies) small percentage of our overall spend, it helps emphasize the overall direction the company is taking to help promote diversity inside and outside our organization. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 9 > BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT GOAL: Train 80% of global employees Information Technology and Cybersecurity in Lean Six Sigma by the end of 2018 To better enable our employees to protect the data assets of our organization, Ingredion conducted information technology and cybersecurity training across our operations 2018 Actual: 79% in 2018. This training helped educate employees on topics such as email scams, threats like phishing and how to recognize attempts to secure sensitive information. Maintaining the integrity of our sensitive business information, as well as the information of organizations with which we do business, is a priority for Ingredion. In 2017, we reported that 85% of our global workforce was trained in Lean Six Sigma. In 2018, we undertook activities to further refine our North American Skills Training numbers by removing duplicates of people who went through multiple As part of our strategy to develop employees at all levels and lead to growth, training, employees no longer with the company, non-employee Ingredion delivered professional skills training to more than 500 employees contractors included in the training numbers and increased employee in North America over the course of 2018. The training occurred in 34 classes headcount from acquisitions. that were held in six cities throughout the US and Canada. This training focused on topics such as effective communication, personal breakthroughs, coaching for growth and building trust. The program was very successful, and we intend to continue the effort in 2019. Ingredion Learning Launch On November 8, 2018, we launched Ingredion Learning, an e-learning system administered through our human resources system, Workday. This system is available to Ingredion employees across the globe and gives them access to an extensive library of high-quality learning that suits their needs. Ingredion Learning is another mechanism we have developed to help the personal and professional development of our employees. Employees in Westchester collaborate at a professional skills training session. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 10 > Supplier of Choice BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS 100% GOAL: Sustainably source more than 1 million metric tons of crops by the end of 2018 2018 Actual: 2,170,000 sustainably sourced waxy corn supply in Europe Waxy Corn Supply We are proud to announce that 100% of our waxy corn supply in Europe is sustainably sourced. We utilize the SAI Platform Sustainably Sourced Raw Materials to assess and work with our growers. We have additional Ingredion continues to see increased interest from our customers looking to purchase products sustainable sourcing programs underway for waxy corn supplies derived from sustainably sourced raw materials. As such, we have had to more than double our globally, including Australia and the United States. Ingredion original target of 1 million metric tons of sustainably sourced crops. Trends show that consumers, utilizes waxy corn to produce innovative products that deliver particularly millennials, value brand transparency. They want to know where their products come the high functionality our customers seek to help drive their from and if they are made ethically and with respect for the planet. We utilize the Sustainable own performance and sustainability efforts. Agriculture Initiative Platform (SAI Platform), a benchmarking program, to assess our growers globally. This program enables us to collaborate with growers and evaluate their farming practices in terms of efficiency, human rights practices and environmental stewardship, among other criteria. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 11 > BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Sustainable Sourcing Volumes 2,170,000 (in metric tons) 225,000 1,690,000 SAI Platform Team Invited to Thailand Ingredion has made notable progress in our In June 2018, Ingredion was pleased to invite NIck Betts, SAI Platform sustainable sourcing efforts since 2015. We 802,000 director, Americas, and global projects lead, to speak in Thailand at the are pleased with our progress but understand World Tapioca Conference about the value of sustainable agriculture. that our journey is only beginning. As we 201 look to the future, we will continue to explore 5 areas such as soil health, water stewardship 201 6 and sustainable specialty grain sourcing. 201 7 2 018 Colombia GAP Program Ingredion is pleased to have its sustainable sourcing efforts achieve certification through the Colombia GAP program, certifying nearly half of our locally sourced cassava (tapioca) under that program. Helping to expand the dialogue around sustainable agriculture with various stakeholders – growers, processors, customers and NGOs – is critical to our future success, and something Ingredion sees as a responsibility under our sustainability program. Our effort to introduce the SAI Platform to a larger group of tapioca Customer Collaboration (cassava) growers is part of a larger effort to support agriculture in Thailand. Ingredion has worked closely In Sikhiu, our agricultural team worked to educate farmers about cassava with our customers to promote mosaic disease (CMD) and how to prevent it, while also working to launch sustainable sourcing activities in a good labor practices (GLP) village role model program in support of those the areas around the globe where working on farms. we source crops. For example, we have been collaborating with Coca-Cola in support of its effort to put one million acres of crops into the Field to Market stewardship alliance. In 2018, Coca-Cola asked Ingredion to write an article on our sustainable sourcing efforts for its website. Ingredion continues to look for opportunities like this to engage with our customers to help deliver mutual value across our supply chain. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 12 > BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS SMETA Audits To assess our operations, as well as to meet the growing expectations of our customers to validate GOAL: 100% of our manufacturing the ethical operations of their suppliers, Ingredion continues to conduct SMETA audits of our sites have SMETA audits by the end manufacturing sites. In 2018, we worked with Bureau Veritas to execute on these audits, which we of 2016 are currently conducting every three years, or more frequently in some instances when requested by our customers. While many Ingredion facilities achieved zero recommendations from their audits, 2018 Actual: 95% of those that did receive recommendations, the most common findings in 2018 were as follows: GOAL: 100% of our key suppliers Finding Additional Comments are registered in Sedex and have SMETA audits by the end of 2017 Ingredion follows local laws with regard to working 2018 Actual: 66% hours. Additionally, we may have collective bargaining agreements in place that allow for voluntary overtime Exceeding 60-hour work week selection by employees. We also track safety statistics to confirm that working hours are not contributing to workplace injuries. Ingredion follows local laws with regard to consecutive work days between days off. The number Progressing Our Efforts Working more than six consecutive of days worked in a row is determined by local labor Ingredion continues efforts to fold our newly acquired facilities into our social days without a day off laws, collective bargaining agreements and safety accountability processes, including third-party Sedex Member Ethical Trade Audits considerations. (SMETA). A few of these acquired facilities still need to be audited but are now being included in the total percentage, accounting for the drop from the 100% Customers interested in learning more about our SMETA audits can connect with reported last year. Ingredion – registration number ZC1013103 – through Sedex. We continue to work with our key suppliers to have them register in Sedex and undergo four-pillar SMETA audits. While this process continues to progress, the Local Land Rights number of companies requiring SMETA audits in their supply chain continues to While Ingredion’s operations do not often interact with indigenous increase, impacting the market and slowing progress for some suppliers looking to populations, we are aware that an increasing number of our customers conduct audits. We will continue to pursue these audits with our key suppliers, as are focused on making certain their we believe they are a critical step toward maintaining ethical supply chains. supply chains do not have a negative impact on the rights of indigenous Social Accountability Management System populations. For this reason, we included In 2018, we implemented a Social Accountability Management System (SAMS) to consideration of indigenous peoples into further enhance our human rights practices across the organization. The SAMS not our Social Accountability Management only outlines how our manufacturing sites address updates in Sedex and respond to System to establish criteria for those rare SMETA audits, but also introduces guidance for how we address considerations such times when our operations bring us into as the rights of indigenous people in the geographies where we operate. Already we contact with such groups. have seen the SAMS clarify our practices with external auditors, thereby leading to reduced findings and less need for follow-up audits. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 13 > BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS GOAL: 100% of new innovation platforms assessed for sustainability considerations by the end of 2018 2018 Actual: 100% ON TREND Organic Certification for NOVATION Functional Native Starches We continue to see increased consumer demand for organic, clean label, and non-GMO products and Ingredion is helping our customers meet that demand by continuing to expand our certified organic ingredient solutions. In 2018, Ingredion’s Indianapolis, USA, plant received organic certification from Quality Assurance International (QAI) for our NOVATION®9330 and NOVATION®9360 starches, which are produced with organic tapioca starches imported from Thailand. Ingredion Expands Efforts in Plant Proteins Sustainability Scorecard • Ingredion has launched VITESSENCE® Pulse 1803, a highlight functional, plant-based Ingredion uses an internal Sustainability Scorecard to assess new products. pea protein isolate that enables manufacturers to meet growing consumer demand for While examinations of a product’s sustainability traditionally start with a high-protein products that support nutrition and organic claims. life-cycle assessment (LCA), our scorecard is designed to look into other areas • I ngredion innovation employees joined other scientists at UC Berkeley’s “Build the that our customers value in their own sustainability efforts. Other considerFuture of Food” panel to discuss meat alternatives such as plant proteins. ations included in our scorecard include product safety, chemical reduction, • In 2018, Ingredion entered into a joint venture agreement with Verdient Foods, Inc., a sustainable and local sourcing, among other items. Going forward, we will Canadian company based in Vanscoy, Saskatchewan, jointly owned and operated by continue to look at consumer trends and societal needs – such as those film director James Cameron and Suzy Amis Cameron and a local Saskatchewan family outlined in the UN Sustainable Development Goals – to inform how we can office – PIC Investment Group. develop products on trend with consumer sustainability preferences. Idea Labs® Ingredion Idea Labs® connect our customers with a team of experts who bring the latest science and global thinking in our network to solve key product challenges. In 2018, we expanded the network of Idea Labs by opening facilities in “We’ve found a great partner in Ingredion. They share our vision for Vietnam and Nairobi. Whether plant-based proteins and other ingredients from pulses, and with customers engage with our their resources, expertise and world-wide reach, together we can global Innovation center in Bridgewater, New Jersey, or be leaders in the new wave of global food production. This is also a one geographically closer to huge opportunity for Canadians, especially in the prairie provinces, their operations, once customers engage with our innovation centers, they to add value locally to their vast agricultural production.” are instantly connected with the expertise of all 28 Ingredion Idea Labs — James Cameron around the globe. Verdient Foods, Inc. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 14 > BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS QUALITY & FOOD SAFETY GOAL: 100% of manufacturing sites are GFSI certified by the end of 2016 2018 Actual: 100% GOAL: 100% of microbiological labs are ISO 17025 certified for pathogen testing by the end of 2017 2018 Actual: 81% Consumer Trends We continue to look at market trends as a means to better understand the intersection of sustainability and consumer choice. Consumers identify with sustainability, which helps us connect our customers with on-trend innovation such as organic, non-GMO, clean label and locally sourced products. Certification Progress Ingredion has continued to make progress on certification of our microbiological labs to the ISO 17025 standard for pathogen testing. “We utilize initiatives like the UN Sustainable All of the external quality labs Ingredion utilizes, and most of our Development Goals to better understand the internal labs, are now certified. The only exceptions are certain internal future needs of society. This information, laboratories located in South America that we anticipate will be certified when combined with our market research, in 2019. These internal labs will continue to work with approved outside laboratory services until they are certified to ISO 17025. helps us differentiate between short-term consumer trends and longer-term societal trends. For example, the world’s growing population base will be hard pressed to Enhanced Quality Training Quality and food safety continue to be an important focus for consume animal protein the way we do here Ingredion’s customers. Therefore, we launched Customer Contact in the US. Therefore, the growing focus on Foundations for Quality Managers training through the company’s plant protein is a societal need that we see new e-learning platform. This training was designed to provide plant quality managers with additional skills and insights for customer extending long into the future.” interactions and to further our customer experience efforts. – Brian Nash Senior Director, Sustainability COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 15 > Neighbor of Choice BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES GOAL: Reduce carbon emission intensity 10% by the end of 2020 CDP Highlights (versus 2010 baseline) Again in 2018, Ingredion utilized the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) to disclose information relative to our environmental activities 2018 Actual: –9.5% and risks. Our results from our submissions in 2018 were as follows: GOAL: Reduce water use intensity 10% by the end of 2020 (versus 2010 baseline) 2018 Actual: –10.1% B B A Water Climate Change Supplier Questionnaire Questionnaire Engagement We are very pleased to show an increase to a B score in Climate Change, and were honored to have been named to the Supplier Engagement Leaders Board for our climate change efforts. This distinction means that Driving Environmental Reductions Ingredion was among the top 3% of respondents in this area, and signals In 2018, our manufacturing sites continued to work on a variety of projects to to us that our efforts to continually improve our engagement activities are reduce energy and water use. We also progressed our work on the valuation on the right track. of water and carbon in our operations to better inform capital planning. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 16 > BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Evaluating Water Stress in our Communities 60% As we have in the past, Ingredion continues to use a suite of tools to assess potential water stress issues in the geographies in which we operate. This year, as part of that assessment process, and in conjunction with new reporting expectations in the CDP Water Security questionnaire, Ingredion added the World Wildlife Fund’s Water Risk Tool as an extra resource. This tool Currently, 60% of Ingredion’s Extremely High Stress Area 10% Reduction* gives us additional considerations global facilities have elected to Tlalneplantla, Mexico Exceeded Target for how we can continue to take the extra step and achieve San Juan del Rio, Mexico Exceeded Target be good stewards of water in ISO 14001 certification. Mehran, Pakistan Exceeded Target operations. *Since baseline, except Mehran 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Ingredion has worked to align our own Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) with the requirements of outside standards such as ISO 14001 for environmental management “Ingredion takes a precautionary and OHSAS 18001 for safety management. Currently 60% of Ingredion’s global facilities have elected to take the extra step and achieve ISO 14001 certification. approach to environmental matters. As such, we utilize a variety of tools to help provide us insight as to potential impacts BIODIVERSITY of our operations, so that we can Ingredion continues to utilize the Region Hot Spot Supporting Efforts establish action plans to be better Critical Ecosystem Partnership Asia-Pacific Indo Burma Active stewards of the environment and Fund’s (www.cepf.net) list of 36 North & Central America Madrean Pine-Oak Woodlands Active global biodiversity hotspots as the our communities.” Mesoamerica Active basis for our internal evaluation.** South America Atlantic Forest Active – Elaine Harmon Director, Environmental Affairs We continue our work to take an Cerrado Active Tropical Andes Active active role in helping to reduce **Exclusive of TIC Gums biodiversity loss in the six hotspots in which we operate. Last year we reported operating in seven hotspots, but with cessation of manufacturing Renewable Energy In 2018, we undertook an evaluation of purchased energy used at our global site in our Stockton, USA, facility we have removed the California Floristic and found that 19% of our purchased energy portfolio is from renewable sources. Province from our list. In addition to assessing Ingredion’s own operations, This is the first step toward determining possible future strategies in this area. we utilize the SAI Platform’s Farm Sustainability Assessment, which includes 19% questions related to biodiversity at the farm level. Having this information at the farm level helps inform where we can identify opportunities to collaborate with our growers to promote biodiversity preservation. Currently, 19% of Ingredion’s global purchased energy comes from renewable resources. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 17 > BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES GOAL: Triple our engagements in food bank activity by end of 2020 Ongoing Efforts to Combat Hunger 2018 Actual: 680%* Combatting hunger in the communities where we operate is an important concern for Ingredion, and one that has resonated with our employees. Highlights of activities in our local communities include: • T he North American business collaboration with the World Food Program to establish an employee donation website that provides the opportunity to contribute when a global crisis or disaster strikes. • I ngredion was again pleased to be able to financially support The Global FoodBanking * Goal completed in 2017. Network’s Food Bank Leadership Institute conference in Houston. Additionally, Ingredion Global Supply Chain leaders shared technical expertise with food bank Sharing Our Technical Expertise Globally leaders from around the globe. In addition to local efforts, we continue to support The Global FoodBanking Network (GFN) as a • I ngredion Colombia facilities held canned food drives throughout the year, donating flagship sponsor of its 2018 Food Bank Leadership Institute (FBLI) conference. Our partnership the goods collected to the Asociación de Bancos de Alimentos de Colombia – the food with GFN is important in connecting Ingredion global personnel with opportunities to support local bank association in Colombia. food banks through volunteerism. We also continue to explore opportunities to enhance our support of food banks through sharing technical expertise in areas such as food safety, occupational safety, logistics and supply chain management, among others. The 2018 FBLI conference was the largest in history, with more than 150 food bank leaders, business leaders and NGO representatives in attendance. Danielle Zuhlke-Smith, senior manager in Ingredion’s Global Supply Chain Group, speaks about inventory turns at GFN’s Food Bank Leadership Institute meeting in Houston. “It was great to take my passion for reducing hunger in the world and combine it with expertise from my job to help support the members of The Global FoodBanking Network. I love that Ingredion is trying to make a positive impact in Ingredion employees collect canned food to donate to a local food bank in support of World Food Day. the communities in which we operate.” – Danielle Zuhlke-Smith Senior Manager, Global Supply Chain Group COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 18 > BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Supporting Local Growers in Thailand Give2018 Campaign Ingredion agricultural personnel in Sikhiu, Thailand, undertook an effort Every year Ingredion employees in the United States participate in our in 2018 to educate local growers on cassava mosaic disease (CMD) and “Give” program. The Give2018 campaign ran from October 8th through the nematodes, which can have a big impact on cassava (tapioca) yields. This 17th, raising a total of $138,906. Through matching gifts from the company, training was conducted as part of Thailand’s Model Farmer Program, and this amount increased to $277,812 in total. The campaign was held in was carried out with growers from 12 different subdistricts around the support of the American Red Cross, Feeding America and United Way. plant. The Model Farmer Program is an initiative to help educate growers in surrounding areas to improve efficiencies and sustainable practices. $277,812 Total amount raised through matching gifts from the company for the Ingredion personnel Give2018 campaign. share best practices with our local growers as part of the Model Farmer Program. Peru Plant Provides Medical Access Timely access to medical attention can be challenging in Peru, having an impact on our business through factors such as employee absenteeism. Some of our employees had to wait two months to see a doctor. The local Ingredion plant in Lima, Peru, decided to do something about this, opening its Medical Attention Service Module. The medical facility is open to Ingredion employees, their families and members of the communities where we operate. With a focus on general medicine, nutrition, pediatrics and gynecology, the facility has already had a profound impact. Ingredion is pleased to provide this service at no cost to the patients. Promoting Agricultural Education In October 2018, Ingredion’s Indianapolis plant hosted Career Success Tours for the Future Farmers of America (FFA). The Ingredion tour provided FFA members, who are mostly high school students, with a hands-on interactive approach to exploring the company’s products, agricultural science capabilities and manufacturing facilities while also providing information on the wide variety of career opportunities available within the food ingredients industry. People await testing at Ingredion Peru’s Medical Attention Service Module facility in Lima. COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 19 > Investment of Choice BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS GOAL: Report on the business relevant elements of the GRI by Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical the end of 2018 Companies List (2014–2019) Ingredion is very proud to have once again been named to Ethisphere Institute’s 2018 Actual: REPORTED World’s Most Ethical Companies list for 2019. The Ethisphere process continues to be an invaluable means for Ingredion to benchmark our efforts around ethics and explore areas for year-on-year enhancement of our programs. GRI Index In 2018, in an effort to further enhance transparency of our operations, Ingredion EcoVadis Ingredion utilizes EcoVadis to assess our overall sustainability issued our first Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index to the newly implemented performance and share that assessment with our customers. GRI Standards. Our company has received increasing requests from stakeholders Ingredion was last assessed in EcoVadis in 2017, when we received for disclosure using approaches such as the GRI and the CDP (formerly the Carbon a Silver rating. We have submitted our assessment questionnaire Disclosure Project). Our GRI Index can be accessed on Ingredion’s website at the for 2019 and are currently awaiting our new results. link below: https://www.ingredionincorporated.com/CorporateResponsibility/sustainability.html COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 20 > BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS Ingredion Mexico Wins Ethical Award Ingredion employees proudly receive the Ethics and Values in the Industry Award in the Multinational Companies category from Francisco Cervantes Diaz, president of CONCAMIN (Confederatión de Cámaras Industriales) during its Annual Industrialists Meeting. The Ethics and Values in the Industry Award is managed by the Mexican Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) Foundation for Innovation For the second year in a row, Ingredion has been listed and Technology Transfer on the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index. The reference (FUNTEC), which continues to index, launched in January 2018, measures gender be a benchmark for corporate equality across internal company statistics, employee social responsibility. policies, external community support and engagement, and gender-conscious product offerings. UN Global Compact Ingredion is a proud member of the UN Global Compact. We support the 10 Guiding Principles of the UNGC, and this report is our primary communication of our progress to advance those principles. We openly welcome stakeholder feedback and inquiries on our progress. # Guiding Principle Ingredion Program Report Page # 1 Support and protect international human rights Social Accountability 13 2 Do not be complicit in human rights abuses Social Accountability 13 3 Uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining Social Accountability 13 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor Social Accountability 13 5 Effective abolition of child labor Social Accountability 13 6 Elimination of discrimination Social Accountability 13 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environmental Conservation 16–17 8 Undertake initiatives to support greater environmental responsibility Environmental Conservation 16–17 9 Help develop and share environmentally friendly technologies Innovation 14–15 10 Work against all forms of corruption Governance, Integrity & Trust 20–21 COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 21 > We bring the potential of people, nature and technology together to create ingredient solutions that make life better. Thank you for your interest in Ingredion’s Finally, we are increasing our focus on sharing sustainability program. I am extremely pleased our sustainability initiatives and engaging more with our progress and know that we will effectively with our customers to increase value continue to challenge ourselves to do more. creation by helping them reach and exceed their We firmly believe that sustainability is of vital sustainability goals. Consumers are showing an importance and an essential element to the longincreasing preference toward brands and products “We firmly believe that term success of our business. We also believe that promote sustainability, and we want to partsustainability is of vital that this journey is not one we can take alone. ner with our customers to bring innovation that Collaboration with our customers, members of is on trend with these consumer expectations. importance to the long-term our communities and other stakeholders only We also will continue to leverage our position as success of our business. We strengthens our efforts and helps us deliver a leading ingredient solutions provider to show mutual value in this critical space. greater transparency across our customers’ supply also believe that this journey Looking ahead, we know that 2019 is an chains. In short, we will continue to progress our is not one we can take alone.” important year as we further develop our susefforts to provide ingredients and solutions that tainability program by working on our aspirations help make life better. for 2030 as well as the key milestones that will help us measure our progress along the way. As Sincerely, we further develop our sustainability strategy, we look to global programs such as the UN Larry Fernandes Sustainable Development Goals to make certain Senior Vice President, our efforts remain relevant to the greater needs Chief Commercial and Sustainability Officer of society. April 22, 2019 COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 22 > Ingredion Incorporated 5 Westbrook Corporate Center Westchester, IL 60154 708.551.2600 www.ingredion.com COMPANY OVERVIEW GOAL SUMMARY BETTER FOR OUR EMPLOYEES BETTER FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Ingredion Incorporated 2018 Sustainability Update MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO MATERIALITY MATRIX BETTER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS BETTER FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS < 23 >
