Sustainability Report 2019/20 UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress | August 2019 August 2020 R UPTION HU OR MA -C N TI R N 10 1 I A G H TS 9 2 ENV IRONMENT 8 3 7 4 6 5 R O L AB Table of Contents I. Statement of Commitment and Continued Support Content 3 Headline 10/16 Medium by the Chief Executive Officer Content 10/16 Light II. About iPoint 5 III. Sustainability Facts at a Glance 8 IV. Advancing the SDGs 9 V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles 26 The 10 Principles as guide in the COVID-19 crisis 28 Human Rights 33 Principle 1 33 Principle 2 41 Labour 42 Principle 3 42 Principle 4 42 Principle 5 44 Principle 6 45 iPoint-systems gmbh Environment 47 Managing Director (CEO): Joerg Walden Principle 7 47 Ludwig-Erhard-Str. 58 Principle 8 52 72760 Reutlingen Principle 9 60 Germany Anti-Corruption 62 Principle 10 62 VI. Looking Forward 64 VII. Disclosure Regarding Forward-looking Statements 68 References 69 Abbreviations 78 Imprint 79 2 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh I. Statement of Commitment and Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer of iPoint-systems gmbh, Joerg Walden To our Stakeholders: August 7, 2020 I am pleased to confirm iPoint-systems’ continued commitment recover together” (to quote the magnificent theme of this year’s to supporting the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global UN Global Compact Leaders Summit). Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption, as well as the SDGs. In the past few months, I have witnessed how iPoint’s customers – as a microcosmos of companies around the globe –, have taken iPoint became a proud signatory of the UNGC on August 7, 2017. various steps to ensure employees’ health and well-being as well In this annual Communication on Progress (CoP) – our third one as business continuity: from urgent but necessary measures such to date –, we describe our actions to continually improve the inas temporary production stops, to the digitalization of processtegration of the UNGC’s principles into our business strategy, es and alternative work models such as telecommuting. Besides culture, and daily operations and to advance broader societal numerous material and financial donations, many of our customgoals, in particular the United Nations’ Sustainable Development ers also provided their own protective equipment, products, or Goals (SDGs). We also commit to sharing this information with facilities to medical personnel, and offered their own technical our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. equipment to find solutions, while pharmaceutical companies increased the production of essential critical products, and manThe still-prevailing COVID-19 crisis has presented compaufacturing companies repurposed their production facilities and nies around the globe with unexpected challenges of unswitched to the production of medical devices, protective equipprecedented scale. Needless to say, iPoint and our ment, and disinfectants. Beyond providing valuable resources customers have not been spared by the crisis and that can help save lives, this move helps the companies keep their its massive impact on the economy. But if there is workers and facilities operating despite difficult economic conone thing the crisis has taught us, it is that now, ditions. I am very impressed by the commitment our customers more than ever, we – the private sector – must have shown to combat the immediate effects of the crisis, and am unite in solidarity, take action, demonstrate very proud to be part of this ecosystem. our responsibility towards employees, suppliers, and society, and lead by example The coronavirus crisis still has us all in its grip. Every single comto “recover better, recover stronger, pany, every single person needs to contribute to flattening the I. Statement of Commitment and Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer of iPoint-systems gmbh, Joerg Walden (continued) curve so that we can slow down the spread of the virus. Such a In this decade of action and delivery for sustainable development, dedication and commitment is also necessary to tackle the other I strongly believe that the solution to many of our global environgreat global challenges we need to solve to ensure a prosperous, mental, social, and economic challenges lies in the combination of sustainable, and equitable world worth living in for future generthe Circular Economy with digital data, an approach we at iPoint ations, including efforts to end poverty, reduce inequalities, conhave come to call the “Digital Circular Economy”. In particular, our serve the environment, produce sustainably, and tackle climate business solutions for the entire life cycle of products contribute change by 2030. In these extraordinary times we have the unpreceto supply chain transparency and product sustainability – and dented opportunity to question our existing system and realign thus to areas which are particularly important for companies’ suseverything in a new – and more sustainable – way. Now is the time tainable restart. In this unique situation iPoint wants to act fast to adapt to sustainable business models and frameworks such as with our digital approach and support companies by providing a the SDGs, which are resilient even in times of crisis. Sustainable vast amount of product-related knowledge and data which helps business leadership is needed now more than ever before. Bethem to rethink and improve their strategy and business model to cause it is precisely in these volatile times that sustainable comcreate a more sustainable future. panies prove to be the most successful and resilient ones. The findings in this report summarize the path iPoint has chosen We are proud and grateful to be part of the United Nations Global to follow, and we remain committed both as a company and a corCompact as the world’s largest and most widely embraced volunporate citizen to accelerate the transition towards a sustainable tary corporate sustainability initiative. To iPoint, the UNGC’s ten future. principles have proved to be a valuable guide in dealing with the crisis in a sustainable manner. We have extended our standard We live sustainability. report by a chapter capturing our COVID-19-related actions within the framework of the UNGC’s principles. Apart from that, the Sincerely yours, report at hand describes our continued journey in implementing several measures to promote the UNGC’s multi-year strategy of increasing awareness and action in support of achieving the SDGs Joerg Walden by 2030. Managing Director (CEO) iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction “I am driven by the vision that today’s solutions can contribute to securing a sustainable world for future generations.” -Joerg Walden, CEO and founder of iPoint-systems gmbh Photo by Thomas Reaubourg on Unsplash 5 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction 170+ 97% Content Headline 10/16 Medium in business Content 10/16 Light 60,000+ since employees customer customers 250 14 renewal from 2001 rate locations 100+ leading global worldwide countries manufacturers iPoint-systems gmbh (iPoint) develops pioneering compliance opments and challenges governing product, supply chain, and and sustainability solutions to open the door to the Circular enterprise stewardship. iPoint’s holistic, circular perspective Economy. More specifically, we provide software and services envisages a continuous, digital system lifecycle management for environmental and social product compliance, process comprocess that supports not only compliance with the law, but pliance, and sustainability which enables other companies to also the sustainability of products, value chains, and brands. collect, process, and utilize product-related compliance and sustainability data from and for the entire product life cycle Since our founding in 2001, iPoint has been constantly expandand the whole value creation network. ing the iPoint Group and its solutions portfolio to realize its vision of building an integrated digital platform for the Circular iPoint’s software and services support companies in assessing Economy and a holistic sustainable operating system. and reporting the environmental, social, and economic impacts of their products and related processes, and meeting and Put simply, our very vision is to create solutions to solve susstaying one step ahead of regulations and requirements such tainability issues. As our software platforms and tailored soluas REACH, SCIP, RoHS, WEEE, ELV, EHS, Conflict Mineralsand tions are premised on legal compliance and sustainability, we Modern Slavery-related laws, as well as other trending develachieve a positive impact pursuant to the 10 UNGC principles. 6 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh II. About iPoint – Business Introduction Yet we also strive to uphold these principles with respect to our We should note that this report only covers iPoint-systems internal day-to-day operations. Our main business comprising gmbh, encompassing our Reutlingen headquarters and Munich software and related services, and not selling any hardware or branch. The entire iPoint Group, however, includes 14 subsidiother goods, means that iPoint does not have traditional suparies and offices worldwide.1 ply chains. That said, we do procure select goods and services that permit the functioning of a high-tech software company. Further information: This report will focus on both our in-house and external imwww.ipoint-systems.com pacts, viewed through the UNGC lense. iPoint-systems gmbh iPoint Ltd. Reutlingen, Germany iPoint-systems AB Manchester, UK Headquarters Växjö, Sweden iPoint Korea Suwon, Korea iPoint France iPoint Japan Co Ltd Paris, France Tokyo, Japan iPoint Software and Information Technology iPoint Inc. (Shanghai) Ltd. Ann Arbor, MI, USA Shanghai, China Los Angeles, CA, USA ifu Institute for EnvironCircularTree mental IT Hamburg GmbH Berlin, Germany Hamburg, Germany iPoint-systems iPoint-systems gmbh iPoint-Austria GmbH Melbourne, Australia Munich, Germany Vienna, Austria 7 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh III. Sustainability Facts at a Glance Over the period from August 8, 2019 to August 7, 2020 Internal: -99% 2 We reduced our paper consumption by 99% between iPoint’s Reutlingen site features two electric March 16 and July 1, 2020 vehicle charging stations iPoint’s entire in-house paper consumption is based on FSC®and FSC 20% 20% of our fleet are alternatively powered company cars ISO 14001-certified paper with an EU Ecolabel, and all of our corporate (electric and hybrid) printing needs are met by FSC®and ISO 12647-2-certified printers External: -13% We reduced our waste by thirteen percent (13%) SDGs iPoint’s business solutions are aligned with SDG 3, SDG 8, ECO iPoint’s headquarters run on sustainable geothermal SDG 9, SDG 12, and SDG 16 energy and are powered by renewable electricity sources 56,000 The iPoint Conflict Minerals solution is now used by 56,000 companies around the globe 26% Twenty-six percent (26%) of our employees had a citizenship other than German iPoint commissioned or sponsored two independent studies §§§ investigating the corporate implementation of human rights-related laws (e.g., the French Devoir de Vigilance law) 33% Thirty-three percent (33%) of our 7 upper-level managers were female iPoint donated to 7 charitable causes 58% Fifty-eight percent (58%) of the employees we hired 3 We joined 3 initiatives and movements dedicated to were female advancing one or more of the SDGs We saved 58,6 tons of CO2 produced by air travel, and by con-58,868t CO2 tributing 1.965 kilometers to a cycling campaign, 11 cyclists from iPoint were able to avoid 268 kilograms of CO2 emissions 1 We received 1 award which aligns with the UNGC principles 8 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs Advancing the SDGs Assessing iPoint’s Contribution to the SDGs As a member of UN Global Compact, In the current reporting year, in an effort to assess our contriiPoint is fully committed to promotbution systematically, we conducted a detailed analysis of the ing and advancing the SustainSDGs. This process, during which we also took into account able Development Goals established tools and guidelines on the interpretation of the (SDGs) inside and out2 SDGs3, comprised the following steps: side of our compa1. Understanding the SDGs ny to accelerate We continued to familiarize ourselves with the SDGs and the transition their targets in order to understand the opportunities and towards a responsibilities they represent to our company. sustainable 2. Defining our priorities future. Since not all of the 17 SDGs are equally relevant for iPoint, we conducted an assessment of the impacts of our business activities on the SDGs. The aim was to assess iPoint’s current contribution to the SDGs by focusing on the measures we implement to reduce our negative impacts while enhancing our positive contribution to the sustainable development agenda. The analysis of our strategic priorities extended to the following areas: a) Products of our core business b) Internal processes, workflows, operations c) R&D projects d) Social commitment (mainly: donations to charitable causes) The result of this analysis is the following heatmap, the elements of which are detailed in the following paragraphs. 9 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs iPoint’s Contribution to the SDGs Products of our core business               Internal processes, workflows, operations              R&D projects          Social commitment             High  Medium  Low 10 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs The assessment of iPoint’s contribution is based on qualitative to other companies in their quest to become more sustainable and quantitative data collected separately for each category may also be analyzed according to the SDGs. Indirectly supin relation to the 169 targets and subsequently consolidated porting several of the SDGs (see heatmap, low support catat the level of the 17 overarching goals. The analysis took into egory), our business solutions also align directly with SDG 3 account a wide range of different factors and their respective (ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages), influence on the goal or target – including, among other things, SDG 8 (promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic sales figures and donation budgets –, and was conducted with growth, full and productive employment and decent work for stakeholders from different departments at iPoint (sales, all), SDG 9 (build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable product management, human resources, corporate communiindustrialization and foster innovation), SDG 12 (ensure suscations, and accounting). tainable consumption and production patterns), and SDG 16 (promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies). We will use this initial analysis as the basis for: identifying potential areas in which we can increase our More specifically, our external impact is aligned with Target positive impact and reduce our negative impact regarding 3.9,4 Targets 8.2,5 8.4,6 and 8.7,7 Target 9.4,8 Targets 12.2,9 the prioritized SDGs, 12.4,10 12.5,11 12.6,12 and 12.A,13 as well as Targets 16.214 and defining objectives – in cooperation with stakeholders – via 16.4.15 which we intend to contribute to the prioritized SDGs and their targets in the upcoming reporting year, and With the ongoing expansion of our solutions portfolio, we will determining the indicators we will use to measure progress be able to cover more and more SDGs with our solutions to supagainst them. port our customers – no matter how large or small the company – to contribute to achieving the SDGs and advance the SDG 1. Core Business agenda. Our very business model and our business portfolio is predicated on the advancement of the SDGs. Therefore, our support 11 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs 2. Internal Workflows, Processes, and Operations Corporate sports group with external trainer (weekly Our internal workflows, processes, and operations focus on-premise course, since COVID-19-related dominance of strongly on issues and measures relating to SDG 3 (ensure remote work online via Zoom), healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages ), SDG 4 online yoga group (March to June 2020 daily, since July 2020: (ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote weekly), lifelong learning opportunities for all), SDG 7 (ensure access funding of employees’ participation in sports competitions to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all), with up to €200 per employee per year, SDG 8 (promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economprovision of height-adjustable standing desks (on request), ic growth, full and productive employment and decent work provision of fresh fruit, mineral water, coffee, and tea to evfor all), SDG 12 (ensure sustainable consumption and producery employee every day on the headquarters office premistion patterns), SDG 13 (Take urgent action to combat climate es (limited during the corona-related switch to remote change and its impacts), and SDG 17 (strengthen the means of work), implementation and revitalize the global partnership for susophthalmological examination (every two years), tainable development). mediation workshops on noise disturbance in open-plan office. SDG 3 (ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages) SDG 4 (ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and In the current reporting year, in an effort to support SDG 3, promote lifelong learning opportunities for all) we have either newly introduced or continued to implement Having skilled and motivated staff is a strategic corporate goal the following measures aimed, among other things, at reof iPoint, and we invest in our workforce continuously to producing premature mortality from non-communicable disvide relevant information, high-quality training, and further eases through prevention and treatment, and proeducation. This includes: moting mental health and well-being (Target 3.4): 12 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs 65 CORPORATE MANAGEMENT NEWS SDGs – Apprenticeship significantly compared to the previous year, as has the coheSustainable During the current reporting period, in a quest to increase the sion among trainees. CORPORATE NEWS MANAGEMENT Development Goals NEWS NEWS Ganzheitliche Vernetzung | Integrated networking number of youth and adults who have relevant technical and Unsere Roadmap für eine nachhaltige Zukunft Die Ziele für nachhaltige Entwicklung (SDGs) wurden Our Roadmap to a Sustainable Future The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in September 2015. vocational skills for employment (SDG Target 4.4), our HR deLifelong learning von der Generalversammlung der Vereinten Nationen im They are a wonderfully simplified to-do list which covers partment has taken several measures in cooperation with the We place great value on development and further training opSeptember 2015 verabschiedet. Es handelt sich um eine the greatest global challenges we need to solve to ensure a wunderbar vereinfachte To-Do-Liste, die die größten globaprosperous, sustainable, and equitable world worth living in len Herausforderungen abdeckt, die wir lösen müssen, um for NEWS futureAUSgenerations. DER UNTERNEHM zukünftigen Generationen eine wirtschaftlich florierende, ENSLEITUNG nachhaltige und gerechte Welt zu hinterlassen. The SDGs defined Was sind die SDGs? The SDGs are part of the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 66 training instructors to restructure and optimize iPoint’s apportunities, which are equally decisive for the qualification and Development, an ambitious plan of action for people, planet, Die SDGs sind Teil der Agenda 2030 für nachhaltige and prosperity aims to end poverty, reduce inequalities, conEntwicklung der Vereinten Nationen. Dieser ehrgeizige serve the environment, and tackle climate change by 2030. Aktionsplan zielt darauf ab, bis 2030 die Armut zu beenden, The SDGs, also known as “Global Goals”, represent a complex Ungleichheiten zu verringern, die Umwelt zu schützen und agenda of 17 goals and 169 associated detailed targets. They den Klimawandel zu bekämpfen. Die SDGs, auch bekannt provide a roadmap which supports organizations in navigatals Global Goals , stellen ein komplexes Programm mit 17 ing the major environmental, social, and economic challengprenticeship system. personal development, positioning as an attractive employer, Zielen und 169 dazugehörigen Detailzielen dar. Sie bieten es we face today. eine Roadmap, die Unternehmen dabei unterstützt, die großen ökologischen, sozialen und wirtschaftlichen HerAdvancing the SDGs with iPoint’s ausforderungen, mit denen wir heute konfrontiert sind, zu solutions bewältigen. Backed by reports that attribute at least $12 trillion in Die SDGs mit iPoints Lösungen market opportunities to achieving the SDGs, the SDGs are and for the future viability of our company. voranbringen gaining momentum. Since they came into effect on January 1, 2016, more and more companies have been using them 67 Gestützt durch Meldungen, die dem Erreichen der globalen as a strategic framework, and the SDGs have now reached Ziele mindestens 12 Billionen US-Dollar an Marktchanmainstream corporate reporting. To provide the trainees with better supervision, three new cen zuspre chen, gewin zunehmend nen die SDGs an Bedeu erfreulicherw CORPOR 1. Januar tung. Seit eise 2016 nutzen ihrem Inkraf As a memb ATE MA immer mehr ttreten am er of UN Global NAG strategische Unternehmen ted to promo Compact, EMENT n Rahmen, ting and advan iPoint is fully NEW Mainstream und die SDGs sie als commitS -Reporting haben inzwis transition cing the SDGs erreicht. chen das towards a to accelerate equipped sustainable the to support future. We Als Mitgli our custom are unique ed des UN journey to ers anywh ly Global Compa sustainability ere along training instructors have joined iPoint who can now offer the In July 2020, in order to promote lifelong learning opportunities und ganz ct setzt sich al sustain – from pre-co their für die Förder ability –, and mpliance SDGs ein, ung und Weite iPoint voll to operationum den Überg rentwicklun tions and provide them ang zu einer g der services for with our softwa zu beschl of SDG-re their collect re solueunigen. Wir nachhaltigen levant data ion, analys den auf ihrem sind besten Zukunft across is, and report Weg zur Nachh s gerüstet, the entire the entire ing unsere Kunvalue creatio product life ance bis zur altigkeit – n network. cycle and operativen von der Pre-Co und ihnen Nachhaltigke mpliunsere Softw it – zu unters iPoint’s solutio für die Erfass arelösungen tützen ns align perfec ung, Analys und Dienst and econo tly with SDG leistungen mic growth apprentices consultation hours on a regular basis. iPoint’s for all and access to skills development training and particular relevanten e und Berich ) and Goal 8 (Decent Daten über terstattung tion and produc 12 (Sustainable work und das gesam den gesam von SDGtion). More consumpte Wertschöpfu ten Produ ented solutio specifically, ktlebenszykl n eLRT (see our human zu stellen ngsnetzwerk us section) suppo separate article -rights-ori. zur Verfüg ung rts SDG 8 in “Business plying with by supporting today” Die Lösun global human companies gen von iPoint legislation. trafficking in compassen and moder schenwürdige perfekt zu n slavery Arbeit und SDG 8 (Men12 (Nachh Wirtschaftsw lung, altige/r Konsu achstum) Furthermore, Verwen intranet space for trainees has been expanded and restrucoccupations, iPoint committed to funding professional trainterstützt m und Produ und Ziel a large portio gen dung unsere mensc ktion). Konkr by supporting n of our uns ere und Rec (siehe separa henrechtsori et uncompanies schensolutionnsKun suppo ycli ten Artike entierte Lösun – from produc along the und denrteinSDG 12 ng erm l im Absch g eLRT t design, produc ihrer entiresoz produc life besseres ögliche SDG 8, indem sie Untern nitt „Busin and reuse. Kunden ialent Aus tion, produc cycle wir Verstä n uns ere Lös ess today“ Focusing t .use, kun ndnis Gesetze zum ehmen bei der Einhal ) manufacturin on sustainZiels zu Umto unsrecycli ng gen der Pro der öko unMenschenha able unters er Eng unterstützt. ndel tung global er g, use, and Planetsourcin g,trei supply chainsage ment duktleb logiThe SD Darüber hinaus und zur modernen customers to better unders und recycling, ourNetwo solutiork,ns chen, sind , zur Erre enszyk Gs@iPo Sklaverei unserer Lösun gen SDG 12, unterstützt ein großer social impac tand the wurde n auc er Dreour wir im Mä einallow ichung len int des gesam indem sie Teil ts of their gramm enviro nmenth Paral and hscheibe rz 201 9 dem dieses Of cou ten Produ Unternehmen customers’ s für tner für rse we produc One nac des Verbra SDG 12, bei tured to offer our trainees a common learning platform with ing courses for all of our Reutlingen-based staff, who now have ktlebenszykl tion ing the are also Produktdesi us unters entlang In March 2019, des One t life hha cycles. ltigen SDGs commit gn über die Produktion, tützen – vom to underline Abschn Planet Konsum ucherin getrete Life Goa inside ted to bis hin zum itt Net und form n of our Recycling die Produktnutz this goal, we joined our comm„Ne work nachha ationsprols cam compan promoting Fokus auf und zur Wiede ung itmentws“). to achieving (siehe arate paign One Planet ltige article we lau y, for and adv nachhaltige Beschaffung rverwendung . Mit dem and becam e a partne DieNetwoSD rk, a hub for separa ten Art Produk to cha in “Ev erythin nched in Feb examp ancr of One Planet Gs SDG rita le via , Lieferketten, HerstelInformation Programme Netwo @rk’siPoConsu 12, ikel im that are ble causes g but ruary the Goo Production for Sustai int mer tied to and org Work” section 2019 (see sep d (see separa Natürli nable Consumption in “Ne ma ny of anizat ) or by te article inch eng and ws” sec the SDG ions which donatin und För “News agi” eren ). tion). derung section wir uns theme s (see have progra g Beispie “For the access to relevant literature and trainings. To strengthen the a dedicated budget for training courses they can complete via der SDG auc separa ms Good l durch die im s in uns h für die govern goals te arti erem Bekann to be cle Life Goa Februa Unt tma ments reache außer ls (sie r 201 ernehm chu you.“ , the d, eve Arb he sep 9 ges en, zum ng private ryone und Org eit“) ode araten tartete sector, needs to anisat r dur Art Kam civi do ch Spe ikel im pagne l society the der SDG ion -Theme en, die Pro nden für wo Abschn and peo ir part: im Ber gramm hltätige itt „Alles ple like eich „Ne n verbunden e hab Zweck ws“). sind en, die e The Uni (siehe mit viel ted Nat „Damit separa en soft skills of the trainees, special training courses on feedback, a third-party online learning platform (Target 4.4). ten Art ions die Ziel Teil daz e erre ikel u beit icht wer schaft rag den kön und Me en: Regieru nen, nschen nge muss wie Du. n, Privats jeder sein ektor, “ Zivilges en ellDie Ver einten Nation en communication, and presentation were offered. In addition, a rotation system for interdisciplinary exchange between the Education on the SDGs teams was introduced to give the trainees a comprehensive inDuring the current reporting year, we continued to educate our sight into the various departments of our software company. internal and external stakeholders on the SDGs, for example on sustainable lifestyles, human rights, and the circular econAll these measures have enabled us to almost duplicate the omy (Target 4.7). We regularly addressed the SDGs in our internumber of trainees at iPoint and thus offer apprenticeships to nal communications to increase our employees’ awareness and more trainees. A survey on the training year 2019 also revealed knowledge of this topic, e.g. at staff meetings or in our employthat the satisfaction of trainees at iPoint has increased ee magazine “To the iPoint”. Furthermore, we continued to fea13 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs ture SDG-related topics and campaigns (e.g., the Global Goals CEO Joerg Walden: the roundtable discussion “Aligning SDGs + Week in September) as well as highlight our commitment to Social Impact goals with blockchain technology” and the panthe SDGs in our external communications, for example, via el “Leave no one behind: How can Blockchain increase positive our social media channels, whenever possible. And iPoint CEO social and environmental impact?” With events like this we Joerg Walden continued to address the importance of the continue to highlight the importance of combining the SDGs SDGs in his articles published on the social business platform with technology like Blockchain, which we see as an importLinkedIn. 16 ant enabler of the Sustainable Development Goals19 because Blockchain has the potential to make products, processes, and Since July 2019, Joerg Walden has been acting as co-chair of services more trusted, transparent, and traceable and thereby the working group “Social Impact & Sustainability” of the Instimulate new business models which can contribute to susternational Association of Trusted Blockchain Applications tainable economic growth. (INATBA), which we co-founded with 105 other organizations in April 2019.17 Based on the assumption that Blockchain and SDG 7 (ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT) offer a unique set of modern energy for all) tools to tackle some of the most pressing issues humanity is iPoint contributes to achieving SDG 7 both by procuring energy facing today, the working group aims to leverage Blockchain responsibly and by reducing energy consumption. At our Reutand DLT to achieve positive socio-economic impact and adlingen headquarters, iPoint only consumes electricity from vance societal goals such as the SDGs. From November 11-13, renewable sources (so-called “Ökostrom”; Target 7.2). We strive 2019, INATBA, the European Commission, the European Blockto reduce energy consumption in our own operations (Target chain Observatory and Forum, and Alastria hosted the inter7.3) through the use of: national Blockchain conference “Convergence” 18 in Malaga, resource-efficient heating and cooling technology (geowhich attracted more than 1,500 participants. The thermal heat pump);20 INATBA working group “Social Impact & Sustainabilresource-efficient lighting (LEDs);21 and ity” organized two sessions moderated by iPoint fuel-efficient vehicles.22 14 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs SDG 8 (promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economrestructure and optimize iPoint’s apprenticeship system ic growth, full and productive employment and decent work (see paragraphs on SDG 4), we were able to almost duplifor all) cate the number of trainees at iPoint and thus offer more We have implemented several measures and procedures to apprenticeship opportunities and reduce the proportion of support SDG 8: young people not in employment, education, or training We are committed to enhancing our own productive capac(Target 8.6). ity through continuous skills development of workers, thus Through our employment contracts as well as our corporate generating added value in the domestic economy (Target policies and procedures, we ensure responsible employ8.1; see also details on SDG 4 in this chapter). ment strategies and provide decent work and productive iPoint strives to achieve higher levels of economic producactivities for all employees (Target 8.3), and protect basic tivity through technological innovation, that is, through labor rights including freedom of association, collective co-developing technology with start-ups, notably our own bargaining and industrial relations, limiting hours of work startup and innovation hub CircularTree (Target 8.2). 23 and providing adequate rest periods, ensuring job security We foster local employment through supporting vocationand a safe and healthy working environment and supportal education, job-oriented training programs, and building ing employment promotion and employment stability (Taralliances with educational institutions to create a pipeline get 8.5, 8.8). For example, the employment contracts with for skilled workers (Target 8.2). In particular, we are an offiour employees based in Reutlingen and Munich are precial training facility and practice partner for integrated demised on German national law, and either uphold or surpass gree program studies at the Duale Hochschule Baden-Würtrequirements in areas such as minimum wage, job security, temberg (DHBW, or Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperative paid vacation day standards, and anti-discrimination. State University) for the Computer Science course at the iPoint’s Social Charter, which applies to all employees, manStuttgart location. Additionally, we are a recognized trainagers, and executives of the company, covers minimum ing company of the German Chamber of Industry and Comstandards in areas such as equal treatment; freedom of asmerce (IHK). With the above-mentioned measures taken to sociation and the right to collective bargaining; and 15 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs remuneration, working time, and paid leave. And our workiPoint has implemented several measures to support the force composition reflects our commitment to inclusion, progressive improvement of global resource efficiency in gender equality, and sexual orientation non-discrimination. consumption and production and to decouple economic As of July 31, 2020, our male-to-female ratio at the Reutlingrowth from environmental degradation, in accordance with gen and Munich locations was 64%, 33% of our upper-level the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable conmanagers were female, 20% of our employees were over 24 sumption and production (Target 8.4). For further details, the age of 50 years, 3% employees have disabilities, and 26% please refer to the subchapter on SDG 12 in this section. of our employees had a citizenship other than German, beiPoint has in place several policies and measures to support longing to 13 different nationalities. In this context, the the eradication of forced labor, the ending of modern slavcompatibility of work and family is an important concern for ery and human trafficking, and securing the prohibition iPoint. For us, it is a matter of course to offer employees flexand elimination of the worst forms of child labor, including ible working time models and extensive home office arrangerecruitment and use of child soldiers (Target 8.7). For examments wherever possible. We are aware that not every activple, iPoint’s Social Charter, which provides guidance to all ity allows for flexible working to the same extent. The aim is employees, managers, and executives of the company on to enable every employee to combine private life and work in their daily conduct, contains a chapter on the prohibition of the best possible way. The part-time rate at iPoint is 13%. We child labor and forced labor, and we regularly mobilize our also actively support employee reintegration into the workcorporate channels to raise awareness among our internal place – for those who, for example, return after parental and external stakeholders about the practice of forced and leave or after a long illness – with individualized plans. compulsory labor, human trafficking, and child labor. FurRegularly optimized annual performance reviews between thermore, we preferably work with vendors who place great managers and employees serve to discuss performance, value on certifications, labels, and standards which are goals, and individual development opportunities. based on internationally recognized standards of decent These mandatory reviews are conducted according work – including the Universal Declaration of Human to uniform criteria (Target 8.3). Rights, ILO conventions, and national laws – and attest 16 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs that companies treat workers fair, source and sell ethically SDG 12 (ensure sustainable consumption and production patand responsibly, and comply with social criteria. 25 terns) We are continuously working on measures to offer our emThe goal of ensuring sustainable consumption and production ployees a safe and attractive working environment (8.8). patterns is near and dear to iPoint, not just externally, in relaWith respect to occupational health and safety, we currenttion to our core products, but also internally. To underline our ly have four specifically trained first responders, three specommitment to achieving this goal, we are part of pertinent cifically trained fire protection assistants, and one safety programs and organizations, e.g.: officer at our headquarters. Each year we hold mandatory ISO Technical Committee for the Circular Economy occupational safety events at the headquarters. The regu(ISO/TC 323)26 lar inspection of our office premises and the work equipOne Planet Network, “a platform for Sustainable Development used, as well as regular consultations, guarantee our ment Goal 12”,27 and One Planet Network’s Consumer Inforemployees’ safety and risk protection in the workplace. mation Programme for Sustainable Consumption and ProFurther measures we have implemented in this reporting duction (CI-SCP),28 which implements and supports projects, year to promote decent work include the introduction of: undertakes research, identifies and encourages policies, and • regularly conducted surveys to measure and improve emprovides collaboration opportunities for anyone looking to ployee satisfaction; engage and assist consumers in sustainable consumption. • a new idea management process, inviting employees to Our internal workflows, processes, and operations aligned submit their suggestions for improvement and ideas on with this important SDG include, among other things, meavarious topics in their department or in other areas that sures in the following areas: offer added value to their iPoint colleagues; Improving energy use, minimizing emissions: We are continu• a company pension scheme for employees who have ously re-assessing where we may improve the efficiency and been employed by iPoint since January 1, 2020. This is effectiveness of our energy use, and reduce CO2 emissions now a combination of an old-age insurance and a health (Target 12.1). In this context, we pay particular attention insurance module. to passenger transportation since this area causes by far the 17 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs largest amount of GHG emissions at iPoint. Apart from enawareness days,29 or implementing campaigns to proactivecouraging carpooling and the use of public transport in order ly inform our employees about precautionary approaches to reduce emissions and to relieve road traffic, we also have to environmental challenges by providing, e.g., energy sava corporate car policy in place which places restrictions on ings tips or pointers for correct office airing.30 the type of vehicle and the permissible emissions, resulting Proactive environmental management systems: We have in employees downsizing their vehicles. iPoint’s Reutlingen implemented several measures to achieve the sustainable site features two electric vehicle charging stations, and 20% management and efficient use of natural resources (Target of our fleet are currently alternatively powered company 12.2) by establishing and maintaining proactive environcars (electric and hybrid) – a 7% increase compared to the mental management systems, including: previous reporting year. Switching to remote work from • Replacing unsustainable office supplies with sustainable home, encouraging virtual meetings, and reducing the volalternatives;31 ume of physical travel for our employees and customers to • Improving food packaging;32 an absolute minimum during the COVID-19 pandemic (see • Tracking and reducing water use by installing motion-activatnext chapter n ggf. Seitenzahl einfügen) also supported us in ed taps which prevent water usage longer than required; reducing our environmental footprint. For example, by dis• Partnering with vendors who implement circular busipensing with any kind of air travel, we were able to save alness models.33 most 60 tons of CO2 produced by air travel (as compared to Monitoring and reduction of waste: We are monitoring and the same period in 2019). tracking our waste (12.4) and were able to reduce our waste Sensitizing and educating stakeholders: In order to imby 13% by introducing central waste bins accompanied by prove their willingness to engage in sustainable consumpinstructions and charts on correct waste separation (Target tion, we are constantly raising our internal and external 12.5). We have also switched 50% of the meals we provide stakeholders’ awareness and educating them on this at our headquarters through an external catering service to topic. This includes, for example, using our social new environmentally friendly packaging made of cellulose media to promote national or international without plastic coating PET.34 18 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs SDG 13 (take urgent action to combat climate change and its communicate to our employees a precautionary approach impacts) to environmental challenges;42 We strive to contribute to this goal by decarbonizing our opersupporting and promoting initiatives committed to climate ations through continuously improving energy efficiency and protection like Entrepreneurs For Future;43 reducing the carbon footprint of our processes (Target 13.1). publicly supporting the Fridays for Future44 movement and Measures that we – as a software and service provider with the call for climate strike and actively encouraging iPoint’s no production or handling of physical goods – have taken to employees around the globe to participate in the global cliachieve this goal include: mate strikes.45 supporting and encouraging climate-friendly travel and commute, including carpooling, use of public transport,35 and cycling;36 using digital communication and collaboration tools;37 reducing the volume of work-related travel by facilitating remote working from home;38 encouraging less international business travel;39 consuming electricity from renewable sources (so-called “Ökostrom”);40 using climate-neutral printing services.41 Furthermore, we are committed to educating our internal and external stakeholders and raising awareness on climate change mitigation, adaptation, and impact reduction (Target 13.3), e.g. by conducting environmental campaigns to proactively 19 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs SDG 17 (strengthen the means of implementation and revitalThese include (excerpt): ize the global partnership for sustainable development) Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG),46 Many challenges of the present and the future are complex and Consumer Information Programme for Sustainable Conaffect a wide variety of players along the value chain. Theresumption and Production (CI-SCP)47 of One Planet Network,48 fore, we rely on close partnerships with our stakeholders to Entrepreneurs for Future49 – joined in September 2019, jointly develop practicable and future-proof solutions for our Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation industry. (FSLCI),50 IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit,51 Apart from being a partner in several research projects (see IPC,52 next chapter/paragraph), iPoint is also a member of several iniISO Technical Committee on Circular Economy (ISO/TC 323),53 tiatives, work groups, industry associations, programs, and orInternational Association of Trusted Blockchain Applicaganizations to develop the systems, processes, and procedures tions (INATBA),54 needed to comply with environmental and human rights-relat#ManagersForFuture55 – joined in August 2020, ed regulations and directives, to interact with regulators and Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI),56 policy makers and bring technology to the next stage, and to Unternehmen zusammen für Nachhaltigkeit – wir bleiben advance the SDGs. dran! (Companies together for sustainability – we’re staying on task!)57 – joined in April 2020, Verband für Umweltund Nachhaltigkeitsmanagement e.V. (VNU; Association for European Sustainability and Eco-Management Professionals).58 20 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs 3. R&D Projects functional structures for vehicle applications, and maps iPoint’s research and development activities are aimed at providthe entire value chain from the semi-finished product to ing innovative solutions for customers, supporting sustainable the manufacturing of functional lightweight components development, and at the same time strengthening the competi– including conceptual competencies for component detiveness and thus the growth of the company. iPoint is involved sign and recycling. in several R&D projects on national and international level which • Funding: German Federal Ministry of Education and Rerelate to one or more of the SDGs. Current projects include: search (BMBF). ACTion – Advanced Shaped Sandwich Composites for Me• Project partners: chanical, Thermal and Acoustic Applications • ElringKlinger AG • Project description: The ACTion project wants to contribute • iPoint-systems to the establishment of cost-efficient mass production of • INVENT GmbH advanced shaped sandwich-based lightweight structures • Technical University of Braunschweig by exploring the design and development of multi-func»» Institute for Acoustics (InA) tional sandwich structures for large-scale automotive »» Institute of Joiningand Welding Technology (ifs) manufacturing. It will also explore alternative manufactur»» Institute of Machine Tools and Production Teching processes using presses and autoclaves for future small nology (IWF), Chair of Sustainable Manufacturand medium volume industrial production and will develing and Life Cycle Engineering op a design tool for sandwich composites that allows the • Volkswagen AG target-oriented engineering of sandwich structures, with • Duration: 10/2019-09/2022 respect to one or many design goals. The process for man• Website: https://open-hybrid-labfactory.de/ohlf/ ufacturing the demonstrator will be integrated into the • SDGs: technical infrastructure of the Open Hybrid LabFactory • 7 (OHLF) – a leading research facility for large-scale manufac• 9 turing processes for lightweight structures which focuses • 12 on the energyand resource-efficient production of multi21 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs Christian Doppler Laboratory for Sustainable Product ManDIBICHAIN – Digital representation of circular systems using agement enabling a Circular Economy Blockchain technology • Project description: The lab at the University of Graz seeks • Project description: DIBICHAIN investigates the potential to shed light on the convoluted web of global supply chains of blockchain for the digital representation of product cyand to develop a scientifically-solid basis for sustainability cles – especially with regard to decentralization, reliability, assessments of products and services in a circular economy. and counterfeit protection, but also carbon footprint, sus• Funding: Christian Doppler Laboratories are financed jointtainable production, and recycling – using the case study of ly by the public purse and the participating companies. The a bionic component manufactured by Airbus. most important public sponsor is the Austrian Federal Min• Funding: As part of the blockchain strategy of the German istry of Digital and Economic Affairs (BMDW). Federal Government, which was adopted in September • Project partners: 2019, DIBICHAIN is funded within the framework of the • ARA – Altstoff Recycling Austria measure Resource-efficient recycling management – in• AVL novative product cycles (ReziProK) of the German Federal • iPoint Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). • Duration: 2018-2025 • Project partners: • Website: https://circular.uni-graz.at/en/ • Airbus • SDGs: • Altran Deutschland • 8 • Blockchain Research Lab • 12 • CHAINSTEP • iPoint • Duration: 07/2019-06/2022 • Website: https://dibichain.com/ • SDGs: • 9 • 12 • 13 • 15 22 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs iCAREPLAST – Integrated Catalytic Recycling of Plastic Resi• Website: https://www.icareplast.eu/ dues Into Added-Value Chemicals. • SDGs: • Project description: Addresses the cost-efficient and envi• 3 ronmentally-friendly recycling of a large fraction of today’s • 12 non-recyclable plastics and composites from urban waste. Aims to demonstrate the whole technology for plastic Life AskREACH waste valorisation in a pilot plant able to process >100 kg/h • Project description: The project aims to improve the subof plastic. stitution of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs) by • Funding: Funded within the European Union’s Horizon increasing consumer demand for SVHC-free products and 2020 research and innovation programme under grant supporting industrial actors in identifying SVHCs in their agreement Nº 820770. products and fulfilling their information obligations under • Project partners: REACH Article 33(2). • Agencia Estatal Consejo Superior de Investigaciones • Funding: Funded under the LIFE Programme of the EuroCientíficas pean Union (No. LIFE16 GIE/DE/000738) • Universitat Politècnica de València • Project partners: The project is implemented by several • Technical University Braunschweig partners from 13 EU states and supported by several insti• National Laboratory of Energy and Geology tutions (e.g. ECHA, Cefic). • BioBTX B.V. • Duration: 07/2017-08/2022 • Imperial College London • Website: https://www.askreach.eu/ • iPoint • SDGs: • University of Twente • 3 • KERIONICS S.L. • 12 • URBASER, S.A. • 16 • Duration: 10/2018-10/2022 • 17 23 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs 4. Social Responsibility: Supporting the SDGs via charitable themselves through nutritional feeding at schools, the buildcauses and organizations ing of water wells, agricultural development, and the rebuildiPoint has a long-standing tradition of contributing to charitaing and reconstruction of existing nurseries. JAM Deutschble causes around Christmas time, and over the years, iPoint land was founded in 2002 and is part of the organization JAM has donated to quite a number of charitable causes and organiInternational, which was established in 1984. The tireless zations which have programs that are tied to many of the SDG commitment of Rudolf Rampf, an entrepreneur based in the themes. 59 Spread out over reporting year 2019/20, we have town of Grafenberg near the iPoint headquarters, to providmade donations to: ing school meals and clean water in Angola has prompted iPoint to make this donation, which supports projects in this The Förderverein für krebskranke Kinder Tübingen e. V. South African state. With this donation we also directly sup(sponsoring association supporting cancer-striken children port the implementation of four Sustainable Development Tuebingen), which takes care of children with cancer, their Goals: SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 6 (Clean Water & Sanitaparents, siblings, and grandparents. The direct support of tion), SDG 8 (Decent Work & Economic Growth) , and SDG 11 families, further psychosocial help and the implementation (Sustainable Cities and Communities). 61 of new ideas are core aspects of their work. They also supKreiskliniken Reutlingen GmbH – In the district hospital of port Tuebingen University’s Children’s Clinic as well as medReutlingen, near our company headquarters, the medical ical research. With our donation iPoint can not only support staff worked even harder during the COVID-19 dominated the realization of numerous projects, research, and financmonths. As a token of our appreciation for their valuable ing the parents’ and family house, but also directly SDG 3 work in the health sector, iPoint made an Easter donation (Good Health and Wellbeing). 60 to this hospital, thus indirectly supporting SDG 3 (Good JAM Deutschland e.V. is a Christian-humanitarian developHealth and Well-Being), and we also donated the chocolate ment organization based in Stuttgart in Southern Germany. bunnies we traditionally give to our headquarters employThe organization aims to support Africa's development into ees to the staff of the district hospital.62 an economically healthy, independent region. JAM's work foPALUNA – Specialized Outpatient Palliative Care for Children cuses on helping children and their families to help and Adolescents – is based at the Tuebingen university 24 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh IV. Advancing the SDGs medical center in Germany. It comprises an interdisciplinary Sea Shepherd is a non-profit, marine conservation organizateam of doctors who work hand in hand to support families tion whose mission it is to protect and conserve all marine with children and adolescents suffering from neuropaediatwildlife by engaging in various demonstrations, campaigns, ric and degenerative diseases, advanced cancer, progressive and tactical operations at sea and elsewhere, including conorgan diseases of the intestine, heart, liver, lungs, and kidventional protests and direct actions to protect marine ney, or congenital chromosomal changes. Among other wildlife. Our donation went to Sea Shepherd’s Operation things, PALUNA’s specialized outpatient palliative care ofCLEAN WAVES66 which tackles Ocean Pollution, Reef fers house visits, telephone consultation, and other life-enHealth, and Clean Water issues in isolated island nations. hancing services like symptom relief for patients. With our With this donation we are also able to directly support SDG donation we support this important palliative assistance for 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), SDG 13 (Climate Action), young patients while also directly supporting the implemenand SDG 14 (Life Below Water).67 tation of SDG 3 (Good Health and Wellbeing).63 Plant for the Planet is an initiative which has set itself the In the past, we have always linked the donation to the SDGs goal of raising awareness of climate change and actively retrospectively. Since December 2019, we have a reverse apcountering it through tree-planting campaigns. Through proach, selecting potential institutions and projects on the our donation, we are able to back this great climate cause basis of whether their focus, vision, or mission are related to and directly advance SDG 4 (Quality Education) and SDG 13 the SDGs. (Climate Action). 64 nez e.V. – „Nachhaltige Entwicklung – gemeinsam für die Zukunft” (Sustainable development – together for the future”, formerly: Week of Links) is a sustainable development-focused platform for information exchange and networking via which we can directly support SDGs 4 (Quality Education) and 17 (Partnerships for the Goals).65 25 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Businesses should work against all forms of Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally corruption, including extortion and bribery proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence Businesses should encourage the development and 10 1 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies in human rights abusesman rights 9 2 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Businesses should undertake initiatives to 8 3 association and the effective recognition of the promote greater environmental responsibility right to collective bargaining 7 4 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenge Businesses should uphold the elimination of all 6 5 forms of forced and compulsory labor Businesses should eliminate discrimination Businesses should uphold the effective in respect of employment and occupation abolition of child labor 26 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles On August 7, 2017, iPoint was officially welcomed as a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Upon joining the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative, we have committed ourselves to support, implement, and uphold the UNGC’s Ten Principles.68 In October 2019, we deepened our commitment and took on a more active role by the election of Dr. Katie Boehme, Head of Corporate Communications & Sustainability at iPoint, to the steering committee of the Global Compact Network Germany (DGCN) as a representative of the business community for the period 2019-2021.69 The document at hand is our Communication of Progress for reporting year 2019/20. In the following paragraphs, we describe our main actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 27 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Using the 10 Principles as guide in responding to the COVID-19 crisis In 2020, the global COVID-19 crisis has presented iPoint, like porary additional measures to protect iPoint’s staff against a many other companies, with unexpected challenges. In recent SARS-CoV-2 infection at the iPoint headquarters in Reutlingen, weeks, calls for a ‘green’, sustainable, SDG-based recovery to be apply equally to all employees at this location (similar measures placed at the heart of the world’s post-COVID-19 recovery plan were implemented at other locations, e.g. Hamburg, which are have been growing from nearly all European political parties, not covered by this report) and are accessible to every employee financial institutions like The World Bank Group, as well as invia our intranet. The measures described in these standards international organizations such as the OECD and, of course, the clude, for example, that: 1 UN Global Compact. For iPoint, the ten principles of the UN every iPoint employee has access to a reusable face mask and 10 Global Compact in particular proved to be a valuable disinfectant when working at the iPoint headquarters; guide in dealing with the crisis in a sustainable manevery iPoint employee at the headquarters has the opportuner, as the following overview of our measures and nity to ask for individual advice from our company doctor, 9 2 efforts demonstrates. also on special risks due to a previous illness, individual disposition, but also on fears and psychological stress due to Human Rights the coronavirus situation. COVID-19 The measures iPoint implemented to address 8 3 the fight against COVID-19 apply to and are acLabor cessible to all employees at the iPoint headquarIn the first COVID-19-related extraordinary staff meeting ters in Reutlingen – without discrimination of on March 16, 2020, CEO Joerg Walden declared: “We will do any kind, concerning for example, race, gender, reeverything that is necessary to lead iPoint through the crisis and 7 4 ligion, national origin, sexual orientation, or gender to preserve our jobs.” And he was able to keep this promise: Deidentity. iPoint’s “SARS-CoV-2 Occupational Health spite cutbacks due to short-time working, iPoint was able to pre6 5 and Safety Standards”, our corporate concept for temserve every single job and keep every single employee, and there 28 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles were no terminations related to the COVID-19 crisis between Furthermore, via iPoint's “SARS-CoV-2 Occupational Health and March 16, 2020, and the release of this CoP on August 7, 2020. Safety Standards”, we could apply the principles of prevention In order to ensure business continuity and a stable continuation and ensure a safe working environment for staff at the headof income as well as preserve all jobs and offer job security in quarters by limiting their exposure to coronavirus in the worktimes of crisis, iPoint’s full-time employees switched to shortplace via the following measures: time working (reduction of regular weekly working hours by up The safety distance of at least 1.5 meters to other persons to 20%) on April 1, 2020. working at the iPoint headquarters is achieved by limiting the number of people in the work areas (open-plan offices, Excluded from the short-time working arrangement are lowseparate smaller office rooms, meeting rooms) and the other paid workers so that their earnings remain above the minimum areas (canteen, kitchen, terrace) as well as by rules of conwage and they can continue to ensure their livelihoods. This duct concerning main “thoroughfares” and standing areas working group includes: (e.g., check-in terminals, stairs, doors, elevator) All employees employed without insurance (e.g. working stuPersonal protective measures are supported by providing redents), usable face masks as well as disinfectant throughout the Trainees (i.e. all trainee contracts continue unaffected), and building (entrance area, kitchen, restrooms). Furthermore, Part-time employees who work less than 50% of regular we have shortened the cleaning intervals for sanitary faciliworking hours ties and common rooms (canteen, coffee kitchens) as well as door handles and handrails accordingly. It was particularly important to us to avoid dismissals of apprenMoreover, iPoint applied the principles of prevention by limtices and working students and to exclude them and other low-initing employee exposure to coronavirus in the workplace by come earners from our short-term working arrangements. putting in place work from home arrangements, following a iPoint made individual arrangements with employees multi-stage approach: 10 1 9 2 who had to look after their children when daycare • Phase 1: From March 16 to April 27, 2020, all iPoint employ8 COVID-19 3 centers, kindergartens, and schools were closed. ees around the globe whose role allowed them to work 7 4 6 5 29 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles from home70 were strongly encouraged to do so. Accompatary basis in compliance with iPoint’s SARS-CoV-2 Occupanying measures included: tional Health and Safety Standards”. • The internal IT team ensured that everyone had the • In late April and May, we conducted a survey to find necessary technical equipment and infrastructure to out how our employees were coping with working work from home. from home. All in all, the employees gave positive • Many department heads organized additional daily feedback on their home office experience: check-in calls with their team via web conference to »» 97% indicated that they cope well or very well talk about work-related and other topics in order to with working in home office. keep in touch and prevent loneliness and isolation. »» 97% indicated that remote coordination with • To express our corporate commitment to this importtheir colleagues works well or very well. ant measure, iPoint participated in the global social »» 90% indicated that working from home has a media campaign #stayhome. For this purpose, we positive effect or no effect on their productivity started a photo campaign on iPoint’s social media (compared to working on site). Those who indichannels and asked our employees to share photos cated that working from home has a negative from their home office, while exercising at home, or effect on their productivity stated spatial issues from how they spend their further leisure time at (e.g., no separate office room, no desk, no chair, home. flat is too small) and coordination / (self-)organi• Since the corporate sports group had to take a break zational issues (e.g., coordination more difficult; and the fitness studios were closed (in Germany until direct exchange with colleagues is more difficult, June 2, 2020), we promoted alternative sports activiwhich results in longer search actions) as the ties via iPoint’s intranet, such as free online workout main reasons. courses or virtual yoga classes with colleagues. »» 90% rated their workplace conditions / their fo10 1 9 2 • Phase 2: From April 28 to May 31, 2020, working at the comcus in the home office with regards to quietness, 8 COVID-19 3 pany headquarters in Reutlingen was possible on a voluntechnology, etc. as improved or exactly the same. 7 4 6 5 30 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles »» The employees made several comments on the • Phase 3: From June 1, 2020, onward, in a quest to go back to positive effects of remote work from home, inthe “new normal”, iPoint’s employees returned to the comcluding: pany headquarters with 50% attendance (2,5 days/week for full-time employees) in compliance with “iPoint’s SARS“There are fewer distractions and interruptions, you will only CoV-2 Occupational Health and Safety Standards” and the be contacted if there are concrete questions/problems. This distance and hygiene rules prescribed therein. allows you to work longer and more concentrated. Through our • As part of this return to the “new normal”, we excommunication and collaboration, which, for example, allow panded our employee information sessions focused screen sharing, you can still work together with several people entirely on COVID-19 measures thematically to inon a problem, maybe even better than if you sit together at one clude, for example, updates on projects and departcomputer. You can sleep longer without having to go to work mental goals and KPIs. and you can finish work earlier :) -> More time for the family.” • Moreover, we resumed our weekly corporate sports course on June 23 – entirely online via a videoconfer“Although I was already an 'experienced' telecommuter before ence tool. Corona (2 days/week), the permanent company-wide home office has other positive influences besides the peace and quiet: Since Environment everyone works like this, coordination goes much better, everyAs a preventive measure to protect employees and external one uses the same channels/gets used to this way of communivisitors, iPoint introduced company-wide telecommuting and cating. In addition, I have a great personal gain in time due to the switched entirely to virtual meetings on March 16, 2020. From lack of commuting, which has an extremely positive effect on my April 28 to May 31, 2020, work at the company headquarters in health (time for exercise etc.) and thus also on my performance Reutlingen, Germany, was possible on a voluntary basis, where(I never expected to see such an extent). I am also pleased by only a very small percentage of the Reutlingen-based employ10 1 9 2 about the amount of CO2 we can save :-)” ees made use of this option. 8 COVID-19 3 7 4 6 5 31 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Switching to remote work from home and encouraging virtual political agendas – despite the coronavirus pandemic, during meetings supported us in reducing our environmental footprint. which environmental and climate protection measures or social For example, between March 16 and June 30, we were able to reaspects in supply chains often take a back seat. duce the number of business trips with public transportation by 73%, whereby all of these business trips took place via train. Anti-Corruption Thus, we could not only reduce our public transportation-relatWe built trust by communicating the COVID-19-related meaed carbon footprint to zero, but were able to save 58,6 tons of 71 sures to our customers and our staff on a regular basis via email, CO2 produced by air travel (as compared to the same period in internet, intranet, and staff info sessions. A staff survey con2019). ducted at the end of April 2020 revealed that 100% of our employees rate the information policy at iPoint regarding the CoroDue to our positive experiences with telecommuting and online navirus measures as very good, ok, or sufficient, while nobody meetings, we continue to encourage our staff to make fewer rated it as insufficient. Comments included: business trips in general (using online meetings instead) and “Thank you very much for the regular and transparent more business trips via train. meetings!” “Many thanks to the Communications Team for the constant Our COVID-19-related switch to telecommuting also impacted flow of information! Top crisis communication, thank you!” other areas. For example, between March 16 and July 1, 2020, we were able to reduce our paper consumption by 99%. In a different survey on iPoint’s internal information services which was completed in July 2020, one employee remarked: In April 2020, we signed a call from the German movement “Com„Many thanks to everyone involved for the open and panies together for sustainability – we’re staying on task”, an 72 constant communication during the crisis! This is not a initiative dedicated to climate protection, biodiversity, circular matter of course!“ 10 1 9 2 economy, a socially just economy, demanding that these and 8 COVID-19 3 other sustainability issues continue to have top priority in the 7 4 6 5 32 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. External focus Offering our solutions As a software and services provider specialized in digital soluA related solution illustrates the overlap between our compar10 1 tions for companies and their supply chain, we allow vital ative advantage and UNGC’s Principle 1. As a secure and disinformation to flow through entire value chains in an tributed digital ledger, Blockchain technology76 has garnered automated and controlled fashion. In many cases, much attention also in the context of responsible sourcing 9 2 the very information accompanying the transforand Conflict Minerals traceability. In 2018, as an early mover, mation from materials to products concerns the iPoint started the recently concluded, EPRM77-funded project subject ofhuman rights. For instance, iPoint’s SustainBlock.78 The goal of the project, which was featured in Conflict Minerals solution (for tin, tungsten, Dutch multinational conglomerate corporation Philips’ 2019 8 3 tantalum, gold, and cobalt), which is based on Sustainability Report79 and in an OECD-moderated webinar in the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI)’s ConApril 2020,80 was threefold: flict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT)73 and 1. to create a system for end-to-end chain of custody trackCobalt Reporting Template (CRT) , facilitates 74 ing of responsible minerals originating from conflict-afthe flow of information concerning mineral provefected and high-risk areas, and 7 4 nance, mode of production, supplier chain of cus2. to support end-user involvement in upstream due dilitody, due diligence, corrective action, assurance, and gence, and 6 5 company policies. 56,000 companies worldwide are 3. to encourage in-region procurement (over disengageusing our solution. 75 ment) through better distribution of the accountability 33 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Sustainblock Blockchain-based supply chain accountability, traceability and data reporting system for traceability from artisanal and small-scale mining Upstream Mineral Supply Chain Smelter Downstream Metal Supply Chain (ASM) operations to smelters or refiners (SoRs). Blockchain-verified Supply Chain With the help of the SustainBlock system, the wealth of available information on specific mining communities can be acMining LocalTrader Exporter InternationalTrader Smelter Trader Manufacturer FinalProduct cessed by consumer-facing brands. Today, often only “classical” Monitor SustainBlock footprint Measure at each supply chain step & due diligence data about conflict-free supply chain are commu– Mass Balance? rank Impact nicated. Important aspects such as child labor, impact of ASM 90% 60% 60% on vulnerable groups including women and children, other of verified SustainBlock Sustainable Metal (Traceability based on Mass Balance) forms of human rights abuse, or environmental destruction are effectively not monitored by international stakeholders. The SustainBlock system allows to communicate this information Blockchain of Custody Access to relevant upstream due diligence impact data effectively within the supply chain for companies it is directly Remuneration of due diligence data incentivizing local best practices relevant to, thus contributing to the support and protection of 2 © 2019 iPoint-systems gmbh human rights, also via the disclosure of human rights abuses. During the current reporting period, the SustainBlock system was piloted in the African Great Lakes Region with a downstream actor (an automotive manufacturer of premium vehicles), and was developed to production maturity. The result is a production-ready supply chain tracing system that encourages actors in the supply chain to source minerals in a 10 1 9 2 transparent and responsible manner. 8 3 7 4 6 5 34 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Sharing our expertise Along these lines, over the reporting period iPoint also contributed to conferences and fora, and hosted or organized events on topics presentation / discussion title more information Conflict Minerals, • iPoint Conflict Minerals – Source responsibly link Responsible Sourcing Blockchain / material traceability / • Using Emerging Technologies to Digitalise Due link supply chain transparency Diligence Solutions for Responsible Mineral Supply Chains • Roundtable “Aligning SDGs + Social Impact goals link with blockchain technology” + Panel “Leave no one behind: How can Blockchain increase positive social and environmental impact?” Supporting human rights-premised fora We also financially contributed to the following events where human rights were front and center of the agenda: event location more information • Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) Annual Conference Santa Clara, CA link 2019 • AIAG 2020 Corporate Responsibility Summit Virtual event link 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 35 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Supporting human rights-based research iPoint’s specific initiatives to support internationally proclaimed human rights notably include commissioning and sponsoring independent studies on the very subject. For example, in June 2020, we sponsored an independent study conducted by the NGO Development International e.V. which focused on the French Devoir De Vigilance law.81 Releasing human rights-related publications In the reporting period, we also published or were featured in articles on human rights-related topics, including: title publication channel more information • How blockchain helps stop the flow of conflict minerals IBM.com link • CSR reporting in Austria least transparent on human rights OTS Austria link issues, new study reveals („CSR-Berichterstattung in Österreich am wenigsten transparent bei Menschenrechtsfragen, enthüllt neue Studie“) • How is the CSR Reporting Obligation Having an Effect? Global Goals Yearbook 2019 link (p. 100-101) 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 36 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Engaging in collective action on social responsibility Supporting human rights via charitable causes and organizaWe work hand in hand with industry associations and collections tive action groups that were explicitly established to tackle Spread out over reporting year 2019/20, we financially supportcomplex human rights issues. For example, iPoint is a member ed the following NGOs and charitable organizations that work of the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), of the Automo82 to support and respect the protection of internationally protive Industry Action Group (AIAG), 83 and of IPC, 84 to develop claimed human rights:87 the systems, processes, and procedures needed to comply with U.S. Conflict Minerals legislation (Dodd-Frank Section The “Förderverein für krebskranke Kinder Tübingen e. V.” 1502) and the upcoming EU Conflict Minerals regulation (Reg(Sponsoring association supporting cancer-striken children ulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Tuebingen)88 Council of 17 May 2017). In 2012, iPoint partnered with AIAG to JAM Deutschland e.V.89 develop the iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform (iPCMP),85 a soluPALUNA – Specialized Outpatient Palliative Care for Chiltion now used by 56,000 companies around the globe via the dren and Adolescents.90 iPoint SustainHub platform. Furthermore, iPoint is a founding member of the International Association of Trusted Blockchain Applications (INATBA),86 and CEO Joerg Walden is currently cochair of the INATBA working group “Social Impact”. Based on the assumption that Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLTs) offer a unique set of tools to tackle some of the most pressing issues humanity is facing today – including climate change, modern slavery, poverty, inequality, food waste, fraud, and corruption –, the working group aims to leverage 10 1 9 2 Blockchain and DLT to achieve positive socio-economic impact 8 3 and advance societal goals such as the SDGs. 7 4 6 5 37 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Internal focus Upholding employee rights Satisfied, healthy, informed, skilled, motivated, and committed employees are a basic condition for a sustainable company development. The employment contracts with each of our 95 iPoint-systems gmbh employees based in Reutlingen and Munich are premised on German national law, and either uphold or surpass requirements in areas such as minimum wage, job security, and paid vacation day standards. For example, all our staff has permanent employment contracts, and we offer an attractive pension plan. In Germany, where most of our employees are based, our contracts reflect the constitution of Germany (Grundgesetz), which guarantees the rights as outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.91 We pay attention to healthy nutrition as well as employee fitness and health. Workstations are ergonomic, and height-adjustable standing desks are available to everyone on request. The company provides – free of charge – fresh fruit, mineral water in glass bottles (not plastic bottles), coffee, and tea to every employee every day on the headquarters office 10 1 9 2 premises. 8 3 7 4 6 5 38 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights We see the health and fitness of iPoint’s employees as both the basic prerequisite for and an indicator of the performance, competitiveness, and long-term success of our company. This is why sports are explicitly promoted at iPoint: Since 2014, iPoint has been rewarding and encouraging participation in public sports competitions and events through its iAmFit campaign. These include, for example, running competitions, long-distance cycling, and fitness tests to obtain the German Sports Badge (Deutsches Sportabzeichen). To equip its athletic employees, the company worked with sport outfitter Trigema to fashion Germany-made, sustainably-produced running and cycling jerseys.92 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 39 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Ensuring occupational health and safety In May and July 2020, a three-day surveillance audit of our inWith respect to occupational health and safety, we currently formation security management system in accordance with have four specifically trained first responders (exceeding the ISO/IEC 2700194 and of iPoint’s compliance with the most legal minimum) and three specifically trained fire protection common data protection laws, guidelines, and specifications assistants at our headquarters. Each year the company holds such as the GDPR was carried out remotely and on site at our mandatory occupational safety events at the headquarters. headquarters. ISO/IEC 27001 helps organizations keep inforThe regular inspection of our office premises and the work mation secure (e.g. concerning financial information, intellecequipment used, as well as regular consultations, guarantee tual property, employee details, or third-party information). our employees’ safety and risk protection in the workplace. The audit certified that all of our processes are systematically implemented and monitored in line with globally accepted Ensuring privacy and protection of data standards. The protection and security of customerand business-related data have always played an important role at iPoint – not only In order to create employee awareness of the requirements of since the implementation of the EU’s General Data Protecdata protection, we post regular updates and news on data tion Regulation (GDPR). For example, in the case of smelting protection issues on our Intranet. In addition, every employee operators, confidentiality regarding supply chains is a central is required to complete a GDPR training once a year. competitive criterion and unique selling point of this type of company. This was taken into account when creating our EPRM-funded SustainBlock93 system, which ensures complete security of supply relationships based on cryptographic calculations. And while it supports the discovery of mine sites of origin, SustainBlock does not make all connectors vis10 1 9 2 ible throughout the entire supply chain. 8 3 7 4 6 5 40 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Human Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not Human Rights: Measurement of Outcomes complicit in human rights abuses. iPoint has received zero (0) claims of human rights abuses Selecting local service providers related to our business or operations. In our assessment, the risk of our Germany-based, softwareand service-oriented company itself being complicit in human rights abuses is close to zero. Immediate service providers, 10 1 such as catering services, are carefully vetted to make sure that their business practices are legal. However, we are aware that the risk of complicity exists in ev9 2 ery sector and every country. That said, we employ continued vigilance and regular communication to ensure that this risk remains close to zero, and the actual incidence rate lies at exactly 0%. 8 3 7 4 6 5 41 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associPrinciple 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all ation and the effective recognition of the right to collective forms of forced and compulsory labor. bargaining. Advancing human rights-oriented reporting tools and research German law fully protects the right of employees to freely asGiven the risk to corporations, in particular within certain secsociate, join a labor union, and engage in collective bargaining, tors, of forced labor in their supply chains, and the genuine and iPoint fully respects and upholds these rights and freeconcern many private sector actors have about such realities in 10 1 doms. Our Social Charter, which was rolled out during their supply chains, we commissioned an independent consulthe current reporting period, contains a chapter on tant to develop the electronic Labor Rights Template (eLRT), “Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective a free, open-access Excel-based data exchange standard de9 2 Bargaining”, which underlines our commitment to signed to support companies in their compliance with global this principle. human trafficking and modern-day slavery legislation.95 Underpinning this tool, we commissioned two accompanying white papers, one exploring the emerging transnational legal frame8 3 work creating disclosure and/or due diligence requirements for subject companies,96 and the other a supporting guide to the tool.97 In August 2019, we released a streamlined version of eLRT – eLRT lite – containing only the instrument’s core set of indicators,98 which we updated in July 2020. 7 4 iPoint’s electronic Labor Rights Template is listed in a toolkit 6 5 to advance reporting on modern slavery which the Global Re42 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor porting Initiative (GRI) and the Responsible Labor Initiative (RLI) launched in December 2019. eLRT is recommended as a tool which “can provide valuable input and guidance for reporting on due diligence and policies, […] reporting on progress of implementing due diligence mechanisms, […] and reporting on effectiveness of actions”.99 Raising awareness To raise awareness about the practice of forced and compulsory labor as well as human trafficking, we regularly mobilize our social media platforms and other corporate media. Typical occasions include, for example, planned or new regulations,100 the support or publication of new studies, and national or international awareness days.101 In March 2020, we also hosted a webinar with the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) which focused on their “Strategy to Combat Trafficking in Persons, the Importation of Goods Produced with Forced Labour and the Sexual Exploitation of Children” which had been released in January 2020.102 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 43 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition bels, and standards like FAIRTRADE,106 the Global Organic Texof child labor. tile Standard (GOTS),107 or Social Accountability International’s (SAI) SA8000,108 which are based on internationally recognized Adhering to laws and regulations standards of decent work and attest that companies treat iPoint adheres to minimum age provisions of German labor workers fair, source and sell ethically and responsibly, and comlaws and regulations. We also take account of and refer to inply with social (and environmental) criteria. Over 1,800 prodternational standards like ILO Convention No. 138 and 182, ucts in the memo range are fair trade products.109 10 1 e.g. in the chapter on “Prohibition of Child Labor and Forced Labor” of our Social Charter, which we rolled Raising awareness out during the current reporting period. 103 With 1 in 4 children engaged in child labor in the world’s poor9 2 est countries, and roughly half of them engaged in hazardProcuring responsibly ous labor, as things stand, there cannot be too much awareAs a software and services company, we do not ness-raising on the subject.110 To this end, we also leverage have traditional supply chains. However, we our social media platforms and other corporate media to raise 8 3 are conscious of the fact that even our consumawareness.111 ables such as office materials, computers, food, etc. have a history and origin. And we work with suppliers to make sure that the history of our consumables is a happy one. For example, at our 7 4 iPoint’s headquarters in Reutlingen we have chosen the Germany-based vendors memo104 and Green 6 5 Promotion105 as providers of our office supplies and giveaways. These vendors place great value on certifications, la44 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of many’s Anti-Discrimination Act (Antidiskriminierungsgesetz). discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. In general, we at iPoint nurture an inclusive culture, starting with the first day on the job. Each new employee is presented At iPoint, men and women from various nations and age with our Code of Conduct (Verhaltenskodex) – defining and groups, with different cultural, religious, ethnic and social condemning all forms of discrimination and sexual harassment backgrounds, and sexual orientation work side-by-side. Our – which must be signed. workforce diversity shapes our corporate culture and has 10 1 a positive impact on creativity, innovation, and perforiPoint’s employee composition reflects our commitment to mance, as well as employee motivation. With their inclusion, gender equality, and sexual orientation non-discrimunique individual skills, experience, and viewpoints, ination. As of July 31, 2020, iPoint-systems gmbh (Reutlingen 9 2 and often working in heterogeneous teams, our and Munich locations) had 95 employees, a number which inemployees not only achieve better results, but cludes trainees and part-time student employees (9 trainees, also expand the potential for new ideas and in5 working students). Our male-to-female ratio was 64%, wherenovation within the company. Twenty-six perby we hired more female than male employees in the current 8 3 cent (26%) of our employees had a citizenship reporting year, the ratio being 58% – a first in iPoint’s 19-year other than German over the reporting period company history. Three out of nine (33%) of our upper-level – an increase of 5% compared to the previous managers112 were female. 20% of our employees were over the period –, whereby the non-German employees age of 50 years. We also had 3% employees with disabilities belonged to 13 different nationalities. over the reporting period. Equal opportunity also specifically 7 4 means that our personnel and salaries are selected on the baWe treat each other with respect, appreciation, and sis of the applicant’s qualifications and motivation, not on the 6 5 mutual acceptance, are committed to the Universal Decbasis of ethnic origin, race, gender, or religion. laration of Human Rights, and act in accordance with Ger45 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Labor 64% Another specific action we take to address discrimination and Company male-to-female ratio eliminate it within the workplace is keeping up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion that provide a trans20% parent view of opportunities for employees and their progresEmployees over 50 years sion within the organization. 3% Working part-time is a distinct option for our staff, and 13% Employees with disabilities of our employees did so over the reporting period. iPoint also actively supports employee reintegration into the workplace 33% Female upper-level managers (for those who e.g. took parental leave or were ill) with individualized plans. 13% Part-time employees Labor: Measurement of Outcomes In the reporting period under consideration, iPoint has re26% Non-German citizenship ceived zero (0) discrimination or labor-related claims. 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 46 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary commercial enterprises, transport, agriculture, and private approach to environmental challenges. households as their chief sources – are one of the main drivers of climate change.114 Alarmed by these risks, iPoint is continuMonitoring climate change and risks ously re-assessing where we as a software and service provider According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – with no production or handling of physical goods – may im(IPCC), “Human activities are estimated to have caused approve our own performance to prevent environmental damage. proximately 1.0°C of global warming above pre-industrial iPoint supports the goal of the United Nations Framework Con10 1 levels”. 113 Human-induced climate change and its related vention on Climate Change to limit future global warming to impacts are a global challenge, affecting every counbelow 2° or 1.5° Celsius relative to the pre-industrial level. The try on every continent and posing a threat to the company is helping to achieve this goal by pursuing a precau9 2 way we live and to the future of our planet. Sevtionary approach, which involves taking early action to ensure eral cities, councils, and jurisdictions worldwide that environmental damage does not occur. This includes, for have already declared a climate emergency. The example, several measures to record (and improve) our operainternational Fridays for Future movement tional environmental performance, increase energy efficiency, 8 3 of school students striking for climate and and reduce CO₂ emissions. demanding action to prevent further global warming and climate change also underlines Conducting life cycle assessments this sense of urgency – as well as the importance In line with the saying that you can only manage – and improve of this principle (and SDG 13). – what you measure, we have established an environmental 7 4 management system (EMS) at our Reutlingen headquarters Taking this challenge very seriously, we at iPoint are – where 69% of our iPoint Group employees work –, which we 6 5 aware that high and increasing anthropogenic greenuse to find ways of optimizing our operational environmenhouse gas (GHG) emissions – with energy production, tal performance. The recording of operational environmental 47 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment impacts, such as GHG emissions from business activities, is all illuminants. Furthermore, we have started our journey to inconducted according to standardized methods and forms the clude scope 3 emissions among scope 1 and 2. This is the first basis of the company’s environmentally-conscious design. step to not only capture and manage iPoint’s own GHG emisContinuously improving the quality of our EMS, which is based sions, but also those of our suppliers. on the international environmental management standard ISO 14001, we are currently developing an action plan as a baWe also intend to carry out LCAs for subsequent reporting perisis to conduct an ISO 14001:2015 audit in 2020. Furthermore, ods, which will enable iPoint to evaluate measures through an we are expanding our EMS to include criteria of the Eco-Manongoing controlling process. Weak points are revealed and apagement and Audit Scheme (EMAS). 115 We are also examining propriate corrective measures can be taken where necessary. the expansion of our EMS to our Hamburg site, including the Our regular life cycle assessments ensure that trends are capidentification of a local environmental management representured and degrees of target achievement measured. tative and the development of a roll-out strategy. Ongoing Measures to Improve our Environmental Performance iPoint also measures its environmental footprint by carrying Sustainable energy supply: At our Reutlingen headquarout life cycle assessments (LCAs) on a regular, currently twoters, iPoint only consumes electricity from renewable year basis to record and evaluate environmentally relevant sources (so-called “Ökostrom”), at a significantly higher procedures. We did so in accordance with ISO 14040ff. requirecost to the company than regular electricity. We gladly abments, and according to the defined two-year schedule, the sorb that cost impact, as it is one concrete step we can take. LCA for 2019 will be carried out in 2020. Corporate car policy: To conduct official business or due to their leadership position, certain Reutlingen-based employShowing iPoint’s commitment, we are continuously improvees currently receive a company car. Our corporate car poliing our efforts on optimizing the quality and scope of cy however places restrictions on the type of vehicle and 10 1 9 2 the LCA. For example, we have improved the LCA's the permissible emissions in the three predetermined class8 3 level of detail level considerably. We now calculate es, the maximum CO₂-emissions being 140 g/km, 125 g/km, the consumption of each significant consumer, e.g. and 100 g/km, respectively. This policy has in fact resulted 7 4 6 5 48 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment in employees downsizing their vehicles. Furthermore, 20% of the Reutlingen headquarters to participate in the Germaour fleet are currently alternatively powered company cars ny-wide campaign “STADTRADELN”,116 which aims at mak(electric and hybrid) – a 7% increase compared to the previous ing a contribution to climate protection and setting an exreporting year –, and iPoint’s Reutlingen site features two elecample for increased bicycle promotion in communities. In tric vehicle charging stations. total, 11 cyclists from iPoint contributed 1.965 kilometers, Less international business travel: Part of the reason we thus avoiding 268 kg of CO2 emissions. opt to set up country offices is to offset carbon emissions Use of digital communication and collaboration tools: through international travel. The specific locations of our iPoint’s sustainability culture maximizes digital communicountry offices are chosen in such a manner that they have cation and collaboration tools such as GoToMeeting, ready access to public transport infrastructure. GoToWebinar, Microsoft Teams, SharePoint, and ConfluEncouragement of carpooling, use of public transport and ence in order to simplify paperless collaboration as well as cycling: We encourage carpooling and the use of public reduce our CO₂ footprint and the volume of physical travel transport in order to reduce emissions and to relieve road for our employees and customers. traffic. The flexible working hours enable the use of carpoolFacilitation of remote work from home: In May 2019, we ining opportunities. On request, iPoint takes over the costs troduced a home office policy which permits employees to of local public transport for trainees. And to support our work remotely for up to 20% of their weekly working hours in employees who use public transportation and bicycles to order to reduce their volume of travel. This percentage was commute to our headquarters, iPoint has leased “bike boxtemporarily increased to 50-100% due to the COVID-19 panes” at the Reutlingen Central Station from the city. These demic (see chapter Using the 10 Principles as guide in resmall, individually lockable bike garages allow employees to sponding to the COVID-19 crisis , p. 28-36, for further details). park their two-wheeled steeds in a dry, theftand vandal-proof place to continue their trip to work or way home. 10 1 9 2 And iPoint attaches importance to supporting its employ8 3 ees in their daily commute to work by bicycle. From June 27 to July 17, 2020, for example, iPoint motivated employees at 7 4 6 5 49 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Working in a green headquarters building The newly built company headquarters in Reutlingen, into which we moved in December 2014, meets the latest environmental standards. It is characterized by high resource efficiency with regard to building materials, energy sources, and water technology. A number of features make it especially eco-friendly: large windows allow for much natural light to enter the building, and indoor lighting relies on LED lights which enable a clear reduction in energy consumption; the building furthermore regulates its temperature through a geothermal heat pump – a central heating and cooling system that transfers heat or cold air to or from the ground (while substantially more expensive to install than viable alternatives, iPoint does count on the geothermal pump to pay for itself over the coming decades); the building’s open design reduces the need for ventilation, heating and therefore also reduces electricity consumption; hand dryers were installed in the bathroom to render paper towels obsolete; with a vegetation layer on its roof, from above the building is literally turning green; it reduces the amount of wastewater, as a large part of the rainwater is absorbed by the 10 1 9 2 plants; 8 3 plants within the building provide fresh oxygen. 7 4 6 5 50 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Improving our waste management Hofmann has developed an alternative packaging based on celDuring the current reporting period, in a bid to become even lulose.119 “Indeed, packaging improvements and innovations ofmore sustainable, we removed the waste bins at the individual fer significant power to contribute to achieving SDG 12 and its workplaces at the Reutlingen headquarters and replaced them specific targets.”120 with new central waste bins in the kitchens on every level, which was accompanied by instructions and charts on correct waste separation. This measure not only enabled us to optimize our waste separation and to use less trash bags, but has also led to a reduction of our waste by 13%. This came about mainly through reducing our residual waste by 37% due to separated organic waste. Another measure we have introduced in this context is related to an offer at our headquarters in Reutlingen. iPoint’s staff can make use of a daily lunch offer we provide in cooperation with the catering company Menue-Manufaktur Hofmann at subsidized rates.117 The variety of ready-portioned menus, which also include vegetarian and vegan meals, are usually served in a single-serving tray consisting of aluminium. In October 2019, we switched to Hofmann’s new environmentally-friendly serving trays for 50 percent of the meals.118 In theory, aluminium has the potential to be more sustainable than other materi10 1 9 2 als if it could be more easily recycled with less energy 8 3 consumption. As the industry has not yet reached this stage, we appreciate that Menue-Manufaktur 7 4 6 5 51 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to received two Manufacturing Leadership Awards for its sustainpromote greater environmental responsibility. ability leadership from the National Association of Manufacturers’ Manufacturing Leadership Council.125 Furthermore, Oracle is Selecting business partners with sustainability criteria dedicated to driving sustainability in the Cloud by, for example, Our commitment to sustainability extends to the products using 100% renewable energy in 94 leased datacenters.126 and services we procure, and implicates our business partners. 2. Microsoft 10 1 Our current technology partners include: One of the reasons we are proud to work with Microsoft is that since July 2012, their global operations have been 100% carbon 1. Oracle neutral127 – with President Brad Smith announcing in January 9 2 Oracle has a robust environmental track record and 2020 their ambitious plan to be carbon negative by 2030 and “to has set specific environmental goals for 2020 and remove from the environment all the carbon the company has 2025, which they already have partially achieved emitted either directly or by electrical consumption since it was in August 2020 (in the areas of renewable enerfounded in 1975”128 by 2050. In August 2020, Smith announced 8 3 gy and absolute emissions).121 The company has the company’s commitment to achieving zero waste goals by notably improved its score year-over-year since 2030.129 Furthermore, the company is scaling up its clean ener2005, when Oracle first reported its emission gy consumption to power its data centers and operations each data to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). 122 year. In 2017, Microsoft pledged to reduce its operational carbon Oracle was recognized on CDP’s Climate A List emissions by 75% by 2030, e.g. by increasing their internal carbon 7 4 2018 for the third consecutive year. 123 The company fee, and are reportedly on target to achieve this goal.130 And in also earned a gold medal in the 2019 EcoVadis CSR As2019, Microsoft received Gold recognition in the EcoVadis Suppli6 5 sessment, putting Oracle in the top 5 percent of responder Sustainability Rating, thereby placing the company in the top ing companies for supplier sustainability. 124 In 2019, Oracle five percent of performers evaluated by EcoVadis.131 52 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment 3. CHG-Meridian vironmentally-relevant processes while complying with laws To meet our hardware needs, iPoint has chosen CHG-MERIDIand regulations. Among other things, Flashbay shipments are AN as a business partner, who follow a circular economy-based, batched and processed in bulk to minimize the number of delivend-to-end lifecycle technology management approach. The IT ery trips, thus reducing their CO2 footprint, and the company specialist supports us in the acquisition of new – and the recyendeavors to use products and packaging made from recycled cling and reuse of our used – office computers in the spirit of an materials.134 ecologically responsible circular economy. The company then professionally refurbishes and remarkets the IT equipment, 2. Green Promotion and so extends its useful life. CHG-MERIDIAN, in turn, partGermany-based Green Promotion135 supplies promotional ners with two non-profit organizations recognized as UNGC items. All products in Green Promotion’s range must consist of signatories: Close the Gap, which supplies schools and training eco-friendly materials, where possible in organic quality, from establishments in developing countries with pre-owned equiprenewable resources, recycled materials, or natural materials. ment that is still in good working order, and WorldLoop, which The company also places value on the ethical-social and ecocollects defective used equipment in developing countries and nomic pillars of sustainable development, e.g. by choosing suphas it professionally recycled in order to recover valuable raw pliers who comply with the ILO Core Labour Standards and by materials. 132 striving for long-term supply relationships.136 Our current office stationery and giveaway suppliers include: 3. memo The Germany-based mail order company memo137 provides 1. Flashbay more than 20,000 sustainable products for daily use in the Flashbay 133 is specialized in on-demand manufacturing of office and at home.138 All products are selected according to custom-branded promotional technology products. ecological, social, economic and qualitative criteria – which 10 1 9 2 As a responsible global company, Flashbay aims to is why iPoint has chosen memo as our preferred vendor for 8 3 help protect the environment by preventing poloffice supplies. In product evaluation, memo is guided by the lution, making continuous improvements to encriteria of recognized environmental labels and quality seals. 7 4 6 5 53 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment In procurement, memo follows the principle of “local sourcing” actively encouraged our employees around the globe to par– wherever possible, suppliers from Germany and Europe are ticipate in the global climate strikes on September 20, 2019,145 preferred. In addition, memo consistently pursues sustainabiland on November 29, 2019.146 Due to the COVID-19 crisis and ity criteria in all business areas. The mail order company has alrelated restrictions, the global climate strike went digital on ready received several awards for their commitment to people, April 24, 2020, and iPoint’s employees participated in the #Digthe environment, and the climate. 139 The memo sustainability italStrike via Social Media, including LinkedIn147 and Twitter.148 reports have also received several awards.140 Raising awareness Engaging in environmental sustainability collective action We regularly mobilize our staff and utilize our social media Collective action – i.e. actions undertaken by an alliance of inplatforms and other corporate media to raise awareness dividuals and/or groups towards a collective purpose – is indisabout environmental issues and promote greater environpensable when matters are concerned that involve a multitude mental responsibility. Typical occasions include, for example, of stakeholders and competing interests. To foster the cause of national or international awareness days.149 Under the motto the global commons, we engage in a number of joint initiatives #FightEveryCrisis, iPoint remains committed to protecting the and trade associations, such as the Expert Forum Global Enviclimate and creating awareness for the climate crisis, even in ronmental Compliance, 141 the IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit, 142 these challenging times. and the VNU Verband für Nachhaltigkeitsund Umweltmanagement e.V.143 Furthermore, we are an organizational member On March 9, 2020, we launched a 10-week environmental of the Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation campaign at iPoint’s headquarters in Reutlingen to proac(FSLCI). 144 tively communicate to our staff a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. The environmental campaign was Furthermore, as an environmentally-conscious company, aimed to advance the SDGs as well as the Good Life Goals,150 10 1 9 2 iPoint supports the call for #ClimateStrike and wants to show which we actively promoted inside and outside of our company 8 3 that climate protection is necessary and possible in the econfrom February to June 2019.151 However, due to the lockdown omy. We are committed to protecting the climate and have in Germany imposed by the coronavirus pandemic and the on7 4 6 5 54 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment going company-wide working from home policy, we decided to Promoting the (Digital) Circular Economy put the environmental campaign on hold on March 16, 2020. Take – make – use – dispose. This is the still prevailing linear economy system. Products which are thrown away, buried in Since COVID-19 continues to determine our everyday and prolandfills, or burnt at the end of their primary use phase can fessional life, but the environmental challenges should not be not only contain valuable materials consisting of finite natural forgotten, we are currently planning to restart the environresources, but also hazardous materials harmful to humans mental campaign in September 2020, adapted to the current or the environment. We at iPoint strongly believe that the circumstances. We will expand the environmental tips from solution to many of these problems lies in the combination of the office to the workplace at home and will offer the informathe Circular Economy, which allows companies and society to tion online, i.e. it will not only be available locally and physicalmanufacture, use, and re-use truly sustainable products, with ly at the Reutlingen site, but for the entire iPoint Group staff in digital data – an approach we at iPoint have come to call the German and English. To involve employees from all locations, “Digital Circular Economy”. we will launch a survey in advance to ask their for their personal tips on how to live in a sustainable manner during the curTo promote a (Digital) Circular Economy and show how we as a rent pandemic. software company can support manufacturers and suppliers in creating more circular products and setting up circular processampagne Umweltk es, we have created a range of material on the topic of Digital 1 Arbeitsw eg Circular Economy, including a series of video clips, which we meiden lastik ver Ziel: CO 2-Au sstoß verringern & Mikrop have accumulated on a webpage we are constantly expanding. Tonnen 115 Mio. pro Jahr https://www.ipoint-systems.com/digital-circular-economy/ PKWs 63,7 Mio. nd in Deutschla Arbeitneh 60% aller n pendeln mer/inne rieb im Jahr roplastik-Ab 998 g Mik Pro Auto 10 1 Tipps: hallenge! Mobilitäts-C dort Reutlin gen. bei iPoints Mach mit 13) am Stan weg. März (KW dem Arbeits Wo: 23. 27. abdruck auf • Wann & 9 2 en CO 2-Fuß chaft. Reduzie re Dein Fahrgemeins • Warum: bilde eine , Bus , Zug oder ckets. m Fahrrad he ÖPNV-Ti • Wie: Nim usst in dieser Woc usch s: iPoint bez ite. 8 • Übrigen nce-Startse der Conflue 3 wir 3 Prei se. Infos: Auf • Weitere nen verlosen eilnehmer/in n iPoint-T Unter alle Tipps von Zuhause Mitarbeitern Lebensmittel 7 4 Drucken Lüften Bewegung Strom ng Dienstreise Mülltrennu 6 5 Arbeitsweg 55 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment In the reporting period, we also published or were featured in several media pieces concerning the (Digital) Circular Economy, including: title publication channel / medium more information Software supports move towards Chemicals Management Software Guide. A Guide to link a circular economy business model Chemicals Management and Regulatory Compliance Software Solutions. Third Edition, p. 22-24. Blockchain technology for industrial Book (with several articles by iPoint authors); German link production and the digital circular economy (“Blockchain Technologie für die industrielle Produktion und digitale Kreislaufwirtschaft”) Circular Economy Thought Leadership Podcast link – Interview with Joerg Walden Digitalization – A major driver towards LinkedIn link the Circular Economy and the SDGs From ownership to usership – new LinkedIn link business models accelerating the transition to the Circular Economy 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 56 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Informing and educating iPoint often hosts – or participates in – national and international events that are intended to educate or inform interested stakeholders. Over the reporting period, our subject matter experts presented the following discussion topics: topics presentation / discussion title more information (Digital) Circular Economy Digital Circular Economy How Software Can link Accelerate the Transition to the Circular Economy & Create Sustainability Leadership Setting CradleToCradle (C2C) Standards – Closing link the Loop Digitalization as an Enabler of the Circular Economy link Transparency Requirements For A Sustainable link Circular Economy Life cycle assessment (LCA) and Using life cycle information in decision making for link resource efficiency reaching and setting sustainability goals Connecting life cycle models instead of exporting and link importing datasets from and in LCA software – a database platform for parameterized LCI datasets – concept and implementation How to handle upcoming EU requirements on LCA link EU RoHS directive, EU REACH regulation, SVHCs in relation to the ECHA database and link 1 Calif. Prop 65 notifications 10 9 2 RoHS and REACH – current developments link 8 3 ECHA SCIP database link 7 4 How to achieve due diligence with your SCIP reporting link 6 5 57 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment In addition to contributing expertise, we also put money where our mouth is. Over the reporting period, we sponsored conferences or fora that had implicit or explicit environmental objectives. Examples include: event location more information • IMDS & Product Chemical Compliance Conference 2019 Lathrup Village, MI – USA link • 2020 Sustainability Leaders Congress Virtual event link • IPC & ITI Critical Environmental Requirements for Virtual event link Electronics Conference 2020 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 58 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Improving our paper policy Choosing sustainable gifts During the current reporting period, in a bid to further improve In a bid to lead by example, our gifts and giveaways for trade our paper policy, we switched our entire in-house paper confairs, conferences, customer visits, and employees are selected sumption to FSC®and ISO 14001-certified paper, produced according to ecologically and socially sustainable standards. in the EU and qualified with the EU Ecolabel – guaranteeing The decisive factors here are corresponding certifications or that the products’ main environmental impacts are reduced in information provided by the vendors as well as an assessment comparison to similar products on the market. We are striving whether the products meet our corporate criteria.154 Current to find a product that best meets our sustainability, usability, promotional gifts include reusable, REACH-compliant fabric and data security requirements and are therefore currently bags, plantable pencils,155 eco-ballpoint pens156 and USB flash testing several types of 100% recycled paper. drives as well as eco-powerbanks,157 ecocubes,158 and sustainably designed, reusable water bottles from a Cradle-to-CraFor our corporate publishing needs (e.g. flyers, brochures, cusdle-certified enterprise.159 Furthermore, instead of giving customer magazine, employee magazine, etc.), we demonstrate tomers and employees take-home-presents, we have started environmental responsibility by carefully selecting print to hand out tree vouchers from Plant for the Planet,160 an orservices. For our printing needs, we work with FSC®and ISO ganization which aims to raise awareness about the issue of 12647-2-certified printers to achieve ecologically sustainable climate change and actively combat it through tree-plantprinting results. During the reporting period, we continued to ing campaigns. use the climate-neutral printing services offered by our printers in cooperation with ClimatePartner.152 For each print order, the generated carbon emissions are calculated in line with ISO 16759 and offset via a certified project that can be chosen from the project portfolio of ClimatePartner.153 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 59 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development Proposition 65, the US Toxic Substances Control Act, EU RoHS, and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EU ELV, and EU REACH. Offering our software and services In 2018, iPoint’s software solutions in the area of environmenEnvironmentally sound technologies should protect the ental product compliance were notably recognized when the Euvironment, are less polluting, use resources in a more sustainropean Commission selected the company out of hundreds of able manner, recycle more of their wastes and products, and applications to join the Scaling Circular Business initiative, a 10 1 handle residual wastes in a more acceptable manner than formal recognition of our innovative circular economy solutions the technologies for which they were substitutes. 161 As underlining that we are one of the SMEs ready to help other orone of the world’s leading software and consulting ganizations to become more circular.162 Most recently, in August 9 2 companies for environmental product compliance 2020, iPoint’s CEO was honored as “Best Environmental Comand sustainability, the development and diffupliance Software Solutions CEO (Europe)” by CEO Monthly, and sion of environmentally-friendly technologies featured in their Global CEO Excellence Awards 2020 magazine. is a raison d’être of iPoint and part of our core 8 3 business portfolio. The company’s digital soluOur acquisition of the ifu Institute for Environmental IT Hamtions permit an automated and secure exchange burg – a company highly specialized in LCA – allows us to offer of relevant information across the entire value pertinent software and services, and accompany our customers creation network and product life cycle – from on their quest to become circular.163 What started out in 2013 product design, manufacturing and use, to reuse as a B2B cooperation to develop design and evaluation tools for 7 4 and recycling. Our solutions portfolio includes softfunctional, ecologically-optimized, multi-material, lightweight ware that enables manufacturing companies to comautomotive components in mass production (research project 6 5 ply with legal requirements, regulations, and directives “MultiMaK”), flourished into a full-blown corporate merger in addressing hazardous and substances such as California 2018. Our joint “Live LCA” project, which began in 2017, also im60 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Environment plemented with other industry and research partners, set out DIBICHAIN – Digital representation of circular systems using to develop a software solution enabling companies to combine Blockchain technology: R&D project with Airbus, Altran available material and energy consumption data for a real-time Deutschland, Blockchain Research Lab, and CHAINSTEP,168 calculation of LCA and Material Flow Cost Accounting (MFCA), Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation thereby reducing the costs for EPDs (Environmental Product (FSLCI) – Vice Chair of the Executive Board,169 Declarations) and LCAs by 90%.164 This new solution has been iCAREPLAST – Integrated Catalytic Recycling of Plastic Resiavailable as part of the iPoint Suite under the name of “iPoint dues Into Added-Value Chemicals: R&D project with Agencia Product Sustainability” since December 2019. Estatal Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Universitat Politècnica de València, Technical University BraunIndustry Cooperations, R&D Projects schweig, National Laboratory of Energy and Geology, BioBTX In line with SDG 17 (Partnerships for the Goals), iPoint takes a B.V., Imperial College London, University of Twente, KERIONstrategic collaborative approach to implementing this UNGC ICS S.L., and URBASER, S.A.,170 principle. Important cooperations and memberships include: ISO Technical Committee on Circular Economy (ISO/TC ACTion – Advanced Shaped Sandwich Composites for Me323),171 chanical, Thermal and Acoustic Applications: R&D project Life Ask REACH – Project with several partners from Europe, with ElringKlinger, INVENT GmbH, Technical University of funded under the LIFE Programme of the European Union Braunschweig, and Volkswagen AG funded by the German (No. LIFE16 GIE/DE/000738),172 Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF),165 Verband für Umweltund Nachhaltigkeitsmanagement e.V. Christian Doppler Laboratory for Sustainable Product Man(VNU; Association for European Sustainability and Eco-Management enabling a Circular Economy: Research laboratory agement Professionals) – Member of the Executive Board.173 at the University of Graz with ARA – Altstoff Recycling Austria and AVL,166 Environment: Measurement of Outcomes 10 1 9 2 Consumer Information Programme for Sustain8 3 able Consumption and Production (CI-SCP) of One Planet Network,167 During the reporting period, iPoint received zero (0) com7 4 6 5 plaints concerning environment-related violations. 61 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all and applied procedures, regularly updated and audited.174 ISO its forms, including extortion and bribery. 9001:2015 clause 7.5.3 addresses honesty in record keeping. Ethical and responsible behavior are the cornerstones of a Participating in anti-corruption joint action, iPoint has ensuccessful business in a dynamic global marketplace. Anti-cordorsed the Call to Action: Anti-Corruption and the Global Deruption clauses are therefore included in iPoint’s standard emvelopment Agenda by signing the letter of support on August ployee contracts which we introduced in March 2018. Further2, 2018.175 With the letter iPoint affirms its commitment to in10 1 more, a Social Charter which contains several paragraphs tegrate anti-corruption into our strategies and operations, and on what kind of ethical, responsible behavior is expectwork against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and ed from iPoint’s employees was rolled out during the bribery. 9 2 reporting period. Also in the area of anti-corruption, iPoint actively supports reFor iPoint, sustainability means achieving longsearch on corporate behavior and disclosure. Our commissionterm growth. Economic sustainability is aning of an EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive study – that spe8 3 chored in iPoint’s business processes, solutions, cifically hones in on the actions companies are taking to counter and customer relationships. We strive for conthe unethical practice of corruption –, which was released in tinuous, sustainable improvement of the qualMay 2019 (Sweden, Germany) and October 2019 (Austria), is ity of our business processes and products. To another example of iPoint’s vested interest in measuring macthis end, in May and July 2020 we had our quality ro-level trends.176 7 4 management system audited (surveillance audit) in accordance with ISO 9001. Organizations that are ISO 6 5 9001-certified have a single and complete set of managed 62 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh V. Living Up To UNGC’s 10 Principles Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption: Measurement of Outcomes During the reporting period, there have been zero (0) infractions on the grounds of corruption or bribery, either alleged or verified. During the reporting period, no disciplinary action was required concerning corruption. During the reporting period, the total number of confirmed cases where contracts with counterparties were terminated or not renewed due to corruption-related infringements was zero (0). 10 1 9 2 8 3 7 4 6 5 63 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward Over the next reporting period, we plan to undertake the following initiatives in line with the UNGC principles. Overarching (SDGs, all UNGC principles) SDG impact measurement In the forthcoming reporting period, we – in cooperation with Materiality analysis stakeholders – plan to define objectives via which we intend iPoint plans to complete a materiality analysis premised on to continue to contribute to the prioritized SDGs and their its own social and environmental footprint. This analysis will targets, and determine the indicators we will use to measure form the basis of our future CSR and sustainability planning. progress against them. 1 Topping the list are employees (diversity, health&safety, 10 intellectual property rights), energy management, Education on the SDGs e-waste management, risk management, data privaFurthermore, we plan to continue to educate our internal and cy and security, travel, etc., to be analyzed accordexternal stakeholders on the SDGs and SDG-related matters 9 2 ing to spend. via our corporate communication channels. Corporate procurement policy SDG support via charitable causes and organizations We plan to finalize and release an official corpoIn the upcoming reporting year, we will continue to support 8 3 rate procurement policy for sustainable office charitable causes and organizations and select the beneficiasupplies and promotional items with selecries of our donations on the grounds that they support the imtion criteria that include social responsibility, plementation of the SDGs. environment-related, and other sustainability 7 4 dimensions, also making sure there are no human Expertise sharing rights violations occurring among iPoint’s service Over the next reporting period, iPoint will continue to contrib6 5 providers or suppliers. ute subject matter expertise covering one or more UNGC principles and SDGs at conferences, fora, and in publications. 64 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward Sponsorship of conferences and events groups – without discrimination of any kind concerning, for In the upcoming reporting year, iPoint will continue to host example, race, gender, religion, national origin, sexual orientaand sponsor conferences where one or more UNGC principles tion, or gender identity. are front and center. Labor Human Rights Increasing the number and quality of apprenticeships Further developing our Human Rights-oriented tools and In a quest to increase the number of youth and adults who have 1 services relevant technical and vocational skills for employment, we 10 We intend to continue the expansion of our human plan to offer apprenticeships to more trainees in the upcoming rights-oriented solutions and services in support of reporting period. We also intend to continue our annual survey UN goals and issues. In particular, we will adapt of the trainees to benchmark and continuously improve the 9 2 our existing responsible sourcing solutions to the quality of our apprenticeship offer. new Conflict Minerals Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2017/82) which will come into full force Promoting better health and fitness across the EU on January 1, 2021. Since corporate commitment to promoting better health de8 3 monstrably reduces sick leave and fluctuation, increases emEnsuring the health of our stakeholders during ployee satisfaction, and thus leads to more productivity and the COVID-19 pandemic competitiveness, iPoint has planned several measures for the Protecting the right to health during the ongoupcoming reporting period: 7 4 ing COVID-19 pandemic will remain a top priority Expansion of the corporate fitness offer by subsidizing acof iPoint, and we will continue to implement adecess to and use of Qualitrain’s177 Germany-wide network of 6 5 quate measures to protect our staff, customers, and suppliers, thereby paying special attention to vulnerable 3,500 sports and health facilities (e.g., fitness studios, swimming and leisure pools, yoga studios, climbing and 65 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward bouldering halls) and more than 1,000 online courses on exthereby continuing our efforts to ensure privacy as well as proercise, nutrition, and meditation, tect and keep our company’s, customers’ and employees’ inforProviding additional courses for mental health, e.g., on remation secure. silience, meditation, and relaxation techniques, Subsidization of bicycles and e-bikes for our employees via Environment a leasing service. Upscaling and audit of EMS Expansion of corporate benefits In the upcoming reporting period, we plan to scale up the numWe will work with an established provider 178 to offer our staff ber of sites for which an Environmental Management System 1 benefit programs, granting them access to exclusive offers (EMS) will be established, starting with sites with more than 10 of high-quality products and services from well-known 15 employees. Furthermore, we plan to have our EMS audited manufacturers and brands. according to the international environmental management standard ISO 14001. 9 2 Support of remote work Due to our positive experiences with telecomCarbon neutrality plan muting during the COVID-19 pandemic, we will iPoint is committed to gradually reducing its carbon emissions continue to support remote work, e.g., by reto the point of carbon neutrality and has already taken specific 8 3 leasing a working from home policy and providsteps in this direction. Upon studying the feasibility of attaining corporate guidelines for conducting online ing complete carbon neutrality, we will issue a carbon neutralmeetings. ity plan. 7 4 Ensuring privacy and protection of data KPIs of LCA In the upcoming reporting period, we plan to have iPoint intends to conduct an LCA for 2019 and is considering to 6 5 our information security management system audited (surveillance audit) in accordance with ISO/IEC 27001, make public specific KPIs that emerged based on our 2019 LCA, including energy usage, waste, and emissions (Scope 1). 66 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh VI. Looking Forward Increase e-vehicle fleet Anti-corruption We plan to increase the amount of alternatively powered company cars in the upcoming reporting period. Constantly striving for continuous, sustainable improvement of the quality of our business processes and products, including Improving our paper policy anti-corruption measures, we plan to have our quality manageWe intend to continue the improvement of our paper policy by ment system audited (surveillance audit) in accordance with ISO concluding our test of several types of 100% recycled paper in 9001. ISO 9001:2015 clauses 7.5.3 addresses honesty in record order to find a product that best meets our sustainability, uskeeping. ability, and data security requirements. 10 1 More employee information on energy-saving measures We plan more regular, proactive communications 9 2 with employees concerning energy-saving measures for the office and at home, including the telecommuting-related overhaul and resumption of our 10-week environmental campaign, 8 3 which was put on hold due to the coronavirus pandemic and the ongoing company-wide working from home arrangements (the original campaign was focused on working at the head7 4 quarters and didn’t include working from home arrangements). 6 5 67 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh VII. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains “forward-looking statements”179 based on current assumptions, plans, estimates and forecasts which include, but are not limited to, statements about iPoint’s expected future vendor due diligence and engagement efforts and development of related processes. Although we believe that the expectations, opinions, and comments reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that cannot be controlled or accurately predicted by us, and we can give no assurance that such statements will prove to be correct. Actual outcomes may differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. It cannot be guaranteed, nor can any liability otherwise be assumed by iPoint and the companies of the iPoint Group, that these forward-looking statements will prove complete, correct or precise, or that expected and forecast results will actually be achieved in the future. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances, or changes in expectations after the date of this report. 68 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 1 The iPoint Group includes: 1) iPoint: iPoint-systems gmbh, Reutlingen, Germany (headquarters) iPoint-systems gmbh, Munich, Germany iPoint-Austria GmbH, Vienna, Austria iPoint-systems, Melbourne, Australia iPoint-systems gmbh, Paris, France iPoint-systems AB, Växjö, Sweden iPoint Ltd., Manchester, United Kingdom iPoint Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA (central office USA) iPoint Inc., Los Angeles, California, USA iPoint Japan Co Ltd, Tokyo, Japan iPoint Ltd., Shanghai, China iPoint Korea, Suwon, South Korea 2) ifu Institute for Environmental IT, Hamburg GmbH, Germany (https://www.ifu.com/en/) 3) CircularTree (https://www.circulartree.com/), located in Berlin, Germany 2 UN: Sustainable Development Goals, https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs 3 E.g., GRI and United Nations Global Compact: Integrating the Sustainable Development Goals into Corporate Reporting: A Practical Guide. 2018, https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/GRI_UNGC_Reporting-on-SDGs_Practical_Guide.pdf We used the SDG Compass (https://sdgcompass.org/), which is designed for multinational enterprises, as a guide and source of inspiration, but adapted it to our SME needs. 4 3.9: “By 2030, substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals and air, water and soil pollution and contamination” 5 8.2: “Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through diversification, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labour-intensive sectors” 6 8.4: “Improve progressively, through 2030, global resource efficiency in consumption and production and endeavour to decouple economic growth from environmental degradation, in accordance with the 10-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, with developed countries taking the lead” 7 8.7: “Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking and secure the prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end child labour in all its forms” 8 9.4: “By 2030, upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes, with all countries taking action in accordance with their respective capabilities” 9 12.2: “By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources” 10 12.4: “By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in accordance with agreed international frameworks, and significantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment” 11 12.5: “By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse” 12 12.6: “Encourage companies, especially large and transnational companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycle” 13 12.A: “Support developing countries to strengthen their scientific and technological capacity to move towards more sustainable patterns of consumption and production” 69 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 14 16.2: “End abuse, exploitation, trafficking and all forms of violence against and torture of children” 15 16.4: “By 2030, significantly reduce illicit financial and arms flows, strengthen the recovery and return of stolen assets and combat all forms of organized crime” 16 E.g., Joerg Walden: After COVID-19: How to recover your business towards Sustainability. May 1, 2020, https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/after-covid-19-how-recover-your-business-towards-joerg-walden/; Joerg Walden: Sustainable business leadership and digitalization – what we can learn from the crisis. May 25, 2020, https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/sustainable-business-leadership-digitalization-what-we-joerg-walden/. 17 INATBA: INATBA, the International Association of Trusted Blockchain Applications, offers developers and users of DLT a global forum to interact with regulators and policy makers and bring blockchain technology to the next stage, https://inatba.org/news/inatba-launch/. 18 INATBA: Convergence. The Global Blockchain Congress 2019, https://blockchainconvergence.com/. 19 Cf., e.g., Joerg Walden: Digitalization – A major driver towards the Circular Economy and the SDGs. April 14, 2020, https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/digitalization-major-driver-towards-circular-economy-sdgs-walden/. 20 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (pp. 47-51). 21 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (pp. 47-51). 22 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (pp. 47-51). 23 CircularTree, https://circulartree.com/. 24 Defined as head of department with personnel responsibilities who are in direct reporting line to the CEO. 25 For further information, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 5 in this report (p. 44). 26 ISO: Technical Committees. ISO/TC 323. Circular economy, https://www.iso.org/committee/7203984.html. 27 The One Planet network: A window into Sustainable Consumption and Production across the globe, https://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/. 28 The One Planet network: Consumer Information for SCP, http://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/consumer-information-scp. 29 E.g., International Plastic Bag Free Day, cf. https://www.instagram.com/p/CCLeK5AnsF3/. 30 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (pp. 47-51). 31 This measure was undertaken after we took stock of and analyzed our current office supplies as a basis for our sustainable procurement policy, which will be rolled out in the upcoming reporting period. See the “Looking Forward” chapter for further details (p. 64). 32 See below and page 51 for further details. 33 For further information, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 8 in this report (p. 53f.). 34 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (p. 51). 35 For example, we are part of the bahn.business programme of the German railway company Deutsche Bahn AG, which uses 100% green energy for business trips and also compensates for indirect emissions, which is why every trip by Deutsche Bahn is CO2-free. Cf. Deutsche Bahn: Business travel with bahn.business, https://www.bahn.de/micro/view/bahnbusiness-en/index.shtml. 36 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (p. 49). 37 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (p. 49). 70 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 38 For details, please refer to the chapter “Using the 10 Principles as guide in responding to the COVID-19 crisis” as well as the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (pp. 29-31; p. 49). 39 For details, please refer to the chapter “Using the 10 Principles as guide in responding to the COVID-19 crisis” as well as the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (p. 31f., p. 49). 40 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 7 in this report (p. 48). 41 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 8 in this report (p. 59). 42 For details, please refer to the chapter on UNGC Principle 8 in this report (p. 54f.) 43 Entrepreneurs For Future: Entrepreneurs’ statement on school strike for climate, https://www.entrepreneurs4future.de/stellungnahme/statement-en/ 44 Fridays For Future, https://fridaysforfuture.org/ 45 CI-SCP implements and supports projects, undertakes research, identifies and encourages policies, and provides collaboration opportunities for anyone looking to engage and assist consumers in sustainable consumption. Cf. The One Planet network: Consumer Information for SCP, http://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/consumer-information-scp. 46 AIAG is an auto industry trade association where members collaborate to develop common global standards for quality, supply chain, and corporate responsibility issues. Cf. AIAG, https://www.aiag.org/. 47 CI-SCP implements and supports projects, undertakes research, identifies and encourages policies, and provides collaboration opportunities for anyone looking to engage and assist consumers in sustainable consumption. Cf. http://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/consumer-information-scp 48 One Planet Network describes itself as “a platform for Sustainable Development Goal 12”. Cf. The One Planet network: A platform for Sustainable Development Goal 12, https://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/platform-sustainable-development-goal-12. 49 This business initiative is made up of entrepreneurs from a wide variety of industries who are committed to climate protection and actively support the Fridays for Future movement. Above all, they demand compliance with the commitments of the internationally binding Paris Climate Agreement and thus the limitation of global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius. Cf. Entrepreneurs For Future, https://www.entrepreneurs4future.de/ (German website). 50 The FSLCI’s mission is to “be the global voice of the Life Cycle community to accelerate the transition towards a sustainable society by promoting global, systematic and effective application of Life Cycle Innovation.” Cf. FSLCI: Vision & Mission, https://fslci.org/vision-mission/. In October 2019, Martina Prox of our subsidiary ifu Institute for Environmental IT Hamburg was appointed Vice Chair of the FSLCI Executive Board. Learn more here: FSLCI: Board of Directors, https://fslci.org/news/fslcinews/2019/10/fslci-gets-new-leadership/. 51 The IHK Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit (Network Sustainability of the German Chamber of Industry and Commerce) is concerned with social, ecological and economic responsibility. The network provides up-to-date information and promotes the cross-industry exchange of expertise and experience. Cf. IHK Reutlingen: IHK-Netzwerk Nachhaltgkeit, https://www.reutlingen.ihk.de/netzwerke/netzwerke-f-n/nachhaltigkeit/ (German website). 52 IPC is a global trade association serving the printed board and electronics assembly industries, and has specific data exchange standards supported by iPoint’s solutions, e.g.: IPC-1752A, which allows companies in the supply chain to share information on materials in products, and IPC-1755, developed in partnership with the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG), the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA), allows companies in the supply chain to exchange information related to Conflict Minerals. For more information: IPC: Materials Declaration Data Exchange Standards, http://www.ipc.org/ContentPage.aspx?pageid=Materials-Declaration. 53 This technical committee of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) focuses on “standardization in the field of Circular Economy to develop frameworks, guidance, supporting tools and requirements for the implementation of activities of all involved organizations, to maximize the contribution to Sustainable Development.” Cf. ISO: Technical Committee. ISO/TC 323 Circular economy, https://www.iso.org/committee/7203984.html. 54 INATBA offers developers and users of Distributed Ledger Technologies (DLT) a global forum to interact with regulators and policy makers and bring blockchain technology to the next stage. INATBA’s working groups focus on a range of topics, including: climate action, education, energy, healthcare, mobility, privacy, social impact, and supply chain. Cf. INATBA, https://inatba.org/; INATBA: Organization, https://inatba.org/organization/. The social impact working group is co-chaired by iPoint CEO Joerg Walden. Learn more here: iPoint-systems: INATBA launches “Social Impact & Sustainability” Working Group. July 15, 2019, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=634&cHash=487cbfc637d7564922ab4f4ec87266fd. 71 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 55 Launched by the European social partner CEC European Managers and inspired by the Fridays For Future movement, the initiative aims to transform management for the benefit of people and the planet by implementing the Paris Agreement and the SDGs. Cf. Managers For Future, https://www.managersforfuture.eu/; Managers For Future: Manifesto of the ManagersForFuture Movement, https://static.websitecreator.eu/var/m_1/14/14a/7823/396081-MFF_Manifesto-9bf31.pdf?download. 56 iPoint joined the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) – then known as the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) – as one of the first vendor members in 2016. Cf. iPoint-systems: iPoint Joins CFSI as Vendor Member. November 10, 2016, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-joins-cfsi-as-vendor-member/. RMI offers a range of tools and resources including the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process, the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, the Cobalt Reporting Template, Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry data, and a range of guidance documents on responsible minerals sourcing. Cf. RMI, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/. 57 This initiative is dedicated to climate protection, biodiversity, circular economy, a socially just economy, and demands that these and other sustainability issues continue to have top priority in the political agendas in these challenging, COVID-19-dominated times. Cf. Nachhaltig zusammen!, https://nachhaltig-zusammen.de/ (German website). 58 The VNU Verband für Nachhaltigkeitsund Umweltmanagement e.V. is an independent community of experts and users of environmental and sustainability management systems. It designs management systems through committee action, support their practical implementation in companies, and facilitates networking between members and stakeholders through conferences and regional meetings. Cf. VNU, https://www.vnu-ev.de/en/. Martina Prox of our subsidiary ifu Institute for Environmental IT Hamburg has been a member of the VNU Executive Board since March 2018. She represents the interests of the VNU in the liaison to the ISO committee ISO/TC207/SC1, where environmental management standards are developed and updated. Cf. VNU: Board, https://www.vnu-ev.de/en/about-us/board. 59 Previous beneficiaries of iPoint donations include (excerpt): Alliance for Climate Education, AnnieCannons, Inc., ARCHE IntensivKinder, the German Bone Marrow Donation Register (Deutsche Knochenmarkspenderdatei), Eldoret Kids Kenia, the German foundation Give Education a Chance (“Gib Bildung eine Chance”), Hospice Veronika, Lebenshilfe Reutlingen, Make a Wish Foundation (Michigan), March of Dimes (Michigan), the Regional Group of the Registered Mucoviscidosis Association (Regionalgruppe Zollernalb-Tübingen des Mukoviszidose e.V.), Not For Sale, YouthVille Detroit, Raise Hope for Congo, and the Wikimedia Foundation. 60 Förderverein für krebskranke Kinder Tübingen e. V., https://www.krebskranke-kinder-tuebingen.de/start.html 61 JAM Deutschland, https://jam-deutschland.org/; JAM, https://jamint.com/ 62 Kreiskliniken Reutlingen, https://www.kreiskliniken-reutlingen.de/ 63 Universitätsklinikum Tübingen: PALUNA Spezialisierte ambulante Palliativversorgung (SAPV) für Kinder und Jugendliche, https://www.medizin.uni-tuebingen.de/de/das-klinikum/einrichtungen/kliniken/kinderklinik/palliativversorgung. 64 Plant for the Planet, https://www.plant-for-the-planet.org/en/home. 65 Week of Links, http://weekoflinks.org/; https://demo.nez-tuebingen.org/nez/. 66 Sea Shepherd’s Operation CLEAN WAVES, https://seashepherd.org/campaigns/clean-waves/ 67 Sea Shepherd, https://seashepherd.org/. 68 UN Global Compact: The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles. 69 Learn more here: iPoint-systems: UN Global Compact Network Germany Elects New Steering Committee. October 7, 2019, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/un-global-compact-network-germany-elects-new-steering-committee/. 70 Exceptions were, for example, the reception staff and the facility manager. 71 We are part of the bahn.business programme of the German railway company Deutsche Bahn AG, which uses 100% green energy for business trips and also compensates for indirect emissions, which is why every trip by Deutsche Bahn is CO2-free. Deutsche Bahn: Business travel with bahn.business, https://www.bahn.de/micro/view/bahnbusiness-en/index.shtml. 72 Learn more about the German initiative “Unternehmen zusammen für mehr Nachhaltigkeit – Wir bleiben dran!“ (Companies together for sustainability – we’re staying on task!) here: Nachhaltig zusammen!, https://nachhaltig-zusammen.de/ (German website) 72 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 73 “The Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT) is a free, standardized reporting template developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) that facilitates the transfer of information through the supply chain regarding mineral country of origin and the smelters and refiners being utilized. The template also facilitates the identification of new smelters and refiners to potentially undergo an audit via the RMI’s Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP).” Cf. RMI: Conflict Minerals Reporting Template, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/reporting-templates/cmrt/. 74 “The Cobalt Reporting Template is a free, standardized reporting template developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative to identify choke points and collect due diligence information in the cobalt supply chain.” Cf. RMI: Cobalt Reporting Template, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/reporting-templates/cobalt-reporting-template/. 75 Based on the RMI’s CMRT and CRT, the iPoint Conflict Minerals solution allows for cascade and roll-up of the collected data from companies’ supply chain. 76 Blockchain technology is a distributed, shared electronic ledger which can add an additional layer of transparency, traceability, security, and trust in the Conflict Minerals supply chain. Replicated across many nodes in a peer-to-peer network, data recorded on a Blockchain is not only instantly verifiable, but also immutable. While users may access, inspect, or add to the data, it is very difficult to change or delete it, and the original information leaves a permanent trail (“chain”) of transactions. Each transaction is recorded and added to the previous one, resulting in a growing chain of information. The secure, auditable and immutable transaction history of the movement of commodities and products across the supply chain is achieved without the need for a trusted central organization or intermediary. By essentially self-monitoring, blockchain can provide data reliability and eliminate reconciliation. 77 The EPRM (European Partnership for Responsible Minerals) “is a multi-stakeholder partnership with the objective to increase the proportion of responsibly produced minerals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas (CAHRAs) and to support socially responsible extraction of minerals that contributes to local development.” Cf. EPRM: About EPRM, https://europeanpartnership-responsibleminerals.eu/cms/view/53241510/about-eprm. As of July 31, 2020, the EPRM members from industry, government, and civil society include Apple, Cisco, Drive Sustainability, Fairphone, HP, Inforlandia, Intel, NXP, Philips, the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), Signify, Samsung, Tata Steel, Tekno Service, the Tantalum-Niobium International Study Center (TIC), Umicore, Valcambi (“supply chain actors”), the Alliance for Responsible Mining, Cordaid, Diakonia, Global Communities Partners for Good, iied, the INTERGOVERNMENTAL FORUM on Mining, Minerals, Metals and Sustainable Development (IGF) and the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD), IPIS, IMPACT, Responsible sourcing network, Solidaridad, terre des hommes (“civil society organisations”), German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development, the United Kingdom’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands (“Governments and Institutions”), European Union External Action, European Commission, OECD, UN Environment (“observers”). Cf. EPRM: EPRM member overview, https://europeanpartnership-responsibleminerals.eu/cms/view/53243030/member-overview. 78 Point-systems: SustainBlock, https://www.sustainblock.org/. 79 Philips: Annual Report 2019, https://www.results.philips.com/publications/ar19/downloads/pdf/en/PhilipsFullAnnualReport2019-English.pdf, p. 207. 80 Cf. iPoint-systems: Webinar: Using Emerging Technologies to Digitalise Due Diligence Solutions for Responsible Mineral Supply Chains, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/webinar-using-emerging-technologies-to-digitalise-due-diligence-solutions-for-responsible-mineral-s/. 81 Enacted in March 2017, Devoir de Vigilance (Duty of Vigilance/Care) is the most progressive law of its kind. It establishes a duty to implement a “vigilance plan” for companies registered in French territory with more than 5,000 employees in France or more than 10,000 employees worldwide. The vigilance plan must cover risks of severe violations to human rights and fundamental freedoms, serious bodily injury, health risks, and environmental damage resulting from the direct or indirect activity of the firm. It must also include a mapping of risks, procedures to assess them, appropriate actions to prevent and mitigate them, monitoring schemes to gauge the effectiveness of the measures, and alert mechanisms. Furthermore, a statement describing each of these elements, as well as a report on the implementation of the plan, must be published annually in the management report. Cf. Juan Ignacio Ibañez, LL.M.; Chris N. Bayer, PhD; Jiahua Xu, PhD; Anthony Cooper, J.D.: Devoir de Vigilance: Reforming Corporate Risk Engagement. June 9, 2020, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/ddv-report-2020/. 82 RMI, http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org/. For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 83 AIAG, https://www.aiag.org/. For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 84 IPC, http://www.ipc.org/. For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 85 For more information, visit: iPoint-systems: iPoint-systems Launches Web-based Tool for Conflict Minerals Compliance. September 7, 2012, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-systems-launches-web-based-tool-for-conflict-minerals-compliance/; GreenBiz, https://www.greenbiz.com/article/honda-ford-spearhead-new-conflict-minerals-reporting-tool. 86 INATBA, https://inatba.org/. For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 73 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 87 For further details on these organizations and initiatives, please refer to pages 24-25 of this CoP. 88 Förderverein für krebskranke Kinder Tübingen e. V., https://www.krebskranke-kinder-tuebingen.de/start.html. 89 JAM Deutschland, https://jam-deutschland.org/; JAM, https://jamint.com/. 90 Universitätsklinikum Tübingen: PALUNA – Spezialisierte ambulante Palliativversorgung (SAPV) für Kinder und Jugendliche, https://www.medizin.uni-tuebingen.de/de/das-klinikum/einrichtungen/kliniken/kinderklinik/palliativversorgung. 91 With the exception of Article 14. Cf. United Nations: Universal Declaration of Human Rights, http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/. 92 TRIGEMA, https://www.trigema.de/. 93 For further information on SustainBlock, please refer to pages 33 and 34 of this report. 94 ISO: ISO/IEC 27001:2013(en), https://www.iso.org/obp/ui/#iso:std:iso-iec:27001:ed-2:v1:en. 95 iPoint-systems: eLRT, http://www.elrt.org/. 96 Corporate liabilities for modern-day slavery in supply and service chains: A transnational framework. 97 The electronic Labor Rights Template (eLRT): Introducing an anti-slavery, B2B measurement, tracking, and reporting tool for global supply and service chains. 98 iPoint-systems: New Anti-Slavery Reporting and Risk Management Tool Launched [press release]. August 7, 2019, https://www.csrwire.com/press_releases/42312-New-Anti-Slavery-Reporting-andRisk-Management-Tool-Launched. 99 GRI, RLI: Advancing modern slavery reporting to meet stakeholder expectations, https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/RLI-GRI_Advancing-Modern-Slavery-Reporting-to-Meet-Stakeholder-Expectations.pdf, p. 62, 63, 64. 100 E.g., Canada’s law on Forced Labor, cf. iPoint-systems: Canada Passes Law on Forced Labor, https://www.elrt.org/newsroom/news-detail-elrt/?tx_news_pi1%5Bnews%5D=754&cHash=19b719ae56b78ea6bc313c15c39e6906. 101 E.g., the World Day against Trafficking in Persons (July 30), https://www.facebook.com/iPointWorld/posts/3100259253426252. 102 iPoint-systems: Homeland Security and Your Supply Chain, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/blog/us-dept-of-homeland-securitys-is-enforcing-anti-human-trafficking-and-forced-labor-laws/. 103 Corporate Social Charter – iPoint Group, August 29, 2019. Chapter 2: Prohibition of Child Labor and Forced Labor. 104 memo, https://www.memoworld.de/. 105 Green Promotion, https://www.greenpromotion.de/. 106 FAIRTRADE International, https://info.fairtrade.net/. 107 GOTS, http://www.global-standard.org/. 108 SAI: SA8000® Standard, https://sa-intl.org/programs/sa8000/. 109 memo: Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2019/2020 (German website), https://memo.1kcloud.com/ep1Exubg/#42. 110 UNICEF: Child labour. October 2019, https://data.unicef.org/topic/child-protection/child-labour/. 111 E.g., by calling attention to the World Day against Child Labour (June 12), cf. https://www.facebook.com/iPointWorld/photos/a.255816197870586/2956503437801835/; https://www.linkedin.com/posts/ipoint-systems-gmbh_covid-19-protect-children-from-child-labour-activity-6677301192508411904-T5yE/. 112 Defined as head of department with personnel responsibilities who are in direct reporting line to the CEO. 74 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh References 113 IPCC: Global Warming of 1.5°C. Summary for Policymakers. 2018, https://report.ipcc.ch/sr15/pdf/sr15_spm_final.pdf, p. 6. 114 IPCC: Climate Change 2014. Synthesis Report. 2014, https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/05/SYR_AR5_FINAL_full_wcover.pdf. 115 Like the ISO norms mentioned in this paragraph, the voluntary environmental management and audit system EMAS aims to systematically improve the environmental performance of a company or organization. 116 STADTRADELN is a campaign of the Climate Alliance of European Cities with Indigenous Rainforest Peoples, the largest network of cities, municipalities, and administrative districts for the protection of the world climate, which was further developed according to the Nuremberg model and has around 1.700 members in 26 European countries. The campaign provides municipalities with a proven, easy-to-implement measure to become active in communication/PR for sustainable mobility. Teams of local politicians, school classes, associations, companies, and citizens pedal to promote cycling, climate protection, and quality of life. In the period from May 1 to October 31, 2020, 21 consecutive days will be spent cycling as many kilometers as possible without CO2 emissions, both professionally and privately. When the three STADTRADELN weeks take place is up to each municipality. More info: STADTRADELN, https://www.stadtradeln.de (German website). 117 Hofmann Menü-Manufaktur: The Menü Manufaktur Hofmann, https://www.die-menue-manufaktur.de/en/company.html. 118 They consist of cellulose without plastic coating PET. The so called BIOPAP® trays are made of 100% pressed cellulose from FSC® or PEFC™ certified suppliers, coming from European forests. The electricity required for production is generated entirely from renewable energy. A study of the Fraunhofer Institute for Environmental, Safety, and Energy Technology UMSICHT also revealed that the BIOPAP® tray is advantageous in all the end-of-life scenarios considered. The 2016 study covers the carbon footprint of the end-of-life phase of the BIOPAP® trays compared to trays with plastic content at the current state of the art in disposal technology. Cf. Hofmann Menü-Manufaktur: What is BIOPAP®, https://www.die-menue-manufaktur.de/en/our-quality-philosophy/biopapr.html. 119 For cost reasons and due to a larger menu selection, we are remaining with 50 percent aluminum-packaged meals until further notice. 120 Tristanne Davis: Addressing the Sustainable Development Goals through Packaging: SDG 12, Sustainable Production & Consumption, in: GreenBlue, https://greenblue.org/addressing-the-sustainable-development-goals-through-packaging-sdg-12-sustainable-production-consumption/. 121 Oracle: Achieving Operational Excellence, https://www.oracle.com/corporate/citizenship/sustainability/operations.html. 122 CDP was formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project. 123 Oracle: Oracle Scores an ‘A’ for Climate Change. February 2, 2019, https://blogs.oracle.com/sustainability/oracle-scores-an-%e2%80%98a%e2%80%99-for-climate-change. 124 Oracle: Oracle Receives Gold From EcoVadis Corporate Social Responsibility Assessment. June 25, 2019, https://blogs.oracle.com/sustainability/oracle-receives-gold-from-ecovadis-corporate-social-responsibility-assessment. 125 NAM: Manufacturing Leadership Awards Program Honors 2019 Top Industry Innovators, https://www.nam.org/manufacturing-leadership-awards-program-honors-2019-top-industry-innovators-5190/. 126 Oracle: A More Sustainable Computing Platform in the Cloud, https://www.oracle.com/corporate/citizenship/sustainability/clean-cloud.html. 127 Microsoft: Beyond carbon neutral. Expanding beyond our carbon neutral operations to accelerate global and local good. Cf. Microsoft: Beyond carbon neutral. 2016, http://aka.ms/beyond. 128 Brad Smith: Microsoft will be carbon negative by 2030, in: Official Microsoft Blog. January 16, 2020, https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2020/01/16/microsoft-will-be-carbon-negative-by-2030/. 129 Brad Smith: Microsoft commits to achieve ‘zero waste’ goals by 2030, in: Official Microsoft Blog. August 4, 2020, https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2020/08/04/microsoft-direct-operations-products-and-packaging-to-be-zero-waste-by-2030/. 130 For this and other areas in which Microsoft reports on its environmental performance, visit: Microsoft: Sustainability, https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/environment. 131 Microsoft: Awards and recognition, https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/corporate-responsibility/recognition. 132 CHG-MERIDIAN: Corporate Report 2019, https://www.chg-meridian.com/dam/jcr:542911c1-cb3e-41a6-8f52-f4e0a83922a6/CHG-MERIDIAN_Corporate%20Report_2019%20(2).pdf; CHG-MERIDIAN: A New Life For IT Equipment Thanks to Close the Gap and Worldloop, https://www.chg-meridian.se/sv/explore-chg/excellence-stories/excellence_story_close_the_gap.html. 133 Flashbay, https://www.flashbay.co.uk/. 75 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh Headline 134 Flashbay: Environment, https://www.flashbay.co.uk/about/environment. 135 Green Promotion, https://www.greenpromotion.de/. 136 Green Promotion: Die Idee Green Promotion, https://www.greenpromotion.de/top-navigation/ueber-uns/ (German website). 137 memo, https://www.memoworld.de/. 138 memo: Firmenportrait memo AG. February 2020, https://www.memoworld.de/PDF/Presse/Firmenportrait_memoAG.pdf (German website). 139 memo: Verantworliches Handeln der memo AG. February 2020, https://www.memoworld.de/PDF/Presse/Verantwortung_memoAG.pdf (German website). 140 memo: Für maximale Transparenz und eine offene Kommunikation, https://www.memoworld.de/verantwortung/memo-nachhaltigkeitsbericht/ (German website). 141 Frauenhofer IPA: Expertenforum Global Environmental Compliance, https://www.ipa.fraunhofer.de/de/Kompetenzen/nachhaltige-produktion-und-qualitaet/schadstoffmanagement/expertenforum-global-environmental-compliance.html (German website). 142 IHK Reutlingen: IHK-Netzwerk Nachhaltigkeit, https://www.reutlingen.ihk.de/netzwerke/netzwerke-f-n/nachhaltigkeit/ (German website). For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 143 VNU, https://www.vnu-ev.de/en/. For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 144 FSLCI, https://fslci.org/. For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 145 iPoint-systems: Global Climate Strike September 20, 2019, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/global-climate-strike-september-20-2019/. 146 iPoint-systems: Global Climate Strike November 29, 2019, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/global-climate-strike-november-29-2019/. 147 https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6659471743880568832. 148 https://twitter.com/iPointWorld/status/1253707133297795073. 149 E.g., International Day of Forests, https://www.facebook.com/iPointWorld/photos/a.255816197870586/2739857266133121/?type=3&theater; World Water Day, https://www.instagram.com/p/B-B1Y1UDPdC/; Earth Day, https://www.facebook.com/iPointWorld/photos/a.255816197870586/2816437511808429/?type=3&theater; International Plastic Bag Free Day https://www.instagram.com/p/CCLeK5AnsF3/. 150 Good Life Goals, https://www.goodlifegoals.org/. 151 iPoint-systems: The Good life Goals, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/the-good-life-goals/. 152 ClimateParter, www.climatepartner.com. 153 Each print product is labeled with a special ID number so the offset can be traced in a transparent manner. Cf. ClimatePartner: Offset Projects, https://www.climatepartner.com/en/climatemap/offset-projects. 154 These criteria comprise: (1) REACH-compliant, (2) RoHS-compliant, (3) No plastics, (4) A keeper (non-disposable), (5) Biodegradable, (6) Not too big (simple transport), (7) No expiration date, and (8) In line with our brand. 155 The Sprout®PENCIL is made from FSC® certified or PEFC wood and contains non-GMO seeds. Cf. Sprout: Sustainability values, https://sproutworld.com/about-sprout/downloadables/#sustainability. 156 The ballpoint pen PIMP with FSC® certified beech wood comes from exemplary forestry. Cf. Green Promotion: Holz-Kugelschreiber PIMP (FSC®), https://www.greenpromotion.de/10008_holz-kugelschreiber-pimp.php (German website). 157 These RoHS-compliant products consist of FSC®-certified maple wood; where plastic was used for internal, non-visible components, it was made from 100% recycled material. Cf. Flashbay: Flash 76 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh Headline Drives. Nature, https://www.flashbay.co.uk/usb-sticks/nature; Flashbay: Power Banks. Maple, https://www.flashbay.co.uk/power-banks/maple. 158 These plants come in a wooden cube which is filled with a special cultivation granulate and a biological long-term fertilizer; it is made of alder and consists of 100% compostable materials. Cf. Feel Green, https://www.feel-green.eu. 159 These water bottles are at the center of an ongoing social media campaign, which involves iPoint employees sharing pictures of their bottle during their travels and holidays. Cf. Dopper, https://dopper.com/usa/. 160 Plant for the Planet, https://www.plant-for-the-planet.org/en/home. 161 Cf. United Nations Sustainable Developments: Agenda 21 of the Rio Declaration. June 3-14, 1992, https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/Agenda21.pdf; UN Global Compact: Principle 9, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles/principle-9. 162 The European Commission: iPoint-systems, https://ec.europa.eu/environment/ecoap/scalingcircularbusiness/solution/ipoint-systems_en. 163 iPoint-systems: iPoint takes over industry leader in life cycle assessment and material flow cost accounting, January 25, 2018, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/newsroom/news-detail/ipoint-takes-over-industry-leader-in-life-cycle-assessment-and-material-flow-cost-accounting/. 164 Ibid. 165 For further details, please refer to the SDG chapter on R&D projects (pp. 21-23). 166 For further details, please refer to the SDG chapter on R&D projects (pp. 21-23). 167 For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 168 For further details, please refer to the SDG chapter on R&D projects (pp. 21-23). 169 For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 170 For further details, please refer to the SDG chapter on R&D projects (pp. 21-23). 171 For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 172 For further details, please refer to the SDG chapter on R&D projects (pp. 21-23). 173 For further details, please refer to the chapter on SDG 17 (p. 20). 174 With the internal audit requirements of ISO 9001:2015 clause 9.2 top management is required to establish an independent audit committee and has responsibility for the outcome of the audit. The standard requires respect for auditor independence and prohibits executive management from improper influence of an auditor. ISO 9001: 2015 clauses 5.1, 9.1 and 9.3 assign responsibility of process controls to top management. They are required to assess whether internal controls are effective, certify compliance to the organization’s quality manual, and be accountable for conformance to its quality management system. 175 UN Global Compact: Anti-Corruption Call to Action, https://www.unglobalcompact.org/take-action/action/anti-corruption-call-to-action. 176 Cf. iPoint-systems: CSR Reporting Under EU Law Is Highest for Gender and Lowest for Human Rights Matters, Study Reveals (press release). May 9, 2019, https://www.csrwire.com/press_releases/41945-CSR-Reporting-Under-EU-Law-Is-Highest-for-Gender-and-Lowest-for-Human-Rights-Matters-Study-Reveals; iPoint-systems: CSR-Berichterstattung in Österreich am wenigsten transparent bei Menschenrechtsfragen, enthüllt neue Studie (CSR reporting in Austria least transparent on human rights issues, new study reveals) (press release). October 1, 2019, https://www.ots.at/presseaussendung/OTS_20191001_OTS0052/csr-berichterstattung-in-oesterreich-am-wenigsten-transparent-bei-menschenrechtsfragen-enthuellt-neue-studie; iPoint-systems: Corporate Non-Financial Reporting in Europe. The case of Germany, Sweden and Austria, https://www.ipoint-systems.com/de/nfrd-report-2018/. 177 Qualitrain, https://qualitrain.net/ (German website). 178 JobRad, https://www.jobrad.org/ (German website). 179 Statements including words such as “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “intend”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would”, “may”, “strategy”, “potential”, “opportunity,” and similar expressions are 77 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh Abbreviations AIAG Automotive Industry Action Group EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme LCA Life Cycle Assessment ASM Artisanal and Small-scale Mining EMS Environmental Management System MFCA Material Flow Cost Accounting BMBF Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung EPD Environmental Product Declaration OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (German Federal Ministry of Education and Research) EPRM European Partnership for Responsible Minerals PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification B2B Business-to-Business FSC Forest Stewardship Council PET Polyethylene terephthalate CAHRA Conflict-affected and High-risk Area FSLCI Forum for Sustainability through Life Cycle Innovation REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and CDP Carbon Disclosure Project GDPR General Data Protection Regulation Restriction of Chemicals (EU) CEO Chief Executive Officer GHG Greenhouse Gas RLI Responsible Labor Initiative CI-SCP Consumer Information Programme for Sustainable GOTS Global Organic Textile Standard RMI Responsible Minerals Initiative [formerly known as the Consumption and Production for Sustainable IEC International Electrotechnical Commission Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI)] Consumption and Production IGF INTERGOVERNMENTAL FORUM on Mining, Minerals, RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances (EU) CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template Metals and Sustainable Development SAI Social Accountability International CoP Communication on Progress IISD International Institute for Sustainable Development SCIP Substances of Concern In articles as such or in complex CRT Cobalt Reporting Template IHK Industrieund Handelskammer (German Chamber of objects (Products) CO₂ Carbon Dioxide Industry and Commerce) SDG Sustainable Development Goal CSR Corporate Social Responsibility ILO International Labour Organization SEI Stockholm Environment Institute DGCN Deutsches Global Compact Netzwerk (German INATBA International Association of Trusted Blockchain SLE Sustainable Lifestyles and Education Global Compact Network) Applications SME Small and medium-sized enterprise DHBW Duale Hochschule Baden-Württemberg (BadenIPC Institute of Printed Circuits – Association Connecting SoR Smelter or Refiner Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University) Electronics Industries TIC Tantalum-Niobium International Study Center DHS Department of Homeland Security IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change UN United Nations DLT Distributed Ledger Technology iPCMP iPoint Conflict Minerals Platform UNGC United Nations Global Compact EASP European Association of Sustainability Professionals ISO International Organization for Standardization UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund EHS Environment, Health & Safety ITI Information Technology Industry Council VNU Verband für Nachhaltigkeitsund Umweltmanagement eLRT electronic Labor Rights Template JEITA Japan Electronics and Information Technology e.V. (Association for European Sustainability and ELV End of Life Vehicles Directive (EU) Industries Association Eco-Management Professionals) WEEE Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment 78 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh Imprint Sustainability Report & Communication on Progress 2019/20, Feedback from our stakeholders improves further published on August 7, 2020. development of our reporting. We welcome and look forward to your suggestions and ideas. The collection and presentation of the content in the 2019/2020 Sustainability Report are the product of the work Contact of all units of iPoint-systems gmbh and the iPoint Group, Dr. Katie Boehme including all of its subsidiaries in Germany and abroad. Head of Corporate Communications & Sustainability iPoint-systems gmbh The Corporate Communications & Sustainability Department Ludwig-Erhard-Str. 58 of iPoint-systems gmbh is responsible for developing and 72760 Reutlingen editing the content as well as designing the report: Germany • Dr. Katie Boehme M +49.151.19671894 • Carsten Girke circular@ipoint-systems.com • Svenja Koenig Copy editing and editorial team • Christine Beck • Jacky Goeron • Beate Hummel 79 iPoint Sustainability Report UNCG-CoP 2019-20 © iPoint-systems gmbh
