COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2020 6 845 Hotel HOTELS IN MANAGMENT Adjara Group is a leading Georgian company in hospitalirooms ty, lifestyle development and agropreneurship. It has gained worldwide recognition for trend-setting establishments and lifestyle brands. This includes the stylish and distinctive Rooms Hotels located in Tbilisi, Kazbegi, and Kokhta-Mitarbi, along with the luxurious Stamba Hotel, the high standard Holiday Inn, and the vibrant and dynamic Fabrika 2700 jobs Hostel. In addition to redefining the country’s hospitality industry, Adjara Group is leading the biggest agricultural and farming project Udabno. A pioneer in urban and rural development, the company has reshaped the face of the capital as a result of the ecosystems which organically grow around each of the enterprises it creates. Adjara Group has the ability to turn even the most remote and underdeveloped regions 10 years throughout the country into sustainable tourism destinations. business 2 Communication on Progress LETTER FROM CEO “I am pleased to present our fourth Communication on Progress report. Our company shares the UN Global Compact’s principles on human rights, labor, anti-corruption, and environmental responsibility, and it is my goal to lead the team towards more responsible business practices. Adjara Group aims to administer more sustainable, efficient, accountable, transparent and accessible operations. We continuously engage with key stakeholders about our ongoing activities and future projects. In 2020, forming new partnerships are going to be of paramount importance in addressing the challenges caused by the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Hopefully, hence we will be returning to our path towards achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. Adjara Group will be playing a crucial role in addressing socio-economic obstacles arising during the global crisis. I believe that by uniting and working together, we will successfully overcome challenges ahead of us.” Valeri Chekheria CEO, Adjara Group 3 Communication on Progress PEOPLE NATURE & PLACES Our Staff Sustainable Agriculture Education and Training: Adjara Group Academy The Udabno Project: Developing the Land Education and Trainings: Agriculture Partnerships with Local Farmers Professional Growth: Trainings, Education, & Vocational Programs Space Farms Employing Local Community Members Sustainable Hospitality Youth Employment Energy Consumption Gender Equality and Inclusivity Waste Management Health & Wellbeing: Employee Health Insurance Sustainable Construction and Sourcing Communities & Partners Environmental Campaigns Engaging With Regional Businesses Partnering with Local Farmers Creative Economy Supporting Creative Communities Visual Arts & Music 4 Communication on Progress PEOPLE PEOPLE Our Staff 42% 58% 44% 56% 35% 65% 31% 72% 31% 69% Holiday Inn Tbilisi Rooms Hotel Kazbegi Rooms Hotel Tbilisi Rooms Hotel Kokhta Stamba Hotel Gender Equality and Inclusivity Youth Employment As a WEPs signatory company, Adjara Group has emphasized gender equality and Adjara Group highly prioritizes providing work and growth opportunities for Georgian inclusivity among its main values listed in the Internal Regulations. The document youth (individuals between 18 and 24 years of age). The company strives to improve the gets signed by every employee of the company. Moreover, all new hires receive hospitality sector in the country by training the members of the young local workforce introductory trainings, during which they get introduced to Adjara Group’s and setting new quality standards. As a result, the company plays an important part in commitment to inclusivity and equality. advancing professional education for youth in the tourism industry, thus, in the long run, accelerating the national economy and eradicating poverty in the country, by creating Importantly, the company is aiming to have an equal representation of women on communities of dedicated and skillful individuals. three levels of the company. At the end of 2019, Adjara Group’s board of directors was made up of 42% women and 58% men . Moreover, all the general and Currently, 34.4% (555) of company employees are under 24 years of age at Adjara Group’s operational managers of the company’s hospitality establishments are women. projects, all of whom undergo various trainings relevant to their fields of expertise at the company. All female employees at Adjara Group are granted a 6-month maternity leave, during which they receive company updates relevant for their fields of expertise. Taking into consideration that many young individuals at Adjara Group are university In accordance with the individual-centered approach, maternity leaves do get students, the company takes an individual-centered approach and provides work schedule extended to accommodate the employees’ individual needs. flexibility for each of its young employees. 6 People / Our Staff % of the Local Population Employed at Adjara Group’s Projects 46.5% 47.3% 44.5% Rooms Hotel Kazbegi Udabno Project Rooms Hotel Kokhta Employing Local Community Members Professional Growth: Trainings, Education, & Vocational Programs As a leading Georgian company in hospitality and agriculture, Adjara Group Adjara Group has established a training program for new hires. During the operates several projects outside Tbilisi the country’s Capital. Recognizing the informative meetings, participants are introduced to the company’s projects, challenges of unemployment and its detrimental effects on people’s lives, the goals, values and internal regulations. Last year, 1341 individuals attended these company prioritizes hiring local community members for its regional projects. trainings and got acquainted with the company, as well as their duties. Currently, 46.5% (128 out of 275) of the staff at Rooms Hotel Kazbegi is composed Moreover, every department holds regular skill-building sessions with an aim of of people living in the Kazbegi Municipality. Local community members make up improving the service and product quality. As a result of these meetings, Adjara 47.3% (26 out of 55) of Udabno project’s full-time employees and 100% of the Group’s employees are provided with opportunities to learn from the experienced seasonal staff is from the neighboring villages. Moreover, 44.5% (75 out of 169) managers. of the recently opened Rooms Hotel Kokhta’s team is made up from the people living in the region. Additionally, Adjara Group has vocational training and education grants for the best employees of the year, who are selected in the beginning of each calendar The local staff undergo regular trainings, while gaining practical work experience year at the end of February. In 2019, 7 team members from Adjara Group’s at an internationally acclaimed brand – Rooms Hotels. Hence, Adjara Group’s properties (Rooms Hotels in Tbilisi and Kazbegi, Holiday Inn Tbilisi, Stamba Hotel, policy involving hiring local community members has positive effects on skills and Fabrika Hostel) were provided with free vocational trainings, trips, and development and knowledge sharing with the local workforce as well. As a result, international exhibitions in Europe. the company plays a crucial role in advancing regional economies in Georgia by bringing new hospitality standards and implementing them in different parts of Apart from the best employees of Adjara Group, 4 people from middle the country while working with local communities during these processes. management and a hotel GM were sent to Scotland to attend a GD Alco-funded experiential tour of the food & beverage industry. 7 People / Our Staff Education and Trainings: Agriculture Education and Training: Adjara Group Academy Agricultural traditions run deep in Georgian culture and Adjara Group works on Adjara Group Academy was set up last year to create a sustainable and productive preserving them, while also introducing cutting edge technologies, as well as farming structure within the organization. It aims to improve the employees’ learning outcomes, techniques, in the region. In this process of development, the company prioritizes develop their potentials, and assist them in achieving recognition in due time. training and educating local populations by providing regular trainings for them and trips to renowned exhibitions in Europe, Turkey, Armenia, and the US, to accumulate With its continuous professional development plan, the Adjara Group Academy more knowledge and experience within the country. is encouraging the company’s employees to be creative and empowered through knowledge, skills and values. Hence, the Academy will be playing a crucial role in In 2019, 7 people from the Udabno project attended trainings and knowledgedeveloping a well-trained regional workforce that meets the demand on the international sharing meetings with foreign consultants from private companies to advance their market. professional capacities in the field. Moreover, as part of the USAID’s Farmer-to-Farmer program, an experienced farmer from the US held meetings with the project team on The Academy is also setting up educational courses for individuals who are interested in a volunteer basis. gaining knowledge about various aspects of the hospitality sector and starting successful careers in the industry. The culinary school will be the first vocational program, which The Udabno Project also partners with Universities in Georgia and invites students for connects motivated students with experienced and renowned professionals from the paid internships. In 2019, a student was provided a stipend to combine their studies field while creating opportunities for advancement. with some work experience in the agricultural industry. Hence, the Udabno Project has become a knowledge hub for local and regional communities in Georgia. It provides opportunities for farmers to further their skills in the field and experience some of the cutting-edge technologies, as well as techniques, in agriculture. Apart from the Udabno Project, the Space Farms at Stamba Hotel also provides opportunities for young scientists and agricultural experts to work on the first urban vertical farm in the region. In 2019, an internship and a part-time employment program was launched and several students took part in it. 8 People / Our Staff Health & Wellbeing: Employee Health Insurance Considering that access to medicine and healthcare services poses a serious financial challenge in Georgia, Adjara Group purchases the IMEDI L health insurance packages for both its full-time and part-time employees. Each team member receives their health insurance package 3 months after joining the Group, apart from the staff who work in a higher risk department who get instant access to the service. Using their status, the employees at the company can also ensure their family members with discounted rates. Recently, IMEDI L created an insurance fund specifically for Adjara Group. Currently, the company can use up to 20,000 GEL from the fund to pay for any healthcare costs otherwise not covered by the insurance for its employees. Moreover, the insurance limit on pregnancy related costs was raised in 2019. Now, employees can get these healthcare services that cost up to 2,400 GEL covered by the IMEDI L corporate package. 9 People / Our Staff Communities & Partners As a leading company in hospitality, lifestyle development, and agriculture, Adjara Group actively works with artists, small and medium-sized businesses, NGOs, International organizations, and state institutions. The company 10% 30% 33% prioritizes and encourages relationships that foster sustainable economic growth, better social inclusivity and equality in the country. 2017 2018 2019 Farmers Other Engaging With Regional Businesses Partnering with Local Farmers Through its projects in Kazbegi, Kokhta-Mitarbi, and Udabno, Adjara Group Apart from engaging with the local communities directly, in partnership with the actively engages with local businesses to enrich the hospitality experience Georgian Farmers’ Association, Adjara Group contracted hundreds of farmers. By for its guests. This approach to project management encourages skills purchasing produce from them, the company ensured that a steady flow of fresh development in the local workforce and creates more employment produce was supplied to the company’s restaurants and bars. As a result, along with opportunities. As a result, the company plays a major role in advancing creating better work opportunities, the contracted farmers increased their profits regional economies and reducing poverty in Georgia by engaging with local and set production quality trends in the agricultural industry. businesses as well. Additionally, Rooms Hotels in Kazbegi and Kokhta prioritize purchasing agricultural Last year, Rooms Hotels in Kazbegi and Kokhta currently work with goods from local farmers to create a truly local experience for its guests and, as a guesthouses, transportation companies, local tour operators, and farmers. result, also play their parts in advancing regional economies in Georgia. Additionally, the Udabno project established contracts with approximately 400 individuals from the surrounding villages and invested in purchasing their services. 0 1 People / Communities & Partners Charity Activities Adjara Group is actively involved with Georgian communities in Additionally, a 20,000 GEL grant was issued for the Children’s Hospice in Georgia, different parts of the country through its charitable campaigns and to help the organization in providing their healthcare services for those in need. donations. Last year, from showing support to gala dinners to issuing grants for healthcare facilities, the company has invested over 83,500 In partnership with the Georgian Rugby Union, the company is financially GEL to support the fight against poverty and hunger and to improve upporting the National Center for People with Autism, which is crucial for access to healthcare services. moving forward towards a more inclusive and equal society in Georgia. The Center is designed to help individuals with autism to develop skills for living At the end of 2019, 26,500 GEL was spent on supporting the local independently and become active members of the workforce. For the first time community in Kazbegi by providing various food and clothing items for in the region, trainings and education programs are tailored for people with them. autism which will play a part in generating inclusive and sustainable growth. 1 People / Communities & Partners Creative Economy Supporting Creative Communities The global market for creative goods has more than doubled in size Adjara Group’s residency programs have pioneered an unprecedented development of from 208$ billion in 2002 to 509$ billion in 2015. Hence, advancement Georgia’s creative economy. Currently, at Stamba Hotel, individuals and creative teams from of the creative economy in Georgia presents an opportunity for creating arts, fashion, and design industries, actively create, educate. Costume design, makeup, as better employment opportunities, decreasing poverty, and, importantly, well as painting, installations, and art object development, are practiced at the establishment. exporting the country’s culture and making it more popular on international markets. Apart from individual creatives, Stamba Hotel hosts the Propaganda Network, which aims to develop the contemporary art scene, internationalize it, and make it more accessible, while Adjara Group also recognizes the importance of cultural heritage, supporting professional development and promotion of artists. Moreover, the Propaganda contemporary arts, and products from the country’s creative industry in Network creates a convenient working environment for production, research, and education. representing Georgia to international travelers. Therefore, the company works directly with Georgian artists, designers, curators, architects and At Fabrika’s courtyard, the tenants’ program has reshaped the contemporary Georgian innovative entrepreneurs active in the private sector. As a result, Adjara tourism scene by integrating culture into the local hospitality industry. Boutique shops, Group plays a crucial role in promoting and encouraging developmentateliers, and arts & crafts shops are situated in the same space as some of the most notable oriented policies that support productive activities, decent job creation, bars and cafes of the country’s Capital. Apart from advancing the quality of travel experience, and creativity and innovation. the tenants’ program has been a success story about forming a hub for education and professional advancement in the creative and tourism industries. Adjara Group also partnered with the Mercedes Benz Tbilisi Fashion Week, Sou Festival, the Mural Festival and the Tbilisi International Film Festival. The events were provided with financial support and free spaces, as well as discounted rates for hotel stays. 1 2 People / Creative Economy Visual Arts Music Partnerships were further improved with the teams who are at the forefront In 2019, The Tbilisi Photography and Multimedia Museum was launched at Stamba of Tbilisi’s music scene. Adjara Group provided friendly rates to the guests who Hotel. This is Adjara Group’s conversion project in the center Georgia ’s Capital City. The were associated with Bassiani, Khidi, and Mzesumzira, all of which have played establishment exhibits visual artworks and archival collections of photo series from the major roles in revolutionizing electronic music in the region. annual Tbilisi Photography Festival. Additionally, Friendly rates are also provided for the guests of the Georgian Along with holding a major event Oxygen Art No Fair at Stamba Hotel, Adjara Group National Opera Theatre and the Tbilisi State Conservatoire. Adjara Group supported dozens of artists by providing spaces for their exhibitions. A grant of 10,000 recognizes that supporting such institutions betters knowledge-sharing GEL was provided for Anna K, a female Georgian artist, who took her work to the Venice capacities in Georgia, preserves cultural heritage, and, as a result, advances Biennale. By providing 50,000 GEL to a team of Georgian contemporary artists, Adjara educational programs in the country. Group was an exclusive supporter of Sizmari (Dream) exhibition, which integrated the latest digital technologies in art installations. Moreover, Nika Kutateladze, an innovative Adjara Group’s partnerships with Georgian designers, architects and Georgian artist, was also granted with a 3,500 GEL support. entrepreneurs is an important factor in creating the sense of place in the company’s establishments. In 2019, the partnership with Rooms Studio, which is owned by Georgian designers, was crucial in developing the newly opened Rooms Hotel Kokhta’s interior. The Propaganda Network and the residency program at Stamba Hotel supported artists and fashion designers by providing free spaces and financial assistance in advancing their work. As a result, exhibitions, workshops, and were organized and advanced. 13 People / Creative Economy NATURE & PLACES NATURE & PLACES Sustainable Agriculture Facts and Figures The Udabno Project: Developing the Land Adjara Group’s Udabno Project is the largest agricultural initiative in Kakheti, Georgia. From 2017 onwards, it has been playing an important role developing the industry by turning 5,000 hectares Almond orchard of previously degraded land into an arable one, thus increasing its productivity while reducing the 2000 hectares. 675,000 Trees Planted threats of desertification and deforestation in the region. With 675,000 almond trees already planted, along with berry fields with strawberries, blackberries, and raspberries, as well as vineyards, the largest-in-the-region project has also been key in creating more oxygen and reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. Berry Farm 20 hectares of land Importantly, the Udabno Project has created an 11km water pipeline in 2017 and plans on adding 9 kilometers to it, to ensure that the site is supplied with the essential resource. Moreover, the automated drip irrigation system, integrated into the farm ensures that water is utilized efficiently. With the newly built pipeline Adjara Group is also planning to create a lake, which will be used for Vineyard: watering the plants at the site. 8 hectares of land, 150 endemic grape varieties Hence, the Udabno Project is a pioneer in developing sustainable food production systems and implementing resilient agricultural practices increasing productivity and production. Adjara Group’s agricultural project has been maintaining the region’s ecosystem and strengthening Georgia’s capacity to adapt to climate change, extreme weather, drought, and other disasters. Bio Dairy Farm We will have: By establishing partnerships with Georgia’s state institutions such as Enterprise Georgia and International Organizations such as the UN and USAID, the Udabno Project has fostered productive relationships and advanced the country’s agricultural sector. 32 buffalos 32 goats 100 chickens Recently, such partnerships made it possible for Adjara Group to establish a dairy farm. 15 Nature & Places / Sustainable Agriculture Space Farms Partnerships with Local Farmers Space Farms at Stamba Hotel is the first indoor vertical farm in the Caucasus region. Adjara Group’s partnership with the Georgian Farmers’ Association (GFA) Recognizing the importance and urgency of the challenges associated with climate has been central in developing the farm-to-table concept at the company’s change, Adjara Group is hosting the project to assist the development of agriculture, restaurants in Georgia. By working with local farmers, the company has been which has historically been an integral part of Georgia’s economy. creating demand on the market for high quality and diverse produce. Hence, along with creating employment and development opportunities, Adjara The increasing frequency of natural disasters and the rising global temperature creates Group is also affecting the growth of biodiversity and green lands in Georgia’s risks of reduced productivity for farms. Space Farms introduces cutting-edge digital regions. technologies to cultivate plants in a closed environment that is not weather dependent. As a result, the project plays an integral role in developing alternative spaces for Additionally, increased development of the agricultural sector decreases the advancing sustainable agriculture that is resilient to climate change. chances of desertification in the regions of Georgia, while accelerating the generation of solutions regarding the management of farm lands amidst the Moreover, the automated system for watering, humidifying, and ventilating the facility global climate change. allows for growing and harvesting several plant varieties, otherwise not available in Georgia. Hence, he technologies at Space Farms advance biodiversity in the country by cultivating baby greens, leafy greens, and other produce otherwise not available in the region. Space Farms also serves as a model for efficient water management. According to FAO, Crops and livestock account for 70% of all water withdrawals worldwide. With its water recycling systems, the first urban vertical farm in the region uses 75% less water, when compared to traditional farms. Space Farms exclusively operates on electricity, which is derived from hydroelectric stations. Hence, the project does not produce carbon emissions, which is the result of its climate-smart approach to agriculture, as well as Adjara Group’s decision to exclusively use electricity at its property. 16 Nature & Places / Sustainable Agriculture Sustainable Hospitality Energy Efficient Light Bulbs Installed in 2019 508 2430 1420 Rooms Hotel Tbilisi Holiday Inn Tbilisi Rooms Hotel Kazbegi Energy Consumption Waste Management Recognizing the importance of sustainable consumption of energy, Adjara Sustainable hospitality endeavors are detrimental in ensuring that the tourism sector advances Group has been integrating energy-efficient solutions into its properties. In in the country. Land pollution and loss of biodiversity are risks that can have devastating effects 2019, thousands of incandescent light bulbs were replaced with LED bulbs on human health and the industry itself. Therefore, Adjara Group is strongly committed to in Rooms Hotel Tbilisi (508 bulbs), Holiday Inn Tbilisi (2,430 bulbs), and reducing waste production at its facilities and forming valuable partnerships to accelerate the Rooms Hotel Kazbegi (1,420). As a result, the establishments have become company’s waste recycling methods. more energy-efficient and use less electricity to light up the guest rooms. Adjara Group prioritizes reducing the use of plastic products and for this reason, the company Additionally, a chilling system to the main chiller of Holiday Inn Tbilisi was decided to only provide straws made from recycled paper for its guests. As a result, production introduced last year. The equipment will be reducing energy consumption of plastic waste has been reduced at Adjara Group’s hotels and restaurants. by automating the functioning of the device. Additionally, Adjara Group’s food & beverage outlets discharge large quantities of natural oil. To As a part of IHG’s green engage program, Holiday Inn Tbilisi is monitoring avoid polluting the land, the company partners with a certified ILO, which recycles this product. and working on reducing its water & energy consumption. Adjara Group’s continued partnership with a paper recycling company is ensuring that the Georgia produces its own electricity with its ecologically clean hydroelectric of paper waste produced during the year is recycled. As a result, the company reduces the power stations. For this reason, Stamba Hotel only uses electricity for its potentially detrimental effects on nature and biodiversity associated with creating this material. heating systems to reduce carbon emissions from burning natural gas and Adjara Group will be implementing a waste management system that monitors waste increasing the country’s energy independence. production and aims to reduce it. 17 Nature & Places / Sustainable Hospitality Sustainable Construction and Sourcing Environmental Campaigns The company’s sustainable approach to urban and rural development also positively Recently, the company started partnering with Plasticwatcher.ge to address the affects the environment. Rooms Hotel Tbilisi, Stamba Hotel and Fabrika are conversion pollution challenges posed by the plastic bags available on the Georgian market. projects while the construction of Holiday Inn Tbilisi and Rooms Hotel Kazbegi implied The initiative creates handbags, coats, and other fashion items entirely from restoring previously built hospitality establishments. Hence, by keeping the original recycled polyester bags. Adjara Group started showcasing Plasticwatcher.ge’s structure and facades of the mentioned buildings largely intact, Adjara Group’s projects products by gifting them to the company’s key partners as a present for the New used less construction materials per property. Moreover, all of Adjara Group’s properties Year. Additionally, several items by the brand are soon going be sold in The Shop have largely been built by materials available on the local market, which has reduced at Stamba Hotel. Hence, the company is raising awareness about plastic pollution carbon emissions associated with international transportation of goods. and taking part in the dialogue about advancing sustainable consumption and production in the country. Such an approach to developing infrastructure decreases waste production and carbon emissions associated with the transportation. Moreover, Adjara Group’s commitment to Additionally, Adjara Group planted 250 trees in Bakuriani, Georgia and plans to sustainably reducing its negative impact on the environment is expressed through the fact plant 250 more in Kazbegi as well. Volunteers from the company team took part that wood used for both exterior and interior of Rooms Hotels in Tbilisi and Kazbegi, as in the process as part of the #plantmore campaign initiated by the BLC Law Office. well as Stamba Hotel, came from dilapidated houses in Georgian villages. The activity aims to raise awareness about the importance of biodiversity and the dangers that deforestation creates. Like Rooms Hotel Kazbegi, Adjara Group’s upcoming project in Abastumani is also a restoration project. The landmark Sanatorium building from the first half of the 20th century is going to be transformed into a major tourist destination. Importantly, the establishment will be developed by using less construction materials because the structure 250 trees planted as part of the #Plantmore campaign as well as the materials used for the original building will remain intact during construction. 18 Nature & Places / Sustainable Hospitality 14 M. Kostava St 0108 Tbilisi, Georgia +995 32 2020020 contact@adjaragroup.com www.facebook.com/adjaragroup.AG/ www.adjaragroup.com
