H AY L E Y S FA B R I C P L C PROGRESSIVE BY NATURE ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 with Innovative Textures “We continuously look at our business from fresh perspectives and take advantage of new ideas and technology to reduce our environmental footprint.” www.hayleysfabric.com SCAN to access full Integrated with Innovative Textures Annual Report ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 1 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Our 25+ years of expertise in the local fabric manufacturing industr y is defined by one signature trait-our progressive nature. At Hayleys Fabric we thrive on exploring the possibilities of tomor row to deliver fashionforward fabric loved by apparel giants worldwide. Today, we have shifted our focus towards sustainable innovation, further aligning our operations to become a socially responsible commercial entity with greater degree of transparency. As we move in to another chapter of our journey, we will continue to leverage on our advanced technology and vibrant team to expand our footprint across the globe with sustainable solutions that gives us an edge in the market because we are progressive by nature. with Innovative Textures 3 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CONTENTS Introduction Financial & Statutory Reports About the Report ............................................................... 8 Report of the Audit Committee .....................................110 Awards During the Year .................................................... 9 Report of the Remuneration Committee ......................112 About Us ...........................................................................10 Report of the Related Party Transactions Review Vision, Mission & Values .................................................11 Committee........................................................................113 Performance Highlights ...................................................12 Responsibility Statement of Managing Director/CEO and Director-Finance /Chief Financial Officer ...............114 Chairman’s Message ........................................................17 Senior Independent Director's Statement .....................115 Managing Director’s Review ............................................20 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Board of Directors ............................................................24 Affairs of the Company ..................................................116 Management Team ...........................................................30 Board of Directors’ Statement on Internal Control ......121 Corporate Governance .....................................................34 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements ............................................................. 122 Management Discussion & Analysis Financial Calendar 2019/20 .............................................123 Creating Value ..................................................................51 Independent Auditors’ Report .......................................124 Operating Environment ...................................................54 Financial Statements ......................................................128 Determining Material Issues ...........................................59 Financial Statements Translated into LKR ...................159 Focus on Strategy ..............................................................60 Ten Year Summary .........................................................161 Economic Value Added ....................................................62 Glossary of Financial Terminology ...............................162 Sustainable Shareholder Value ........................................63 Investor Information ......................................................164 Responsible Innovation ....................................................67 Notice of Meeting ...........................................................166 Respect for the Environment ...........................................71 Form of Proxy .................................................................167 Satisfying our Customers .................................................80 Corporate Information .................................................IBC An inspired Team .............................................................83 Advanced Technology .......................................................90 Strong Networks ...............................................................95 Way Forward .....................................................................99 Managing Risk & Opportunities ....................................101 GRI Index ........................................................................103 Independent Assurance Report .....................................107 “Driven by innovation and committed to global product commercialization, our goal is to provide our customers with fabric that enhance the value of everyday life.” 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 5 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 “Progressive and innovative” Introduction 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Hayleys Fabric PLC (formerly known as Hayleys Fabric’s manufacturing facility Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC), is the is capable of Knitting, Dyeing, Printing, pioneer in textile manufacturing in Sri Lanka. Brushing, Sueding and Finishing pure and We are capable of providing a complete blended polyester and cotton fabric. Our portfolio of endto end solutions from design laboratories are equipped with modern, stateto manufacturing of fabric made out of natural of-the art machinery to achieve 100% accuracy and synthetic fiber. We are proud to be the first in color and are accredited by Decathlon, apparel sector company to be listed on the Next, Limited Brands, NIKE, George, Tesco, Colombo Stock Exchange in 2003. and Marks and Spencer. Knitting section has a dedicated comprehensive Flat Knit section Hayleys Fabric is capable of producing 3 which produces Collars and Cuffs. Printing million meters of fabric per month. We are section is equipped with the latest CAD system proud to have some of the leading global from AVA CAD/CAM, which is specifically fashion brands, such as Victoria’s Secret, Pink, designed for textile and apparel sector. SAPIntimissimi, Tezanis, Nike, Decathlon, Asics, ERP system is used to seamlessly integrate Tommy Hilfiger, Calvin Klein and Next as our all of our business functions and FastReact partners. Production planning tool which is specifically Our product range includes Single Jersey, designed for the textile and apparel industry Interlock, Pique, Rib, Fleece and Polar Fleece, is used to coordinate all production related Jacquard and Flat Knits, which are composed activities. using pure and blend of cotton, polyester, viscose, modal yarns, in both solid colors and in printed form. 7 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ABOUT THE REPORT We are pleased to present our sixth Integrated Annual Report which sets out the performance for the financial year ending 31 March 2020. It presents a balanced review of our performance for covering financial, environmental and social performance, our governance framework and how we manage risk. Building on our fifth consecutive Integrated Annual Report for the previous financial year ending on 31 March 2019, this year's report has been further refined to enhance readability. The report has been structured to reflect our strategy which is a key change from the capitals structure adopted in the previous years. The following standards, frameworks and guidelines were used to prepare the report moving beyond regulatory compliance to incorporate international best practice in to our reporting processes. Regulatory Requirements Voluntary Frameworks • Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 • Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance • Continued Listing Requirement of the Colombo Stock • Integrated Reporting Framework Exchange • This report has been prepared in accordance with the • Sri Lanka Accounting & Auditing Standards Act No.15 of 1995 GRI Standards: Core option • Sri Lanka Financial Accounting & Reporting Standards (LKASs/SLFRSs) Information set out in this report have been sourced from the following sources: Information Source Financial statements including accounting policies and notes to • Hayleys Fabric PLC the accounts Operational and sustainability information • Hayleys Fabric PLC Information on the Global economy and market trends • World Economic Outlook April 2020 published by International Monetary Fund • Euromonitor reports Information on the Sri Lankan economy, apparel and textile • Central Bank of Sri Lanka website and Joint Apparel sub-sector Association Forum websites This year’s report includes the following features to enhance readability: • Strategic focus of the report is facilitated by linking KPls and materiality to strategy • Connectivity of information with signposts to key areas through the value creation model and strategy • Clarity and conciseness has been further improved with the incorporation of relevant and material information • Comparable information is provided throughout the report using external sources where available • Reliability of information has been enhanced by assurance on both the financial statements and the sustainability information by the external auditors Ernst & Young For inquiries about this report, please contact: Mr. Ruwan Rohitha Bandara : Director Finance RohithaB@hayleysfabric.com Finance Department, Hayleys Fabric PLC, Narthupana Estate, Neboda, Sri Lanka. 0094 -342297100 www.hayleysfabric.com 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC AWARDS DURING THE YEAR Bronze award under the Category of Textile and Textile Processing Industry at Presidential Environment Awards Ceremony 2019, organized by the Central Environment Authority of Sri Lanka Bronze award under the Asiaís Best Integrated Report (Design) category at the Asia Sustainability Reporting Awards 2019, organized by CSRWorks International Singapore Merit award under the Textile category at the Presidential Export Awards Ceremony 2018/19, organized by the Sri Lanka Export Development Board Merit Award under the Manufacturing Sector, above Rs.5Bn Revenue category, at the Annual Report Awarding Ceremony 2019, organized by CA Sri Lanka and Colombo Stock Exchange. 9 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ABOUT US Hayleys Fabric PLC is an innovator of a wide 31% range of fabric for quality conscious global 30% fashion brands. Having pioneered fabric manufacturing in the country, we have developed our own branded range of fabric “Inno” which is now included in the portfolios of some of the world’s leading brands. We continue to invest in developing fashion forward fabric that 36% are relevant for this fast paced industry using our expertise across a wide range of knits and finishes. As a publicly listed subsidiary of Our Markets Hayleys Group, we are strengthened by a heritage of entrepreneurship and governance spanning 140+ years. Revenue PBT PAT Total Assets USD 67.12 Mn USD 1.67 Mn USD 1.27 Mn USD 48.94 Mn What We Do Circular Fabric Dyeing Fabric Brushing & Product Innovative Knitting of & Finishing Printing Sueding Development Fabric Fabric How We Add Economic Value Purchases Economic Fabric Economic Value to from local Taxes Paid Value Added Produced Value Added Employees suppliers USD 14.2Mn USD 0.3 Mn USD 14.2 Mn 8,294 MT USD 9.1 Mn 26% 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Revenue, Innovations & Developments USD Mn 80 % 70 60 Vision To be the most sought after 60 manufacturer of fabric in 50 40 40 30 South Asia 20 20 Mission 10 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Revenue Inno & Developments % To attract Premier Clothing Brands in the World, through Innovation, Speed, Socially & Reliability, Quality and Environmentally Service whilst aligning our Business Strategies to satisfy Responsible Stakeholder needs Core Values • Integrity : ‘do the right thing’ managing with honesty, efficiency, and reliability always • Service : ‘customer decides’ putting our customer at the center of all our activities • Quality : delivering excellent standards consistently • Innovation : invent in services and Our Team technologies to improve on what we do • People : to build our team to create value to stakeholders • Accountability : holding ourselves responsible to deliver what we promise • Good Citizenship : caring for the communities in which we work, and being environmentally responsible in all 1300 People we do 11 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS “We continue to invest in developing fashion-forward fabric across a wide range of knits and finishes.” USD 2.85 Mn 3.84 85% Carbon Emission Capacity Utilization Operating Profit Intensity (tCO2e/MT of production) 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Financial Indicators REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY 2020 2019 Revenue USD '000' 67,116 69,941 Results from operating activities USD '000' 2,852 2,778 Profit before tax USD '000' 1,669 1,849 Profit after tax USD '000' 1,271 1,058 Basic / Diluted earnings per share USD 0.006 0.005 Cash Profit USD '000' 5,035 4,459 Interest cover No. of times 3.1 2.8 Return on equity (ROE) % 7% 6% Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE) % 7% 8% Price earning ratio No. of times 7.8 9.7 BALANCE SHEET 2020 2019 Total assets USD '000' 48,937 47,610 Total debt USD '000' 16,772 15,185 Inventory holding days No. of days 78 62 Debtors' days No. of days 40 43 Total shareholders’ funds USD '000' 18,406 17,859 No. of shares in issue 207,740,888 207,740,888 Net assets per share USD 0.09 0.09 Debt /(Equity+Debt) % 48% 46% Total debt / Total assets % 34% 32% MARKET / SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 2020 2019 Market price of share as at 31st March Rs. 8.70 8.50 Market capitalisation Rs. Million 1,807 1,766 Dividend per share Rs. 0.60 Dividend yield % 7% 13 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Non-Financial Indicators RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 2020 2019 Total extent of land 54 Acres 54 Acres Extent of land reserved as a green belt 20 Acres 20 Acres Extent of land designated as a wet land bio-diversity area 8 Acres Nil Total raw material consumption (MT) 15,245 15,127 Renewable raw material consumption (MT) 4,301 4,866 Renewable raw material as a percentage of total material consumption 28% 32% Recycled raw materials as a percentage of total material consumption 2.9% 2.6% Direct energy consumption (GJ) 749,722 663,174 Energy intensity (GJ/ MT of production) 90.4 73.7 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 24,511 23,800 Indirect energy intensity (GJ/MT of production) 3.0 2.6 Water withdrawal (M3) 1,898,977 1,822,231 Water intensity (M3 ‘000’/MT of production) 0.23 0.20 Water recycled and reused (M3) 301,667 161,118 Water footprint (M3) 2,994,952 2,866,194 OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT 2020 2019 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) 15,256 14,911 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) 16,622 15,436 Total carbon footprint (tCO2e) 31,878 30,347 Carbon emissions intensity (tCO2e/MT of production) 3.84 3.37 Water discharged to the river (M3) 1,578,129 1,573,566 Waste generated and disposed according to CEA requirements (MT) Hazardous & Non-Hazardous 2,520 1,905 Waste recycled/ incinerated through third party contractors 60% 46% Significant environmental fines USD Nil Nil RELEVANCE TO COUNTRY’S ECONOMY 2020 2019 Fabric produced (MT) 8,294 9,004 Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka (Local) 26% 24% ADVANCE TECHNOLOGY 2020 2019 Net Book Value USD '000' Buildings 4,739 4,925 Plant & Machinery 14,659 14,155 Investments during the year USD '000' Buildings 517 274 Plant & Machinery 2,404 590 Capacity utilization 85% 91% 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Non-Financial Indicators AN INSPIRED TEAM 2020 2019 Total workforce 1,300 1,249 Percentage of employees from the area (within 15 km radius) 66% 68% Employee retention 95% 94% Employee productivity (USD per man hour) 19 21 Training & development cost USD 10,957 43,245 Average hours of training per employee (excluding Casual) 3.6 3.3 Training coverage of employees (excluding Casual) 74% 58% Injury rate 1.63 3.48 Percentage of employees receiving performance reviews 100% 100% Incidences of child labour (below 16 years) or young workers (between 16 – 18 years) (operations Nil Nil & our suppliers) Incidences of forced labour during the year (operations & our suppliers) Nil Nil RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION 2020 2019 Percentage of sales from Inno and product proposals 62% 40% No. of Accreditations / Certifications & Memberships from Fashion Brands 51 47 STRONG NETWORKS 2020 2019 Community engagement (No. of persons impacted) Over 2,000 Over 2,000 Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption (%) Nil Nil Significant fines for violation of laws / regulations USD Nil Nil Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used (%) 100% 100% Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal (%) Nil Nil Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components (%) Nil Nil Significant fines for product/service issues USD Nil Nil 15 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 “Transparent and responsible” EXECUTIVE REPORTS 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Chairman’s Message Dear Shareholder, drive capacity utilization with orders that the McKinsey Corona Virus Update are relevant for the prevailing conditions issued later estimated revenues to contract I am pleased to report that Hayleys Fabric while maintaining our focus on growing by 27% to 30% in 2020 with potential PLC maintained their momentum to our higher value orders, a strategy that for positive growth of 2 to 4% in 2021 record a profit after tax of US$ 1.27 Mn in was deployed some years ago, to support reflecting the impact of the pandemic on a year of extraordinary challenges. sustainability of the business. the fashion industry. The strategy to move up the value chain by developing our own portfolio bore fruit A CHALLENGING YEAR Sri Lanka’s apparel exports grew by as the orders materialized, supporting 5% to US$ 5,596.5 Mn accounting for higher capacity utilization and profitability. Global growth declined to 2.9% in 2019 47% of the country’s total exports in Innovation, an efficient production strategy from 3.6% in 2018 as trade tensions 2019. Growth in exports to EU and and high level of customer engagement between USA and China and other nontraditional markets such as Canada, were key contributors to success. country specific factors weighed on growth. The United Arab Emirates, Australia, With all major central banks around the The COVID-19 pandemic had a and Japan supported diversifying export world adopting accommodative monetary significant impact on the fashion industry markets as exports to USA declined. policy stances in response to decelerating due to the closure of malls and complex Despite this progress, it is noted that growth, the IMF also forecasts a recession supply chains which led to the push back countries such as Bangladesh, Vietnam with global output contracting by 3% in of all orders. The factory re-opened on and Cambodia recorded significant growth 2020 but increasing to 5.8% in 2021 with 17th April to process some of the orders from 2010 in comparison to Sri Lanka due warnings of significant downside potential. that were pushed back and we have also to cost competitiveness from scalability secured orders for fabric used for face The McKinsey Global Fashion Index and preferential access to major markets. masks which supports the operation of 2020 predicted a 3-4% increase for 2020 I note that the apparel sector crafted a the Company at this juncture. As our with a warning of turbulent times ahead, strong recovery after the April terror business model is fabric manufacture, our requiring players to be attuned to their attacks to drive growth in 2019 and trust products are relevant even in the current environment and agile in responding to we are able to do the same as we drive a environment as frontline workers require challenges ahead. The report included recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. protective wear. Our manufacturing a warning of polarized growth with Sri Lanka’s positioning as Garments capability and experience is vast, ranging most of the gains accruing to the Top 20 without Guilt has enabled us to edge up from high end performance fabric to more players while a growing number of players the volumes at a very slow pace but a more basic fabric. Accordingly, we will look to struggled to create value. In contrast, conscious world post COVID-19 may 17 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE PERFORMANCE “Aligning innovation, supply chains, Top line growth declined by 4% to US$ 67.12 Mn as we lost 16 days during the workflows and logistics with customer year due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The strategy will be the key to survival in the main contributor to performance was the innovation led production strategy which year ahead as it was to the success of the supported a 4% growth in gross profit reporting year.” which improved from 12% in 2019 to 13% in 2020. PBT which had improved significantly over the previous year, present vastly different challenges that digitization trends to enhance the customer declined sharply in March which reported need to be addressed collectively by the value proposition. a loss before tax of US$ 0.99 Mn due to industry and policy makers. The team at Hayleys Fabric PLC the closures of our factory and those of developed fabric made with plastic apparel manufacturers, closing the year at ATTUNED & AGILE US$1.67Mn PBT, 9.7% below the previous recovered from the ocean and developed Performance during the year was reliant an app to allow consumers to give specific year. With the up-grading of Technology on being attuned to customer needs and details of the location from where the to meet the present quality standards and fashion trends to determine appropriate waste originated, taking the industry to a to improve productivity, we have invested responses and I believe this will benefit new level of environmental consciousness. in new technology. This enabled us to record an increase of 20% in profit after tax which amounted to US$ 1.27 Mn for the financial year 2019/20 reflecting agile strategy that is attuned and responsive to customer needs. Total assets of US$ 49 Mn are supported by US$ 18 Mn of equity and a debt to total capital ratio of 48% with sufficient room for further borrowing if required to weather the expected volatility in the forecast for 2020 and even beyond. LOOKING AHEAD The future of fashion remains clouded for the present due to its discretionary nature and mall closures. Many retailers are expected to experience severe constraints in cash flow which will lead to a shakeout in the industry. These shakeouts in key export markets will hit emerging and This app created significant enthusiasm developing economies in the supply chain us as we navigate the financial year that among customers as it provided a direct the hardest, with impacts expected to has commenced. Aligning innovation, line of sight to the source of raw materials outlast the pandemic itself as recovery supply chains, workflows and logistics used in the item and we believe that it from the pandemic will coincide with with customer strategy will be the key will remain relevant even in the shifting a recessionary market. All players will to survival in the year ahead as it was demand dynamics of the post COVID 19 need to collaborate to ramp up resilience to the success of the reporting year. world. planning and adapt their operating Inputs from our innovation team were models to surviving the immediate crisis key to developing a Phase 2 ‘Me to We’ Advanced technology, continuous efforts and transforming to leaner and more Collection of next generation fabrics to reduce lead times and environmental sustainable business models that survive for clients at the high end of the fashion impact while maintaining quality the industry’s dramatic transformation. industry, adding over 9 innovative new underpinned our innovation led strategy. products to our growing portfolio. We also The team also managed to drive Consumers will be more frugal and look looked at innovations in raw materials and efficiencies in production costs through for deeper discounts due to reduced combined this with the sustainability and leaner workflows and a sustainability income and uncertain prospects. Digital mindset. channels will significantly ramp up to entice shoppers reluctant to visit malls as 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC social distancing becomes a norm for 2020. strong performance under his leadership. Sustainability, value for money, creative Our supply chain partners play a vital integrity and data protection from brand role in our success and I thank them for owners will be the key to success, even in their continued support. It is necessary the digital space. to mention the financial support provided by our Banks over the years and we are Having progressed on our journey of deeply appreciative of their contribution. moving into premium market segments The Board joins me in thanking our and working closely with brand owners, shareholders who have supported our we now need to maintain this lucrative growth and look to their continued business while increasing capacity confidence. utilization with other products as well. The orders to manufacture masks are a case in point and an example of the agile strategy required to ride the rapids of 2020. Safety measures have been implemented to minimize the risks to employees who are vital for continued A.M. Pandithage operations. Our intent is to emerge as an Chairman even more agile organisation with a future fit business model ready to compete in the 06 May 2020 future of fashion. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The team at Hayleys Fabric have stepped up to deliver an improved performance and I am sincerely appreciative of their commitment to realising our vision. I commend the leadership provided by Mr. Rohan Goonetilleke navigating the challenges during this year and wish him success in the months ahead. I also take this opportunity to welcome Mr. Malith Jayasinghe to the Board of Hayleys Fabric during the year, where he works in an executive capacity heading the Sales and Marketing team which has delivered a 19 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Managing Director’s Review Dear Shareholder, 2.65Mn which was well over PBT of focus changed to health related fabric US$ 1.85Mn, reported for financial year within a few days. This was developed A successful year despite a set-back in March 2018/19. However, the financial year quickly together with local garment 2020 due to Covid 19 Progressive by nature ended with turnover of US$ 67.12Mn & manufactures and the Company through innovation and alignment to customer PBT of US$ 1.67Mn, after a substantial changed its production to cater to fabric strategy will demonstrate resilience through the loss incurred during second half of required for face masks and protective “New Normal” March owing to closure of plant due clothing for medical use. With this, the It is with great pleasure that I wish to Covid19. The year ended with a Company secured sufficient orders to to report the performance of your PAT of US$ 1.27Mn compared to US$ re-commence operations in April 2020 Company for the financial year 2019/20. 1.06Mn in the previous year. under extremely strict Covid 19 health A very successful 11-months up to end & safety regulations and protocols February 2020 with March erasing some CHALLENGES ARISING FROM with special approval from relevant of the gains as a result the forced closure COVID 19 government authorities. due to Covid 19. The Management took immediate measures to rationalize costs and freeze THE “NEW NORMAL” The continuation of our strategy capital expenditure and availed itself of As a result of Covid 19, the entire of being progressive by nature and facilities announced by the government operation of the Company was alignment to our mission has made the with regards to financial moratorium reviewed to extract all its positives and Company stronger and well recognized which immensely facilitated managing adopt a new work culture with cost by top clothing brands internationally cash flows for the next 12 months. effectiveness and enhanced productivity and garment manufactures in Sri Lanka. whilst maintaining the new normal of Your Company is firmly on course The focus of being ‘progressive by social distancing. Accordingly, video towards its vision of being the ‘most nature’ made the Management to conferencing, a balance between work sought after fabric mill in Asia’. look for options to re-commence from home and office with heavy Upto 11 months ending February 2020, operations amidst Covid 19. Product dependency on ICT to maintain the the Company recorded a turnover of development activity with anti-viral new normal. This is expected to improve US$ 65.81 Mn with a PBT of US$ chemical trials commenced and the working hours with less time used in 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC present nearly 50% of its sales are to “Our team has been successful in developing the customers based in the USA. an App to support sustainability through There is a high demand for synthetic apparel produced in Sri Lanka from traceability.” the leading global clothing brands. Your Company is a leader in high travelling to work and back, visiting quality synthetic fabric and finishes in SELECTING AND ENGAGING business partners for meetings and Sri Lanka THE CUSTOMERS discussions and also a reduction in the The engagement with Tier-1 customers However, the Covid-19 pandemic has need for overseas travel. was stepped up to ensure that the forced brands to hold back orders and Company was firmly behind their even cancel orders in certain countries. SUSTAINABILITY strategies. Due to the impact of the pandemic, In the context of the clothing business Fashion Weeks in key markets have especially relating to fashion, lingerie With the demand stemming for fabric been called off. Covid-19 continues and active wear, sustainability and used in face masks and protective to influence future behavior of the traceability are two integral components clothing for medical use, the Company fashion industry and the trends are yet for all top brands that are engaged with engaged with those customers speedily. unknown. your Company. The INNO Team has Company’s flexible culture in being been successful in developing a mobile adaptive to customer requirements CONTINUED FOCUS TO application (App) to support sustainability assisted the Company to immediately IMPROVE TECHNOLOGY AND by tracing back to the origin of the fabric change over to the new product range. PRODUCTIVITY and a top clothing brand requested the The customers have appreciated the During the year under review, the Company to permit exclusive use of close follow-up and the high service Company was in the process of this App for a limited period whilst the levels maintained by the staff during expanding capacity across all areas of Company maintains its copyrights. the closure. production to fall in line with Tier-1 Re-cycled polyester is a trendy sustainable customers growth and strategies. Your Company has been recognized product and this App developed by the as one of the best innovators in fabric The Company embarked on an INNO team scans the QR code in a in Sri Lanka by international clothing expansion project in February 2020. garment, and the user will have the ability brands and also ranks as one of the top A factory building in Wagawatte, in the to trace the details such as the number vendors in the global supply chain by a Horana Industrial Zone was purchased of PET bottles that were used to make top clothing brand. with a total floor area of 40,000 square the garment as well as the location of the feet. All expansions were temporarily beach in Sri Lanka from where the PET INDUSTRY OUTLOOK halted and plan to re-commence once bottles were collected to make the yarn. 2019/2020 there is a greater visibility of the way The reduction in the consumption of forward. Sri Lanka had achieved a sustainable water through the increased use of regrowth of 5.7% in apparel and textile cycled water, generating solar energy, exports during the year 2019 compared THE TEAM totally moving away from the use of to the previous year 2018 and also The team functions with improved environmentally hazardous chemicals, it has surpassed the benchmark of cohesiveness and the culture of being reduction in the carbon foot print, leading USD 5 Billion in a year. Based on holistic in the approach of problem in product innovation, aligning with Export Development Board (EDB) solving. The culture of being progressive customer strategy with strategic investments, information, 43% of apparel and by nature which includes flexibility with creating a pleasant work environment, textile export opportunities are to a high degree of acceptance to change engaging the society around the the USA, 15% and 25% to the UK has also filtered through all levels in the manufacturing facility, working with local and Europe respectively. In 2019, Company. authorities for the common development Bangladesh recorded an annual of the village, religious institutions, schools, turnover of USD 33 Billion, while The Management team has taken full hospitals are some of the sustainability Vietnam recorded USD 39 Billion. responsibility to ensure improvements in aspects covered by this team. Your Company has aligned with this productivity, reductions in costs through geographical market strategy and at waste management using some of the 21 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW implemented by the top brands in the world, three years before the target date. This showcases dedication of the team who now are now being invited to international fora within the region as panellists. This team also successfully implemented all necessary safety measures for Covid 19 and was able to more than satisfy the requirements of the authorities. Given that the Dengue fever was prevalent in the country to an epidemic level, this team was focusing on ensuring that no breeding places for mosquitos exists within the 53 acre premises of the Company. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TPM (Total Productive Maintenance) AI (Artificial Intelligence) was Demonstrating our commitment to learnings. implemented as a tool for the the socioeconomic development of the procurement of dyes and chemicals. surrounding village, multiple assistance The Trade Unions also understand This tool has been functioning well and the operating culture of the Company were extended to the inhabitants. the Company has been able to better Balancing these expectations requires and the cooperation between the manage dyes and chemical inventory by Management and the Unions have a special set of skills in addition to using data on past trends and history. the standard CSR programs that are reached a higher level of understanding. Mutual trust is being further developed As always, the Company manages all normally carried out. across the Company at all levels through its inventory through a cycle counting Keeping on our long term contribution continuous dialogue, openness in sharing system. This system will ensure that one towards the prevention of CKD (chronic data and information flow at all levels. hundred percent of the total inventory kidney disease), supplying potable relating to dyes, chemicals, yarn, greige water to a village in Rathmalgahawewa SYSTEMS, PROCESSES AND and engineering stocks are checked at in Kahatagasdigiliya, Anuradhapura CONTROLS least twice a year. As a result of these continued for the 4th consecutive year. It ICT has become more important during tight controls, the year-end 100% stock is noteworthy to highlight, as a result of post Covid era especially with regard to verification carried out by the external this initiatives deaths due to CKD in this cyber security, video conferencing and auditors, resulted in an accuracy of village ceased. In addition, the Company disaster recovery, and the Company is 99.9%. This is a high level of accuracy sponsors the educational requirements focusing on continuous improvement which has been consistent for the past 6 of approximately 500 school children in in all these areas. Recently through years. this. Hayleys Group initiative, a new Human Capital Management System was ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, OUTLOOK launched on an Oracle platform to cater SAFETY & COMPLIANCE Due to the rapid outbreak of Covid 19 the HR needs by leveraging the latest As mentioned previously, this is an area pandemic, the outlook in March 2020 technological tools adhering to the global that the Company focusses very seriously looked quite uncertain, however, better best practices in managing people the as the sustainability of the business will visibility prevails at the time of writing most valuable asset. depend on the Company’s alignment and this report by end April 2020. actions towards EHS and Compliance. INVENTORY MANAGEMENT The industry saw new opportunities A specialized team coordinates activities to tide over the drop in fashion and Monitoring inventory on regular and maintain standards required by the frequencies to ensure that a good balance active wear business by switching over brand owners, the CEA, labour and to face masks and protective clothing is maintained between the stock holding industrial regulators. Your Company period and speed to market requirements for medical use. Your Company which reached the status of “Zero discharge already commenced development as all raw materials are imported. of Hazardous Chemicals”, a project activity in this segment in March 2020 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC took the lead and was the first fabric mill the banking community. Finally, I wish to commence operations on the 17th of to take this opportunity to thank our April and ramped up capacity to be in valuable shareholders of the Company full production before end April 2020. for being very supportive over the years. The business for such Covid 19 related segment will continue for some time and fashion will take over as time goes by. The confident team along with expertise acquired over years’ will help the Company to navigate through the tough time and achieve rapid growth when the E.R.P. Goonetilleke industry reaches its normalcy. Managing Director/ CEO ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 06 May 2020 I wish to take this opportunity to thank my senior management team and the staff who believed in the strategies adopted by the Company and the trust and confidence they have in my leadership. The Chairman has been a pillar of strength to me and I wish to thank him for the support given as well as the Board of Directors who have supported the strategies presented to them and the encouragement given and the trust placed in me. I also wish to thank all brands who work with us and our garment manufactures who recognize the Company as a quality and reliable performer with innovation capabilities. I also wish to thank all other stakeholders of the Company including our supply chain partners and 23 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 7 8 9 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 4 5 6 10 11 25 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 BOARD OF E. R. P. GOONETILLEKE DIRECTORS Managing Director / CEO Executive Director: Appointed – March 2013 2 Mr. Eranga Rohan Peiris Goonetilleke joined Hayleys Fabric PLC, as Managing Director /CEO on the 1st of March 2013, and A. M. was appointed to the Group Management 1 Committee in the same month. Prior to joining PANDITHAGE Hayleys Fabric, he was appointed as a Director of Brandix X’pressions (Pvt) Ltd, and was appointed to the Board Chairman & Chief Executive Executive Director: Appointed – July 2007 of CLT Apparel (India) (Pvt) Ltd in January 2011, a fully owned subsidiary of Brandix Lanka Ltd. During the Joined the Hayleys Group in 1969. Appointed to the period, 2003 to 2010 he was the Managing Director/CEO Board in 2007. Chairman and Chief Executive of of Textured Jersey Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, prior to which he was Hayleys PLC since July 2009. Fellow of the Chartered the Managing Director/ CEO of Linea Clothing (Pvt) Ltd, Institute of Logistics & Transport (UK). Honorary a subsidiary of MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, and prior to that Consul of the United Mexican States (Mexico), to Sri he was at Carson Cumberbatch & Company Ltd as the Lanka. Council Member of the Employers’ Federation CEO of Elpitiya Plantations Ltd. He received his higher of Ceylon. Member of the Advisory Council of the education in the United Kingdom qualifying as a Graduate Ceylon Association of Shipping. Recipient of the Best Engineer (B.Sc. Eng.). Shipping Personality award by the Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers; Leadership Excellence Recognition – Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; Honoured with lifetime achievement award at Sea trade – Sri Lanka Ports, Trade and Logistics; Life time award for most outstanding K. D. D. PERERA Non-Executive Director Logistics and Transport personality of the year – Chartered Appointed -September 2009 3 Institute of Logistics & Transport. Appointed to the Board in September 2009. Mr. Dhammika Perera is a quintessential strategist and a business leader with interests in a variety of key industries including manufacturing, banking and finance, leisure, plantations and hydro power generation. He has over 30 years of experience in building formidable businesses through unmatched strategic foresight and extensive governance experience gained through membership of the Boards of quoted and un-quoted companies. Mr Perera is the Chairman of Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC, Lanka Tiles PLC, Lanka Walltiles PLC, The Fortress Resort PLC, Vallibel Power Erathna PLC, Greener Water Limited, Uni-Dil Packaging Limited, Delmege Limited, and LB Microfinance Myanmar Company Limited. He is the Co-Chairman of Hayleys PLC, The Kingsbury PLC 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC and Singer (Sri Lanka) PLC. Executive Deputy Chairman He is a Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered of LB Finance PLC, Deputy Chairman of Horana Accountants of Sri Lanka, a Fellow member of the Institute Plantations PLC. He is also an Executive Director of of Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka and Vallibel Finance PLC and serves on the Boards of Amaya an Associate member of CPA Australia, further to holding Leisure PLC, Haycarb PLC, Hayleys Fabric PLC and B.Sc in Mathematics. Dipped Products PLC. He is the Head of Finance & Treasury of Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC (Rocell Group). Mr. Somashantha also serves S. C. GANEGODA as a Director/Audit Committee Member on the Boards of Vallibel Power Erathna PLC and Unidil Packaging Limited. His further Directorships include several subsidiary Non-Executive Director Appointed – November 2009 companies in the Delmege Group. 4 Rejoined Hayleys in March 2007. Appointed to the Group Management Committee in 2007. Appointed to the Board of Hayleys Fabric in November 2009. Fellow Member of Institute R. N. SOMARATNE Independent Non-Executive Director of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Appointed – February 2012 Member of Institute of Certified Management Mr. Nandajith Somaratne was appointed to the Board of Accountants of Australia. Holds an MBA from the 6 Hayleys Fabric PLC in February 2012. He is also a Director Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of of Lanka Walltiles PLC. Sri Jayewardenepura. Worked for Hayleys Group between 1987 and 2002, ultimately as an Executive Director. Mr. Somaratne is currently working in the Subsequently, held several senior management positions in capacity of General Manager (Manufacturing) large private sector entities in Sri Lanka and overseas. Has for Royal Ceramics Group which includes responsibility for the Strategic Business Development Unit Lanka Tiles PLC and Lanka Walltiles PLC. and the Fentons Group. He has served in Ansell Lanka (Pvt) Ltd and in Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau (CECB) before joining Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC in 1993. Mr. Somaratne counts HARESH more than 27 years’ experience in the manufacturing field. SOMASHANTHA Mr. Somaratne holds an MBA from the University of Colombo, Post Graduate Diploma in Industrial Independent Non-Executive Director Engineering from NIBM and B.Sc. in Physical Science Appointed – February 2012 from the University of Peradeniya. He obtained a Post 5 Mr. Haresh Somashantha counts 20 years of dynamic Graduate Diploma in Business Finance and Strategy from leadership career with a rich mix of finance and the Business School of CA Sri Lanka. operations. He possesses an intimate knowledge of internal/ external processes, business planning He has undergone several corporate leadership training and development, strategic and financial programs including Corporate Leadership Management management. He is an expert with a track record Program conducted by HIDA, Japan. in executing team driven process improvements with innovative solutions to increase revenue, operational efficiency, customer satisfaction and overall profitability. 27 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 BOARD OF ANANDA JAYATILLEKA DIRECTORS Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed – March 2015 8 Mr. Ananda Jayatilleka is a specialist in Rubber Technology and Industrial Engineering, a Licentiate of the Institute of Plastics and DR. S. J. Rubber Industry (L.P.R.I-(London)) and a Fellow of the Institute of the Work Study and NAWARATNE Organization and Methods (F.M.S. (UK)). Independent Non-Executive Director Mr.Jayatilleka was a main Board Director of Richard Pieris Appointed – April 2014 & Co. Ltd.with a long service of 27 years in the group. He 7 was instrumental in setting up of Richrd Pieris Exports Dr. Sunil Jayantha Nawaratne is presently a PLC and served as its Managing Director for over 15 competent authority, Institute of Technology – years. Mr.Jayatilleka also served on the Boards of Kegalle University of Moratuwa (ITUM) and Director & Maskelliya Plantations PLC, Aviva Global Services (Pvt) General of National Institute of Education Ltd. His vast experience also includes work in Zambia (NIE). Consolidated Copper Mines & General Tire – South He was the Director General of Sri Lanka Samurdhi Africa. He founded Latex Green (Pvt) Ltd and served as Development Department and previously served as Senior Chairman for 12 years. Presently, he serves as a NonAdvisor to the Minister – Ministry of Social Empowerment Executive Director of Tea Small Holder Factories PLC & Welfare and before that as the Secretary to the Ministry under the John Keells Group. of Higher Education until January 15th of 2015. He has Mr. Jayatilleka has been a recipient of the Merit certificate vast experience in both the public sector as well as in the awarded by the Plastics and Rubber Institute (PRI) of Sri private sector organisations during the last 20 years. Lanka for the outstanding contribution made to the Rubber Currently, he is serving in several boards like Board Industry of Sri Lanka. of Management (BOM) of School of Accounting and Business of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology (SLIIT). He holds a B.Sc. (Business Administration) degree from the University of Sri Jayawardenepura (Topof-the Batch in 1977), Post Graduate Diploma in Business Management (PIM), MA Economics from Kagawa University, Japan and a PhD in Management from prestigious Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. He is a visiting faculty member on Strategic Management / Marketing / Japanese Management for under-graduate and MBA programs in University of Sri Jayawardenapura and University of Colombo. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC R. ROHITHA M. H. JAYASINGHE BANDARA Executive Director Appointed – April 2019 Executive Director 10 Appointed – May 2018 Mr Malith Jayasinghe joined Hayleys Fabric PLC as a Management Mr. Rohitha Bandara joined in 2012 as Chief 9 Trainee, assuming roles with Financial Officer and was appointed to the increasing responsibility in Sales Board on 15 May 2018. and Marketing functions. He counts Mr. Rohitha Bandara is a Fellow of the over 15 years’ experience in the Textile industry. Prior Institute of Chartered Accountants of to his current appointment, Mr Jayasinghe served as the Sri Lanka (FCA) and Associate member of ACCA (UK). General Manager Sales & Marketing , heading sales and He holds a B.Sc. Management Special Degree from the Marketing for last 8 years. University of Sri Jayawardenepura and in addition, an Mr Jayasinghe holds a B.Sc. Degree from the University of MBA in Finance from University of Colombo. Colombo. He is also qualified in AAT, ACMA (SL), ACPM, AIPFM (UK) and has over four years’ experience with Ernst & Young in different industry segments in Sri Lanka and MS. YOGADINUSHA BHASKARAN Singapore and over 14 years of manufacturing experience in Textiles Industry as sector Head of Finance. (Alternate Director to Mr. K.D.D. Perera) Non-Executive Director: Appointed – June 2015 11 Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran is an Accounting professional currently serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Vallibel One PLC. She also presently serves on the Board of Delmege Ltd as a Director, LB Finance PLC as a Non-Executive Director and Chairperson of Audit Committee, Haycarb PLC and Dipped Products PLC as Alternate Directors to Mr. K.D.D. Perera. Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran has previously worked as a Financial Controller with several Australian companies in Melbourne for a number of years. She has in the past served as the Assistant General Manager (Finance & Planning) at Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC. She is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants UK (FCMA), Fellow of CPA Australia (FCPA) and an Associate Member of the Institute of Bankers, Sri Lanka. 29 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MANAGEMENT TEAM 1 2 3 7 8 9 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 4 5 6 10 11 12 31 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MANAGEMENT TEAM E. R. P. GOONETILLEKE M. H. JAYASINGHE Managing Director / CEO Director Marketing 1 3 Mr. Eranga Rohan Peiris Goonetilleke joined Mr. Malith Jayasinghe joined Hayleys Fabric Hayleys Fabric PLC, as Managing Director PLC as a Management trainee, assuming /CEO on the 1st of March 2013, and roles with increasing responsibility in sales was appointed to the Group Management and marketing functions. He counts over 15 Committee in the same month. Prior to years’ experience in the Textile industry. Prior joining Hayleys Fabric, he was appointed as a Director of to his current appointment, Mr Jayasinghe served as the Brandix X’pressions (Pvt) Ltd, and was appointed to the General Manager Sales & Marketing , heading sales and Board of CLT Apparel (India) (Pvt) Ltd in January 2011, a Marketing for last 8 years. fully owned subsidiary of Brandix Lanka Ltd. During the Mr Jayasinghe holds a B.Sc. Degree from the University of period, 2003 to 2010 he was the Managing Director/CEO Colombo. of Textured Jersey Lanka (Pvt) Ltd, prior to which he was the Managing Director/ CEO of Linea Clothing (Pvt) Ltd, a subsidiary of MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd, and prior to that he was at Carson Cumberbatch & Company Ltd as the S. S. PULASINGHE CEO of Elpitiya Plantations Ltd. He received his higher General Manager TPM, Engineering & Special Projects education in the United Kingdom qualifying as a Graduate Engineer (B.Sc. Eng.). Mr. Saliya Pulasinghe holds a National Diploma in 4 Engineering Sciences from Institute of Engineering Technology, an MBA from University of R. ROHITHA BANDARA Wales, UK and is a Member of the Certified Management Accountants of Australia. Director Finance He had undergone extensive training in Lean Management 2 Mr. Ruwan Rohitha Bandara is a Fellow of the (PIPF Osaka), Operations Management (PPOMInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Yokohama) and Cooperate Management (LKCM13Sri Lanka (FCA) and Associate member Chubu) from The Association of Overseas Technical of ACCA (UK). He holds a B.Sc. Scholarship, Japan. He has over 25 years of experience in Management Special Degree from the Manufacturing & Construction sectors. University of Sri Jayawardenepura and in addition, an MBA in Finance from University of Colombo. He is also qualified in AAT, ACMA (SL), ACPM, AIPFM M. L. DAYANANDA (UK) and has over four years’ experience with Ernst & General Manager Supply Chain Young in different industry segments in Sri Lanka and 5 Singapore and over 14 years of manufacturing experience Mr. Lal Dayananda holds an MBA in Finance from in Textiles Industry as sector Head of Finance. the University of Manipal, India and holds Memberships in AFA (Associate member of Institute of Financial Accountants, UK) 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC and APCM (Associate member of Institute of Professional Managers in SL CMA). He has over 20 years’ experience C. P. WANASINGHE in Finance and Procurement in the Manufacturing Deputy General Manager Production Planning 9 Industry. Mr. Chinthaka Wanasinghe holds a B.Sc. in Industrial Management from the University of Kelaniya, MSc. in Operational Research from K. P. C. P. K. PATHIRANA the University of Moratuwa and in addition he also holds a National Diploma in Engineering General Manager Human Resources & Administration Science from the Institute of Engineering 6 Technology (IET). He has over 10 years’ experience in Mr. Prasanna Pathirana is a Graduate in Business overall Planning, SAP ERP and Information systems. Management (Human Resource) Special from the University of Kelaniya. In addition, he holds a Diploma in Psychology from Sri Lanka Psychological Institute. He has over 14 years’ K. D. C. R. GUNARATNE 10 experience in the field of Human Resource Management at Deputy General Manager Knitting leading local and multinational companies. Mr. K. D. Gunaratne has over 20 years’ experience in Knitting Technology and Production at Hayleys Fabric PLC. PRASANGA KIRIHENA General Manager Operations SUMITH FERNANDO 7 Mr. Prasanga Kirihena with over 30 years’ of Deputy General Manager Finance experience in the fabric industry and Garment Mr. Sumith Fernando holds an Executive 11 manufacture has held senior positions in the industry. He holds a Diploma in coloration and Diploma from the Institute of Chartered Finishing from Sri Lanka Institute of textile Accountants of Sri Lanka. He has over 24 years’ experience in Accounting and and apparel. He has held managerial positions in the Finance, out of which, 15 years has been leading fabric mills in Sri Lanka ranging from dyeing, Managerial experience. In addition, finishing to operations and key senior positions in the Mr. Fernando counts over 8 years’ experience in SAP ERP leading apparel manufacturers in Sri Lanka. system as a power user. P. M. P. PERERA SAMAN JAYAWARDANE Deputy General Manager Engineering Deputy General Manager Dyeing and Colour Lab 8 Mr. Mahesh Perera holds a National Diploma in Mr. Saman Jayawardane started his career in 1996 and 12 Mechanical Engineering from the University has worked in the leading fabric Mills in of Moratuwa. He has over 24 years’ experience Sri Lanka engaged in the areas of recipe in the field of Engineering and 15 years’ formulation/ colour lab, dye profile & experience in Textile manufacturing Industry. dyeing technicalities. He has many years of experience in fabric mills in Thailand and Vietnam and has headed operations prior to joining Hayleys Fabric PLC. He holds Diploma in Textile Technology in SLITA and has almost 24 years experiences in Textile sector. 33 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A.M. Pandithage E. R. P. Goonetilleke K. D. D. Perera Chairman & Chief Executive Managing Director / CEO Non-Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director • Appointed September 2009 • Appointed Chairman July 2009 • Appointed MD/CEO March 2013 • Appointed DirectorJuly 2007 Diverse and well balanced, the Board leads by example, providing ethical and effective Haresh Somashantha leadership in creating sustained Independent value for all stakeholders. Non-Executive Director • Appointed February 2012 R. N. Somaratne Dr. S. J. Nawaratne Ruwan Rohitha Bandara Independent Independent Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director • Appointed – May 2018 • Appointed -February 2012 • Appointed April 2014 Non Executive Directors' Tenor Board Expertise as at 31.03.2020 Age Diversity of Directors 0% Engineering Areas of expertise Marketing 33% Business 33% 44% Finance Manufacturing Apparel 0 2 4 6 8 10 No. of Directors 67% 33% 3-5 Years 6-9 Years > 9 Years < 50 Years 50-60 Years > 60 Years 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Governance Highlights 2020 • Following the uncertainty and unprecedented challenges arising from the COVID19 pandemic in March 2020, assessed the impact to the business as presented by S. C. Ganegoda Ananda Sunil Jayatilleka the Company Management and Non-Executive Director Senior Independent reviewed the proposed business • Appointed: November 2009 Non-Executive Director recovery plan. • Appointed March 2015 • Appointment of Mr. A.S. Jayatilleka as Senior Independent Director w.e.f. 6th February 2020, in compliance with CA Code of Best Practices on Corporate Governance, 2017. • Appointment of Mr. Malith Jayasinghe as an Executive Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran Director, w.e.f. 01.04.2019. (Alternate Director to Mr. K.D.D. Perera) • Approved capital investment of • Appointed June 2015 USD 900,000 for a new factory in Horana expanding knitting capacity by 150 MT. • Approved a project of fixing solar panels with Hayleys Power Ltd. which will generate 4,104 carbon credits/p.a. • Retirement by Rotation of Dr. N.S.J. Nawaratne, Mr. K.D.D. Malith Jayasinghe Company Secretaries Perera and Mr. H. Somashantha Executive Director at the AGM to be held on 27 • Appointed Director April 2019 • Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd July 2020. They have offered themselves for re-election. COMPLIANCE SUMMARY Regulation / Code Adoption Adherence Page Reference To Disclosure Table The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 and regulations Mandatory Fully Compliant 116 117 Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) Mandatory Fully Compliant 45 46 Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Mandatory Fully Compliant 117 120 Act No. 36 of 1987, including directives and circulars Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance (2017) Voluntary Fully Compliant 47 49 issued by Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka 35 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Hayleys Fabric PLC aspires to the highest NAVIGATING THE REPORT standards of corporate governance. Being a subsidiary of the Hayleys Group, the This report has been structured as follows, highlighting the ethical and effective governance practices adopted by Company inherits a legacy of practices Hayleys Fabric PLC. founded on the core principles of 1. Governance framework and structure accountability, integrity and transparency. 2. An Effective Board A strong set of corporate values, written 3. Responsible and Fair Remuneration code of conduct and a proven performance 4. Board Accountability monitoring system underpins its 5. Relations with Shareholders governance framework driving responsible Details of Compliance with respective statues and codes as and sustainable growth for all stakeholders. described in the Compliance Summary on pages 47 49 tabled at the end of the report. 1. GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AND STRUCTURE The Board bears responsibility to ensure the Company pursues its strategic goals in accordance with sound corporate governance principles, safeguarding its reputation, values and assets while balancing stakeholder interests. The Board retains effective control through the board-approved governance framework which comprises an organization structure, reporting mechanisms, internal controls and compliance & risk management processes. The Framework is bound by external regulations and internally formulated policies and is reviewed when necessary, to adapt to internal developments and reflect global best practices. Hayleys Group Board Hayleys Fabric PLC Group Management Committee (GMC) Nominations Committee Board Related Party Remuneration MD/CEO Transactions Review Committee Committee Finance & Investment Audit Committee Committee Corporate Management Group Internal Audit Executive Committees Including; HR, Planning and Production, Group IT / CISO Compliance, Environmental, H&S, Sustainability 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC The Board delegates functions warranting greater attention, to the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee with oversight responsibility for same, enabling the Board to allocate Committee sufficient time to matters within its scope. As a subsidiary of the Hayleys Group, the Hayleys composition Fabric PLC Board is assisted by the Nominations Committee, Related Party Transactions Review Committee and Finance & Investment Committee of Hayleys PLC as well as Group and roles are Internal Audit, Group IT /CISO, Group Corporate Secretarial Services, Group Legal, Strategic summarized on Business Development Unit (SBDU) in the discharge of responsibilities. The MD /CEO is a page 38. member of the Hayleys Group Management Committee and is responsible to the Hayleys Board for delivering agreed strategic goals for his business sector. He leads the corporate management team in the implementation of the Company’s strategic plan. Regular reporting on key matters enables effective oversight by the Hayleys Group. Board’s Primary Governance Roles and Responsibilities STEERS AND SETS APPROVES POLICY AND OVERSEAS AND ENSURES STRATEGIC DIRECTION. CAPITAL PLANNING. MONITORS. ACCOUNTABILTIY. Approves strategy. Focuses on Gives effect to strategy. Sets Implementation by For organisational performance high environmental, social & direction, resource allocation. & Management through reporting and governance standards risk appetite disclosure, engagement 2. AN EFFECTIVE BOARD BOARD COMPOSITION 2.1 Board Composition The Board comprises 10 members, 4 of Chairman (Executive) whom are independent. Sufficient balance of power minimizes the tendency for one Senior Independent Non-Executive Director or few members of the Board to dominate Independent Non-Executive Directors the Board processes or decision making. Appointment of Mr. A.S. Jayatilleka as Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director w.e.f. 6th February 2020, in line with the Code of Executive Directors Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in 2017, 2.2 Appointment, Re-election and Resignation strengthens the independence of the Board Directors are appointed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, following a further. formal and transparent process and based on recommendations made by the Board of Directors. The Group Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board in The Board is diverse in its skills, this regard having considered the combined knowledge, experience and diversity of the experience, age and tenure contributing Board in relation to the Company’s strategic plans and any gaps thereof. varied perspectives to boardroom deliberations and exercising independent In compliance with the Companies Act, 1/3 of the Non-Executive Directors will retire judgment to bear on matters set before from office at each Annual General Meeting. These Directors are eligible to stand for them. re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The Group Nomination Committee recommends the Directors for re-election, and approval by the Board. A Three directors including the Chairman director appointed by the Board to fill a casual vacancy arisen since the previous AGM, of the Audit Committee, are finance will offer himself for re-election at the next AGM. professionals ensuring a sufficiency of financial acumen. Non-Executive Appointments are communicated to the CSE and shareholders through press releases and Directors are eminent professionals in their include a brief resume of the Director. Resignations/ retirements of Directors and the respective fields. reasons thereof are informed promptly to CSE. 37 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2.3 Board Responsibilities APPOINTMENTS AND RE-ELECTION 2020 The Board provides ethical and effective leadership to the organization and bears ultimate • Mr Malith Jayasinghe was appointed an Executive Director, w.e.f. 01.04.2019 responsibility for the economic, social and • Dr. N.S.J. Nawaratne, Mr. K.D.D. Perera and Mr. H. Somashantha will retire environmental performance of the Company. by rotation at the AGM to be held on 27th July 2020 and have offered The Board determines overall strategy and themselves for re-election oversees implementation of the same. Key responsibilities are summarized alongside. KEY BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES Board, Directors and Key Management Personnel are indemnified by the Hayleys Group • Provide strategic direction in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of • Monitor implementation of strategy their office, in terms of Section 218 of the • Set corporate values and promote ethical behaviours Companies Act. • Establish systems of risk management, internal control and compliance • Be responsive to the needs of society 2.4 Board Sub-Committees • Meet shareholders, employees and other stakeholder’s obligations, balancing The Board has appointed an Audit Committee their interests in a fair manner and a Remuneration Committee to assist in • Present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Company’s the discharge of its duties. The Nominations position and prospects Committee and Related Party Transactions • Safeguard assets and ensure legitimate use Review Committee of Hayleys PLC, the Parent • Ensure succession planning and the continued ability of the Company to Company, functions as the Committee of the operate without any disruption Company as permitted by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Areas of oversight and composition of these committees are given below. Board Committee Areas of Oversight Composition Further Information Audit Committee • Financial Reporting Comprises three Independent NonReport of the Audit • Internal Controls Executive Directors including the Chairman Committee on of the Committee. pages 110 111 • Internal Audit • External Audit Nominations • Appointment of Key Hayleys PLC (Parent company) Nominations Committee Management Personnel/ Committee assists the Company. Directors Comprises Chairman, one Independent • Succession Planning Non-Executive Director and one Executive • Effectiveness of the Board and Director of Hayleys PLC its Committees Remuneration • Remuneration policy for Key Comprises two Independent Non-Executive Report of the Remuneration Committee Management Personnel Directors including the Chairman (Senior Committee on page 112 • Goals and targets for Key Independent Director) of the Committee Management Personnel • Performance evaluation Related Party • Review of related party Hayleys PLC (Parent company) Related Report of the Related Transactions Review transactions Party Transactions Committee assists the Party Transactions Review Committee Company. Committee on page 113 Comprises two Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Director of Hayleys PLC Finance & • Finance and investment Hayleys PLC (Parent company) Finance & Investment functions Investment Committee assists the Company. Committee • Integration planning Comprises one Independent Non-Executive (Voluntary • Investor relations Directors and three Executive Directors and Committee) Group CFO of Hayleys PLC 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 2.5 Meetings & Minutes Resolutions concerning business matters 2.6 Chairman and Managing Agenda and Board papers are sent at may be passed by circulation, within Director/ CEO least 7 days before the meeting, allowing regulations. However, if a single Director The Chairman of Hayleys PLC (Parent members sufficient time to review the deems it necessary that such resolution company) serves as Chairman of documents. Chairman sets the Board must be decided at a Board meeting not Hayleys Fabric PLC. He leads the Board, agenda, assisted by the Company by circulation, the Chairman shall put the preserving good corporate governance Secretary and MD/CEO. Care is taken resolution to be decided in a meeting. and ensuring that it works ethically and to ensure the Board spends sufficient effectively, acting in the best interest of the The Board met 6 times during the year. All time considering matters critical to the Company. The MD/CEO is an Executive Board minutes are circulated to members, Company’s success, as well as compliance Director appointed by the Board and is and formally approved at the subsequent and administrative matters. accountable for implementation of the Board meeting, Directors’ concerns Company’s strategic plan and driving Board meetings are held on a quarterly regarding matters which are not resolved performance. The role of Chairman is basis with the flexibility to arrange adunanimously are recorded in the minutes. separate from that of the MD/ CEO.A hoc meetings to supplement these when Directors always have access to the past clear division of responsibilities ensures no required. Board papers and minutes in case of need one director has unfettered powers in the via electronic means. decision-making process. ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Attendance Directors Date of Appointment Board Audit Remuneration A.M. Pandithage (Chairman) * 01 July 2007 6/6 E.R.P. Goonetilleke (MD/CEO) * 01 March 2013 6/6 K.D.D. Perera ** 24 September 2009 0/6 S.C. Ganegoda ** 01 November 2009 6/6 H. Somashantha *** 02 February 2012 5/6 4/4 1/1 R.N. Somaratne *** 02 February 2012 6/6 Dr. S.J. Nawartne *** 25 April 2014 2/6 1/4 A.S. Jayatilleka **** 30 March 2015 4/6 3/4 1/1 R.R. Bandara * 15 May 2018 6/6 M. H. Jayasinghe (Appointed w.e.f. 01.04.19) * 01 April 2019 6/6 Ms. Y. Bhaskaran (Alternate Director to Mr. K.D.D. Perera) ** 01 June 2015 4/6 Total No. of Meetings 6 4 1 * Executive Director ** Non-Executive Director *** Independent Non-Executive Director **** Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 39 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman’s Responsibilities MD/CEO Responsibilities • Setting the ethical tone for the Board and Company; • Appointing and ensuring proper succession planning • Setting the Board’s annual work plan and the agendas, in of the corporate management team, and assessing their consultation with the Company secretary and the MD/ performance; CEO; • Developing the Company’s strategy for consideration and • Building and maintaining stakeholder trust and approval by the Board; confidence; • Developing and recommending to the Board budgets • Ensuring effective participation of all Board members supporting the Company’s long-term strategy. during Board meetings. • Monitoring and reporting to the Board on the performance • Facilitating and encouraging discussions amongst all of the Company and its compliance with applicable laws and Directors of matters set before the Board and ensuring a Corporate Governance principles. balance of power is maintained between Executive (ED) • Establishing an organizational structure for the Company and Non Executive Director (NED). which is appropriate for the execution of strategy; • Monitoring the effectiveness of the Board. • Ensuring a culture that is based on the Company’s values; • Ensuring that the Company operates within the approved risk appetite. 2.7 Senior Independent Secretaries maintain minutes of Board Transactions Policy and in compliance Director (SID) meetings, which are open for inspection by with regulations, ensuring transactions Mr. A.S. Jayatilleka was appointed Senior any Director at any time. Appointment are fair and in the best interest of the Independent Director of the Company and removal of the Company Secretaries is Company. Related party transactions w.e.f. 06th February 2020, in compliance a matter for the Board as a whole. are disclosed in Note 25 to the Financial with the Code of Best Practice on Statements on page 154 . Corporate Governance issued by the 2.9 Directors Independence Institute of Chartered Accountants of Directors are experienced leaders in their 2.11 Induction and Training Sri Lanka in 2017, which requires the respective fields and exercise independent for Directors appointment of a Senior Independent and unfettered judgment, promoting On appointment, Directors are provided Director, when the Chairman is not an constructive Board deliberations and with an orientation pack with all relevant independent Director. objective evaluation of matters set before external and internal regulation documents them. and a tour of the factory premises. The The Senior Independent Director Board of Directors recognize the need strengthens the independence and 2.10 Other Business to keep abreast of current developments effectiveness of the Board by providing Commitments / Related affecting the sector both globally and leadership and advice when the Chairman Party Transactions / locally. They undertake training and has a conflict of interest, without Conflicts of Interests professional development in their personal detracting from or undermining his capacity as they consider necessary in authority. He provides support to the Directors declare their business interests assisting them to carry out their duties as Chairman and is available as a trusted at appointment and quarterly thereafter. Directors. They are members of the Sri intermediary for other Directors. Details are maintained in a Register by the Lanka Institute of Directors and attend Company Secretary and tabled at the next sessions from time to time. Other training 2.8 Company Secretary Board meeting. The Register is available and continuous professional development for inspection in terms of the Companies Secretarial services to the Board are undertaken by Directors in 2019/20 Act. Key appointments of the Directors provided by Hayleys Group Services includes attending seminars/workshops/ are included in their profiles on pages 26 (Pvt) Ltd. All Directors have access to conferences, using web based learning to 29. the advice and services of this group resources and reading regulatory updates function as necessary. The Secretaries and Directors excuse themselves from the etc. Management keep the Board informed of meeting when the Board considers new laws and revisions, regulations and any matters in which a conflict may 2.12 Board access to requirements coming into effect which are arise, thereby abstaining from voting. Information and Resources relevant to them as individual Directors The Hayleys Group Related Party Directors have unrestricted access to and collectively to the Board. Transactions Review Committee considers management and organisation information all transactions that require approval, to clarify matters in the effective discharge in line with the Group’s Related Party of their duties and responsibilities. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC DEFINITION ASSESSMENT OUTCOME Independence is determined Independent assessment The Board is satisfied there are no relationships or circumstances against criteria as set out of Directors is conducted likely to affect or appear to affect, Directors’ judgement during in the Listing Rules of the annually by the Board, based the period under review. Colombo Stock Exchange on annual declaration and and in compliance with other information submitted The Board believes the independency of Mr. A.S. Jayatilleka is schedule K of the Code. by Non Executive Directors not compromised by being a Board member in an independent capacity of Unisyst Engineering PLC (Former Alufab PLC), a subsidiary of the Parent Company considering his experience and knowledge particularly in the manufacturing field. Regular presentations by the MD/CEO reviewed at the end of the financial year 3.2 Level and Make Up of and Corporate Management on matters against the backdrop of the operating Remuneration including progress in implementation of environment, and remuneration revised The Remuneration packages of Executive the strategic goals, financial, social and based on performance. Directors are designed to attract eminent environmental performance, compliance, professionals as directors with the requisite risk management, changes and challenges 3.0 RESPONSIBLE AND FAIR skills and experience. Remuneration presented by the operating environment REMUNERATION is structured taking into consideration ensure that the Board is apprised of performance and risk factors entailed developments impacting the Company. 3.1 Remuneration Policy in the job and aligned to corporate and The Hayleys Fabric PLC’s Remuneration individual performance. Access to independent professional advice, Policy seeks to motivate and reward co-ordinated through the Company Remuneration of Executive Directors performance while meeting regulatory Secretaries, is available to Directors at are compliant with the provisions of requirements, market expectations and Company expense. Schedule E of the Code of Best Practice corporate values. The Remuneration Committee (RC) consisting of 2 Nonon Corporate Governance issued by the 2.13 Executive Committees Executive Directors is responsible for Institute of Chartered Accountants of These committees include the HR, making recommendations to the Board Sri Lanka in 2017 and comprises two Finance, Planning and Production, regarding the remuneration of the components, fixed remuneration and Compliance, Environmental, Health Executive Directors within agreed terms variable remuneration comprising of an and Safety, and Sustainability which of reference and in accordance with the annual performance bonus. No special are responsible for delivering strategic remuneration policies of the Company. early termination clauses are included in goals. The Committees meet monthly Please refer page 112 for the Report of the the contract of employment of Executive and make portfolio decisions including Remuneration Committee and Terms of Directors that would entitle them to risk management and allocation of Reference. extra compensation. However, such capital, technical and human resources compensation, if any, would be determined in managing the business. These cross The Board as a whole determines the by the Board of Directors. functional teams are managed through remuneration of the Non-Executive Director’s who receive a fee for being Please refer page 151 for the total delegation and reporting obligations a Director of the Board and additional Directors’ Remuneration and fee. and are key in enhancing employee engagement and empowerment. fee for being a member of a committee. Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the time commitment 2.14 Appraisal of MD/CEO and responsibilities of their role, taking The Board assesses the performance of into consideration market practices. They the MD/CEO annually using criteria do not receive any performance related aligned to the short, medium and long/ incentive payments. Services of HR term objectives of the Company which professionals are sought when required, by are agreed with the MD/CEO at the the Board and Remuneration Committee beginning of the year. Performance is in discharging their responsibilities. 41 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.0 BOARD The Company has also complied with 2019/20 at the last AGM. In compliance ACCOUNTABILITY the requirements of the Colombo Stock with Section 163 (3) of the Companies Exchange and published Interim Reports Act No. 07 of 2007, the External Auditors 4.1 Compliance on the Company website within15 days submit a statement annually confirming Directors are conscious of their duty to of first three quarters and within 2 their independence in relation to the comply with the with laws, regulations, months of the last quarter. Price sensitive external audit. regulatory guidelines, internal controls information, which may have an impact and approved policies. The Company on the shares of the Company, has been 4.5 Major or Material is compliant with all relevant legal and disclosed in a comprehensive but concise Transactions statutory requirements. manner to the Colombo Stock Exchange During the year, there were no major or on a timely basis. Reports required by material transactions as defined by Section 4.2 Risk Management and regulators including the Department of 185 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Internal Control Inland Revenue, Sri Lanka Accounting which materially affect the net asset base & Auditing Standards Monitory Board, The Board is responsible for formulating of Company. BOI and the Colombo Stock Exchange and implementing effective risk have been filed in a timely manner in management and internal control systems 4.6 Code of Conduct and compliance with specified requirements. to safeguard shareholder interests and the Ethics The following reports set out further assets of the Company. These systems information required by the Code: Hayleys Fabric PLC is committed to cover all controls, including financial, conducting its business operations with operational and compliance and are • The Directors’ Report on pages 118 honesty, integrity and with respect to the monitored and regularly reviewed for to 120 (including the declaration that rights and interests of all stakeholders. effectiveness by the Board. The Hayleys the Company is a going concern) The Company is bound by the “The Group Internal Audit Department • The Statement of Directors’ Hayleys Way”The Ethical Road Map for supports the Audit Committee, reviewing Responsibility on page 122 Code of conduct developed by Hayleys the adequacy and effectiveness of the • Report of the Auditors on pages 124 PLC (Parent Company) for the Group. Hayleys Fabric PLC’s internal control to 127 It applies to all employees including key systems and reporting to the Audit management personnel and Directors, and Committee on a regular basis. is inculcated at all levels through structured 4.4 External Auditor communication, with the objective 4.3 Accountability & Audit The External Auditor is appointed of enhancing awareness and driving Every effort has been made to present a subject to the provision of the Companies reinforcement. The code covers key topics balanced and understandable assessment Act. The Audit Committee makes including conflict of interest, corporate of the Company’s financial position, recommendations to the Board for opportunities, confidentiality, fair dealing, performance and prospects in compliance the appointment, re-appointment or protection and proper use of Company with the various legal enactments removal of the External Auditor in-line assets. It fosters an ethical culture and applicable, the Sri Lanka Financial with professional & ethical standards promotes compliance with relevant laws Reporting Standards, the GRI Standard and regulatory requirements. The and legislation, an imperative to retaining on Sustainability Reporting published Audit Committee monitors and reviews the trust of stakeholders. The Board is not by the Global Reporting Initiative and the External Auditor’s independence, aware of any material violations of any of the Integrated Reporting Framework objectivity and the effectiveness of the provisions of the Code by any Director published by the International Integrated the audit process considering relevant or employee of the Company. Reporting Council. The Company’s professional and regulatory requirements. position and prospects have been discussed 4.7 IT Governance In assignment of non-audit services to in detail in the following sections of this External Auditors, the Audit Committee Smart technology has been transforming annual report. ensures that the External Auditor has the Textile industry over the past few years. • Chairman’s Message pages 17 to 19 the necessary skills and experience The Company has been at the forefront for the assignment and ascertains that using advanced technology to reduce costs, • Managing Director’s Review pages independence and objectivity of the enhance operational efficiency, improve 20 to 23 External Auditor in carrying out his duties environmental impact and customer • Management Discussion & Analysis and responsibilities will not be impaired. experience. Consequently, IT governance on pages 51 to 98 has been a key focus area of the Board. • Way Forward on pages 99 to 100 On the recommendation of the Board, the shareholders approved the reappointment Hayleys Group IT Department overseas • Managing Risk on pages 101 to 102 of Messrs. Ernst & Young (Chartered and manages the IT requirement of the Accountants) as the External Auditor for Company and other Group companies. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Competition Regulatory Compliance Shareholders Conflict of Interest Employees The Hayleys Way Public Activities Business Integrity Corporate Responsibility Environment Consumers The Group Head of IT who is also the Cyber security is an agenda of the CISO is responsible for implementing monthly Group Management Committee the Group IT policy and the Group meetings with matters escalated to Information Security Policy at entirety the Company Board where deemed level in liaison with the Group Companies, necessary considering risk, impact and under the supervision of an Executive other prudential measures. IT and Cyber Director of the Group. Coverage and security formed part of the Group’s annual scope of related Group policies and statutory audit of Financial Statements. guidelines are given below. Group Information Guidelines for Corporate Group IT Policy Principles Security Policy Websites • Group Connectivity • Protection of information • Acceptable IT Use • Guidelines for web hosting • Access requirements/ from unauthorised access • Password Protection • Guidelines for secure web Resource utilisation • Confirmation of • Standards development • Individual Sector information • Enforcement • Email Usage Networks/System • Confidentiality, availability • Internet Usage Management and integrity of information • Monitoring • Backup & Recovery/ Software Modification • Regulatory requirements • Enforcement • IT Equipment & Software • Business continuity plans & Third Party Involvement • Information security • IT Assets & Media disposal training and procurement • Reporting breaches of • Responsibility for information security Adherence • IT policy embedded in to employee induction programme 43 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.8 Sustainability Governance The Annual Report presents a fair and At the AGM, the Board provides an Hayleys Fabric PLC places significant balanced review of Company’s financial update to shareholders on the Company’s emphasis on sustainable development and position, performance and prospects performance and shareholders have the value creation. Sustainability principles combining narrative and visual elements to opportunity to ask questions and vote are embedded in the business strategy facilitate readability and comprehension. on resolutions. It is the key forum for and endorsed throughout its operations. All statutory requirements have been shareholders to engage in decision making Activities undertaken by the Company complied with in the Annual Report matters reserved for the shareholders in recognition of its responsibility as a and the interim financials have been which typically include proposals to corporate citizen are presented in the reviewed and recommended by the Audit adopt the Annual Report and Accounts Integrated Annual Report as follows; Committee and approved by the Board of and appointment of Directors and Directors, prior to publication. auditors. The Board Chairman, Board • Economic Sustainability Sustainable members particularly Chairmen of the Shareholder Value page 63 Hayleys Fabric will post on its website Audit, Remuneration and Nomination (www.hayleysfabric.com) as soon as committees on the request of the Board • Environment Respect for the practicable and after they have been Chairman, and external auditors, are Environment on page 71 released to the stock exchange, copies present and available to answer questions. • Labour Practices An Inspired Team of annual reports, interim reports, on page 83 stock information, stock exchange All Shareholders are encouraged to • Society Community Advancement announcements, shareholder circular etc. participate at the AGMs and exercise their on page 97 voting rights. Shareholders also have the opportunity • Product Responsibility Assured to ask questions, make the comments The Company has an effective mechanism Quality/ Advanced Infrastructure & and suggestions to the Board through the to record and count all proxy votes Networks on page 81 Company Secretaries whose contact details lodged for each resolution. The following • Shareholder identification, are provided on page IBC of this report information is made available at the AGM engagement and effective and the Investor Relations page of our and posted on the Company website, as communication Investor Relations website. All significant issues and concerns soon as practicable. on page 52 of Shareholders are always referred to the Board of Directors with the views of the • Number of shares in respect of which 5.0 RELATIONS WITH Management. proxy appointments have been validly SHAREHOLDERS made The Board is conscious of their 5.2 Constructive use of Annual • Number of votes for and against the responsibility towards stakeholders and General Meeting (AGM) resolution is committed to fair disclosure, with The AGM is the main mechanism for • Number of shares in respect of which emphasis on the integrity, timeliness and the Board to interact with and account to the vote was directed to be withheld relevance of the information provided. shareholders and provides an opportunity Information is communicated accurately for shareholders’ views to be heard. Notice In the event there are a significant and in such a manner as to avoid the of the AGM, the Annual Report and proportion of the votes cast against a creation of a false market. Accounts and any other resolution together resolution, the Board will take steps to with the corresponding information that understand the reasons behind the vote 5.1 Communication with may be set before the shareholders at results and determine if any actions are Shareholders the AGM, are circulated to shareholders required. Shareholders are engaged through minimum 15 working days prior to the multiple channels of communication, AGM allowing for all the shareholders including the Annual General Meeting to attend the AGM. Hayleys Fabric (AGM)(detailed below), annual report, proposes a separate resolution for each interim financial statements, a dedicated item of business, giving shareholders investor relations page on the Company’s the opportunity to vote on each of such website and notification of key events issue, separately. Voting procedures at the through announcements in the CSE. AGM are circulated to the shareholders in advance. 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Appendix ICompliance with the Continuing Listing Requirements Section 7.10 on Corporate Governance Rules for Listed Companies issued by the Colombo Stock Exchange. Rule No. Subject Requirement Complied Reference Page within the Report 7.10.1(a) Non-Executive At least 2 or 1/3 of the total number of Yes Board Composition 37 Directors (NED) Directors on the Board whichever is higher should be NEDs 7.10.2(a) Independent 2 or1/3 of NEDs, whichever is higher, should be Yes Board Composition 37 Directors (ID) independent 7.10.2(b) Independent Each NED should submit a signed and dated Yes Directors Independence 40 Directors (ID) declaration of his/her independence or nonindependence 7.10.3(a) Disclosure relating The Board shall annually determine the Yes Directors Independence 40 to Directors independence or otherwise of the NEDs, and Names of each Independent Directors should be Board Profiles 26 disclosed in the Annual Report (AR) 7.10.3(b) Disclosure relating The basis for the Board’s determination of Yes Not Applicable. to Directors Independent Directors (ID), if criteria specified for independence is not met 7.10.3(c) Disclosure relating A brief resume of each Director should be Yes Board Profiles 26 to Directors included in the Annual Report including the Director’s areas of expertise 7.10.3(d) Disclosure relating Provide a brief resume of new Directors Yes Board Profiles 26 to Directors appointed to the Board with details specified in 7.10.3(a), (b) and (c) to the CSE 7.10.4 Criteria for Requirements for meeting criteria to be an Yes Directors Independence 40 defining Independent Director (a-h) Independence 7.10.5 Remuneration A listed company shall have a Remuneration Yes Remuneration Committee 112 Committee(RC) Committee Report 7.10.5(a) Composition of Remuneration Committee (RC) Shall comprise of Yes Remuneration Committee 112 Remuneration NEDs, a majority of whom will be independent Report Committee One NED shall be appointed as Chairman of the committee by the Board of Directors 7.10.5.(b) Functions of The Remuneration Committee (RC) shall Yes Remuneration Committee 112 Remuneration recommend the remuneration of Executive Report Committee Directors 7.10.5.(c) Disclosure in Names of Directors comprising the Yes Remuneration Committee 112 the Annual Remuneration Committee (RC) Report Report relating Statement of Remuneration Policy to Remuneration Committee Aggregated remuneration paid to Executive and Note 22 to the Financial 151 Non-Executive Directors should be included in Statements the Annual Report 7.10.6 Audit Committee The Company shall have an Audit Committee Yes Audit Committee Report 110 (AC) (AC) 7.10.6(a) Composition of Shall comprise of Non-Executive Directors, a Yes Audit Committee majority of whom are Independent Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Yes Officer should attend Audit Committee Meetings Audit Committee Report 110 The Chairman of the Audit Committee or one Yes member should be a member of a professional accounting body 45 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Rule No. Subject Requirement Complied Reference Page within the Report 7.10.6(b) Audit Committee Should be as outlined in the Section 7.10 of the Yes Audit Committee Report 110 Functions Listing Rules 7.10.6(c) Disclosure in a) Names of the Directors comprising the Audit Yes Audit Committee Report 110 Annual Report Committee relating to Audit b) The Audit Committee shall make a Yes Audit Committee Report 110 Committee determination of the independence of the Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination c) The Annual Report shall contain a Report Yes Audit Committee Report 110 of the Audit Committee in the prescribed manner 9.3.2 Related Party a) Details pertaining to Non-Recurrent Related Yes Note 25 to the Financial 154 Transactions Party Transactions Statements Review b) Details pertaining to Recurrent Related Yes Note 25 to the Financial 154 Committee Party Transactions Statements c) Report of the Related Party Transactions Yes Report of the Related Review Committee Party Transactions Review 113 Committee d) Declaration by the Board of Directors as Yes Annual Report of the an affirmative statement of compliance Board of Directors 116 with the rules pertaining to Related Party Transactions, or a negative statement otherwise 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Appendix II: Compliance with the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka in 2017 As requirements of the Code have been discussed in the Corporate Governance Report, we have provided the relevant references to the report. Code Ref. Requirement Complied Reference within the Report Page A Directors A.1 An effective Board should direct, lead and control the Yes Board Profiles 26 Company A.1.1 Regular Board meetings, provide information to the Yes Meetings & Minutes 39 Board on a structured and regular basis A.1.2 Role and Responsibilities of the Board Yes Board Responsibilities 37 A.1.3 Act in accordance with laws of the Country Yes Compliance, Board access to information Independent professional advice and resources 40 A.1.4 Access to advise and services of the Company Secretary Yes Company Secretary 40 A.1.5 Independent judgement Yes Directors Independence 40 A.1.6 Dedicate adequate time and effort to matters of the Yes Other Business Commitments / Related Board and the Company Party Transactions / Conflicts of 40 Interests A.1.7 Calls for resolutions by at least 1/3rd of Directors Yes Meetings & Minutes 39 A1.8 Board induction and Training Yes Induction and training for Directors 40 A.2 Chairman and CEO Yes Role of Chairman and MD/CEO 40 A.3 Chairman’s role in preserving good Corporate Yes Role of Chairman and MD/CEO 40 Governance A.4 Availability of financial acumen Yes Board Composition 37 A.5 Board Balance Yes Board Composition 37 A.5.1 The Board should include sufficient number of NEDs Yes Board Composition 37 A.5.2 If the Board includes only 3 NEDs, they should be Yes Board Composition 37 independent A.5.3 Independence of Directors Yes Director Independence 40 A.5.4 Annual declaration of independence by Directors Yes Director Independence 40 A.5.5 Annual determination of independence of NEDs Yes Director Independence 40 A.5.6 Alternate Directors Yes Board Profiles 26 A.5.7 & Senior Independent Directors Yes Senior Independent Director 40 A.5.8 A.5.9 Annual meeting with NEDs Yes Chairman meets with NEDs informally. A.5.10 Recording of dissent in minutes Yes Meetings and minutes 39 A.6 Supply of Information Yes Board access to information and resources 40 A.7 Appointments to the Board and Re-election Yes Appointment, Re-election and Resignation 38 A.7.1 Establishing a Nomination Committee, Chairman and Yes Hayleys PLC Nomination Committee Terms of Reference acts on behalf of Hayleys Fabric PLC Report A.7.2 Annual assessment of Board composition Yes Board composition is assessed when recommending Directors for Re-election. A.7.3 Disclosures on appointment of new directors Yes Appointment, Re-election and Resignation 38 A.8 Directors to submit themselves for re-election Yes Appointment, Re-election and Resignation 38 47 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code Ref. Requirement Complied Reference within the Report Page A.9 Appraisal of Board and sub-Committee Performances No Board is in the process of setting up a formal appraisal system A.10 Annual Report to disclose specified information Yes Board Profiles 26 regarding Directors Meetings Attendance 39 Directorships in Other Companies 26 Membership in committees 26 A.11 Appraisal of the CEO Yes Appraisal of MD/CEO 41 B. Directors Remuneration B.1 Establish process for developing policy on executive and Responsible and Fair Remuneration 41 Director remuneration. B.2 Level and Make Up of Remuneration Yes Responsible and Fair Remuneration 41 B.3 Disclosures related to remuneration in Annual Report Yes Remuneration Policy statement Responsible and Fair Remuneration 41 Aggregate Board remuneration paid Note 22 to Financial Statements 151 HRRC Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Committee report 112 C Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive use of the AGM & Other General Yes Constructive use of the Annual General Meetings Meeting (AGM) 44 C.2 Communication with shareholders Yes Communication with Shareholders 44 C.3 Disclosure of major and material transactions Yes Major or Material Transactions 42 D. Accountability & Audit D. 1 Present a balanced and understandable assessment of Yes Communication with Shareholders 44 the Company’s financial position, performance and prospects D1.1 Balanced Annual Report Yes Communication with Shareholders 44 D.1.2 Balanced and understandable communication Yes Corporate communication 44 D.1.3 CEO/CFO declaration Yes Chief Executive Officer’s and Chief Financial Officer’s Responsibility Statement 114 D.1.4 Directors Report declarations Yes Annual report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company 116 D.1.5 Financial reporting -statement on Board responsibilities Yes Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Reporting 122 Statement on internal control Directors’ Statement on Internal Control 121 D.1.6 Management Discussion & Analysis Yes Capital reports 51 98 D.1.7 Net Assets < 50% Yes In the unlikely event of the Net Assets of the Company falling below 50% of Shareholders Funds the Board will summon an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) to notify the shareholders of the position and to explain the remedial action being taken. D.1.8 Related Party Transactions report Yes Directors’ Interest in Contracts with the 40 Company 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Code Ref. Requirement Complied Reference within the Report Page D.2 Process of risk management and a sound system of Yes Risk Management and Internal control 101 102 internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investments Report of the Audit Committee 110 111 and the Company’s assets Directors’ Statement of Internal Control 121 D.3 Audit Committee Yes Audit Committee Report 110 111 D.4 Related Party Transactions Review Committee Yes Related Party Transactions Review Committee report 113 D.5 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Yes Code of Conduct & Ethics 42 D.6 Corporate Governance Disclosures Yes Corporate Governance Report 36 Institutional and other investors, Yes Shareholder Relations 44 G. Internet of Things & Cybersecurity Yes IT Governance 42 H Principals of Sustainability Reporting Yes Sustainability Governance 44 49 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 “Sustainable and Responsive” Management Discussion & Analysis 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC CREATING VALUE OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR RESOURCES & CAPITAL TRADE-OFFS & HOW WE CREATE VALUE VALUE CREATED RELATIONSHIPS INTER-DEPENDENCIES HUMAN CAPITAL To be the SUSTAINABLE Financial capital is prudently  Attitude, talent and skill drive allocated to maintain most soughtSHAREHOLDER innovation, efficiency and a appropriate balance between after fabric VALUE zest for excellence manufacturer corporate sustainability  1300 employees in South Asia  4% Gross profit and stakeholder benefit.  3,417 training hours Growth Disciplined capital allocation ensures our continued growth  USD 0.09 Net Asset and supports our ability to Supply Chain Customer Service Innovation Uncompromised Comprehensive Responsible per share add value to all other capitals MANUFACTURED CAPITAL Manufacturing Production Management Quality  State-of-the art machinery and Solutions our modern factory enables ENHANCED Safety, health and skills development underpin efficient and quality production CUSTOMER productivity. While our top  USD 53 Mn PP&E SATISFACTION priorities are to keep our  USD 2.9 Mn Capex  95% Lab to Bulk RFT employees safe, healthy and Responsible Production invesment to reach their full potential, From sourcing of materials to conscious  99 new innovations & Hayleys Fabric PLC benefits consumption of water and safe and ethical product developments from higher productivity. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP working conditions for our employees, we CAPITAL take responsibility for our actions. We are committed to creating shared value through  Strong relationships underpin sustainable social and environmental practices. our reputation and the trust of key stakeholders. Comprehensive Manufacturing Solutions Our communities grant our  Over 4 top tier brands ENGAGED We offer end-to-end manufacturing solutions social license to operate. We  90% suppliers with AND INSPIRED invest significantly to support for an extensive portfolio of fabric which Grade 1 ratings WORKFORCE economic empowerment and includes cotton, polyester, nylon and blends. Our services range from design to  Zero fatalities contribute to improving the knitting, dyeing and finishing using advanced lives of those living in our INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL manufacturing technologies operated by a  Traing hours 3,417 local communities.  Product innovations and skilled team. operational excellence systems drives our competitive Focus on Quality advantage. Stringent quality control checks spanning the entire value chain facilitated by StateINCREASED SOCIO Innovation, technology  51 Accreditations / and strategic relationships of-the-art machinery combined with deep -ECONOMIC Certifications technical experience of employees ensures strict underpin the profitability/ compliance with customer specifications. DEVELOPMENT financial viability of our  USD 19,579 R & D  Contribution to local business operation, and Innovation attracts investment that, in economies /SMEs -over NATURAL CAPITAL We are passionate about creating innovative turn, ensures sustainability. 2000 indirect employment  Includes critical inputs we seek products that cater to the complex needs of to source responsibly and use our customers. Our dedicated research and opportunities created efficiently. development team have the creativity, industry  USD 0.3 Mn taxes paid insights and technical expertise to design and  1,898,977 M3 water consumption develop bespoke, fashion forward, sustainable  90.4 energy intensity fabric in varied textures and hues. (GJ/ MT of production) Customer Centricity ENVIRONMENTAL Our investment in natural In-depth customer engagement focused on SUSTAINABILITY capital utilizes financial understanding customer needs better has capital. It is vital to protect enabled us to deliver service excellencefabric  16% water recycled and resources for the sustainability FINANCE CAPITAL of our business and for future solutions that meet the expectations of highreused  We are disciplined in allocation end retail fashion brands. generations.  63% renewable Energy of our financial capital. Cash from operations, debt and Flexibility, Speed & Cost  5% increase in carbon equity fund our growth. Robust relationships throughout our supply footprint  USD 18.4 Mn Equity chain, investments in technology and lean workflows within the factory enable us to  Zero Hazardous  USD 16.8 Mn Debt compete effectively on flexibility, speed and chemical waste cost. 51 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CREATING VALUE STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION As a large fabric manufacturer in the country, the Company engages with a number of stakeholders in different ways. The Company identifies a stakeholder as a person or an entity who has the potential to impact the business or whom the Company has an impact on. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT When designing new fabric, developing strategy or setting targets to manage social and environmental impacts on operations, we consider what is meaningful and valuable to our stakeholders. This requires understanding our stakeholders’ priorities and expectations. Brand Owners & Apparel Investors Employees Manufacturers Engagement with global tier1 brand Investor Relations is a structured Managing employee Importance owners and apparel manufacturers drives process with sign off by the Board relationships is key to driving innovation and supports our growth on written communications growth, innovation and productivity • Multi layered relationship management • Quarterly Financial Statements • Open-door policy Engagement • Visits • Press Releases • Formal performance appraisals • Trade Exhibitions & Fairs • Annual Report • Regular meetings with trade Mechanisms • Customer survey • Annual General Meeting unions • Quality & Performance Review • CSE Announcements • Communication of Company performance • Innovations • Earnings & Dividends • Remuneration Concerned Focus • Product quality • Growth prospects • Employee benefits • Lead times • Environment & Social impact • Conducive workplace • Environmental footprint • Governance • Training & Development • Labour practices • Share price and liquidity • Career progression • Sustainable supply chain • Health and safety • Price competitiveness • Invested in R&D center • Innovations and new product • Benchmarked remuneration • Invested in technology upgrades developments and benefits to industry stats • Engaged in Lean manufacturing processes • Increased penetration with existing • Fair and transparent buyers performance appraisal system How we managed • Continuation of TPM • New buyers • Adhered to the collective • Obtained new accreditations • Improved productivity and cost barganing agreement of • Employee training and development 2019/20 efficiencies • Employee engagement • Employee engagement • Improved social and environmental • Maintained good industrial relations practices initiatives • Enhanced Biodiversity, environmental • Obtained new accreditations practices • Submission of Financial and other • Strengthened supply chain reports within tims line • Better understanding of our business model, • Good relationship with shareholders • Better understanding Outcomes our strengths and values. • Positive reputation amongst investors of Company policies, • Increased awareness of our commitment to performance and management sustainability. decisions • Inclusivity in decision making Satisfying Our Customers Sustainable Shareholder Value An Inspired Team Report pages 80 to 82 Pages 63 to 66 Pages 83 to 89 Reference 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Suppliers Regulators Community Large scale suppliers are assessed We engage with government As a responsible corporate, our engagements Importance for environment and social practices agencies to ensure compliance with the community are multi-faceted: as an and are typically accredited by brand with regulatory requirements employer, a responsible manufacturer and owners while SMEs in the vicinity are through strategic philanthropy given preference for ancillary services • Relationship management • Visits to premises • Engagement with religious leaders Engagement • Feedback • Filing of returns • Workshops • Supplier assessment forms • Village festivals Mechanisms • Visits • Village Schools • Village Sundry buyers and sawdust suppliers • Capacity • Compliance with regulations • Employment Concerned Focus • Timely payments • Timely payments • Livelihoods Empowering youth and • Constructive feedback • Environmental protection women • Social and environment conformity • Water conservation • Waste management • Sponsorships • Established procurement • Finance division monitors • Offered ancillary services to SME in the How we managed committee compliance vicinity. • Shared sustainable social and • Operating responsibly and sustainably, and environmental practices addressing issues that are material for our local communities • Identified philanthropic initiatives • Social and environmental • An opportunity to share • Increased awareness of the Company’s compliance throughout the supply the Hayleys Fabric PLC ’s sustainability commitments chain commitment, policies and Outcomes • Increased trust and built stronger • Good relationship with procedures towards sustainable relationship with Hayleys Fabric PLC shareholders operations Advanced Technology and Strong Corporate Governance pages Community Advancement pages 97 to 98 Report Reference Networks pages 90 to 94 and 95 34 to 49 Respect for the Environment pages 71 to 79 to 98 Respect for the Environment pages 71 to 79 53 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Sluggish economic growth witnessed throughout 2019, both locally and globally, weighed on business sentiment. Amidst slower growth in key traditional markets, Sri Lanka’s apparel and textile exports grew moderately by 5.2%. The industry leveraged its proven track record to capitalize on the growing fashion industry trend towards increased demand for sustainable sourcing and supply chain transparency . GLOBAL ECONOMIC other countries. Containment measures Oil Prices, Interest Rates and the ENVIRONMENT including restrictions on movement and US Dollar Global growth continued to decline in factory closures contracted manufacturing Crude oil prices remained lower than 2018 2019, falling to 2.9% from 3.6% in 2018. and domestic demand in China and had but volatile during the year, impacted by Rising trade barriers and associated ripple effects on other economies given slower than expected global growth and uncertainty weighed on business sentiment China’s role in global supply chains, travel rising non-OPEC supply, particularly and activity globally, lending to slowdowns and commodity markets. Subsequent from the US. Brent averaged $64/b in already being experienced in some national lockdowns across the world has 2019 (USD 71/b in 2018) and is expected economies. Country-specific factors such shocked global economic activity and to drop to 43/b in 2020. The USD also as geopolitical tensions, social unrest and financial markets, with the crisis predicted benefited from the slowing global growth, tighter financial conditions also impacted to be the worst financial downturn since strengthening amidst a stronger U.S. growth. By end 2019, the global economy Great Depression of 1929-1933. The IMF economy relative to others. US Federal reflected signs of stabilizing influenced – World Economic Outlook April 2020 Reserve Monetary policy was maintained by a bottoming out of manufacturing report has predicted global growth to drop during the year and interest progressively activity and trade, a broad-based shift to -3% in 2020 from 3.3% forecast before reduced to stimulate growth. toward accommodative monetary policy, the crisis. improved signs of US-China trade negotiations and diminished fears of a no-deal Brexit. Global GDP Growth Sri Lanka Economic Indicators % % % USA, Sri Lanka’s main apparel export 10 0 24 market and China, the largest global 8 exporter of apparel and textiles and Sri -2 20 Lanka’s key import market for fabric, 6 both witnessed slower growth in 2019, 4 -4 16 attributed to the trade war between the 2 two nations. Growth in the Eurozone -6 12 0 and UK, Sri Lanka’s other key apparel export destinations also declined, plagued -2 -8 8 by trade war tensions and political -4 uncertainty. -10 4 -6 The mild recovery at end 2019 was set -8 -12 0 back following the pandemic outbreak of Covid-19 in December 2019 in 2017 2018 2019 2020(F) 2021(F) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 China and subsequent outbreaks in Sri Lanka Emerging Markets Budget deficit % of GDP World US Trade deficit % of GDP Advanced economies UK USD/LKR depreciation % Euro area China Inflation % Standing deposit facility rate (SDFR) % Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, Jan 2020 Standing lending facility rate (SLFR) % & CBSL Annual Report 2019 Source : CBSL Annual Report 2019 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC SRI LANKAN ECONOMY The economy showed signs of turnaround 2019 was marked by political and policy at the beginning of 2020 as a result of uncertainty exacerbated by terror attacks fiscal and monetary stimulus and the on Easter Sunday. Economic growth return of business confidence after the continued to decelerate, with GDP presidential election in November 2019. reflected at 2.3% compared to 3.2% in However, economic activity has since been 2018. severely impacted following the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak in the country in Industrial activities recorded the highest March 2020 and the imposing of an island growth expanding 2.7% ( 2018 – 1.2%) wide curfew to contain the spread of while Services, which contributes the disease. Please refer Way Forward pages largest component to GDP, grew 2.3% 99 to 100. and Agricultural activities 0.6%. • NCPI based Headline inflation increased to 7.0 % at end March 2020 from 2.9% a year ago, largely due to an increase in food inflation driven by adverse weather conditions. Core Inflation was however contained Inflation within the 4-6% target range throughout much of the year, declining to 3.2% by end March (CBSL Annual Report 2019) • The trade deficit was contained to USD 8 Bn compared to USD 10.3 Bn as at 31st December 2018, following a sharp contraction in import expenditure by 10.3% to USD 19.9 Bn on measures taken to curtail Trade Account import of motor vehicles. Exports grew marginally by 0.4% to USD 11.9 Bn in 2019. Textiles and garments were the main contributors, accounting for 47% of exports and valued at USD 5.6 Bn (5.2% growth from 2018) • The Sri Lankan Rupee remained relatively stable appreciating 0.6% against the USD during 2019 and Exchange rate depreciating sharply by 9.1% YoY as at April 09,2020 following the COVID-19 crisis. Gross official and Gross reserves stood at US dollars 7.6 billion at end December 2019, equivalent to 4.6 months of imports. Reserves • The Government maintained its accommodative monetary policy stance during the year, in a bid to contain inflation in the 4-6 % range while supporting economic growth to reach its potential over the medium term. Interest rates SDFR and SLFR Interest rates declined from 8% and 9% respectively at beginning of April 2019 to 6.25% and 7.25% by end March 2020. 55 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Fashion Industry and Trends GLOBAL FASHION INDUSTRY Valued at USD 481.2 billion in 2018, the fashion Global textile exports grew 6.4% to USD 315 Bn in 2018 while apparel industry is forecast to grow considerably between exports grew 11.1% to USD 505 Bn. (Source: World Trade Statistical 3.5% to 4.5% in 2019 from expansions in emerging Review 2019, WTO). markets in Asia, particularly China and India. However, following the Covid-19 pandemic Top Exporters of Textiles 2018 Top three account for 67% outbreak in December 2019 and subsequent spread of world textile exports. of the virus across key markets, the fashion industry Turkey China’s market grew 8% is expected to contract by 27% to 30 % in 2020 USA (20175%) to USD 118.5 Bn. reflecting its reliance on consumer discretionary Reflects China’s rising role India spending. A gradual recovery of 2 to 4 percent is as a key textile supplier to EU forecasted for 2021. (The State of Fashion 2020 many apparel manufacturing Corona Virus Update; McKinsey). Please refer-Way China countries in Asia, including Forward pages 99 to 100. Sri Lanka. 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Source: World Trade Organization 2019 USD Bn Key challenges faced by the fashion industry and their supply chains, prior to the pandemic outbreak and which shaped the Company’s strategic plan in 2019/20, include the following. Top Importers of Textiles 2018 Top 3 importers have progressively lost market Bangladesh share attributed to fashion Vietnam brands cost efficiency Consumer Shift strategy to shift sourcing of Consumer shift towards more China textiles closer to the apparel Transparency, Caring and USA manufacturing facilities. Sustainability EU 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 USD Bn Source: World Trade Organization 2019 Sustainability 73% of Millenials are willing to pay for more sustainable brands Top Exporters of Apparel 2018 Although China remains the largest exporter, it has Sri Lanka continuously lost market India share over the past years, Vietnam attributed to fashion brands Bangladesh and retailers’ sourcing Material Revolution EU diversification strategy as well Innovative materials from China as China’s own strategy of natural fibers or harmful waste exporting less apparel and 0 30 60 90 120 150 180 USD Bn more textiles. Source: World Trade Organization 2019 Top Importers of Apparel 2018 The expanded list includes Social Responsibility several emerging market Diversity, inclusion and ethical Korea economies with increased sourcing in the value chain Hong Kong/ purchasing power. China Japan Top 2 importers are Sri USA Lanka’s key buyers. EU 0 35 70 105 140 175 210 USD Bn Source: World Trade Organization 2019 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 1. Consumer shifts Consumers are demanded imminent placing increasing pressure on fashion change and a shift to more sustainable companies to ensure satisfactory Seeking out companies practices. Fashion players needed wages, working hours and working that employ socially and to engage in meaningful action and conditions within their supply chains environmentally sustainable regulatory compliance. Opportunities boycotting brands that do not comply. practices, millennial will purchase arising from the transformation only from brands aligned to their included material development, TEXTILE AND APPAREL values. circular economy, upcycling, recycling, INDUSTRY IN SRI LANKA blockchain traceability of garments Apparel and textile leads Sri Lanka’s Millennial represent the largest and new emerging business models exports, growing 5.2% to USD 5,596.5 group of consumers and are the such as rental and resale of garments. Mn in 2019 and accounting for 47% of driving force behind the future of the country’s total exports. (2018 – USD fashion, shaping the industry to 3. Materials Revolution 5,318Mn, 45%) (CBSL – External sector meet their needs. They and Gen Z, As a growing commitment to performance Dec. 2019). are increasingly environmentally sustainability, luxury brands have conscious and value-oriented, increasingly begun exploring the use Sri Lanka’s main apparel market is the switching to and purchasing only of innovative sustainable materials in USA, sourcing 45 % of total apparel from brands that align with their collaboration with textile companies, exports, followed by the EU 27% and UK values. Digitally savvy, these as an alternative to the standard 15 %. Exports to EU grew by 5.0% (2018generations are well connected and often harmful materials used 3.9%) to USD 2.2 Bn as the country and engage in extensive research widely in the industry. Although the benefited from re-entry to the GSP plus to be comprehensively informed absolute number of mass-market scheme in May 2019.while exports to the about the brands, fabric and styles products made from sustainable United States slowed to 3.3% (2018-5.7%) they’re interested in. To survive, materials remains low, there has been attributed to lower consumer demand industry players needed to respond a significant increase over the past from trade tensions with China. Exports to millennial needs and adopt a more two years. Sustainable substitutes to nontraditional markets such as Canada, transparent, caring and sustainable include re-engineered fabric such as United Arab Emirates, Australia and Japan approach to business. recycled polyester, bio-degradable grew at a comparatively faster pace to fabric and high-tech materials that 2018, as the country sought to diversify its 2. Environmental Sustainability deliver on aesthetics and function export base. such as Piñatex, an alternative to leather made of pineapple leaf fibers Index of Industrial Production According to a 2015 Nielsen Study, (2015=100) 73% of millennial are willing to and new polymers created from pay more for sustainable brands. recycling of ocean plastic waste. 150 The sustainability of cotton and its ‘eco-friendlier’ form organic cotton The global fashion industry is is largely disputed considering their exceptionally energy-consuming, excessive water footprint in cultivation 100 polluting and wasteful. The and process. While these new fabric UN Conference on Trade and are costlier than their standard Development (UNCTAD) has counterparts, many have gained considered the industry to be the 50 traction as commercially viable second most polluting in the world. options, with whole ranges being In its report, UNCTAD has identified promoted by reputed retailers. that every year, the fashion industry, 0 consumes 93 Billion M3 of water – sufficient to meet the needs of 4. Social Responsibility 2016 2017 2018 2019 five million people, dumps half a Consumers are calling for the industry Manufacturing Textile Apparel million tons of microfiber, equivalent to become more socially responsible. of 3 million barrels of oil into the They seek brands who embody the Source: Department of Census & Statistics 2019 ocean and is responsible for carbon values of diversity and inclusion emissions exceeding all international and proactively advocate ethical Index of Industrial Production (IPP) which flights and maritime shipping sourcing. Within the supply chain, represents the status of production in the combined. 80% of apparel is produced by young industrial sector, reflected a marginal growth of women between ages 18 to 24 and 1.3%. IPP of textiles contracted 1.7% while many of whom live in poverty and apparels grew 1.9% respectively are often exploited. Consumers are 57 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT The industry comprises approximately Regional Players 300 apparel manufacturers and 4 large USD Mn scale fabric mills, of which Hayleys Fabric 35,000 PLC was a pioneer. Fabric mills mainly supply local apparel manufacturers, 30,000 partially substituting textile imports. The 25,000 Sri Lankan apparel and textile industry has nurtured a reputation of being a strategic 20,000 supply chain partner to reputed global 15,000 brands including Nike, Victoria’s Secret, Intimissimi, Next, Gap, Speedo and 10,000 Tommy Hilfiger; building competitive edge 5,000 on value-addition with greater emphasis on innovation and design, product quality, on 0 time delivery and ability to manufacture 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 niche products. Positioned as Garments Without Guilt, attention to sound social Sri Lanka Cambodia Indonesia India Vietnam Bangladesh and environmental policies and practices Source: World Trade Organization 2019 has been a key differentiator Apparel Export Markets Regional Apparel manufacturers such as Bangladesh, Vietnam and Cambodia have grown significantly in comparison to Sri Lanka, due to cost competitiveness from scalability and preferential access to major USD Mn markets. Sri Lanka’s growth has been underpinned by innovation and value addition to niche markets. 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 US EU Others Source: Sri Lanka Apparel Exporters Association 2019 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC DETERMINING MATERIAL ISSUES Our material issues are those that matter most to our stakeholders and subsequently impact on Hayleys Fabric PLC’s value drivers, competitive position and long-term value creation. We assess our material issues annually to fully understand how to manage the risks and opportunities they present. We believe the issues identified below are the most relevant and have been evaluated and prioritized as summarized in the heat map and table below, considering their significance to stakeholders and economic, social and environmental impact to the Company. Significant Impact Critical High Impact Significance to Company Low Impact Significant Impact High Impact Not Material Low Impact Significant Impact Significance to Stakeholder Critical High Impact Significant Impact Quality Compliance Labour relations Innovation High service levels Supplier relations Short lead time State of the art technology Product labelling Timely delivery Local community relations Anticorruption Industrial safety/ Occupational health & safety Government policy Grievance mechanisms Flexible manufacturing Product responsibility Bio diversity Cost efficiency Training & development Child labour Water Raw material Forced labour Energy Emissions Effluents & waste Customer health and safety REFLECTING CHANGES IN 2019/20 The heat map was reviewed to reflect the Company’s current business operations and the impact from industry trends discussed under Operating Environment pages 54 to 58 Factor Shifted from Shifted to Reason Emissions Significant impact High Impact Strong industry call for climate action. Product Critical High Impact Hayleys Fabric PLC’s flexibility to select organics cotton or recycled Responsibility polyester yarn is limited, given discretion is mainly with the ultimate buyer, the retail brand. 59 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 FOCUS ON STRATEGY STRATEGY Following a medium-term strategic plan, Hayleys Fabric PLC has successfully established itself as a niche supplier of innovative, bespoke fashion forward fabric to selective high-end retailers. Firmly ahead in technology, innovations, complexity, diversity, speed, quality, price and service levels, the Company was recognized last year by a distinguished American brand as the leading innovative fabric supplier in Sri Lanka. This year, the Company continued to build on its success, consolidating Company’s position by strengthening relationships and fine tuning internal processes to cater to customer needs better. STRATEGIC DRIVERS: Includes Value Created from business model (Page 51) Sustainable Shareholder Responsible Respect for the Value Innovation Environment (refer pages 63 to 66) (refer pages 67 to 70) (refer pages 71 to 79) Drive Revenue growth and cost Grow Inno brand Improve Corporate Goals efficiency Responsibility • Increase penetration with existing buyers • New Inno product developments • Improve environmental impact • Engage in lean manufacturing processes • Invest in R&D, dedicated R&D • Increase accreditations • Incentivize labour productivity through centre • Compliance with CEA Strategy training, rewards • Stimulate learning culture • Invest in new technology, Improve cost efficiencies, productivity Growth in +90 4 + Revenue from Inno and 50% Product developments New >490 Accreditations New >51 Cumulative Cumulative developments Key Performance Indicators (KPI) GP Growth 4% Inno sales % 3% Recycled 16% increase of total sales Water USD 19,579 63% ROCE 7% R&D Renewable of total energy expenditure 17% increase energy consumed 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Advanced Satisfying our An Inspired Team Strong Networks Technology Customers (refer pages 83 to 89) (refer pages 95 to 98) (refer pages 90 to 94) (refer pages 80 to 82) Invest in smart Focus on customer Nurture motivated and Build mutually beneficial technology, state-of-the centricity productive employees relations with industry art machinery partners • Invest in Training • Close customer • Fair remuneration • Purchase from local • Invest in and upgrade to engagement to understand • Employee engagement suppliers new technology needs better • Employees from local • Invest in training and • Enhance customer value development communities proposition • CSR initiatives • Career progression • Quality, speed, flexibility • Health and safety Indirect USD Inno & 62% USD employment Capex spend 2.9 Product of the Remuneration 7.8 >2,000 Mn Revenue Mn (SMEs/local Jobs Developsuppliers) ments Training 3,417 Lab to 95 % Retention 95.4 % Local 10 % Hours Bulk RFT success rate purchases hours rate increase USD 3 No. of USD PP & E 53.3 Maximum Lead time days for speed work related Nil CSR Spend 24,853 Mn orders fatalities 61 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED – SUPPORTING ECONOMIC GROWTH VALUE ADDED STATEMENT curtail import expenditure and narrow from the local community. Currently Total value added by the Company a widening trade deficit. During 2019, 66% of our employees are from within increased 2.16% driven by growth import of national textiles and textile the area. We also contract with local in volumes of new and innovative articles grew 1.8% to USD 2,909Mn suppliers whenever possible in sourcing value added synthetic fabric. The (CBSL External sector Performance -Dec materials and services, contributing to highest amount of wealth generated 2019) the empowerment of Small and Medium was distributed amongst its employees Enterprises (SME). Most of our local Our role in import substitution in suppliers are SME to whom we made accounting for 64% of total, an increase strengthening Sri Lanka’s position as a payment for USD 16 Mn, during the year. of 0.4% compared against the previous strategic apparel sourcing destination is year. Distributions to employees increased significant, given the importance of the by 1% reflecting business growth while National Textile Imports Apparel industry to the economy. Benefits distribution to lenders of capital decreased USD Mn to the overseas buyers is reflected in the by 20%. 3,500 potential saving in cost and lead time stemming from close proximity to the FOREIGN EXCHANGE 3,000 apparel manufacturers and the reliable GENERATION TO THE supply of quality, innovative fabric 2,500 COUNTRY, IMPORT produced under environmentally and SUBSTITUTE socially sustainable practices. 2,000 As an exporter of fabric, the Company 1,500 contributed USD 66.8 Mn to the national SOCIO ECONOMIC foreign reserves during the year, accounting UPLIFTMENT OF LOCAL 1,000 for approximately 2.3% (2018/19 -2.4%) COMMUNITIES of the country’s textile exports. 500 The Company contributes economically The Company’s contribution as an with a number of positive social impacts as 0 import substitute, saving valuable foreign well. As the main employer within a 15 km radius we provide employment directly and 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 exchange to the country is equally poignant, particularly during periods the indirectly to over 3,000 persons. When Source: CBSL External sector Performance -Dec 2019 government placed policy measures to recruiting, we give preference to persons Value Created Employees $ 9.1 Mn (2019 $ 9.0 Mn) Value created Government $ 0.3 Mn (2019 $ 0.3 Mn) $ 67.1 Revenue Mn (2019 $ 69.9 Mn) Value Distributributed Lenders $ 0.8 Mn (2019 $ 1.0 Mn) $ 14.2 Mn & retained Cost of materials $ 52.9 Mn & services (2019 $ 13.9 Mn) Shareholders $ 0.7 Mn (2019 $ 0 Mn) (2019 $ 56.0 Mn) Retained $ 3.3 Mn (2019 $ 3.6 Mn) 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER VALUE Prior to the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, Hayleys Fabric PLC performed commendably in a challenging operating landscape, characterized by a weak domestic macro-economic environment and dampened consumer confidence in key export markets. The Company’s Strategic Driver page 60 business model proved that it can be resilient and effective, in delivering sustainable shareholder value. Revenues from higher value-added fabric of Inno and new product developments grew 50% year on year, expanding profitability and generating a higher return on capital. However, factory closure in March 2020 on account of the island-wide curfew disrupted operations, resulting in loss in revenue, lower profits and increased gearing by year end. HIGHLIGHTS 2019/20 Revenue & Profit GP Growth PBT –USD Mn Total Assets – USD Mn + 4% 1.7 49 USD Mn % 80 14.0 70 13.5 60 13.0 50 12.5 40 12.0 30 11.5 Gearing ROCE 20 11.0 10 10.5 7% 0 10.0 Equity 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Borrowings 48% Revenue Gross Profit % 52% Managing Financial Capital Drive top line growth of Inno How we manage and utilize our financial capital is fundamental to Drive cost management across the value chain our ability to create sustained value for our shareholders. Maintenance of sound financial metrics is key Strategic Optimize working capital & cash management Priorities to our ability to access funding for the expansion of business, either through debt or equity. Optimize capital funding Enhance shareholder returns Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Relevance to Capitals We share our value-added with key stakeholders Finance Capital and contributes towards alleviating poverty. 63 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER VALUE HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN 2019/20 Revenue Revenue fell 4% in 2019/20, due Shareholder Value to less orders shipped in March Profitability Creation 2020 as a result of the factory closure. Monthly Revenue averaged In spite of the loss in March Despite payment of an interim/ USD 6.0mn up to February 2020. 2020, Gross profit increased 4%in final dividend and growth in • Revenue USD 67 Mn 2019/20, upheld by a rich priceEPS, during the year, share price product mix of high yielding • Revenue growth in Inno and remained below par reflecting poor developments – 50% Inno and product developments. investor sentiment and broad decline However, PBT declined 9.7%, in capital markets in the country. on higher overhead costs and an 2 impairment cost of USD 0.443 Mn • EPS – USD 0.006 on plant and machinery. • Closing share price – • GP margin increased 1% LKR 8.70 1 3 • PBT margin 2.5% Capital Structure 6 4 Cost Management High gearing at year end from 5 The Company is conscious of its increased borrowings in March high input and overhead costs. 2020 to finance disruption to Engages in tight cost management Cash flows & Liquidity operations. Debt restructuring initiatives to control cost. sought from Banks to improve Satisfactory cash flows during the • R&D cost increase – 17% liquidity and financial position. year were off-set by financial stress • Engages in forward contracts • Gearing -48% from factory closure at year end. with key suppliers to the Cashflow shortfall was funded by • Total Assets – USD 49 Mn manage the cost of raw increased short term borrowings. material price movements Tight liquidity on higher borrowings and higher inventory holding. • Net decrease in cash and cash equivalentsUSD 2.7mn • Current ratio – 0.94 times Shareholder Value LKR 0.60/share, totaling USD 679,521 , was paid during the year, after a lapse of 10 Creation years. Net Asset per share increased to USD 0.089 (2018/19 – USD 0.086) by year end. However, the share remained below par during the year, reflecting the broad market decline and weak investor sentiments in the Colombo bourse. Despite the challenging industry landscape, Hayleys Fabric PLC continued to generate Critical 2020 2019 sustainable shareholder returns with earnings per share increasing to USD Earnings per share USD 0.006 0.005 0.006 (from USD 0.005 ) during the Return on equity % 7% 6% year. An interim and final dividend of Return on Capital Employed % 7% 8% Net assets per share USD 0.09 0.09 Market price of share as at 31st March LKR 8.70 8.50 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 31% 30% Revenue 36% Total revenue declined by 4% to USD 67 Mn ( 2018/1970 Mn) , largely due to delayed shipment of over USD 4Mn worth orders in March 2020, on account of the Geographical Distribution of Major Customers closure of the factory stemming from the island-wide curfew to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. Enhanced earnings in 2018/19 from outsourced production of a portion of Profitability Cost Management lower margin orders which was discontinued in 2019/20 as the Company moved to high value orders in line with the business strategy, Hayleys Fabric PLC’s profitability Raw materials comprising yarn, greige, chemicals and dyes account for approximately also contributed to the reduction. strengthened during the year. Gross profit 71% of Cost of Sales. Reduction in raw margin widened to 13.0% (2018/19 – material cost stemming from the progressive Over the past two years, we focused on 11.9%) upheld by a richer revenue product shift in product mix from cotton to polyester aligning our customer centric business mix driven by increased sales of high and an overall reduction in global cotton and approach to the supply chain strategies of polyester commodity prices during the year, yielding Inno and product developments. mainly contributed to the lower Cost of Sales. selected high-end retail brands and gaining However, Pre-tax profit declined by 9.7% their confidence by developing new and to USD 1.7 Mn on account of higher The Company is conscious of its input innovative product offerings of synthetic overheads and an impairment charge of costs, critically managing materials through initiatives including; fabric that satisfied their requirements. USD 0.44 Mn ( 2018/19 – USD 0.10 Mn) This year, we capitalized on our efforts • Monitoring yarn global price on plant and machinery. PAT increased movements and placing forward and successfully secured the customer base to USD 1.3 Mn (2018/19 – USD 1.1 bookings, when required with key at the required volumes. Inno and new Mn) due to recognizing Economic suppliers developments accounted for 62% of total Service Charge paid during the year • Collaborating with suppliers to develop revenue, a sharp increase from 40% a year as recoverable. Income tax expense in substitute dyes without compromising ago. quality 2018/19 included irrevocable Economic • Engaging in Research and development Service Charge of USD 0.3 Mn. with suppliers to find cost effective Athleisure remained our Company’s key substitutes product line and USA the largest market Forex gains on conversion of USD to LKR followed by UK and Europe. Synthetics to settle local payments including energy accounted for 54% of revenue ( 2018/19 and labour, energy saving initiatives and -42%). implementation of lean processes and productivity improvements across the factory also supported the reduction in cost Revenue, GP & PBT Product Categories Cost of Sales Composition USD Mn % % USD Mn 60 15 120 90 50 12 100 75 40 9 80 60 30 6 60 45 20 3 40 30 10 0 20 15 0 -3 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2018 2019 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Revenue from Inno & Developments USD Mn Babywear Raw material Depreciation Revenue from Other Products USD Mn Athleisure Energy Others Gross Profit % Lingerie (Intimates) Labour PBT % Others 65 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER VALUE of sales. The Wastage Monitoring Division Capital investments continued to drive identification, monitor and control of production related wastage Cashflows and liquidity Hayleys Fabric PLC regularly invests in in all Departments while the TPM (Total plant and machinery to expand capacity Productive Maintenance) programme and/ or upgrade technology. This year, implemented in prior years benefited lower investments were made in branded knitting machine down time and productivity gains. The Company maintained tight control machines for over USD 1 Mn, funded Global Cotton & Synthetic Yarn Prices of its working capital during the year. through a mix of equity and debt. Further, USD/Kg However, factory closure and disruption to the Company is in the process of finalizing 6 operations in March 2020 resulted in the documentation to lease a land and factory Company borrowing short term loans to building from the Board of Investment of 5 finance overheads and other requirements. Sri Lanka (BOI) on a 30 year term, for the Net cash and cash equivalents were expansion of the knitting line. Capacity 4 is expected to increase by 18%. Asset negative expanding USD 2.7 Mn from USD 0.94 Mn in 2018/19. turnover fell to 2.64 times (2019 – 2.82 3 times) attributed to the lower revenue. Current ratio improved to 0.94 times 2 (2018/19 – 0.93 times) and Quick assets 1 ratio declined to 0.33 times (2018/190.39 times) by year end. High inventory holding Capital Structure 0 over the past two years has impacted liquidity ratios. However, high inventory is 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 inherent of an agile supply chain capable Capital structure which had strengthened Polyester Cotton of delivering on speed orders from high on the back of higher profits and lower debt Source: The United Nations, Comtrade database 2020 end customers. Apart from factory closure, (from settlements), throughout the year, higher stock holding in March 2020 was was shaken by the COVID-19 pandemic Overheads also attributed to increased raw material Investments in Research and Development outbreak by year end. Gearing deteriorated costs expanded 17% year on year, reflected imports towards year end. Considering to 48% (2018/19 – 46%) from increased under Administration expenses, as we past experience in disruption to supply short term borrowings, to finance working prioritized resources to drive strategy and chain on account of the Chinese New capital and overheads in March 2020 while expand our product portfolio. Consequently, Year in February and spill-over effects to Operating Expenses grew by 8%. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) fell to the Sinhala and Tamil New Year in April, 7% (2018/19 – 8%). Net Finance Costs retracted by 10% due to this year, the Company imported higher an overall settlement of debt and lower USD but prudent quantities of raw materials The Company will seek financial relief interest rates on borrowings. sufficient to fulfill customer order pipeline including debt moratoria offered by the Spend across other areas was broadly up to May/ June 2020. Government via banks and financial unchanged, reflecting the high levels of cost institutions, to affected industries, to improve consciousness and tight cost management Liquidity its liquidity and financial position. (Please exercised by the Company. USD Mn Times refer Way Forward – pages 99 to 100) Operational Expenses 4.5 1.8 Capital Structure USD Mn USD '000' 4.0 1.6 USD Mn % 9.0 60 3.5 1.4 30 60 3.0 1.2 7.5 50 25 50 2.5 1.0 6.0 40 2.0 0.8 20 40 1.5 0.6 4.5 30 15 30 1.0 0.4 3.0 20 0.5 0.2 10 20 0.0 0.0 1.5 10 5 10 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 0.0 0 Operating Cashflow USD Mn 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Quick Asset Ratio-Times Current Ratio-Times 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Selling & Distribution USD Mn Administrative Expenses USD Mn Equity USD Mn Net Finance Cost USD Mn Total Borrowings USD Mn Research & Development USD '000' Gearing % ROCE % 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION “When it comes to environmental impact, Materials Matter Most. About 60% of the environmental impact of a pair of Nike shoes is found in the materials used to Strategic Driver make them.” NIKESustainability. page 60 As a textile manufacturer, our focus this year was to design and develop materials with sustainability in mind, as part of our responsibility towards creating a better future for all. HIGHLIGHTS 2019/20 Innovations New Products Cumulative Products Inno Revenue +9 42 3% Number USD 60 30,000 50 25,000 40 20,000 30 15,000 Brand R&D Cost 20 10,000 10 5,000 +17% 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Cumulative Innovations Research & Development Cost USD Management Approach Design & Develop new concepts and products Innovation underpins the profitability and sustainability Fast track products to market of our business. We invest in our R&D capabilities to develop new products which satisfies evolving Strategic Develop innovation capabilities and learning culture Priorities customer requirements. Drive operational efficiencies through innovation Innovate to reduce our environment footprint Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Relevance to Capitals We are globally We drive fabric Intellectual Capital recognized as a niche innovations that supplier of innovative seeks to minimize our synthetic fabric to environmental impact. premium retail brands. Natural Capital 67 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN 2019/20 Value Added Synthetic Fabric Designed and developed Recycled Polyester value added synthetic fabric Biodegrading Polyester Fabric with superior aesthetics and functionality. Ongoing collaborations with yarn Designed and developed premium • Over 50 new products supplier and chemical supplier fabric using recycled polyester yarn respectively, to find solutions to generated from PET bottles. • 54 % of Revenue accelerate biodegradation of • Recycled polyester yarn – 8% polyester fabric. of total polyester consumption • R&D – USD 19,579 • 8 new products 2 1 3 Raising the Monitor 7 4 Eliminating Elastane Roof of Factory Building Ongoing collaboration with Energy saved from reduced 6 5 yarn supplier to innovate polyester stretch fabric electric light through use of without the use of spandex. daylight and from reduce Spandex (elastane) cannot Circular Fashion Natural Dyeing electric cooling through use be recycled and therefore of natural cooling destined for landfill. Ongoing collaboration Ongoing collaboration with chemical supplier with yarn suppliers to to create disintegrable produce naturally dyed polyester yarn, facilitating polyester, reducing the use clothing i.e. t-shirts, to be of chemical dyes. converted to recycled yarn and reused. Hayleys Fabric PLC has always been in Innovations & Developments 2020 2019 2018 the forefront of innovation. It’s Innovation Cumulative Innovations 42 33 26 Centre is reputed for creating innovative and technologically advanced, fashion Cumulative Product Developments 496 406 332 forward fabric since 2014, to premium Research & Development Cost (USD) 19,579 16,793 15,153 retail brands. The Company is the first Percentage of Sales from Inno & product 62% 40% 32% fabric mill in Sri Lanka to own a brand developments – Inno. Research and development has largely focused on replacing performance Inno has launched 42 innovations Recognized as the best innovator and sports inspired, expensive nylon and developed 496 products and in Sri Lanka for the past 5 quarters based synthetic fabric with less expensive innovations since its launch in 2014 ended December 2019 by a top-end polyester based synthetics, that offered fashion brand the same aesthetics and functionality as their superior counterparts. This year, with consumers demanding a higher level 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC of sustainability in the clothes they wear development to learn new and advanced and premium brands responding, the concepts and technologies, and immediate Learning Culture Company focused efforts on innovating application of their learning facilitated at and developing fabric that minimized the factory. They are encouraged to think environmental impact. out of the box, empowered in their roles A culture of learning and growth is and responsibilities and rewarded and nurtured to stimulate creative thinking. recognized for their efforts. Employees are provided training and Performance RECYCLED POLYESTER FABRIC During the year, 9 fabric innovations and 90 developments including variants of It is estimated that 63% of all fibers used in the fashion industry are existing fabric to cater to specific customer made from a synthetic material, most commonly – polyester (55 %), requirements, were created under the nylon (5%), and acrylic (2%). 98% of all future fiber growth is expected Inno brand. Cumulative innovations to be in synthetic fibers, 95% of which is expected to be polyester. and developments created over the past Source: www.commonobjective.co 6 years increased to 538. Revenue from innovations and developments grew by Hayleys Fabric PLC has initiated Eco Spindles has established 50%, accounting for 62% of total revenue projects with international brands, community-driven collection centers (2018/19 – 40%). since mid 2019, to design and develop around the country for sourcing PET premium polyester fabric using recycled bottles, and has the technology to polyester yarn made out of PET bottles trace manufactured yarn back to the collected specifically from the coastal respective collection centre. Making Driving Innovation areas of Sri Lanka. The polyester yarn is use of this facility, Hayleys Fabric PLC purchased from Eco Spindles (Pvt) Ltd, has developed a mobile application to We adopt a customer centric approach Poruwandanda, a leading manufacturer allow each consumer to trace the level of to fabric innovations. Our robust Inno of recycled polyester yarn in Sri Lanka. sustainability of the garment purchased. team closely engages and collaborates with Prior to 2019, recycled polyester yarn The garments produced by the recycled brand owners in developing fabric that was sourced from foreign suppliers. polyester fabric are tagged with a QR suit their specific fashion palates, enabling Usage of recycled polyester yarn code that indicates, among other things, products to be fast tracked to market and increased to 2.9% of total raw material the consumption of number of PET at a lower cost of development. A wellconsumption from 2.6% the year bottles recycled for the garment, the qualified team of account officers, project before, accounting for 8% of polyester location from where the bottles were designers and project engineers have the raw material consumed during the collected and the location of the factory industry insights and technical expertise year (refer pages71 to 79 Respect for where the garment was developed and to create cutting-edge designs, supported Environment). produced. by state-of-the-art technology. Online access to daily trend intelligence, retail analytics and consumer insights, enables the team to continually track and monitor evolving consumer preferences, shifting market conditions and emerging futuristic trends. Collaborations with University of Moratuwa support fabric development and Thirteen PET bottles yield sufficient fiber to produce one extra-large T-shirt. technology. We maintain strict customer confidentially in the development of these products. Innovation is driven across the value chain. Hayleys Fabric PLC collaborates with yarn, dye and chemical suppliers on value additions to product developments, as explained in Secured supply chain pages 96 to 97, while innovative ideas are encouraged from employees for processes improvements towards achieving operational excellence. 69 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION As a synthteic fabric, polyester negatively impacts the environment in many ways. Produced out of petrochemicals, the petrochemical industry itself is considered the most pollutant being emission intensive and environmentally degrading. Polyester does not biodegrade easily, taking 20-200 years at worst. Further, washing of polyester garments releases microfibers into waterways causing immense damage to marine life and vital eco-systems. Recycling PET bottles will divert waste from landfill and reduce the production of virgin polyester. Apart from manufacturing recycled polyester fabric, Hayleys Fabric PLC is collaborating with partners to find innovative solutions to reduce the negative environmental impact of polyester, such as highlighted in the diagram above. INNO COLLECTION 2019/20 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT The UN Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) considers the fashion industry to be the second most pollutant in the world. As a textile manufacturer, we believe Strategic Driver that preserving the natural resources we rely on to operate our business is not only page 60 a green objective, but a license to operate that will define our future success and ability to create value. HIGHLIGHTS 2019/20 Increase in Renewable Energy Recycled Yarn Trees Planted Recycled Water 2.9% +525 +16% GJ 800,000 700,000 600,000 500,000 400,000 Engagement with 300,000 Renewable Energy Recycling 200,000 100,000 63% 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Renewable Energy Other Sources Environment Policy Continue investment in long-term renewable energy solutions Identify and comply with all legislation, standards and codes Explore water efficiency projects to reduce water of practice which are relevant consumption to our business activities. Strategic Accreditations to validate overall environmental Committed to protection Priorities performance of environment including prevention of pollution and Improve waste management efforts other specific commitments. Effective conservation of energy and natural resources Conserve nature Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Relevance to Capitals 100% of Commitment to Improving Decline in Contribute to We maintain a wastewater is renewable energy. material efficiency carbon intensity reducing ocean 20-acre Green treated to supports achieved through plastic waste by Belt adjacent to aquatic life. 63% of energy Reducing waste energy efficiency collecting and factory. Promoting Natural Capital consumed is from initiatives and recycling PET Protects and Complied with renewable sources. recycled yarn increasing bottles to produce Ethical sourcing. renewable energy rejuvenates an ZDHC targets polyester yarn. 8-acre wetland ahead of time. zone 71 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN 2019/20 Water Conscience Continuous investment in Responsible Raw Material technology enhancements and Saving Energy Consumption process mechanisms, to improve water efficiency. Focused on expanding renewable Sourced eco-friendly products • 16% water recycled and sources, reducing fossil fuel wherever possible. Focused on reused consumption and improving energy reducing waste and improving efficiency as means of energy material efficiency and ensuring • 4% increase in consumption management. Switched to cheaper compliance with quality standards. LPG as an alternative to furnace oil • Recycled polyester yarn – increased to 2.9% of total 2 during the year. • Renewable energy 63% consumption • Energy intensity• 56% ZDHC Grade 3 types dyes & Chemicals 1 3 90.4 GJ/MT of production Nature 6 4 Carbon Conservation Footprint Committed to nurturing and 5 Increase in Biomass energy and sustaining the habitat surrounding switch to LPG of inherently higher factory. combustion efficiency, reduced Effluent & Waste Management impact on footprint. • Identification of 8 acre wetland zone • 5% increase in emissions Continued investments to upgrade • Initiatives to plant trees by • Emission intensity 3.84 and improve effluent treatment plant. engaging employees and tCO2e/ MT of production Ensured effluent wastewater treated stakeholders and discharged met regulatory quality standards. Ensured responsible collection, segregation and disposal of solid waste including plastic. • 100% solid waste incinerated, recycled or reused 100% of our We diverted more than 6 kg of PET wastewater is treated bottles from landfills, in our first to a level that supports month of plastic waste collection aquatic life. in January 2020. The bottles were converted to recycled polyester yarn. 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC OUR COMMITMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Awards and Certificatons Presidential Environment Environment Management GREEN Certification in GRS certified since Awards 2019 Bronze, System ISO 14001:2015, 2016 for high standards in November 2019 Textile & Textile Processing since December 2017 water quality management Certificate No : Industries Category CU821510GRS-2019-00023430 Carbon Conscious GOTS certified since OCS certified since Water Conscious Manufacturer Since January 2012 August 2008 Manufacturer Since March 2017 Certificate No : Certificate No : April 2017 CU821510GOTS-2020-00017127 CU821510OCS-2020-00017128 Voluntary Memberships / Initiatives Voluntarily following the ZDHC Road Member since March 2016 Signatory level supporter since map since December 2015 November 2018 Clean Chain Chemical Higg FEM 3.0, active since 2017 Member since June 2017 Inventory Management Tool Higg FSLM, active since 2019 active since May 2017 73 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Going forward, we envisage a major scale Quality of Dyes & Chemicals Responsible Raw up in consumption of recycled materials, Consumed (ZDHC MRSL Material Consumption driven by increased interest by retailers Conformance Levels) themselves and through our own initiatives. 5% Our key raw materials are yarn, greige, • New Knitting Plant The new plant dyes and chemicals. Polyester accounts for to be commissioned in Horana in 55% (2018/19 – 51%) of yarn and greige April 2020, will produce 150MT / consumed, stemming from the growth month, exclusively for tier-1 customers in production of high end, value added 39% synthetic fabric. Remaining 45% is cotton • Production of recycled polyester yarn and greige. Total yarn and greige raw fabric in support of one of the top 56% material consumption fell following the brands to source 100% sustainable discontinuation of outsourcing of cottonfabric by 2025. based orders. • Design and development of recycled 0% polyester fabric under InnoHayleys Level 0 Raw Material Consumption Fabric PLC has initiated projects with Level 1 Level 2 retailers to supply recycled polyester Level 3 (Highest) Yarn fabric produced from recycled PET bottles sourced from Sri Lanka’s coast, Organic cotton accounts for 9% of total Greige more fully described on pages 67 to 70 cotton consumed. Responsible Innovation. Dyes & Dyes & Chemicals Chemicals Cotton Our dyes conform to stringent ZDHC 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 MT Hayleys Fabric PLC produces BCI Cotton MRSL Levels for Dyes & Chemicals, of 2020 2019 Fabric, ensuring environmental and social which over 50% are of the highest quality, standards are maintained throughout the Level 3 grading. We strive to minimize cotton value chain. The Company is also the environmental impact of dyes and Recycled Polyester a certified supplier for Organic cotton chemicals, by improving material efficiency We are cognizant of the significant under the Global Organic Textile standard through initiatives described below. environmental impact of polyester. We (GOTS) and Organic Content Standard. strive to minimize impact by increasing material efficiency. Ethical Sourcing Raw Materials 2020 2019 We are committed to promoting Throughout the manufacturing process, Raw material 15,245 15,127 environmental and socially sustainable and when possible, sourcing recycled consumption (MT) practices across our supply chain, as polyester yarn as an alternative to virgin Renewable 28% 32% described in Supply Chain Management – polyester. However, our flexibility in materials pages 96 to 97. selection of materials is limited given Recycled materials 2.9% 2.6% discretion is mainly with the ultimate buyer, the retail brand, as reflected in the low 8% share of recycled polyester as a Raw Materials Initiatives to Minimise Environmental Impact percentage of total polyester consumed (2.9% of total material consumption). Improving material efficiency Investment in state-of-the-art dyeing and recipe dispensing equipment Continuous product developments to improve dye and chemical recipes Sourcing of premium quality dyes to improve recipes Attraction of new suppliers for the procurement of dyes and chemicals at better quality and lower cost for existing dye recipes Monitor and minimize waste through Waste Management Department Global Recycle Standard GRS is an international, voluntary, full product Sourcing of raw materials from suppliers certified for their product quality, standard that sets requirements for thirdenvironmental and ethical manufacturing processes party certification of recycled content, Promoting the consumption of sustainable materials i.e. recycled yarn chain of custody, social and environmental Engaging in Research and Development to produce sustainable materials or impove practices and chemical restrictions. material efficiency (described under Responsible Innovation -pages 67 to 70) 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Assessment of Water Footprint Water Conscience Hayleys Fabric PLC’s direct water footprint has been assessed in accordance with the ISO 14046:2014 standard and measures the organization’s consumption of fresh water in volumes of water consumed (blue water) and polluted (grey water). Hayleys Fabric PLC is conscious of its water footprint and responsibilities 2020 2019 towards the sustainability of freshwater Blue water – used in production M ‘000’ 3 1784 1708 resources. We source water solely from Blue water – used for overheads M3 ‘000’ 239 239 the adjacent river “Kalu Ganga” which is Total blue water M3 ‘000’ 2022 1947 abundant in supply of water with regular Grey water M3 ‘000’ 973 920 flooding occurring in many areas around Total water footprint M3 ‘000’ 2,995 2867 the village. The river is of economic and Water used in production as a percentage of total water footprint 60% 60% social importance to the country as it has the highest water discharge of all the rivers in the country. It has projects for irrigation Water Withdrawal, Discharge & Recycled 2020 2019 and supply of drinking water associated Water withdrawal from Kalu Ganga M '000' 3 1,899 1,822 with it upstream from the location of the Water discharged as a percentage of river intake 83% 86% factory. Water recycled and reused % 16% 9% Every effort is taken to increase our water Water intensity (M3 '000'/ MT of production) 0.23 0.20 efficacy. Details regarding the quality of Water footprint (M3 '000') 2,995 2,866 water discharged to the river is provided Water footprint / Fabric produced (M3 ‘000’/ MT) 0.36 0.32 in the Effluents segment of this report on page 77. Initiatives Implemented Water Footprint Amid efforts to improve water efficiency • Replacement of old dyeing plants through technology enhancements and with new machinery of advanced process mechanisms, water footprint technology. increased in 2019/20 largely stemming • Recycling cooling water from dye from the increase in application of ‘water intensive’ printing solutions for high machines back into the cooling end, value added synthetic fabric. Water process intensity increased in 2019/20 reflecting • Recycling of water from the water the increase in application of ‘water treatment plant to produce steam in intensive’ printing solutions stemming from the boiler. the growth in high end, Inno value added • Engaging staff in conservation, synthetic fabric. through awareness building and training programmes Water Withdrawal & Intensity Water Conscious Certificate 2020 M3 '000' M3 '000'/ MT Energy 2020 2019 3,000 0.30 Total energy 749,722 663,174 2,500 0.25 consumption (GJ) Saving Energy Energy intensity 90.40 73.66 2,000 0.20 (GJ/MT of production) Renewable energy 63% 62% 1,500 0.15 Energy accounts for 6% of Company cost (Biomass) of production. Energy consumption and energy intensity increased by 13% and This year, the Company increased the 1,000 0.10 23% respectively during the year, reflecting usage of LPG, as an alternative to furnace 500 0.05 the increase in value added products and oil, gaining from lower market prices and complexity of orders. Conscious efforts higher combustion efficiency. In 2019/20 0 0.00 to improve energy efficiency through renewable energy generated from biomass investments in new technology and process (saw dust) accounted for 63% of total 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 improvements, as described below, softened energy consumed, an increase of 15% Water withdrawal from Kalu Ganga M3 '000' the increase. over the previous year. Further expansion Water Intensity M3 '000'/ MT is constrained by the difficulty in sourcing saw dust in the required quantities. 75 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Expansion of the Carbon Footprint 10 bay stenter Cooling Water Energy Project to increase Recovery Project Efficiency efficiency and save We are conscious of our impact on climate Savings 10,000 M3 Initiatives energy change, and focus on decreasing our of water carbon footprint by increasing energy from renewable sources. Energy from bio mass increased to 63% in 2019/20 from 62% the previous year. However, total Pump House Energy Water flow emmisisons continued to increase reflecting Reduction Project enhancement project the shift to production of energy intensive • Saving 14,400 kWh • Saving 74,190 value added synthetic fabric. We compute / month M3/month our carbon footprint in accordance with • Saving Rs. 163,152/ month ISO 14064-1:2018 and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute, Green House Gas Protocol. Energy Sources Purpose of Energy Consumed Emissions 2020 2019 0% tCO2e tCO2e 12% 15% 9% 1% Furnace Oil 8,865 11,354 Grid Electricity 10,903 10,317 9% 63% 27% Sea Freight 3,451 3,004 LPG 5,498 2,748 Others 3,161 2,924 Total Carbon 31,878 30,347 emissions 63% 1% Direct Emissions 15,256 14,911 0% Indirect Emissions 16,622 15,436 Carbon emissions 3.84 3.37 Furnace oil 109,160 GJ Diesel 7,147 GJ Electricity Petrol intensity (tCO2e/ Biomass 475,127 GJ LPG 89,881 GJ Heating (FO + LPG) Steam MT of production) Electricity 68,172 GJ Petrol 235 GJ Diesel FAST FASHION PRODUCES MORE CARBON EMISSIONS PER MINUTE Energy THAN DRIVING A CAR AROUND GJ GJ/MT THE WORLD SIX TIMES 800,000 100 TIMES – OXFAM 700,000 80 600,000 500,000 60 400,000 300,000 40 200,000 20 100,000 0 0 Carbon Conscious Certificate 2020 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total Energy Consumption GJ Renewable Energy (Biomass) GJ Energy Intensity GJ/MT of production Carbon Neutral Certificate Annual Report 2020 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Our commitment to high standards is Solar Energy Helping the National Grid reflected in our ability to comply with the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals through Solar (ZDHC) Programme, by 2017, ahead of In pursuit of Hayleys Group sustainability, Hayleys Fabric PLC contracted with the granted timeline of 2020. ZDHC is Hayleys Power Ltd to install a solar power plant within the factory premises by a group of global apparel and footwear renting out its roof top. Hayleys Power Ltd will make a 10% payment from their brands, chemical suppliers, manufacturers annual income from the project to the Company up to 20 years. Total capacity of the and other organisations working together project is expected to be 4 MW and at this capacity, Hayleys Fabric PLC will be able to lead the industry towards zero discharge offset 13% of its carbon footprint on the basis the Company has ownership of the of hazardous chemicals by 2020, by generated carbon credits. Electricity generated through this project will be supplied driving responsible chemical management. to the main grid under the Net Plus scheme. Apart from receiving carbon credits, the Another accolade confirming the panels will shield vast amounts of roof space from direct sun, leaving the building consistent maintenance of superior cooler and contributing towards lowering factory energy consumption. Installation of standards of water quality is the awarding panels is expected to be completed by end 2020/21. of GREEN status by NIKE Since 2016, the highest rating for compliance with • Upon completion, will be the largest Solar roof top project in Sri Lanka stringent NIKE Water Quality Guidelines • 400kWh panels are being used under the NIKE Sustainable Water. There • First 1 MW will be commissioned in June 2020 were no instances of significant spills or water bodies affected by water discharge during the year. Solid Waste The total volume of waste generated during the year amounted to 2,520 MT, consisting mainly of sludge and balance non-hazardous waste. All solid waste is disposed according to Central Environment Authority (CEA) guidelines. Recyclable material and e-waste are disposed of through professionals in waste management approved by the CEA. Sludge from the operation is incinerated by INSEE Eco-cycle, the only approved agency by the CEA. Further, waste yarn and fabric are sold to local villagers encouraging selfemployment and cottage industries and fabric off cuts are donated to the Psychiatric Rehabilitation Unit of the discharged to the adjacent river, used Nagoda Hospital, Kalutara and Senior by the villagers for their daily needs. All Citizens Society of Kalutara, to design and treated water is checked in house once in produce handcraft. two hours and regular checks are carried Effluent and Waste Management out by external agencies such as the Central Environment Authority (CEA), the Water Board and the Board of Investment (BOI). Our modern water treatment plant utilizes enhanced purification methodology to ensure good quality water is consistently 77 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Waste Type Disposal 2020 2019 Discharge Water 2020 2019 Standard Method Quality MT MT pH 7.80 7.85 6.5 8.5 Hazardous Waste Temperature 0C 31.59 31.64 < 40 Sludge Incineration 1,397 867 BOD (mg /L) 27.57 22.05 < 30 COD (mg /L) 121.43 157.10 < 250 Non-hazardous Waste Total Suspended 28.43 22.67 < 50 Fluff Reuse 24 12 Solids (mg/L) Fabric Strips, Off cuts, etc. Reuse 530 437 Cardboards, Yarn Cones, etc. Reuse 286 312 Polythene Recycling 109 102 Others Reuse 175 174 Total Non-hazardous Waste 1,123 1,038 Total 2,520 1,905 Hayleys Fabric PLC was invited to share their best practices at the 2019 ZDHC South Asia regional conference in Mumbai. Further in 2020, the Company continued to attend this regional conference which was held in Bangladesh. OUR COMMITMENT TO REDUCING PLASTIC WASTE Plastic pollution is one of today’s most pressing environmental concerns. As a responsible corporate, the Company has initiated projects to curb plastic waste by advocating reduce, reuse and recycle – of plastic, as follows; • Development and manufacture of • Provide all employees and customers polyester fabric from recycled polyester a reusable glass water bottle as an yarn, produced using PET bottle alternative to plastic bottle. waste collected from the shores of Sri Lanka. This project is explained • Collaboration with an SME partner further on pages 67 to 70 Responsible who recycles waste polythene Innovation. packaging received with materials imported and sells back to Hayleys • Encourage employees to collect Fabric PLC for use as packaging PET bottles for recycling. Collection material 109 MT of polythene was bins have been set up within factory recycled during the year in this premises for this purpose. 6kg of manner, saving USD 18,069. PET bottles were collected in the first month of launch. • Plastic tubes used in fabric rolls are recovered from local customers and • Conduct of awareness programs to reused. 77% of tubes were reused, educate employees on plastic pollution. saving 88 MT of plastic waste. • Replacement of laminated sample • Use of cardboard tubes, not plastic hanger with a hanger produced out of tubes in delivery of fabric rolls to recycled paper. export customers. • Replacement of plastic sample bag • Replacement of polythene with ecowith a reusable non-woven bag made friendly taffeta in stillages /bins to out of recycled materials. Customers protect raw fabric. to return the bags within a reasonable time period, for re-use. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC observed including indigenous flora, campaign in August 2019, by planting native plants, butterfly species, dragonfly 500 ‘Kumbuk’ saplings along the banks Nature Conservation species, other insect species, wetlands and of the Kalu Ganga. The project initially other wet zone birds, few small mammals, commenced in 2015, and has since seen reptiles and amphibian species. Evidence the planting of over 1,000 saplings within We are committed to nurturing and suggests the existence of number of other the vicinity of the factory water treatment sustaining the environment and to this end nocturnal species like fishing cat and other plant, further along the Kalu Ganga river have engaged in the following initiatives. fauna which are inhabitant for this area. bed and along the Southern Expressway. A Biodiversity Survey Report has been The project extends to nurturing the Green Belt and Wetland commissioned in collaboration with the sapling to become fully grown trees. Biodiversity Zone Central Environment Authority (CEA) Kumbuk has inherent ecological features Forestry Department and is expected to be that benefits a wet zone environment. A 20-acre rubber land adjacent to the released early 2020/21. factory premises has been reserved by Hayleys Fabric PLC as a green belt. Tree Planting In addition to this, 8 acres has been Reforestation Campaign The Company has planted an additional designated a wetland biodiversity zone In collaboration with the Environment 25 tree saplings, to coincide with the under the guidance of Biodiversity Protection Division of the Sri Lanka launch of each Inno Concept in 2019/20. Division of the Ministry of Mahaweli Police, CEA Kalutara & the Water Board, Each concept has been named after a Development and Environment. Large Hayleys Fabric PLC embarked on the specific tree. populations of fauna and flora have been fourth phase of its on-going reforestation Environmental Compliance Hayleys Fabric PLC is compliant with all relevant environmental laws and regulations. Routine internal audit checks confirm licenses, certifications and permits are up to date and renewed on time. 79 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SATISFYING OUR CUSTOMERS We strive to evolve with the changing needs of our customers. Through Strategic Driver our successful customer-centric business approach, we collaborate with page 61 customers to produce high quality, bespoke fashion forward fabric, creating joint value for long-term success. HIGHLIGHTS 2019/20 Revenue from Inno & Innovations & Product Customers Garments Customers Brands Developments Developments 38 10 >90 USD Mn 60 50 40 30 20 Products Customer Returns 10 Cotton & Cotton 40% <1.7% 0 Blends Polyester & Polyester 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Blends 56% Others 4% Management Approach Customer satisfaction We focus on sharpening the pillars of our customer value proposition innovative products, sustainable Creative and on trend portfolio of products for production,reliability, unparalleled our customers quality and reasonable cost to Strategic nurture our customer relationships Priorities and drive business growth. Increase value addition to customers Expand our range of synthetic fabric Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Relevance to Capitals Social and All fabric produced are tested and certified for Relationship harmful substances under the Oeko Tex 100 Capital Standards, ensuring consumer health and safety. 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN 2019/20 Innovative Products Sustainable Production We offer high end synthetic valueCustomer Strategy & Sustainability is a strategic imperative added fabric under our own Inno Engagement for Hayleys Fabric PLC. We are brand committed to driving excellence We follow a customer centric business • 9 new products in Environmental, Social and approach to understand and serve • Over 450 product portfolio Governance (ESG) matters, as customer needs. explained in the following sections. • 38 key buyers Respect for Environment – pages 71 • 3 key markets to 79 2 An Inspired Team – pages 83 to 89 Strong Networks – pages 95 1 3 to 98 • Renewable Energy – 63% • 51 Accreditation/ Certifications & Memberships Reasonable Cost 6 4 Reliability Hayleys Fabric PLC is conscious 5 Flexibility, speed and on time of its cost of production, delivery have been key pillars of critically managing costs through the Company’s competitive supply mechanisms including bulk Unparalleled Quality chain. purchases, process engineering, • 15 Key raw material suppliers forward booking as discussed in State of the art machinery and deep Sustainable shareholder Value• Over 500 other suppliers technical experience of our employees pages 63 to 66 underpin our robust quality assurance • 3day turnaround for speed system, discussed under Advanced orders Technology pages 90 to 94. • <1.7% Customer returns (industry average 2%) • 95% Lab to Bulk Right First Time enhanced our customer engagement Customer Strategy & mechanisms, sensing and serving Engagement customer needs with greater agility through keener analytics and insights. Hayleys Fabric PLC We also commenced the replacement remains the designated This year our strategy took a two-pronged of old machinery such as knitting synthetic fabric supplier approach in building our synthetic fabric machines, with equipment that served in South Asia to a top business. the specific fabric requirements and global apparel brand, trends of these customers. Our gross since 2018. 1. To lock in and expand our volumes margin with these customers were with selected tier 1 customers by increased by 4%. . aligning our customer centric business approach with that of the brand. We 81 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SATISFYING OUR CUSTOMERS 2. To seek new buyers in new markets and broad base our customer portfolio to avoid concentration risk. Nurturing Unparalleled quality a sustainable customer relationship Customers Engagement that generates substantial value We engage with the brand takes time and effort. It involves owners through regular Quality control checks span the entire understanding and delivering to visits to offices/ factories, length of our value chain from receipt of the specific needs of the high-end dedicated account teams, raw material to dispatch of finished goods, clients while complying with stringent joint business planning, ensuring compliance with specifications assessments on innovation, production joint product development and timely delivery. State of the art capabilities, reliabilityin quality initiatives and customer machinery and deep technical experience and speed and environmental, social satisfaction surveys. of our employees combine to ensure the and governance practices. We were high standards of uncompromised quality successful in breaking into couple of that our customers demand. A customer new markets while establishing new return ratio of <2% confirms our customer relationships by December commitment to quality. 2019, although our efforts were set back following the Covid-19 global pandemic outbreak by year end. Certification & Systems Held Since INNO is the first brand owned Consumer Well being Key Markets by a fabric mill in Sri Lanka. OEKO Tex 100 (Cotton & Nov 2006 3% Polyester) Environment Sustainability 30% ISO 14001:2015 Environment Dec 2017 36% Management System Carbon Conscious Certificate Mar 2017 Water Conscious Certificate Apr 2017 Global Recycled Standard Nov 2019 (GRS) Global Organic Textile Jan 2012 Standard (GOTS) 31% A reliable supply chain Organic Content Standard Aug 2008 (OCS) USA EU UK Others Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) May 2015 Active account access We offer our customers an agile supply Zero Discharge of Hazardous Dec 2015 chain that meets their demands for speed, Chemicals (ZDHC) Joint Road on time delivery, efficiency and flexibility. Map Innovative Products Investments in state-of-the-art technology, Higg FEM 3.0 Active account Nov 2017 advanced software, automation, enhanced access warehouse facilities, reworking of processes Clean Chain Chemical May 2017 We engage closely and collaborate flows to drive lean manufacturing and strong Inventory Management Tool with brand owners in developing relationships with our suppliers have been Nike Sustainable Water Sep 2016 innovative fabric of varied appliance and critical pillars in developing our value chain. Program Green Certification Departmental process flow champions functionality. This year, the Inno team was Social Sustainability coupled with a dedicated procurement successful in adding 9 new innovations and OHSAS 18001:2007 Dec 2017 committee have enhanced speed and expanding the portfolio to 42 products, as efficiency. We have developed the flexibility Occupational Health and detailed on pages 67 to 70 – Responsible to deliver small order quantities in a lead Safety Assessment Series Innovation. Leveraging on our experience time of 3 days and are fully geared to provide SEDEX Membership Mar 2016 gained over the past two years, we were high levels of transparency that the retail Disney Facility & Sep 2016 able to fast track products to market brands demand. Merchandising Authorization more efficiently and effectively driving (FAMA) Approvals Please refer Advance Technology – pages faster revenue growth and reducing cost 90 to 94 and Strong Networks – pages George / Walmart Responsible Aug 2017 of developments. Revenue generated 95 to 98 on how our investments in Sourcing Program from Inno amount to USD 2 Mn, which technology and strategic suppliers’ United Nation's Global Nov 2018 account for 3.05 % of total revenue. relationships, respectively, have supported Compact (UNGC) Signatory our value chain. level supporter 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC AN INSPIRED TEAM Our dynamic and multi-skilled team is a key strength and strategic differentiator. Their knowledge, skills, attitude and innovation are central to driving the sustainability and Strategic Driver growth of our business. As such, we strive to ensure our team is engaged, inspired, page 61 connected through our values and aligned with our strategic goals. In an industry where retention is a key challenge, a below industry turnover rate of 5%, is testimony of our high levels of work ethics and practices, in driving employee satisfaction. HIGHLIGHTS 2019/20 Remuneration Training & Development Rate of Injury Total Employees USD Mn Hours 12 10 +1300 7.8 +13% 8 6 Global Accreditations Health & Safety 4 2 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Management Approach Enrich employee engagement. Inspire corporate behaviour. We are commited to providing a safe, healthy and nondiscriminatory work environment Improve worker conditions and HR practices. for all employees and ensuring our operations are adequately HR Strategic Upskill team. Build critical skills. resourced with skilled, engaged Priorities and motivated employees. Develop talent. Nuture future fit team. Ensure healthy and safe work environment Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Relevance to Capitals All our employees We provide employment We seek to offer We offer opportunities are entitled to a to over 1300 individuals. fair remuneration for lifelong learning and comprehensive range Total remuneration paid to employees and skill development. of health benefit. was USD 7.8Mn a conducive work Human Capital environment. 83 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 AN INSPIRED TEAM HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN 2019/20 Responsible Work Practices We offer conducive work conditions Governance that adhere to local and global Employee Engagement labour regulations. Our polices and frameworks ensure • Global accreditations on We engage with our employees that all employees are treated ethical work practices– 18 through multiple channels to nurture equitably and that a culture of a strong company culture and inspire • Child labour Zero integrity, ethics and compliance is productivity. fostered. • New recruits – 20% • Comprehensive policy suite 2 • Employees in trade unions38% • Code of conduct 1 3 Strengthening 6 4 Fair Remuneration Capabilities Training is a core aspect of our 5 Our attractive remuneration value proposition and we offer structure is above industry opportunities for lifelong learning minimum wage requirements. and skill development. Occupational Health & Safety • payments to employees – USD • Investment in Training – USD 7.8 Mn 10,957 Ensuring an injury and hazard-free • Leave entitlement > legal work environment is of critical concern • Training Hours – 3,417 requirement to us. Over the past four years, our rate of injury has progressively declined following focused technical training and safety awareness programmes. No fatalities or permanent physical impairment incurred. • Reduction in lost time 6 days • Reduction in no. of injuries 54% Our team comprises of 1,300 employees. We are an equal Recruitment Turnover opportunity employer and do 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 not discriminate on gender, age, religion or race. Employment <15 Kms 68 55 49 21 10 20 preference is given to candidates > 15 Kms 85 72 70 25 48 26 from the vicinity, to nurture Male 146 116 112 43 53 40 community relationships and Female 7 11 7 3 5 6 drive economic empowerment. 130 104 16 21 <30 years 102 22 Given the manual nature of 20 13 24 18 30-50 years 23 27 work involved, the workforce is 3 2 6 7 >50 years 2 9 predominantly young and male. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Team Profile Total <15 Kms > 15 Kms Male Female 18-30 30-50 > 50 Executive & above 227 41 186 186 41 46 152 29 Manual Grade 475 387 88 473 2 83 377 15 Clerical, Supervisory & Allied 246 205 41 238 8 21 195 30 Grades Casual 352 228 124 349 3 313 39 Total 1,300 861 439 1,246 54 463 763 74 policies, procedures and frameworks are aligned with those of the Hayleys Group Female Male and go well beyond legal requirements to reflect global industry best practice. No. % 2020 No. % By Employment Contract The Board, Remuneration committee 49 3.8% Permanent 1,232 94.8% and the Managing Director regularly 5 0.4% Contract 14 1.0% assess the progress and effectiveness of the HR Function. The HR Department By Employment Type is responsible for implementing the HR 54 4.2% Full Time 1,246 95.8% strategy aligned with business strategy, 0 0% Part Time 0 0% and continuously improving processes and systems to strengthen the employee value proposition. Governance Board Promoting Fair Work Practices Hayleys Fabric PLC’s HR governance framework seeks to promote inclusive and productive employment, in an Remuneration We are committed to ensuring that our environment conducive to dignity, mutual MD / CEO Committee business adheres to local and international respect, wellbeing and safety. A suite of labour regulations. Our stringent policies comprehensive policies, as given below, and ethical work practices ensure a safe outlines the Company’s approach to and healthy work environment and managing Human Capital while the Group promotes a culture of diversity, inclusivity code of business conduct -the Hayleys HR and equal opportunity. There were no Way, described on page 43, communicates Department reported incidents of human rights the employees’ rights and obligations. Our violations, child labour, forced labour or discrimination during the year. In a global industry rife with labour Recruitment Engagement General violations, our international accreditations enhance transparency in our value chain • “No Child labour” • Remuneration policy • Grievance handling and accountability for our practices, policy policy • Performance fostering the trust of all stakeholders. • “No Forced labour” manamegemt system • Industrial relations policy policy policy • Job description policy • Internal mobility • Health and Safety policy policy • “No Discrimination” • Disciplinary policy policy • Employee Relations • Communication policy • Human Rights Policy • Bribery & Corruption 85 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 AN INSPIRED TEAM As a member of Sedex, we are bound by the Ethical Trade Initiative Base Code, an internationally recognised code of ethical labour practice Employee engagement founded on the conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), which seeks to improve employee working conditions in global supply chains. It encompasses a breadth of international labour rights We are committed to engaging with our such as working hours, health and safety, freedom of association and employees to nurture a strong Company wages. Hayleys Fabric PLC’s labour practices are audited annually to culture and improve employee productivity. confirm compliance. Formal and informal channels are used to address employee concerns, identify Brand Accreditation areas of improvement and foster a culture UN GLOBAL COMPACT We are an accredited supplier to several of camaraderie. We maintain dialogue We are one of 40 Sri Lankan reputed retail brands and are subject to through regular staff and team meetings direct signatories to the UN annual audits that confirm compliance whilst our open-door policy has proved to Global Compact and follow with minimum social and environmental be an effective mechanism for handling Ten Guiding Principles requirements. (Decathlon, Next, H & M, grievances. Informal engagement is covering human rights, labour, L Brand, Disney FAMA 8) encouraged through numerous cultural, environment and anti-corruption. entertainment and sports activities. New initiatives introduced during the year include a monthly competition in the Production Departments, to incentivize productivity and save costs by recognizing and rewarding the shift with the least reworking of customer order. Further, a Retirement Appreciation Day was introduced to recognize the contribution made by long standing, retiring employees. Recruitment policy As an equal opportunity employer, we recruit employees based on objective criteria applied in a consistent manner to select the candidate best suited for the role. We give preference to employees from local communities and within the district. Our partnerships and collaborations with universities and technical institutes, facilitates attracting some of the best talent. During the year, we recruited 153 new employees to our team to support our growth aspirations. A monthly induction programme was introduced during the year, to on-board the recruits faster. The new employees were briefed on the Company, code of conduct, health and safety procedures and trained in handling specific equipment, where relevant. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Diversity and Gender parity (SLNSS) and a further agreement for 3 years, commencing April 2020, was signed We believe in the power of diversity in February 2020. The agreement stipulates salary increments, bonuses and other for spurring innovative thinking and worker conditions. There were no industrial disputes during the year under review. continuous improvement and are committed to endorsing diversity Employee grievance in age, religion, race and gender The Company’s open-door policy enables employees to come forward with their through all levels of the organization. grievances. Employees are free to discuss any grievances with their line managers. However, given the manual nature They may also report any incidents to the HR Department or to the Managing of work involved, the workforce Director. All the reported grievances have been resolved during the year under is largely male. The organization review. strives to redress the gender balance by increasing the number of females recruited to administrative and operational departments. The Fair Remuneration organization has in place polices that ensure equal opportunity and a safe workplace for all employees. Our remuneration structure is above minimum wage requirements. This includes gratuity Our policies on parental leave are and leave allocations at rates above regulatory requirements, comprehensive medical compliant with local labour laws. insurance benefits for staff and family members and benevolent benefits. During the year, 4 female employees were entitled to parental leaves and Executive and clerical staff remuneration consists of a fixed component and a variable all of them took these leaves during component of production incentive that is linked to the Company performance. the period. One of them has returned Performance is assessed through an annual appraisal conducted for all employees, to work during the year after fully following a formal and transparent process. High performing employees are recognized utilizing the entitled number of leaves. with rewards linked to salary increments, annual bonuses and promotions, incentivizing productivity and growth. In 2019/20, 4% of employees were promoted. Female Annual Leave Allocation Representation Legal Requirement Hayleys Fabric PLC Board of Directors Nil Employee Category Annual Casual Total Annual Casual Medical Total Management 6% Executives 22% Executive & above 14 7 21 16 7 7 30 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Clerical, Supervisory 14 7 21 14 7 21 42 of women to men 1:1 & Allied Grades Manual Grade 14 0 14 14 7 7 28 Industrial relations We maintain harmonious relations with three trade unions representing Occupational Health and Safety 38% of our employees. Open and effective dialogue is sustained through monthly meetings between Types of Injuries the management and the unions. Discussions during the year Year * Rate of Occupational Lost Days Work Related included removal of certain trade Injury Diseases Fatalities union barriers towards increasing 2016 3.17 0 20 0 productivity in the Finishing and 2017 6.64 0 43 0 Knitting Departments. 2018 4.08 0 100 0 We recognize and respect our 2019 3.48 0 83 0 employees’ right to freedom of 2020 1.63 0 77 0 association and Collective Bargaining. * Injury rates have been calculated based on 200,000 hours worked method The first collective agreement was negotiated and signed in April 2017, for a period of three years, with the main trade union the Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya 87 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 AN INSPIRED TEAM Safety is a top priority at the Company Progressive reduction in rate of injury the and we are guided by a comprehensive past 4 years reflects the effectiveness of Strengthening Health and Safety policy which details technical training and safety awareness capabilities the Company standards, procedures programmes conducted during the and guidelines. Continuous dialogue period. No incidents of non-compliance Our skills and competencies play a is maintained between employees and with health and safety regulations were pivotal role in delivering competitive management on improving health and reported. Workplace injuries are monitored and differentiated products to customers. safety aspects with high levels of awareness in order to take preventive action. In a dynamic and demanding industry, and strict enforcement of minimum safety employees need to be agile and innovative procedures. Implementation is monitored Safety mechanisms in place include the following: to respond quickly and effectively to by the Environment, Health and Safety changing conditions. Committee. Safety drive across the organization to drive attitudinal We use a combined approach in Joint Worker Management Committees on developing talent, which includes on-thechanges, build awareness and Health and Safety represent an average of job training, online learning, coaching, nurture a culture of safety 2% workforce participation and facilitates workshops, internships and study bursaries a consultative process with practical for tertiary education and industry relevant Chemical safety measures solutions for their concerns. The Company lifelong qualifications. Training initiatives including use of personal is OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational in 2019/20 included leadership skills, soft protective equipment (PPE), health and safety) and EMS ISO14001: storage measures (i.e. fume skills, TPM, health and safety and team 2015 (Environment Management System) boxes) and engineering controls building. certified. (i.e. exhaust fans, respirators) More emphasis is given to on-theFIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY Periodic safety audits job training, particularly of training in machine technology provided to During the year, we focused on Supervisors and Operators, considering strengthening our fire prevention Conduct of compulsory safety and safety procedures. Key activities workshops and staff training at the enhanced learning outcomes compared included the following. all levels. Health & Safety and to course work. A total of 3,417 training on the job training, included in hours were dedicated to employees, • Created fire teams for each averaging 3.6 hours per employee for the induction programme. shift. Designated personnel were provided with special identification uniforms. Average Training Hours On site first aid support and • Conducted 8 training workshops emergency vehicle in place 24x7. By Employment Category for the teams in fire prevention and safety, to be continued annually All projects to be sanctioned 3.77 5.08 • Increased number of fire fighting equipment by EHS team to ensure safety aspects adhered to • Conducted a Fire Safety Audit by an industry professional and implemented recommendations for Weekly visit by a qualified fire detection and protection. medical PractitionerFree medical • Conducted 4 fire drills and checkups available weekly practiced emergency evacuation. Conduct of Dengue prevention 1.93 awareness programmes. Each Department Head assigned an Executive & above Manual Grade In 2019/20, 27 injuries have been area of the factory to supervise, recorded in total of which, 17 injuries Clerical, Supervisory & keep clean and ensure no Allied Grades were categorized as first aid cases while the breeding. balance 10 injuries have been identified as loss time injuries. No fatalities or permanent physical impairment. 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC year (2018/193,024 hours). Training coverage was 75%. However, this data does not capture on the job training, due to its inherent nature and therefore is largely limited. Spurring innovation We are focused on stimulating innovation and nurturing a culture of learning and growth. Training and development is provided to employees to learn new and modern concepts and technologies and facilitate application of their learning at the factory. They are empowered in their roles and responsibilities, encouraged out of the box thinking and innovation and are rewarded and recognized for their efforts. Average Training Hours By Gender Training & Development USD Hours 60,000 18 3.58 50,000 15 40,000 12 30,000 9 20,000 6 4.03 10,000 3 Female Male 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Training & Development Cost USD Average Hours of Training per Employee 89 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY We believe in continued investments in technology, Strategic Driver page 61 as an enabling platform to create superior value for our customers HIGHLIGHTS 2019/20 Investment in Plant & Machinery Knitting Machines Factory Capacity Short Lead Time Meters/Month +250 +3 Mn 3 DAYS USD Mn 3.0 2.5 2.0 1.5 Production & Planning Tool 1.0 0.5 0.0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Management Approach Enhance customer value proposition We continuously invest in best in class machinery and innovative technology, to drive quality, speed Drive operational efficiencies and efficiency, while improving our environmental footprint. Strategic Priorities Invest in sustainable manufacturing methods Drive innovation in fabric technology Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Relevance to Capitals Manufactured Capital We are a state-of-the-art We continuously invest in new technology to minimize our facility manufacturing environmental footprint. Intellectual innovative, high quality fabric for the global Capital market. 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN 2019/20 Guaranteed Quality Comprehensive High performance knitting On time Delivery. manufacturing solutions. machines, state of the art dye Shorter lead times. Wide product portfolio. house and printing machines are key investments driving consistent Investments in an ERP /SAP system We have the production capabilities and high quality production. interfaced by key applications to offer customers a wide range of weft knitted fabric, fibre blends, • Buyer accredited labs combined with strong printing and prints and new fabric developments. dyeing colour management systems • AVA CAD/CAM printer has improved speed and delivery • Cotton: Synthetic45:65 software times. • Factory Capacity utilization – 2 • Superior colour accuracy 85% • Fast React/ File maker Advance Pro Production tool 1 3 5 4 Eco Friendly Manufacturing Flexibility. Customization. Sampling We are conscious of our environmental footprint and have Lower capacity machines and flexible technology facilitate invested in energy efficient machinery and low liquor dye production of small and sample orders. For speed orders, plants to minimize our impact. we maintain a lead time of 3 days • New low liquor dyeing machine • 20 kg knitting machines • Effective effluent treatment plant • 20kg baby dyeing machines Our Manufacturing Facility Comprehensive Manufacturing Designing Solutions. Wide product portfolio. Developing Production Fast React planning Knitting tool is interfaced to Sueding Brushing/Shearing SAP, ERP system with FileMaker Dyeing Finishing/Drying Advance Pro to Printing seamlessly integrate all manufacturing Finishing operations QA Inno (R&D) Centre Effluent Treatment Plant Bio Mass Plant LPG Plant Solid Waste Management 91 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facility, is one of the most diversified in South Asia, offering Knitting, Dyeing, Printing, Brushing, Sueding and Finishing capabilities at a single location. We have the flexibility to produce a wide range of fabric solutions ranging from high end synthetics to varieties of cotton bases. Our product range includes Single Jersey, Interlock, Pique, Rib, Fleece, Polar Fleece and Flat Knits, composed using pure and blend of cotton, polyester, viscose, modal yarns, in both solid colors and printed form. Factory capacity is 3 Mn meters/month. Capacity utilization averaged 85% during the year. Technology Features Benefits • Over 250 branded knitting machines that • High knitting efficiency draw on modern standards of knitting. • Stability in mass production • Includes weft circular machines and flat • Low defect rate Knitting knitting machine, from world reputed manufacturers • Low running cost • Quick creation of knitting programme • Power saving • Mix of old and new dyeing plants. • Lower liquor ratio from new plants (contributing to lower Dyeing water consumption and lower effluent discharge) • High Colour accuracy • Includes a single, topend 16 colour rotary • Wide array of printing solutions including emboss printer and a laser engraver with the capabilities Printing capability of undertaking an array of • Superior colour accuracy printing • Handles complex designs and prints. • Wide range of sueding and brushing • Fine tunes final appearance and feel Finishing machines, stenters, and washers Guaranteed Quality Our quality inspections laboratories are accredited by reputed retailers including Decathlon, Next, Limited Brands, George, Tesco, Chico’s and Marks & Spencer. Technology Features Benefits Top end knitting • High knitting efficiency • Superior knitting quality machines • Stability in mass production • Low defect rate State of the art • The software ensures superior colour accuracy; matching • Superior colour accuracy dyeing and printing colours in complex designs from initial conception, through machines using AVA the sampling process, to bulk production. The software is CAD/CAM software. capable of separating desired number of layers for recolouring in complex designs and has powerful spot colour separation tools for accurate recipe dispensing. • Drives a Lab to Bulk Right First Time metric of over 95% Fully Automated dye • Drives a Lab to Bulk Right First Time metric of over 95% • Clean, quick and accurate colour recipe Dispensing System. preparation and dispensing Automatic defect • The machines use multiple smart visual sensors to detect • Checks surface quality of finished inspection systems defects including weft and warp defects, spots, stains, broken fabric. filaments, edge and other surface defects. • Improves detection efficiency of • Covers 100% of the fabric. otherwise manual inspection. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC On Time Delivery. Shorter Lead Times. Seamless integration of all business functions though automation has improved efficiency, speed of decision making and ultimately speed of delivery to customers. Technology Features Benefits SAP ERP system • All business functions are seamlessly integrated to the SAP • On time delivery ERP system, maximizing efficiency across the value chain. • Shorter lead time • Customer systems are also integrated to the system, • Production and Cost Efficiency streamlining sales and production and enabling customer • Visibility & Tracking tracking of progress on orders. Fast React Production • The ERP system is interfaced with Fast React Production • On time delivery Planning tool Planning tool. Fast reacts co-ordinates all planning, • Shorter lead time manufacturing and procurement activities optimizing • Production and Cost efficiency process and production flow and ensuring maximum factory productivity. • Smooth planning capability State of the art • Refer ‘Guaranteed Quality’ in page 92. • Quick and superior colour management 16 colour printing system; drives machine using AVA • Short lead times CAD/CAM software • On-time delivery • Higher productivity Fully Automatic dye • Drives a Lab to Bulk Right First Time metric of over 95% • Clean, quick and accurate colour recipe Dispensing System preparation and dispensing drives • Short lead times • On-time delivery • Higher productivity The ERP system is also interfaced with the latest version of Filemaker Pro Advanced, an application to design and develop customised apps faster and easier. In-house developed programmes include: • Web access from remote locations • Development of a Cloud Disaster Recovery System Key staff utilized web access to work-from-home during the Covid 19 lockdown in Sri Lanka in March/April 2020 93 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY Flexibility, Customization, Sampling We have the flexibility to produce within a lead time of 3 days for speed orders and we do have the capability to produce small order quantities of unique weft-knit fabric in the appliance and functionality that customers require. Using this technology, we are able to produce samples for customers within a short lead time, that support our Research & Development efforts. Technology Features Benefits Knitting machines • 20 kg, lower capacity machines that can be • Supports small orders and on-demand production quickly programmed • Customization Baby & sample dyeing • 1 kg 40 kg capacity • Supports small orders, sample developments machines Printing and finishing machines have the flexibility to produce orders of any size. The printing machines are equipped with CAD system from AVA CAD/CAM (Refer ‘Guaranteed Quality’ above) that assists the design of fabric by our Research and Development team. Eco-friendly Manufacturing We invest in technology to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment. The following two operations are key examples; Technology Features Benefits Dyeing • Dyeing of fabric is a high-water intensive • Progressively replacing old machines with high operation. liquor ratios with to newer ones with low liquor • Machines have a mix of liquor ratios (amount of ratios and transitioning to an operation that uses water required per unit of dye) significantly less amount of water. These new machines are also more energy efficient. • Water recycling percentage is 16% in 2019/20 (Refer page 75 – Respect for Environment) Effluent treatment • Biological and chemical treatment of effluent. • Efficient and effective. plant • Metrics are well within regulatory parameters. • Treat 3,500,000 litres of effluent /day (Refer page 75 – Respect for Environment) 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STRONG NETWORKS Integral to the sustainability and growth of our business are the strong networks we Strategic Driver have built with our supplier base, related companies of the Hayleys group, industry page 61 partners and local communities. We share our knowledge, expertise and resources to nurture mutually beneficial relationships. HIGHLIGHTS 2019/20 Supplier Product Developments Key Raw Material Other Suppliers Small & Medium Scale Suppliers (SME) Suppliers Number 240 25 >500 >50 200 160 120 Total Payments made Suppliers with ‘A’ Level Payments to Local SME to suppliers USD Mn Grading Suppliers USD Mn 80 40 0 2018 2019 2020 62 +90% +16 Product Collaborations With the Suppliers Management Approach Rationalize supplier base for optimal value. Improve We nurture meaningful and long-term efficiency. relationships with related institutions and work towards the growth of the Engage in supplier development. Collaborate to Textile and Apparel industry. minimize environmental impact. Strategic We are committed to building a Priorities secure and sustainable supply chain Support and empower local suppliers including which can empower our local and Small and Medium Enterprises (SME)s. foreign suppliers; vital in ensuring an uninterrupted supply of high-quality Support local community engagement and empowerment raw materials. initiatives. Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals Relevance to Capitals Social and Relationship We support SME We are committed to We contribute to An industry leader, Capital development and rural responsible sourcing the socio-economic we contribute to empowerment by of raw materials. development of local sustainability of the sourcing locally wherever communities. textile industry. possible. 95 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STRONG NETWORKS HOW WE CREATED VALUE IN 2019/20 Empowerment of Local Suppliers Promoted inclusive business Secured Our Supply Building Strong practices, facilitating growth of Chain Institutions SME’s and economic development. Strengthened supplier relationships • Over 100 SME suppliers As a member of the Hayleys through supplier development and Group, we have access to • USD 16 Mn local payments integration into business model. high standards of corporate governance, mature systems • 90% suppliers with Level 1 of management and expertise rating of leading professionals in the • Over 50 new supplier product 2 country. developments 1 3 5 4 Local Community Enrichment Shaping National Policy Contributes towards the socioeconomic We contribute to shaping national policy, in development of the local community the improving industry sustainability Company operates in. • Member: Joint Apparel Association • 66% employees are from local Forum community • Member: National Chamber of • Maintains water purification plant in Exporters of Sri Lanka remote area supplier base seeking to improve efficiency Supplier Ratings Secured Our Supply and margins without compromising Chain 0% 0% quality. Accordingly, potential raw 10% material suppliers are evaluated through 90% Effective supply chain management is a rigorous and documented process critical to ensuring an uninterrupted which includes assessments on product supply of high-quality raw materials. quality, environmental and social criteria Hayleys Fabric PLC’s priority is to as graphically depicted alongside. No develop a secure and sustainable supply significant issues were identified during the base which is fit for the future – aligned year. to the Company’s business strategy (that drives innovation), well spread and efficient. The Company strives to nurture meaningful and long-term relationships Grade 1 Grade 3 with its suppliers and regularly reviews its Grade 2 Grade 4 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Supplier network Product Development The Company directly sources its key The R&D Inno team collaborates with Building Strong raw materials yarn, greige, dyes and selected suppliers to develop fabric Institutions chemicals from over 50 suppliers located solutions for customers, while the latter in over 10 countries. Main countries of also independently designs and creates import are India, China, Vietnam and products for Company’s development. As a member of the Hayleys Group, Korea. Hayleys Fabric PLC has developed During the year, 90 new products we have access to high standards of secondary supplier relationships for were developed. Current projects in corporate governance, mature systems critical raw materials, ensuring alternate progress are highlighted on pages 69 of management and expertise of sourcing in the event of disruption to the to 70 Responsible Innovation. These leading professionals in the country. key supplier. The Company leveraged collaborations facilitate the Company to Entrepreneurship and professionalism is these relationships to source goods from market innovative fabric to customers, combined to ensure strategic direction and India, Korea, Vietnam and other areas faster and cheaper, creating a stronger, resource allocation in building an effective, of China, in 4th quarter 2019/20 when more sustainable differentiation from accountable and inclusive organizations. material shipments from areas affected competitors. by the Covid -19 pandemic in China were delayed. The Company is however Product Collaborations Shaping National conscious of its country concentration risk Policy 1 on key supplies and had begun to broad base the supplier network during the year 9 26 by acquiring 47 new raw material suppliers As an active contributor at industry and rationalizing existing relationships. forums, we engage in matters of policymaking to improve industry High Standards sustainability. Key business associations in Suppliers are required to uphold the which we hold membership includes; Company’s high sourcing standards. 12 Potential suppliers are evaluated through • The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce a rigorous and documented selection • Joint Apparel Association Forum process, which includes assessments on • National Chamber of Exporters of price, quality, delivery and environmental Yarn & Greige Chemical Suppliers Suppliers Sri Lanka and social practices adopted. Print & Ink suppliers Dye Suppliers • The Employers’ Federation of Ceylon The Company visits factories regularly and conducts supplier audits quarterly, to ensure expectations are being met. Empowerment of Local Community Constructive feedback is provided and Small & Medium Enrichment follow up action taken on the results of Enterprises (SME) any findings. By end March 2020, 90% of suppliers had been awarded the highest We source locally wherever possible to We contribute towards positive economic rating of 1, an improvement from 79% support growth of Small & Medium and social change of the communities we two years before. 7 factories were visited Enterprises (SME) and provide an anchor operate in by investing to support their during the year. for boosting economic growth within the development and enhance their quality of communities we operate in. In 2019/20 we life. During the year we focused our efforts Reduced Lead Times sourced saw dust, janitorial and gardening on three key areas in creating value for the Our raw material suppliers are our services, manpower, transportation and community –empowering people, fostering business partners. Strong relationships canteen services from local suppliers for deeper relationships and operating by our nurtured with key suppliers of yarn, Over USD 3 Mn per annum. SMEs core value of Good Citizenship – by caring dye and chemical have helped reap comprise over 20% of our suppliers. for the community outside the factory and considerable gains from higher quality village. materials, greater supplier support, improved product development, shared risk taking and more favorable terms, thereby maximizing efficiencies in the supply chain and reducing lead times. 97 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STRONG NETWORKS Planting of over 500 Kumbuk trees along the river banks of Kalu Ganga 2019 Annual Book Donation at Rathmalgahawewa in Anuradhapura District Donated LKR 1.6 Mn to the Little Hearts national funds-raising Employees children with 9 As’ in O/L examination were given project to build a Cardiac and Critical Care Complex at Lady study packs Ridgeway Children’s Hospital Annual Blood Donation Campaign carried out at the factory Ananda College A/L Science students Factory Visit premises for the 7th consecutive year with 162 Donors 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC WAY FORWARD The Covid-19 pandemic’s economic challenges are APPAREL AND TEXTILE INDUSTRY unprecedented. The virus has spread across the world, The fashion, industry is one of the most vulnerable to disruption from the disrupting global financial markets, supply chains and Covid -19 outbreak given its reliance on consumer demand. The duration and ultimate severity of the discretionary spending. Recovery is slow and lags behind other retail businesses as pandemic on economies and markets remains uncertain evident when apparel stores re-opened in China, and footfall and purchases were yet 50% to 60 % below pre-crisis levels Global Economy Sri Lankan Economy by the end of the first month. (The State of Fashion 2020 Corona Virus Update; Economic activity in the country was McKinsey) Evidence suggests it may take Economic Growth up to two years to fully restore consumer stalled following the islandwide curfew % confidence. Mckinsey has estimated global imposed since March 2020 to contain the 9 Covid -19 virus and spread of disease. The revenues from apparel and footwear to Sri Lankan Rupee has depreciated sharply contract by 27% to 30 % in 2020 and 6 gradually recover to regain positive growth since the beginning of January, declining 9.1% YoY against the US Dollar, as at of 2% to 4% in 2021. 3 April 9, 2020, while the capital market In response to poor demand, retailers have (ASPI) plunged by more than 20% as at 0 in magnitude, cancelled or postponed 31 March 2020 to an all-time low recorded orders, reduced order volumes and in the past five years from the date of the -3 requested for discounts and extended first confirmed case in Sri Lanka in late payment terms with suppliers in apparel January 2020. (PWC-Sri Lanka; April -6 producing countries. Resulting financial 2020) PWC has predicted the economy to stress in many of these manufacturing -9 grow by less than 2% in 2020, assuming companies, have led to unpaid wage bills the pandemic is contained by mid-2020, and in worse situations, particularly in World Advanced Emerging and economic recovery begins towards the Economies Markets low-cost sourcing hubs such as Bangladesh 2019 latter part of the year. and Vietnam, necessitated reduction in 2020 (F) operations, close downs and layoffs of 2021 (F) The effectiveness and efficiency of fiscal, monetary and financial market measures workers. The IMF-World Economic Outlook adopted by the Government will be a key determinant on how fast the economy Consumer trends (WEO) April 2020 report has projected the global economy to suffer severe recession, recovers. The Government has already In the immediate aftermath of the contracting sharply by 3% in 2020) with introduced several key measures to Covid-19 crisis, a continued lull in Advanced economies recording 6% ease pressure on the economy and has consumer spend on apparel will result in (2021: 4.5%) and emerging economies announced economic stimulus packages inventory build-ups. Alternative business -1% (2021: 6.6%). Emerging Asia, which including debt moratoria while seeking models not based on generating virgin includes China and India is the only aid from multilateral agencies. However, products, such as resale, upcycling and region to forecast modest growth in 2020. economic recovery is dependent not only recycling, may see a boost. Subsequently, Significant contraction is also recorded on the situation within the country, but within a recessionary market, consumers in Sri Lanka’s key export markets USA, also on policy responses and economic will be frugal in their purchases and seek EU and UK in 2020, with positive growth recovery of critical trade partners such as discount pricing. There will be heightened forecast in 2021. the United States, Europe and China. focus on sustainability following discussions around materialism, over-consumption The global economy is projected to grow and irresponsible business practices leading by 5.8% in 2021 on the assumption the to greater demand for ecologically and pandemic fades in the second half of ethically produced clothing. 2020 and economic activity normalizes, buoyed by policy support. However, there Adapting to the ‘new normal’ is heightened uncertainty concerning Beyond the recovery phase, industry strength of the recovery, dependent on the players will need to rethink their strategies pathway of the pandemic and the severity and adapt operating models to find new of the associated economic and financial ways to infuse value to consumers, meeting consequences. 99 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 WAY FORWARD their needs while regaining lost corporate impact companies with weaker balance although insufficient to cover overheads. value. Speed and adaptability will be sheets and limited scale. Wage payments are up to date and no critical as retailers’ race to gain competitive employees have been laid off. Company edge when the ‘new normal’ characterized The industry has also been facing raw has been able to secure the required raw by economic and consumer shifts material shortages following difficulties in materials through its strong and integrated emerges. Retailers will seek to strengthen procuring raw materials from China and supplier network spread across different their integrated supply chains and may India given factory closures on account of countries and regions. explore near-shoring as a means to lock downs in those countries. However, enhance flexibility and reduce unexpected this concern is expected to ease following The US and Europe while being the worst disruptions to supply. Enhanced the gradual upliftment of travel restrictions hit geographies are also Company’s major digitalization across the value chain will in China since late March 2020 and the export markets. Until the ‘dust settles’, play a key role in customer interaction and progressive return to work. the severity of the financial impact on collaboration. customers’ businesses is uncertain and will WAY FORWARD delay the collaboration and development Impact to Sri Lanka’s Apparel and of strategic plans. In the short term, Hayleys Fabric PLC has faced a mix of Textile Industry Hayleys Fabric PLC will seek opportunities reactions. Amidst large order cancellations, wherever possible, to generate business and Sri Lanka’s apparel sector has also postponements and volume reductions, stabilize operations. The Company has witnessed large scale order cancellations, few buyers have maintained contractual already secured orders for the manufacture postponement and volume reductions from commitments while placing orders for of face masks. the US and Europe. Exports are projected the next quarter. The Company was able to decline by USD 2 billion up to end-May. to secure permission from the respective Hayleys Fabric PLC’s strategic strengths Order cancellations have caused significant authorities to open the factory by early in sustainable manufacture, innovation, financial stress to the manufacturing April 2020, after almost three weeks of short lead times and versatile and flexible companies, who have initiated urgent closure on account of the islandwide production capabilities will very likely internal measures to manage cash reserves curfew and commenced operations on enable the Company to adapt its operating and safeguard the business. Prolonged a limited scale. Orders processed and model to new customer requirements and demand disruptions could substantially shipped have supported cash flows, the ‘new normal’, with relative ease. Strategic Action Driver • Seek viable business opportunities that support cash flows • Leverage sharp depreciation of the LKR against the USD, to generate cash flows for local payments. Sustainable • Manage incremental growth in working capital from higher inventory holding and extended debtor cycles, through Shareholder Value decline in commodity prices • Avail the Company of relief packages offered by the Government to revive the economy including debt moratoria • Drive cost efficiencies through smart sourcing strategies and operational excellence • Leverage materials science technology to design and develop fabric that supports current needs and priorities: PPE i.e. face masks, medical gowns Responsible Innovation • Innovate products that appeal to emerging consumer trends such as concerns for health and safety i.e. anti-bacterial fabric • Continue innovations that support environment sustainability • Reassure employees of the Company’s commitment to their safety and wellbeing by implementing appropriate An inspired health and safety measures at the factory. and Engaged Team • Engage support of trade unions in responding to the Covid-19 crisis • Maintain communication and inspire team to deliver corporate goals Satisfied • Review the business model to adapt to economic and consumer shifts and respond to customer needs Customers Strong • Continue to strengthen the supply chain, integrating suppliers to Company’s business model Networks • Collaborate with industry peers to uplift the industry in responding to the pandemic • Strengthen technology to support the potential digital escalation by customers across their supply chain, for example Technology virtual sampling and AI-supported planning. Respect for the • Continue to drive responsible production practices and minimize environmental impacts through clean technology environment 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC MANAGING RISK & OPPORTUNITIES In an increasingly challenging business landscape, took a strategic decision to increase it’s raw material imports mainly from India. The we constantly monitor, manage and mitigate emerging Company also placed orders with China no sooner they opened up. This was done and potential risks to ensure a stable path towards with the objective of re-bounding fast with raw materials in hand. At the same time, sustainable growth. the Development team together with the Marketing team began developing fabric with Chemical treatment for Face Masks Risk management is a key function of the A key consideration in controlling the and Hospital clothing. This strategy was Board and they are supported in this by pandemic and minimizing its impacts to create an opportunity for a different the Corporate Management Team who will be the effectiveness and efficiency business model when there was a loss of provide regular reports to the Board to of measures taken by the governments demand for fabric for the fashion and ensure that potential threats are identified, together with the country’s healthcare sports clothing. measured, monitored and managed. systems. Sri Lanka may be spared the worst as we are blessed with a sound Considering the current risk environment, Our operating environment changed healthcare system and swift action taken we have prioritized and listed the most dramatically with the COVID-19 to close border for passenger travel and significant risks for our business together pandemic and the resultant closure of enforce a lockdown in the country may with mitigating factors. malls and lockdowns worldwide to curtail fast track restoration of normalcy in the its spread. Demand for fashion has country. However, recovery of the apparel plummeted as a result reflected in the steep sector will be dependent on the recovery A risk is defined as a decline in market capitalization of fashion, of key markets and effective strategies of factor that can become apparel and luxury players globally. key players who will be dealing with shifts an impediment to the Consequential impacts throughout the in consumer mindsets towards more frugal lengthy supply chains are expected to achievement of corporate lifestyles and safer experiences. create significant job losses and hardship goals. to emerging market economies heavily The Company saw a possible lock down in dependent on apparel exports. Sri Lanka and India well in advance and Net Risk Issue Mitigants Assessment Store closures in advanced economies and • As a fabric manufacturer, the transition to more High Risk basic fabric or those required by the healthcare Demand in Key frugal consumer mindsets requires a shift in focus from high end fashion fabric to more industry is a relatively easy one relevant fabric for the current crisis such • Secured orders for fabric for surgical masks with Markets as those required for Personal Protective viable margins Equipment for the healthcare industry. • Redoubling efforts to collaborate and rebuild the business with new norms There was significant concern about continued • Alternative suppliers in India High Risk manufacture in industries due to availability • Chinese suppliers are slowly returning to work Inputs of raw materials, particularly if they were imported. 101 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MANAGING RISK & OPPORTUNITIES Net Risk Issue Mitigants Assessment Government policy will play a critical role • Early shut down, quarantine and contact tracing High Risk Government in containing the spread of the pandemic, appears to be effective and in curtailing the restoring economic activity and providing community spread of the virus Policy relief to industry and workers. However, the • Moratoria and other relief measures for industries country’s heavy debt burden may limit policy impacted by the pandemic options, prolonging economic recovery. Located in a rural village, we are the largest • Good industrial relations with trade unions High Risk employer in the vicinity and 66% of employees • Very high level of sanitization methods installed. Employees are from a radius of 15 km. Our employees Strict guidelines with the advice of the MOH has also have freedom of collective bargaining and been implemented for the safety of our people are members of 3 trade unions. Layoffs will • Plans to secure orders that are relevant for the times be a last resort due to the above. as the manufacturing facilities in place are versatile Cash flow will be a lifeline and all efforts will • A strong performance during the reporting year High Risk be made to forecast and manage the same. provides a reasonably wide margin of comfort. Liquidity • Early focus on lucrative orders will support cash flows. • Availability of moratoria for interest and capital repayments for 6 months Our ability to innovate to appeal to emerging • Monitoring of fashion trends to anticipate customer Moderate risk Innovation consumer trends is key to growth and needs in developing own portfolio profitability • Ability to attract and retain highly qualified and experienced talent to operate the Design Centre Within a recessionary market, cost efficiency • Process improvements Moderate risk Cost provides a competitive edge • Lean processes Efficiency • Sourcing strategies • Product re-engineering Timely delivery is key to profitability as late • Strengthening the planning system within the Low risk Timely Delivery delivery comes with penalties and loss of Company customer satisfaction • Production scheduling to maximize capacity utilization and ensure timely delivery • Quality control checks at each stage of the process to ensure compliance with specifications and timely delivery Our ability to turn around an order within a • Company has shortened the lead time of speed Low risk Speed of few days is highly valued by customers orders to 3 days Delivery • Supply chain& inventory geared to support the promise Sustainable Production is critical to our • Compliance with regulatory and certification Low risk Sustainable reputation and growth requirements • Investment in clean technology Production • Supplier screening for financial, social and environmental criteria 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) Remarks 102-1 Name of the organization 10 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10 & 91 102-3 Location of headquarters IBC 102-4 Location of operations Operates only in Sri Lanka 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 & IBC 102-6 Markets served 82 102-7 Scale of the organization 13 15 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 85 We will not present a regional-wise classification 102-9 Supply chain 95 97 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its No significant changes supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 102 102-12 External initiatives 08 102-13 Membership of associations 73 & 82 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 17 19 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 11, 42 & 86 behaviour GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance structure 36 Sustainability comes Disclosures 2016 under the purview of the Finance Director 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 52 & 53 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 87 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 52 & 53 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 52 & 53 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 52 & 53 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Hayleys Fabric PLC statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 08 & 106 102-47 List of material topics 59 & 106 102-48 Restatements of information No Restatements 102-49 Changes in reporting 59 102-50 Reporting period 08 102-51 Date of most recent report 08 102-52 Reporting cycle 08 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 08 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 08 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 103 105 102-56 External assurance 08, 107 & 108 103 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) Remarks Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 106 GRI 103: Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 106 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 106 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 62 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 147 & 151 retirement plans GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 14 & 95 practices 2016 Environmental 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 14 & 74 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 14 & 74 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 14, 75 & 76 302-3 Energy intensity 14, 75 & 76 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 75 76 Energy has increased due to the growth of the value added fabric production 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 14 & 75 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal No significant impact GRI 303: Water 2016 of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 14 & 75 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 14 & 76 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 14 & 76 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 14 & 76 GRI 305 Emissions: 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 14 & 76 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions has increased due to the growth of the value added fabric production GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 14 & 75 Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 14 & 78 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 14 & 79 Environmental regulations Compliance 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 96 GRI 308: Supplier environmental criteria Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 96 chain and actions taken 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) Remarks Social 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 84 We will not present a regional-wise GRI 401: Employment classification 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 87 not provided to temporary or part-time employees 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 88 management–worker health and safety committees GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 15, 87 & 88 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 15, 88 & 89 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 88 89 GRI 404: Training and transition assistance programs Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 15 & 87 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 85 & 87 Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 15 & 85 2016 incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 15 & 85 Compulsory Labor incidents of forced or compulsory labour 2016 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 97 & 98 communities 2016 impact assessments, and development programmes 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 96 GRI 414: Supplier criteria Social Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 96 actions taken GRI 416: Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the Nil Health and Safety 2016 health and safety impacts of products and services 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product Nil GRI 417: Marketing and and service information and labelling Labeling 2016 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Nil marketing communications GRI 418: Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Nil Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Nil Socioeconomic social and economic area Compliance 2016 105 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 TABLE OF OUR MATERIAL MATTERS Topic Boundary (102-46) Topic Boundary (102-46) Internal External Stakeholders Stakeholders Material Topic Management The Company Brand Owners & Investors Employees Suppliers Regulators Community Approach (103-1, Apparel 103-2 and 103-3) Manufacturers Economic Performance (201) 63 66 √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Procurement Practices (204) 96 & 97 √ √ √ √ Materials (301) 74 √ √ √ Energy (302) 75 77 √ √ √ Water (303) 75, 77 & 78 √ √ √ √ Emissions (305) 76 & 77 √ √ √ √ Effluents and Waste (306) 77 & 78 √ √ √ √ Environmental Compliance 42 & 79 √ √ √ √ √ (307) and Socioeconomic Compliance (419) Supplier Environmental 96 √ √ √ Assessment (308) and Supplier Social Assessment (414) Employment (401) 83 89 √ √ √ √ Occupational Health and 87 & 88 √ √ √ √ Safety (403) Training and Education (404) 88 & 89 √ √ Diversity and Equal 87 √ √ √ √ √ Opportunity (405) Child Labour (408) and Forced 85 & 86 √ √ √ √ or Compulsory Labour (409) Local Communities (413) 97 & 98 √ √ √ Customer Health and Safety 80 82, 96 97 & √ √ (416) and Marketing and 101 102 Labelling (417) Customer Privacy (418) 69 & 80 82 √ √ 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT Independent Assurance Report Our engagement provides limited requirements of the Code for Ethics for to Hayleys Fabric PLC on the assurance as well as reasonable assurance. Professional Accountants issued by the Sustainability Reporting Criteria A limited assurance engagement is CASL. Presented in the Integrated Annual substantially less in scope than a reasonable Report2019/20 Introduction and assurance engagement conducted in KEY ASSURANCE scope of the engagement accordance with SLSAE-3000 and PROCEDURES consequently does not enable to obtain We planned and performed our procedures The management of Hayleys Fabric PLC assurance that we would become aware (“the Company”) engaged us to provide to obtain the information and explanations of all significant matters that might be considered necessary to provide sufficient an independent assurance on the following identified in a reasonable assurance elements of the sustainability reporting evidence to support our limited assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not conclusions. Key assurance procedures criteria presented in the annual reportexpress an opinion providing reasonable 2019/20 (“the Report”). included: assurance. • Reasonable assurance on the • Interviewing relevant the Company’s information on financial performance MANAGEMENT OF THE personnel to understand the process as specified on page 62 of the Report. COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY for collection, analysis, aggregation FOR THE REPORT and presentation of data. • Limited assurance on other The management of the Company is • Reviewing and validation of the information presented in the Report, responsible for the preparation of the information contained in the Report. prepared in accordance with the self-declaration, the information and requirements of the Global Reporting • Checking the calculations performed statements contained within the Report, Initiative GRI Standards: ‘In by the Company on a sample basis and for maintaining adequate records accordance’ – Core guidelines. through recalculation. and internal controls that are designed to support the sustainability reporting BASIS OF OUR WORK AND • Reconciling and agreeing the data on LEVEL OF ASSURANCE process in line with the GRI Sustainability financial performance are properly Reporting Guidelines. derived from the Company’s audited We performed our procedures to provide financial statements for the year limited assurance in accordance with ERNST & YOUNG’S ended 31 March 2020. Sri Lanka Standard on Assurance Engagements (SLSAE 3000): ‘Assurance RESPONSIBILITY • Comparison of the content of the Engagements Other than Audits Our responsibility is to express a Report against the criteria for a or Reviews of Historical Financial conclusion as to whether we have become Global Reporting Initiative, GRI Information’, issued by the Institute of aware of any matter that causes us to Standards: ‘In accordance’ – Core Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka believe that the Report is not prepared guidelines. (“CASL”). in accordance with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative, Our procedures did not include testing The evaluation criteria used for this limited electronic systems used to collect and GRI Standards: ‘In accordance’ Core assurance engagement are based on the aggregate the information. guidelines. This report is made solely to Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (“GRI the Company in accordance with our Guidelines”) and related information in engagement letter dated 02 May 2020. We LIMITATIONS AND particular, the requirements to achieve disclaim any assumption of responsibility CONSIDERATIONS GRI Standards ‘In accordance’ Core for any reliance on this report to any Environmental and social performance guideline publication, publicly available person other than the Company or for any data are subject to inherent limitations at GRI’s global website at “www. purpose other than that for which it was given their nature and the methods used globalreporting.org”. prepared. In conducting our engagement, for determining, calculating and estimating we have complied with the independence such data. 107 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT CONCLUSION Based on the procedures performed, as described above, we conclude that; • The information on financial performance as specified on page 62 of the Report are properly derived from the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2020. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that other information presented in the Report are not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s sustainability practices and policies some of which are derived from Sustainability Reporting Guideline, GRI Standards‘In accordance’ Core. Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants 06 May 2020 Colombo 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC “Capable and Resourceful” Financial & Statutory Reports 109 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE PURPOSE OF THE TERMS OF REFERENCE The Chairman of the Audit Committee COMMITTEE The Audit Committee has written terms is a member of the Institute of Chartered The Audit Committee was established to of reference, dealing with its authority Accountants of Sri Lanka and the profiles assist to Board in fulfilling its oversight and duties, which is carefully designed to of the members are given on pages 26 to responsibility for the Company’s financial discharge the Committee’s purpose, duties 29 of this report. reporting system, compliance with legal and responsibilities of the Committee. The Audit Committee of Hayleys Fabric and regulatory requirements, internal The terms of reference comply with the PLC is consists of Independent Noncontrol mechanism, risk management requirements of the Section 7.10 of the Executive Directors (INEDs) and formally process, internal audit function and Corporate Governance Listing Rules of constituted as a sub-committee of the review of independence and performance the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). Main Board. The Audit Committee of External Auditors, with a view met four (4) times during the year and to safeguarding the interests of the attendance by the Committee members shareholders and all other stakeholders. MEMBERS AND MEETINGS at each of these meetings are given in the The Audit Committee comprises Corporate Governance Report on page The power and responsibilities of the individuals with extensive experience in the 39. The Committee’s composition met the Audit Committee of Hayleys Fabric PLC fields of Accounting & Finance, Corporate requirements of the rule 7.10.6 of Listing are governed by the Audit Committee Management, and Marketing & Strategic Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Charter which is approved and adopted by Management. The members of the Audit Committee are the Board. as follows; Audit Committee Members Chairman • Mr. H. Somashantha* Members • Dr. N.S.J. Nawartne* • Mr. A.S.J. Jayatilleka* (*Independent Non-Executive Director) Secretary to the Committee Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd Attendance by Invitation • Mr. A.M. Pandithage Chairman -Hayleys Fabric PLC • Mr. E.R.P. GoonetillekeManaging Director/CEO-Hayleys Fabric PLC • Mr. S.C. Ganegoda Director Hayleys Fabric PLC • Mr. R. Rohitha Bandara -Director Finance-Hayleys Fabric PLC • Mr. A. MathangaweeraManager -(MA & SRD)-Hayleys PLC • Mr. Choliya. De. Silva -Group CFO -Hayleys PLC DUTIES AND • Significant estimates & judgments (HMA and SRD) and they directly submit RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE made by the management their findings to the Audit Committee and AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING relevant reports are available to External • Compliance with relevant Accounting THE YEAR Auditors. Standards (SLFRSs/ LKASs) and • Financial Reporting applicable regulatory requirements Audit Committee has met the Internal • Internal Audit Auditors during the year under review and • Issues arising from the Internal Audit • Risk Management and Independent External Audit followings were reviewed; • Reporting & Assurance • Adequacy of the Internal Audit • The Company’s ability to continue as • External Audit Annual plan & coverage a going concern • Compliance • The effectiveness of Internal Audit • Statements and Reports to be functions included in the Annual Report. FINANCIAL REPORTING • Follow up the actions taken by the DURING THE YEAR Company recommended by the INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee reviewed the Internal Audit. The Committee monitors the effectiveness quarterly and annual Financial Statements of the internal audit function and prior to its publication. Risk management and Internal empowered them to access to information required to conduct their audits. Controls The review included; The Committee reviewed and assessed • Appropriateness and changes in The internal audit of the Company has the Company’s risk management process Accounting Policies been carried out by Hayleys Management including the adequacy of the overall Audit and System Review Department control environment and controls in areas 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC of significant risk. Key risks that exceeded Management responses for those concerns SUPPORT TO THE the Company’s risk appetite are presented raised by the External Auditors were COMMITTEE from page 101 to 102. discussed with the Managing Director/ The Committee received the necessary CEO and Chief Financial Officer of the support and information from the The Committee is satisfied that an Company. management of the Company during the effective systems of internal controls is in year to enable them to carry out its duties place to provide reasonable assurance on There were no significant issues during the and responsibilities effectively. safeguarding the Company’s assets and year under review. reliability of Financial Statements. The current auditors, Messrs Ernst & CONCLUSION Effectiveness of the Company’s system Young, was initially appointed as the The Audit Committee is satisfied that of internal controls is evaluated through External Auditors of the Company, and the effectiveness of the Organizational reports provided by the management, continue to hold that position at present. structure of the Company and the internal auditors and independent external A partner rotation of the auditors take implementation of the Company’s auditors. place at periodic intervals and last rotation Accounting policies and operational took place in the year 2018/19. controls provide reasonable assurance that External Audit the affairs of the Company are managed The Committee has recommended to The Committee has reviewed the in accordance with accepted policies and the Board that Messrs Ernst & Young be independence and objectivity of the the assets are properly accounted for and reappointed as the independent External Independent External Auditors, Messrs adequately safeguarded. Auditor and that the re-appointment be Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants. included in the agenda of the Annual The Committee is also satisfied that the General Meeting. Company is able to continue as a going The Audit Committee has met with the External Auditors to review their audit concern. plan and observation made by them. COMPLIANCE WITH FINANCIAL REPORTING AND The Committee has received a declaration STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS from External Auditors, confirming that The Audit Committee receives statutory they do not have any relationships with or declaration from Director –Finance/Chief interest in the Company. Financial Officer quarterly on financial H. Somashantha reporting and statutory compliances. The Committee has reviewed the nonChairman-Audit Committee audit services provided by the External In addition, Committee reviewed the Auditors to safeguard their independence Colombo compliance with relevant Sri Lanka and objectivity. Accounting Standards and the Committee 06 May 2020 has pursued the assistance from Messrs At the conclusion of the audit, the Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants External Auditors met with the Audit to assess and review existing Accounting Committee to discuss any matters of policies and procedures adopted by the concern found in the course of the audit Company. and also to discuss the matters mentioned in the Management Letter. 111 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE RESPONSIBILITIES All Non-Executive Directors receive a COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is fee for serving on the Board and serving The Committee is currently composed responsible to the Board for; on sub-committees. They do not receive of two Independent Non-Executive any performance related incentive • Determining the policy of the payments. The Hayleys Fabric PLC does Directors (INEDs) one of whom functions remuneration package of the not have an employee share ownership as the Chairman. The members of Directors. plan for members of the Board, who are the Committee have wide experience and knowledge of finance, business • Evaluating performance of the considered as Key Management Personnel and industry. The Committee act as a Managing Directors, Executive (KMP). sub-Committee to the Remuneration Directors as well as the individual and Committee of the Parent Company, collective performance of Directors. MEETING Hayleys PLC. Remuneration Committee Met on 6th • Deciding on overall individual packages, including compensation on Feb 2020 and discussed Remuneration The Members of the Remuneration termination of employment. system of the Company and methods of Committee consist of as below; evaluating each category of employees and • Mr. A.S. Jayatilleka – Chairman REMUNERATION POLICY method of setting KPIs for Executives of the Company. • Mr. H. Somashantha The remuneration policy is designed to reward, motivate and retain the Attendance of the committee members INDEPENDENCE OF THE Company’s executive team, with market at the meeting are given in the Corporate COMMITTEE competitive remuneration and benefits, Governance Report on page 39. to support the continued success of the The members of the Remuneration business and creation of shareholder value. Committee are independent Directors DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS Accordingly, salaries and other benefits are and are completely free from any business, The Directors’ emoluments are disclosed reviewed periodically, taking into account operational, personal or other relationships in Note 22 on page 151. the performance of the individual and that may interfere with the exercise of industry standards. their independent, unbiased judgment The remuneration packages which are KEY OBJECTIVE linked to individual performances are The Committee advises the Board on aligned with the Company’s short-term the policy to be followed on executive and long-term strategy. A.S. Jayatilleka remuneration packages for individual Chairman Remuneration Committee The Committee makes every effort to Directors and senior management. maintain remuneration levels that are Colombo sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors. 06 May 2020 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC REPORT OF THE RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS REVIEW COMMITTEE The Related Party Transaction Review issued by the Securities & Exchange TASK OF THE COMMITTEE Committee of Hayleys PLC, the parent Commission of Sri Lanka and the Section The Committee re-viewed the related Company functions as the Committee of 9 of the Listing Rules of the Colombo party transactions and their compliances the Company in terms of the Code of Best Stock Exchange of Hayleys Fabric PLC and communicated Practice on Related Party Transactions the same to the Board COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE The Committee in its re-view process recognized the adequate of the content The Related Party Transactions Review Committee comprises two Independent Nonand quality of the information forwarded Executive Directors and one Executive Director as shown below; to its members by the management. Name Status Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC. Chairman Independent Non -Executive Director Mr. M.Y.A. Perera Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. S.C. Ganegoda Executive Director Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC. Chairman Related Party Transactions Review MEETINGS & ATTENDANCE Committee of Hayleys PLC Number of Meetings held in 2019/20 Colombo Name 15.05.2019 05.08.2019 05.11.2019 10.02.2020 17 June 2020 Total Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC.     4/4 Mr. M.Y.A. Perera     4/4 Mr. S.C. Ganegoda     4/4 THE DUTIES OF THE transacted on normal commercial COMMITTEE terms and are not prejudicial to the • To review in advance all proposed interests of the entity and its minority related party transactions of shareholders. the Group either prior to the • Meet with the management, Internal transaction being entered into or, Auditors/External Auditors as if the transaction is expressed to be necessary to carry out the assigned conditional on such review, prior to duties. the completion of the transaction • To review the transfer of resources, • Seek any information the Committee services or obligations between related requires from management, parties regardless of whether a price employees or external parties to with is charged. regard to any transaction entered into with a related party. • To review the economic and commercial substance of both • Obtain knowledge or expertise to recurrent/non recurrent related party assess all aspects of proposed related transactions party transactions where necessary including obtaining appropriate • To monitor and recommend the professional and expert advice from acquisition or disposal of substantial suitably qualified persons. assets between related parties, including obtaining ‘competent • To recommend, where necessary, to independent advice’ from the Board and obtain their approval independent professional experts with prior to the execution of any related regard to the value of the substantial party transaction. asset of the related party transaction. • To monitor that all related party transactions of the entity are 113 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF MANAGING DIRECTOR/CEO AND DIRECTOR-FINANCE /CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER The Section D 1.3 of the ‘Code of Best The Board of Directors and the In order to ensure the independence of Practice on Corporate Governance 2017’ Management of the Company accept the Internal and External Auditors they (The Code) issued by the Institute of the responsibility for the integrity and have been given full and free access to Sri Lanka recommends that the Board objectivity of Financial Statements. the members of the Audit Committee to should, before the Financial Statements discuss any matters they think important. are approved for the financial year, The estimates and judgments relating to obtain a declaration in their opinion on the Financial Statements were made in CONCLUSION Financial Statements and system of risk a prudent and reasonable basis, in order to reflect true and fair picture and the We confirm that we have discharged our management and internal control from form and substance of transactions and responsibilities on maintaining proper its Chief Executive Officer and Chief reasonably present the Company’s State financial records and preparing Financial Financial Officer. of affairs. Statements in accordance with LKASs/ We confirm that the Financial Statements SLFRSs. To the best of our knowledge, of Hayleys Fabric PLC are prepared in Company has established proper system of we also confirm that the system of risk compliance with following requirements; internal control and accounting system in management and internal control was order to safeguard assets, preventing and operating effectively during the year. • Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing detecting frauds and other irregularities, Standards Act No.15 of 1995 which is reviewed and updated on an • Companies Act No.07 of 2007 ongoing basis. • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock The Internal Auditors Hayleys Exchange Management Audit and System Review Department (HMA and SRD) have E. R. P. Goonetilleke We also followed the guidance given in conducted periodic audits to provide Managing Director/CEO the Code of Best Practice on Corporate reasonable assurance that the established Governance 2017 issued by The Institute policies, internal controls and procedures of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka of the Company were consistently on financial and business reporting when followed. preparing these Financial Statements. The Financial Statements of the Company The Accounting policies used in R. Rohitha Bandara were audited by Messrs.’ Ernst & Youngpreparation of the Financial Statements of Chartered Accountants, the Independent Director – Finance the Company are appropriate and applied External Auditors. consistently. Colombo The Audit Committee of the Company 06 May 2020 All applicable Sri Lanka Accounting meets periodically with Internal Auditors Standards have been duly applied. and where necessary with External Auditors to review the manner in which The significant Accounting policies these Auditors are performing their and estimates involved a high degree responsibilities. In addition, internal of judgment and complexity have been control and financial reporting issues are informed discussed with the Audit also discussed. Committee. 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT The Code of Best Practice on Corporate compliance with mandatory requirements Governance 2017 (The Code) issued by while embracing voluntary adherence, in The Institute of Chartered Accountants order to enhance stakeholder acceptance of Sri Lanka recommends that a Senior and making a positive impact on value Independent Director (SID) be appointed creation. in the event of the Chairman and CEO is the same person or the Chairman is not an As the Senior Independent Director of the independent Director. At Hayleys Fabric Hayleys Fabric PLC, I am consulted by the PLC, though the Chairman and CEO Chairman on governance issues, if there are two different, the Chairman is the are any. Further, I make myself available to Executive Director(ED). any Director or any employee to have any confidential discussion on the affairs of the The presence of a SID provides a Company, should the need arise. workable mechanism to review the role played by the Chairman. While the role of the Chairman entails providing leadership in observing best practices of corporate governance, my role as the SID calls for a review of the effectiveness of the Board. A.S. Jayatilleka The role of the SID also provides emphasis Senior Independent Director to transparency on matters relating to governance. 06 May 2020 Hayleys Fabric PLC is committed to principles of good governance and always strives to live by the Best Practices of good Corporate Governance. The conformance culture of the Company is strongly embraced by the Board of Directors. The Company follows a policy of strict 115 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY The Board of Directors of Hayleys Hayleys Fabric PLC is a public limited The registered office of the Company is Fabric PLC are pleased to present its liability company incorporated in Sri located at 400, Deans Road, Colombo-10. Annual Report to the shareholders Lanka in 1993 under the previous for the financial year ended 31st Companies Act No 17 of 1982 and reThe Financial Statements, together with March 2020, together with the audited registered as required under the provisions the Reviews and other Reports which Financial Statements of the Company of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007. The form part of the Annual Report were and the Auditor’s Report on those re-registration number of the Company approved by the Board of Directors on Financial Statements, conforming to the is PQ 37. 6th May 2020. requirements of the Companies Act No 7 The issued shares of the Company were Section 168 of the Companies Act of 2007 and Listing Rules of the Colombo listed on the main board of the Colombo No. 07 of 2007, requires the following Stock Exchange (CSE). Stock Exchange in Sri Lanka in April information to be published in the Annual 2003. Report prepared for the year under review. MANDATORY PROVISIONS FULLY COMPLIANT Reference Requirement Complied Reference Page (within the Report) Section 168 (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Yes About Us 10 Company Section 168 (1) (b) Financial Statements for the Yes The Financial Statements of the Company 128 to 158 accounting period completed and for the year ended 31st March 2020 Signed on signed in accordance with section page 128 152 Section 168 (1) (c) Auditor’s report on the Financial Yes Independent Auditors’ Report. 124 to 127 Statements of the Company Section 168 (1) (d) Any change in accounting policies Yes Note 4.4 to the Financial Statements 139 made during the accounting period Changes in Accounting Policies Section 168 (1) (e) Particulars of entries in the interests Yes Directors’ Interest in Contracts with the 155 register made during the accounting Company period Details of the Directors’ shareholdings. 165 Investor Information Section 168 (1) (f) Remuneration and other benefits Yes Note 22 to the Financial Statements Profit/ 151 of Directors during the accounting (Loss) Before Tax period Section 168 (1) (g) Total amount of donations made by Yes Note 22 to the Financial Statements Profit/ 151 the Company during the accounting (Loss) Before Tax period Section 168 (1) (h) Names of the persons holding office Yes Board Profiles 26 to 29 as Directors of the Company as at In terms of the Article 29 of the Articles the end of the accounting period of Association of the Company, Dr. S. J. and the names of any persons who Nawaratne, K. D. D. Perera and Haresh ceased to hold office as Directors of Somashantha retire by rotation and being the Company during the accounting eligible offer themselves for re-election period Section 168 (1) (i) Amounts payable by the Company to Yes Note 22 to the Financial Statements Profit/ 151 the Person or firm holding office as (Loss) Before Tax auditor of the Company as audit fees and as a separate item, fees payable by the Company for other services provided by that person or firm 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Reference Requirement Complied Reference Page (within the Report) Section 168 (1) (j) Particulars of any relationship (other Yes The Company’s Auditors during the period 42 than that of auditor) which the under review were Messrs. Ernst & Young, Auditor has with or any interests Chartered Accountants. which the Auditor has in, the The Auditors do not have any Company or any of its subsidiaries relationship or interest with the Company other than that of an Auditor. A resolution authorizing the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors who are deemed re-appointed in terms of the section 158 of the Companies Act No 07 of 2007 will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting. Section 168 (1) (k) Signed on behalf of the Board by Yes Annual Report of the Board of Directors 120 two Directors and the Company Secretary SECTION 7.6 OF THE LISTING RULES OF THE COLOMBO STOCK EXCHANGE (CSE) REQUIRES THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE ANNUAL REPORT PREPARED FOR THE YEAR UNDER REVIEW. MANDATORY PROVISIONS FULLY COMPLIANT Reference Requirement Complied Reference Page (within the Report) (i) Names of persons who were Directors of the Entity Yes Board Profiles 26 to 29 (ii) Principal activities of the entity and its subsidiaries during the year, Yes About Us 10 and any changes therein (iii) The names and the number of shares held by the 20 largest holders of Yes Investor Information 165 voting and non-voting shares and the percentage of such shares held (iv) The float adjusted market capitalisation, public holding percentage Yes Investor Information 165 (%), number of public shareholders and under which option the listed entity complies with the Minimum Public Holding requirement (v) A statement of each Director’s holding in shares of the Entity at the Yes Investor Information 165 beginning and end of each financial year (vi) Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors of the Entity Yes Risk Management 101 to 102 (vii) Details of material issues pertaining to employees and industrial Yes An Inspired Team 15 relations of the Entity (viii) Extents, locations, valuations and the number of buildings of the Yes Note 6 Property Entity’s land holdings and investment properties plant and 142 to 143 Equipment to the Financial Statements (ix) Number of shares representing the Entity’s stated capital Yes Investor Information 164 (x) A distribution schedule of the number of holders in each class of Yes Investor Information 164 equity securities, and the percentage of their total holdings (xi) Financial ratios and market price information Yes Investor Information & Ten year 164 and 161 Summary (xii) Significant changes in the Company’s or its subsidiaries’ fixed assets, Yes Note 6.8 Property and the market value of land, if the value differs substantially from the plant and 143 book value as at the end of the year Equipment to the Financial Statements 117 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY Reference Requirement Complied Reference Page (within the Report) (xiii) Details of funds raised through a public issue, rights issue and a private Yes Not Applicable placement during the year (xiv) Information in respect of Employee Share Ownership or Stock Option Yes No Such Seheme Schemes (xv) Disclosures pertaining to Corporate Governance practices in terms of Yes Corporate Rules 7.10.3, 7.10.5 c. and 7.10.6 c. of Section 7 of the Listing Rules Governance Report 38 (xvi) Related Party transactions exceeding 10 per cent of the equity or Yes Note 25 Related 5 per cent of the total assets of the Entity as per audited Financial Party Transactions, 154 to 155 Statements, whichever is lower to the Financial Statements In addition to the above, the following information is disclosed. Details are provided within notes to the Annual report, which form an integral part of the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. Disclosure Note Reference Page Principal Activities About us 10 Vision, Mission and Values The Company is committed to upholding high standards of business conduct and ethics in the work place at all times, paramount in retaining the trust of stakeholders. 11 and 42 All employees abide by the Company’s Code of Conduct and Ethics in achieving the vision and mission. Review of business Chairman’s Message 17 to 19 performance Managing Director’s Review 20 to 23 Managing Our Capitals & Impacts 51 to 98 Measures taken to manage risks are given in the Risk Management Report 101 to 102 Financial Statements The Financial Statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 128 to 158 of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and comply with the requirements of Companies Act No 7 of 2007. These Statements have been duly approved by the Directors and certified by the Chief Financial Officer. Directors’ Responsibility The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Reporting 122 for Financial Reporting Auditors’ Report Independent Auditors’ Report 124 to 127 Significant Accounting Policies Notes 3 to the Financial Statements Significant Accounting Policies 132 to 139 Going Concern Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements Going Concern 140 to 141 Revenue Note 18 to the Financial Statements Revenue 150 Financial Results and Statement of Profit or Loss and other Comprehensive Income 129 Appropriations Statement of Changes in Equity 130 Taxation Notes 23 to the Financial Statements Taxation 151 to 152 Corporate Donations Note 22 to the Financial Statements Profit Before Tax 151 Stated Capital and Reserves Statement of Changes in Equity 130 Property, Plant and Equipment Notes 6 to the Financial Statements Property, Plant and Equipment 142 to 143 Intangible assets Notes 7 to the Financial Statements Intangible Assets 144 Capital Expenditure The total capital expenditure on acquisition of property, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of the Company amounted to USD 3,159,,426 143 and USD 113,809 respectively. Details are given in Note 6.5 and 7 to the Financial Statements. Capital expenditure approved and contracted for, and not contracted for, as at Reporting date are given in Note 26.1 to the Financial Statements Commitments 155 and Contingencies. 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Disclosure Note Reference Page Market Value of Freehold Note 6 to the Financial Statements Property, Plant and Equipment. 143 Properties Contingent Liabilities and Note 26 to the Financial Statements Commitments and Contingencies 155 Commitments Events after the Reporting Note 28 to the Financial Statements Events After the Reporting Period 156 Date Risk Management Disclosure of the different types of risks the Company activities were exposed to are 156 to 158 given in Note 29to the Financial Statements. The Company’s risk management process. 101 to 102 Statutory Payments The Directors, to the best of their knowledge are satisfied that all statutory payments in relation to the Government and the employees have been made up to date. 122 Internal Control The Board is responsible for formulating and implementing sound internal control systems to safeguard shareholder interests and assets of the Company. 110 to 111 Directors’ Statement on Internal Control Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report The Company has complied with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) as described on pages 35 to 37. Environmental Protection To the best of knowledge of the Board, the Company has not engaged in any activity that is harmful or hazardous to the environment and has complied with the relevant 79 environmental laws and regulations. Specific measures taken to protect the environment are found in the Respect for the 76 to 79 environment. Compliance To the best of their knowledge, the Board believes that the Company has not engaged in any activity which contravenes laws and regulations. There have been no irregularities involving management or employees that could have any material 83 to 89 financial or other effect. Stated Capital Note 13 to the Financial Statements – Stated Capital 146 Share Information and Share Information Shareholdings Investor information 164 to 165 Register of Directors and As required under Section 223 (1) of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, the Company Secretaries maintains a Register of Directors and Secretaries which contains the name, surname, former name (if any), residential address, business, occupation, dates of appointment and dates of resignation (if applicable) of each Director and the Secretary. Board of Directors Board Profiles 26 to 29 Board CompositionThe Board, Corporate Governance Report 35 Board Committees Board Committees Corporate Governance Report 38 Board and Committee meeting Attendance at meetings Corporate Governance Report 39 attendance Directors’ shareholdings Investor Information 165 Directors’ interest in The Directors declared in terms of the requirement of the listing rules of the transactions Colombo Stock Exchange that the transactions carried out by the Company with its Related Parties during the financial year ended 31st March 2020 did not exceed 10% 155 of equity or 5% of the total assets of the Company. Related party transactions are disclosed in Note 25 to the Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration Note 22 to the Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration 151 Human Resources An Inspired Team 83 119 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE AFFAIRS OF THE COMPANY Disclosure Note Reference Page Insurance and Indemnity A Corporate Guard has been taken from Orient Insurance Ltd for the Group by Hayleys PLC (parent company) to indemnify all past, present and future directors and officers liability of the Company Policy No P/100/6020/2015/10 Limit of Liability USD 5,000,000 Policy premium LKR 9,239,369.50 Period From 01.06.2019 to 31.05.2020 Material Foreseeable Risk Risk Management Review 101 to 102 Factors (As per Rule No. 7.6 (VI) of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange) Material Issues Pertaining No material issues occurred during the year to Employees and Industrial Relations Pertaining to the Company (As per Rule No. 7.6 (VII) of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange) Operational Excellence Performance Highlights 14 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Board of Directors has given the following statement in respect of the related party transactions. The related party transactions of the Company during the financial year have been re-viewed by the Related party Transactions Review Committee of Hayleys PLC, the Parent Company of Hayleys Fabric PLC and are in compliance with Section 09 of the CSE Listing Rules. NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company is convened on 27th July 2020, Auditorium of the Registered Office of the Company, No 400, Deans Road, Colombo. The Notice of the Annual General Meeting appears on page 166. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF THE CONTENTS OF THE REPORT As required by Section 168 (1) (k) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors hereby acknowledges the contents of this Annual Report. For and on behalf of the Board of Directors. A.M. Pandithage E.R.P. Goonetilleke Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd Chairman Managing Director/CEO Secretaries Colombo 06 May 2020 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL The Section D1.5of the ‘Code of Best INTERNAL AUDIT CYBER SECURITY Practice on Corporate Governance Company’s Internal Audit function is Company uses several world renewed 2017’(The Code) issued by the Institute performed by Hayleys Management Audit software systems for entire operations and of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and System Review Department (HMA thus increasing the Company’s reliance recommends that the Board of Directors and SRD) which is an independent function on technology. In this era, securing and present a Statement on Internal Control in report directly to Audit Committee that protecting the Company’s information the Annual Report. provides assurance on the efficiency and assets becomes a key priority. The Board effectiveness of the Internal Control System and Hayleys Group level have taken RESPONSIBILITY of the Company and more details are necessary precautions to minimise the risk The Board of Directors (“Board”) has available in Audit Committee Report on of a security breach. During the year under the overall responsibility of maintaining page 110. review, necessary steps have been rolled a sound system of internal controls and out to curtail the exposure to cyber-attacks for periodically reviewing its effectiveness REVIEW ADEQUACY AND by reducing the threat surface and any and integrity, in order to ensure that the EFFECTIVENESS potentially exploitable vulnerabilities. Company’s risks are within the acceptable The Board and the Audit Committee, risk profile. Accordingly, the Board can have taken steps to ensure adequacy and CONFIRMATION provide reasonable assurance against effectiveness of the internal controls of The Board of Hayleys Fabric PLC confirms misstatement of management and financial both financial and operational processes, that all Financial Statements are prepared information and records. The Board has remedial steps are taken where necessary in accordance with the requirements of established an organisation structure, which the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Sri clearly defines lines of accountability and The Board and the Audit Committee Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards delegated authority. concluded that an effective system of risk Act, the Listing Rules of the Colombo management and internal controls are Stock Exchange and other regulatory The Board has instituted an ongoing in place to safeguard the shareholders’ bodies as applicable for the Company. process for identifying, evaluating and investment and the Company’s assets. mitigating significant risks faced by the We have duly complied with all the Company, this process entails enhancing the requirements prescribed by the regulatory POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND internal control system as and when there authorities including the Colombo Stock BUDGETS are changes to the business environment Exchange and the Registrar of Companies. and regulatory guidelines. Company has set the Policies and procedure The Company Financial Statements for to ensure the compliance with internal the year ended 31st March 2020 have controls and relevant laws and regulations BOARD COMMITTEE been audited by Messrs. Ernst & Young, are set out in operations manuals, which are The Board has delegated specific Chartered Accountants. updated from time to time. responsibilities to the following four By order of the Board subcommittees: Annual budget is approved by the Board • Audit Committee and the performance is assessed against the approved budgets and explanations • Nomination CommitteeParent are provided for significant variances Company Nomination Committee periodically to the respective Boards. • Remuneration Committee E.R.P. Goonetilleke • Related Party Transactions Review CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT Managing Director/CEO Committee – Parent Company AND ETHICS The Company Code of ethics which These committees are chaired by includes a strong set of corporate values Independent Non-Executive Directors and and conduct, is circulated to Directors have the authority to examine particular H. Somashantha and all employees. The Board ensures issues and report back to the Board with Chairman-Audit Committee that Directors and all employees their recommendations. strictly comply with the Company code The Board is confident that the internal of ethics in exercising their duties, controls are adequate to provide reasonable communications, role modelling and in assurance regarding the reliability of any other circumstances, so as to uphold R. Rohitha Bandara financial reporting which are in accordance the Company’s image. Strict disciplinary actions are initiated for any violation of the Director Finance with acceptable accounting principles and the applicable regulatory requirements. Company code of ethics. Colombo 06 May 2020 121 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Companies Act No.7 of 2007 to safeguard the assets of the Company. The Directors confirm that to the best of requires the Directors of the Company The Directors have instituted appropriate their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies to be responsible for the preparation and systems of internal control in order to payable by the Company, all contributions, presentation of the Financial Statements minimise and detect fraud, errors and levies and taxes payable on behalf of and other statutory reports. The other irregularities. The Directors in and in respect of the employees of the responsibilities of the Directors, in relation maintaining a sound system of internal Company, and all other known statutory to the Financial Statements of Hayleys control and in protecting the assets of dues as were due and payable by the Fabric PLC are set out in this report. The the Company, have further adopted risk Company as at the reporting date have responsibility of the Auditors, in relation management strategies to identify and been paid, or where relevant provided to the Financial Statements is set out in the evaluate the risks which the Company for, except as specified in Note 26.2 to the Report of the Auditors on pages from 124 could be exposed to and its impact to the Financial Statements covering contingent to 127. Company. liabilities. The Financial Statements comprise of: Having considered the Company’s business The Directors have confirmed that the plans, and a review of its current and Company satisfied the Solvency test • Income statement and statement future operations, the Directors are of requirement under Section 56 of the of comprehensive income of the the view that the Company has adequate Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 for the Company, which present a true and resources to continue in operation to interim Dividends paid for 2019/20. fair view of the profit and loss of the justify applying the going concern basis in Company for the financial year. The Directors further confirm that to the preparing these Financial Statements. • A statement of financial position, best of their knowledge, the Company has which presents a true and fair view of The Financial Statements of the Company not engaged in any activity that is harmful the state of affairs of the Company as are prepared and presented in accordance or hazardous to the environment and has at the end of the financial year. with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards complied with the relevant environmental (SLFRSs/ LKASs); and that reasonable laws and regulations. • Statement of Changes in Equity and and prudent judgments and estimates have Cash Flow for the year then ended been made so that the form and substance and Accounting policies and notes of transactions are properly reflected thereto. By Order of the Board, The Board of Directors confirm that The Directors confirm that the Financial the Company’s Statements of Financial Statements and other statutory reports Position as at 31st March 2020 and the Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd of the Company for the year ended 31st Comprehensive Income Statements for the March 2020 incorporated in this report Secretaries Company for the financial year ended 31st have been prepared in accordance with March 2020 reflect a true and fair view. Colombo the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Sri 06 May 2020 Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards The Directors have provided the Act No. 15 of 1995 and the Listing Rules Auditors with every opportunity to of the Colombo Stock Exchange. carry out any reviews and tests that they consider appropriate and necessary for The Directors have taken appropriate steps the performance of their duties. The to ensure that the Company maintains responsibility of the independent Auditors adequate and accurate records which in relation to the Financial Statements is reflect the true financial position of set out in the Independent Auditors Report Hayleys Fabric PLC. The Directors have taken appropriate and reasonable steps 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2019/20 1st Quarter Report 29th July 2019 2nd Quarter Report 06th November 2019 3rd Quarter Report 06th February 2020 4th Quarter Report 06th May 2020 Annual Report 2019/20 01st July 2020 28th Annual General Meeting 27th July 2020 123 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF BASIS FOR OPINION provide a separate opinion on these HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC We conducted our audit in accordance matters. For each matter below, our with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards description of how our audit addressed Report on the Audit of the Financial (SLAuSs). Our responsibilities under the matter is provided in that context. Statements those standards are further described in We have fulfilled the responsibilities the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit OPINION described in the Auditor’s responsibilities of the financial statements section of We have audited the financial statements for the audit of the financial statements our report. We are independent of the of Hayleys Fabric PLC (“the Company”) section of our report, including in Company in accordance with the Code which comprise the statement of relation to these matters. Accordingly, of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka (Code financial position as at 31 March 2020, our audit included the performance of Ethics) and we have fulfilled our other and the statement of profit or loss and of procedures designed to respond to ethical responsibilities in accordance other comprehensive income, statement our assessment of the risks of material with the Code of Ethics. We believe that of changes in equity and statement misstatement of the financial statements. the audit evidence we have obtained is of cash flows for the year then ended, The results of our audit procedures, sufficient and appropriate to provide a and notes to the financial statements, including the procedures performed basis for our opinion. including a summary of significant to address the matters below, provide accounting policies. the basis for our audit opinion on the KEY AUDIT MATTERS accompanying financial statements. In our opinion, the accompanying Key audit matters are those matters financial statements give a true and that, in our professional judgment, were fair view of the financial position of of most significance in the audit of the Company as at 31 March 2020, the financial statements of the current and of their financial performance and period. These matters were addressed in cash flows for the year then ended in the context of the audit of the financial accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting statements as a whole, and in forming Standards. the opinion thereon, and we do not 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Valuation of Inventories To validate the valuation of inventories, we; Inventories amounted to USD 15,263,061 as at the reporting checked inventory ageing reports and production date and represented 31% of the Company’s total assets. quality reports to determine whether management has appropriately identified second grade and slowThe Company has applied judgment in the determination moving inventories; and valuation of inventories that are second grade and slow moving; having taken into consideration factors such checked the reasonability of assumptions applied as quality assessments performed, age of inventories and by management on the possible effects that the possible effects the COVID-19 outbreak may have on the COVID-19 outbreak may have on the Company’s Company’s business and product lines. business and product lines specifically in relation Management has also made estimates in determining net to expectations of customer orders as well as the realizable values of second grade inventories. usability and marketability of inventories maintained by the Company; and The significance of the balance coupled with the judgments applied by management has resulted in the valuation of checked the reasonableness of estimates made inventories being identified as a key audit matter. by management towards the determination of net realizable value for second grade inventories, comparing such against sales prices secured for similar products and offers obtained subsequent to the reporting date. We also assessed the adequacy of disclosures made in relation to the valuation of inventories in Notes 5.3 and 8 to the financial statements. 125 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OTHER INFORMATION matters related to going concern error, as fraud may involve collusion, INCLUDED IN THE 2020 and using the going concern basis of forgery, intentional omissions, ANNUAL REPORT accounting unless management either misrepresentations, or the override Other information consists of the intends to liquidate the Company or of internal control. information included in the Annual to cease operations, or has no realistic • Obtain an understanding of internal Report, other than the financial alternative but to do so. control relevant to the audit in order statements and our auditor’s report Those charged with governance are to design audit procedures that are thereon. Management is responsible for responsible for overseeing the Company’s appropriate in the circumstances, but the other information. financial reporting process. not for the purpose of expressing an Our opinion on the financial statements opinion on the effectiveness of the does not cover the other information and AUDITOR’S Company’s internal controls. we do not express any form of assurance RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE • Evaluate the appropriateness of conclusion thereon. AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL accounting policies used and the STATEMENTS In connection with our audit of the reasonableness of accounting Our objectives are to obtain reasonable estimates and related disclosures financial statements, our responsibility assurance about whether the financial made by management. is to read the other information and, statements as a whole are free from in doing so, consider whether the other material misstatement, whether due to • Conclude on the appropriateness information is materially inconsistent fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s of management’s use of the going with the financial statements or our report that includes our opinion. concern basis of accounting knowledge obtained in the audit or Reasonable assurance is a high level and, based on the audit evidence otherwise appears to be materially of assurance, but is not a guarantee obtained, whether a material misstated. If, based on the work we have that an audit conducted in accordance uncertainty exists related to events or performed, we conclude that there is with SLAuSs will always detect a conditions that may cast significant a material misstatement of this other material misstatement when it exists. doubt on the Company’s ability to information, we are required to report Misstatements can arise from fraud continue as a going concern. If we that fact. We have nothing to report in or error and are considered material conclude that a material uncertainty this regard. if, individually or in the aggregate, exists, we are required to draw they could reasonably be expected to attention in our auditor’s report to RESPONSIBILITIES OF influence the economic decisions of users the related disclosures in the financial THE MANAGEMENT AND taken on the basis of these financial statements or, if such disclosures THOSE CHARGED WITH statements. are inadequate, to modify our GOVERNANCE FOR THE opinion. Our conclusions are based FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As part of an audit in accordance on the audit evidence obtained up Management is responsible for the with SLAuSs, we exercise professional to the date of our auditor’s report. preparation of financial statements that judgment and maintain professional However, future events or conditions give a true and fair view in accordance skepticism throughout the audit. We also: may cause the Company to cease to with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, continue as a going concern. • Identify and assess the risks of and for such internal control as material misstatement of the • Evaluate the overall presentation, management determines is necessary financial statements, whether due to structure and content of the financial to enable the preparation of financial fraud or error, design and perform statements, including the disclosures, statements that are free from material audit procedures responsive to those and whether the financial statements misstatement, whether due to fraud or risks, and obtain audit evidence represent the underlying transactions error. that is sufficient and appropriate and events in a manner that achieves In preparing the financial statements, to provide a basis for our opinion. fair presentation. management is responsible for assessing The risk of not detecting a material the Company’s ability to continue as a misstatement resulting from fraud is going concern, disclosing, as applicable, higher than for one resulting from 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC We communicate with those charged examination, proper accounting records with governance regarding, among have been kept by the Company. other matters, the planned scope and CA Sri Lanka membership number of timing of the audit and significant the engagement partner responsible for audit findings, including any significant signing this independent auditor’s report deficiencies in internal control that we is 4107. identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all Chartered Accountants relationships and other matters that may 06 May 2020 reasonably be thought to bear on our Colombo independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we have obtained all the information and explanations that were required for the audit and, as far as appears from our 127 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION As at 31 March 2020 2019 Note USD USD ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 6 25,406,917 24,819,631 Intangible assets 7 120,110 64,117 25,527,027 24,883,748 Current Assets Inventories 8 15,263,060 13,299,520 Trade receivables 9 6,301,050 8,394,207 Other receivables 10 549,719 373,932 Advances and prepayments 11 763,128 373,499 Cash and cash equivalents 12 533,469 284,635 23,410,426 22,725,793 Total Assets 48,937,453 47,609,541 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and Reserves Stated capital 13 17,561,761 17,561,761 Revaluation reserve 1,415,280 1,415,280 Retained losses (570,995) (1,117,816) Total Equity 18,406,046 17,859,225 Non-Current Liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 700,670 1,054,778 Deferred tax liabilities 23.2 2,159,088 1,768,003 Retirement benefit obligations 15 2,745,877 2,534,443 5,605,635 5,357,224 Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 16 7,424,741 8,729,229 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 14 16,070,954 14,130,063 Amounts due to Hayleys PLC 119,034 62,018 Other non financial liabilities 17 1,311,043 1,471,782 24,925,772 24,393,092 Total Equity and Liabilities 48,937,453 47,609,541 These financial statements are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No : 07 of 2007. Ruwan Rohitha Bandara DirectorFinance The Board of Directors is responsible for these financial statements. Signed for and on behalf of the Board by, A.M.Pandithage E.R.P.Goonetilleke Chairman Managing Director/CEO Colombo 06 May 2020 The accounting policies and notes on pages 132 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year ended 31 March 2020 2019 Note USD USD Revenue from contracts with customers 18 67,115,723 69,940,639 Cost of sales (58,416,125) (61,601,834) Gross Profit 8,699,598 8,338,805 Other operating income 19 60,336 67,049 Administrative expenses (5,021,481) (4,779,539) Distribution expenses (826,097) (781,286) Other expenses 20 (443,026) (103,757) Net financing costs 21 (800,428) (892,404) Profit before tax 1,668,902 1,848,868 Income tax expense 23 (398,291) (790,533) Profit for the year 1,270,611 1,058,335 Other Comprehensive Income not to be reclassified to profit or loss Surplus on revaluation of land 6.8 203,386 Income tax effect on revaluation of land 23.2 (28,475) Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans 15 (51,476) (477,896) Income tax effect on actuarial loss on defined benefit plans 23.2 7,207 66,905 Total Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax 1,226,342 822,255 Basic / Diluted Earnings per Share 24 0.006 0.005 The accounting policies and notes on pages 132 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. 129 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Year ended 31st March 2020 Stated Revaluation Retained Total capital reserve earnings/ (losses) USD USD USD USD Balance as at 1st April 2018 17,561,761 1,240,369 (1,765,160) 17,036,970 Profit for the year 1,058,335 1,058,335 Other comprehensive income Surplus on revaluation of land 203,386 203,386 Income tax effect on surplus on revaluation of land (28,475) (28,475) Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (477,896) (477,896) Income tax effect on actuarial loss on defined benefit plans 66,905 66,905 Total other comprehensive income 174,911 (410,991) (236,080) Total comprehensive income 174,911 647,344 822,255 Balance as at 31st March 2019 17,561,761 1,415,280 (1,117,816) 17,859,225 Profit for the year 1,270,611 1,270,611 Other comprehensive income Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (51,476) (51,476) Income tax effect on actuarial loss on defined benefit plans 7,207 7,207 Total other comprehensive income (44,269) (44,269) Total comprehensive income 1,226,342 1,226,342 Dividends to equity holders (679,521) (679,521) Balance as at 31st March 2020 17,561,761 1,415,280 (570,995) 18,406,046 The accounting policies and notes on pages 132 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Year ended 31 March 2020 2019 Note USD USD Cash flows from / (used in) operating activities Profit before income tax expense 1,668,902 1,848,868 Adjustments for Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 6 2,126,025 2,020,888 Amortization of intangible assets 7 57,816 93,538 Provision for retiring gratuity 15 430,405 362,013 Net unrealised gain on translation of foreign currency (186,962) (227,873) Finance costs 21 805,619 991,393 (Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 19 (35,792) 13,738 Loss on impairment of idle property, plant and equipment 20 443,024 90,019 Creditors write back (24,544) (47,044) Impairment charge /(reversal) for bad and doubtful debts (2,363) 26,397 Impairment for slow moving inventories 335,299 84,282 Operating profit before working capital changes 5,617,429 5,256,219 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables 1,944,277 (185,867) (Increase)/decrease in advances and prepayments (389,629) 115,659 Increase in inventories (2,298,839) (1,859,139) Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables and other non financial liabilities (1,440,597) 991,780 Cash generated from operations 3,432,641 4,318,652 Retiring gratuity paid 15 (83,484) (110,608) Interest paid (774,945) (955,178) Economic service charge paid (369,012) (325,316) Net cash flows from operating activities 2,205,200 2,927,550 Cash flows from / (used in) investing activities Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment (2,788,702) (1,469,566) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 38,883 8,375 Purchase of intangible assets (113,809) (5,625) Net cash flows used in investing activities (2,863,628) (1,466,816) Cash flows from / (used in) financing activities Proceeds from new term loans 14 1,194,670 310,000 Repayment of term loans 14 (2,587,833) (2,710,509) Net movement of import & short term loans 2,920,591 633,380 Dividend paid to equity holders (679,521) Net cash flows from / (used in) financing activities 847,907 (1,767,129) Net increase / (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 189,479 (306,395) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 12 (555,433) (249,038) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 12 (365,954) (555,433) The accounting policies and notes on pages 132 through 158 form an integral part of these financial statements. 131 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Corporate Information Policies and Notes to the financial exchange differences on those monetary 1.1 Reporting Entity statements. items are also recognized in other Hayleys Fabric PLC is a Company comprehensive income. Non-monetary incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The financial statements have been assets and liabilities which are measured The ordinary shares of the Company are prepared on a historical cost basis, except in terms of historical cost in a foreign listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange for land which is reflected at fair value. currency are translated using exchange of Sri Lanka. The Company’s registered rates at the dates of the initial transactions. No adjustments have been made for office is situated in 400, Deans Road, inflationary factors in the Financial Colombo 10 and the principle place of Non-monetary items measured at fair Statements. value in a foreign currency are translated business of the Company is at Narthupana using the exchange rates at the date when Estate, Neboda. 2.3 Functional and the fair value is determined. The gain or Presentation Currency 1.2 Nature of Operations and The financial statements are presented loss arising on translation of non-monetary Principal Activities of the in United States Dollars (USD) as items measured at fair value is treated in Company commercial transactions are primarily line with the recognition of gain or loss on The Company’s principal activity is the the change in fair value of the item (i.e., carried out by the Company in USD and manufacture of knitted fabric. translation differences on items whose fair such would better reflect the economic value gain or loss is recognised in OCI or 1.3 Parent Enterprise substance of underlying events and profit or loss are also recognised in OCI or In the opinion of the Directors, the circumstances relevant to the enterprise. profit or loss, respectively). Company’s ultimate parent undertaking 2.4 Materiality and and controlling party is Hayleys PLC, In determining the spot exchange rate to Aggregation which is incorporated in Sri Lanka. use on initial recognition of the related Each material class of similar items is asset, expense or income (or part of it) 1.4 Approval of Financial presented separately in the Financial on the derecognition of a non-monetary Statements Statements. Items of a dissimilar nature asset or non-monetary liability relating The financial statements of Hayleys or function are presented separately unless to advance consideration, the date of Fabric PLC were authorized for issue in they are immaterial. the transaction is the date on which the accordance with a resolution of the Board 2.5 Comparative information Company initially recognises the nonof Directors on 6th May 2020 Comparative information including monetary asset or non-monetary liability quantitative, narrative and descriptive arising from the advance consideration. 1.5 Responsibility for information as relevant is disclosed in If there are multiple payments or receipts Financial Statements respect of previous period in the Financial in advance, the Company determines The responsibility of the Directors in Statements. the transaction date for each payment or relation to the Financial Statements is receipt of advance consideration. set out in the Statement of Directors’ 2.6 Offsetting Responsibility Report in the Annual Assets and liabilities or income and 3.2 Current versus nonReport. expenses, are not offset unless required current classification or permitted by Sri Lanka Accounting The Company presents assets and 2. Basis of Preparation Standards. liabilities in the Statement of Financial 2.1. Statement of Compliance Position based on current/non-current The Financial Statements have been 3. Summary of Significant classification. An asset is current when it is: prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Policies Accounting and Auditing Standards 3.1 Foreign Curency • Expected to be realised or intended Act No. 15 of 1995, which requires Transactions in foreign currencies are to be sold or consumed in a normal compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting initially recorded by the Company at their operating cycle Standards promulgated by the Institute of respective functional currency spot rates at Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA • Held primarily for the purpose of the date the transaction first qualifies for Sri Lanka), and with the requirements of trading recognition. the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. • Expected to be realised within twelve Monetary assets and liabilities 2.2 Basis of Measurement denominated in foreign currencies are months after the reporting period, or The financial statements of the Company translated at the functional currency comprise the Statement of Financial • Cash or cash equivalent unless spot rate of exchange at the reporting restricted from being exchanged or Position, Statement of Profit or Loss and date. Differences arising on settlement Other Comprehensive Income, Statement used to settle a liability for at least or translation of monetary items are twelve months after the reporting of Changes in Equity and Statement of recognised in Statement of Profit or Loss. Cash Flows together with the Accounting period Tax charges and credit attributable to 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC All other assets are classified as nonThe Company uses valuation techniques will flow to the Company and cost of the current. that are appropriate in the circumstances asset can be reliably measured. and for which sufficient data are available A liability is current when: to measure fair value, maximizing the 3.4.2 Basis of measurement use of relevant observable inputs and Items of property, plant & equipment • It is expected to be settled in a normal including construction in progress are minimising the use of unobservable inputs. operating cycle measured at cost net of accumulated All assets and liabilities for which fair value depreciation and accumulated impairment • It is held primarily for the purpose of is measured or disclosed in the financial losses, if any, except for land which is trading statements are categorized within the fair measured at fair value. • It is due to be settled within twelve value hierarchy, described as follows, based months after the reporting period, or on the lowest level input that is significant 3.4.3 Owned assets to the fair value measurement as a whole: The cost of property, plant & equipment • It does not have a right at the reporting includes expenditure that is directly date to defer the settlement of the Level 1Quoted (unadjusted) market prices attributable to the acquisition of the liability for at least twelve months after in active markets for identical assets or asset. The cost of selfconstructed assets the reporting period liabilities includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly attributable The Company classifies all other liabilities Level 2 Valuation techniques for which to bringing the asset to a working condition as noncurrent. the lowest level input that is significant to for its intended use, and includes the the fair value measurement is directly or costs of dismantling and removing the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are indirectly observable items and restoring the site on which classified as non-current assets and they are located, and borrowing costs on liabilities. Level 3Valuation techniques for which qualifying assets. Purchased software that is the lowest level input that is significant to 3.3 Fair value measurement integral to the functionality of the related the fair value measurement is unobservable The Company measures land at fair value equipment is capitalised as a part of that in these financial statements. Fair value For assets and liabilities that are recognised equipment. is the price that would be received to sell in the financial statements on a recurring When significant parts of plant and an asset or paid to transfer a liability in basis, the Company determines whether equipment are required to be replaced at an orderly transaction between market transfers have occurred between Levels in intervals, the Company depreciates them participants at the measurement date. The the hierarchy by reassessing categorization separately based on their specific useful fair value measurement is based on the (based on the lowest level input that is lives. presumption that the transaction to sell significant to the fair value measurement the asset or transfer the liability takes place as a whole) at the end of each reporting Revaluation of land is done with sufficient either: period. frequency to ensure that the fair value of the land does not differ materially from • In the principal market for the asset or For the purpose of fair value disclosures, its carrying amount, and is undertaken by liability, or the Company has determined classes of professionally qualified valuers. assets and liabilities on the basis of the • In the absence of a principal market, nature, characteristics and risks of the asset Any revaluation surplus is recorded in the most advantageous market for or liability and the level of the fair value in Other Comprehensive Income and the asset or liability hierarchy as explained above. credited to the asset revaluation reserve The principal or the most advantageous in equity. However, to the extent that 3.4 Property, plant & market must be accessible to the Company. it reverses a revaluation deficit of the equipment The fair value of an asset or a liability same asset previously recognised in the The Company applies the requirements is measured using the assumptions that Statement of Profit or Loss, the increase of LKAS 16 on ‘Property Plant and market participants would use when is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Equipment’ in accounting for its owned pricing the asset or liability, assuming that Loss. A revaluation deficit is recognised assets which are held for and use in market participants act in their economic in the Statement of Profit or Loss, except the provision of the services or for best interest. A fair value measurement of to the extent that it offsets an existing administration purpose and are expected a non-financial asset takes into account surplus on the same asset recognised in the to be used for more than one year. a market participant’s ability to generate asset revaluation reserve. Upon disposal, economic benefits by using the asset in 3.4.1 Basis of recognition any revaluation reserve relating to the its highest and best use or by selling it to Property, plant and equipment is particular asset being sold is transferred to another market participant that would use recognised if it is probable that future retained earnings. the asset in its highest and best use. economic benefit associated with the assets 133 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.4.4 Subsequent costs 3.5 Intangible assets 3.5.5. Subsequent expenditure The cost of replacing a component of 3.5.1 Basis of recognition Subsequent expenditure is capitalised an item of property, plant & equipment An Intangible asset is recognised if it is only when it increases the future is recognised in the carrying amount of probable that future economic benefits economic benefits embodied in the the item if it is probable that the future associated with the assets will flow to the specific asset to which it relates. All economic benefits embodied within Company and cost of the asset can be other expenditure, including expenditure the part will flow to the Company and reliably measured. on internally generated goodwill and its cost can be measured reliably. The brands, is recognised in profit or loss as carrying amount of the replaced part 3.5.2 Basis of measurement incurred. is derecognised in accordance with the Intangible assets acquired separately derecognition policy given below. are measured on initial recognition 3.5.6 Amortisation at cost. Following initial recognition, Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss The costs of the repair and maintenance intangible assets are carried at cost less on a straight-line basis over the estimated of property, plant & equipment are any accumulated amortisation and useful lives of intangible assets. recognised in the Statement of Profit or accumulated impairment losses. Internally Loss as incurred. generated intangibles, excluding capitalised Intangible Assets of the Company consists development costs, are not capitalised and of Computer Software, which being an 3.4.5 Derecognition the related expenditure is reflected in the intangible asset with a finite useful life is The carrying amount of an item Statement of Profit or Loss in the year in amortized over a period of 4 – 6 2/3 years, of property, plant & equipment is which the expenditure is incurred. as such represents management’s best derecognised on disposal; or when no estimate. future economic benefits are expected 3.5.3 Useful economic lives and from its use. Any gains and losses on amortisation 3.6 Financial instruments derecognition are recognised (calculated The useful lives of intangible assets are A financial instrument is any contract that as the difference between the net disposal assessed as either finite or indefinite. gives rise to a financial asset of one entity proceeds and the carrying amount of the and financial liability or equity instrument asset) in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Intangible assets with finite lives are of another entity. Gains are not classified as revenue. amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is 3.6.1 Financial assets 3.4.6 Depreciation an indication that the intangible asset may 3.6.1.1 Initial recognition and Depreciation is calculated on a straightbe impaired. The amortisation period and measurement line basis over the estimated useful lives of the amortisation method for an intangible Financial assets are classified, at initial the assets, as follows: asset with finite useful lives are reviewed at recognition, as subsequently measured at least at the end of each reporting period. amortised cost, fair value through other Changes in the expected useful life or the comprehensive income (FVOCI) and fair expected pattern of consumption of future value through profit or loss. Buildings 40 years economic benefits embodied in the asset Water Treatment Plant 15 years The classification of financial assets is considered to modify the amortisation Plant & Machinery 15-20 years at initial recognition depends on the period or method, as appropriate, and are Motor Vehicles 5 years financial asset’s contractual cash flow treated as changes in accounting estimates. characteristics and the Company’s Furniture and Fittings 6 2/3 years The amortisation expense on intangible business model for managing them. With Office Equipment 6 2/3 years assets with finite lives is recognised in the the exception of trade receivables that Computers 6 2/3 years Statement of Profit or Loss in the expense do not contain a significant financing Factory Equipment 6 2/3 years category that is consistent with the function component or for which the Company of the intangible assets. Safety and Medical 6 2/3 years has applied the practical expedient, the Equipment 3.5.4 De-recognition of intangible Company initially measures a financial Bungalow Equipment 6 2/3 years assets asset at its fair value plus, in the case Intangible assets are de-recognised on of a financial asset not at fair value Depreciation of an asset begins when it is through profit or loss, transaction costs. disposal or when no future economic available for use and ceases at the earlier Trade receivables that do not contain benefits are expected from its use. Gains of the dates on which the asset is classified a significant financing component or or losses arising from de-recognition as held for sale or is derecognised. The for which the Company has applied of an intangible asset are measured as asset’s residual values and useful lives are the practical expedient are measured the difference between the net disposal reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the transaction price as disclosed in proceeds and the carrying amount of the at each financial year end and adjusted Note 18 Revenue from contracts with asset and are recognised in the Statement prospectively, if appropriate. customers. of Profit or Loss when the asset is derecognised. 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC In order for a financial asset to be classified All financial assets of the Company transferred nor retained substantially and measured at amortised cost or fair represent financial assets at amortised cost all of the risks and rewards of the asset, value through OCI, it needs to give rise and include trade and other receivables, nor transferred control of the asset, to cash flows that are ‘solely payments amounts due from related parties and cash the Company continues to recognise of principal and interest (SPPI)’ on the and cash equivalents. the transferred asset to the extent of its principal amount outstanding. This continuing involvement. In that case, the assessment is referred to as the SPPI test The Company measures financial assets Company also recognises an associated and is performed at an instrument level. at amortised cost if both of the following liability. The transferred asset and the Financial assets with cash flows that are not conditions are met: associated liability are measured on a basis SPPI are classified and measured at fair that reflects the rights and obligations that • The financial asset is held within a value through profit or loss, irrespective of the Company has retained. business model with the objective to the business model. hold financial assets in order to collect Continuing involvement that takes the The Company’s business model for contractual cash flows, and form of a guarantee over the transferred managing financial assets refers to how asset is measured at the lower of the • The contractual terms of the financial it manages its financial assets in order original carrying amount of the asset and asset give rise on specified dates to to generate cash flows. The business the maximum amount of consideration cash flows that are solely payments of model determines whether cash flows that the Company could be required to principal and interest on the principal will result from collecting contractual repay. amount outstanding cash flows, selling the financial assets, or both. Financial assets are not reclassified 3.6.1.4 Impairment of financial Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequent to their initial recognition assets subsequently measured using the effective unless the Company changes its business Further disclosures relating to impairment interest (EIR) method and are subject model for managing financial assets, in of Trade receivables is provided in the to impairment. Gains and losses are which case all affected financial assets note 9.2 to the Financial StatementsFor recognised in profit or loss when the asset are reclassified on the first day of the first trade receivables and contract assets, the is derecognised, modified or impaired. reporting period following the change in Company applies a simplified approach the business model. 3.6.1.3 Derecognition in calculating Expected Credit Loss A financial asset (or, where applicable, a (ECLs). Therefore, the Company does Purchases or sales of financial assets part of a financial asset or part of a group not track changes in credit risk, but that require delivery of assets within a of similar financial assets) is primarily instead recognises a loss allowance based time frame established by regulation or derecognised (i.e: removed from the on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. convention in the market place (regular Company’s financial position) when: The Company has established a provision way trades) are recognised on the trade matrix that is based on its historical credit date, i.e., the date that the Company • The rights to receive cash flows from loss experience, adjusted for forwardcommits to purchase or sell the asset. the asset have expired, or looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment. 3.6.1.2 Subsequent measurement • The Company has transferred its rights For purposes of subsequent measurement, to receive cash flows from the asset A financial asset is written off when there financial assets are classified in four or has assumed an obligation to pay is no reasonable expectation of recovering categories; the received cash flows in full without the contractual cash flows. material delay to a third party under a • Financial assets at amortised cost (debt ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either 3.6.2 Financial liabilities instruments) 3.6.2.1 Initial recognition and (a) the Company has transferred measurement • Financial assets at fair value through substantially all the risks and rewards Financial liabilities are classified, at initial OCI with recycling of cumulative of the asset, or recognition, as financial liabilities at fair gains and losses (debt instruments) value through profit or loss, loans and (b) the Company has neither transferred borrowings, payables or as derivatives • Financial assets designated at fair nor retained substantially all the risks designated as hedging instruments in an value through OCI with no recycling and rewards of the asset, but has effective hedge, as appropriate. of cumulative gains and losses upon transferred control of the asset. derecognition (equity instruments) All financial liabilities are recognised When the Company has transferred initially at fair value and in the case of • Financial assets at fair value through its rights to receive cash flows from an loans and borrowings and payables, net of profit or loss asset or has entered into a pass-through directly attributable transaction costs. arrangement, it evaluates if and to Financial assets at amortised cost (debt what extent it has retained the risks and All financial liabilities of the Company instruments) rewards of ownership. When it has neither represent loans and borrowings in the 135 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS form of trade and other payables, bank in-progress are measured at weighted a separate entity and will have no legal overdrafts, loans and borrowings,. average directly attributable cost. or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to 3.6.2.2 Subsequent measurement • Manufactured inventories and workProvident and Trust Funds covering all Loans and borrowings in-progress are measured at weighted employees are recognised as an employee average factory cost which includes benefit expense in profit or loss in the After initial recognition, loans and all direct expenditure and appropriate periods during which services are rendered borrowings are subsequently measured share of production overhead based by employees. at amortised cost using the EIR method. on normal operating capacity but Gains and losses are recognised in the excluding borrowing costs. The Company contributes 12% and Statement of Profit or Loss when the 3% of gross emoluments to employees liabilities are derecognised as well as Net realisable value is the estimated selling as Provident Fund and Trust Fund through the EIR amortisation process. price in the ordinary course of business contribution respectively. less, the estimated cost of completion and Amortised cost is calculated by taking the estimated costs necessary to make the 3.10.2 Defined benefit plans into account any discount or premium sale. A defined benefit plan is a poston acquisition and fees or costs that are employment benefit plan other than a an integral part of the EIR. The EIR 3.8 Impairment of nondefined contribution plan. The defined amortisation is included in finance costs financial assets benefit is calculated by independent in the Statement of Profit or Loss. The carrying amounts of the Company’s actuaries using Projected Unit Credit assets are reviewed at each reporting (PUC) method as recommended by LKAS 3.6.2.3 Derecognition date to determine whether there is any 19 – “Employee benefits”. The present A financial liability is derecognised indication of impairment. In assessing value of the defined benefit obligation is when the obligation under the liability indicators of impairment, management determined by discounting the estimated is discharged or cancelled or expires. assesses, (amongst others) the existence future cash outflows using interest rates When an existing financial liability is of assets which remain idle, assets which that are denominated in the currency in replaced by another from the same have been subject to wear and tear or which the benefits will be paid, and that lender on substantially different terms, technological obsolescence, and items have terms to maturity approximating or the terms of an existing liability of inventories which have not been to the terms of the related liability. The are substantially modified, such an sold or used in the production process present value of the defined benefit exchange or modification is treated as for a significant period of time. If any obligations depends on a number of the derecognition of the original liability such indication exists, then the asset’s factors that are determined on an actuarial and the recognition of a new liability. recoverable amount is estimated. The basis using a number of assumptions. The difference in the respective carrying recoverable amount of an asset or cash Key assumptions used in determining amounts is recognised in the Statement generating unit is the greater of its value in the defined retirement benefit obligations of Profit or Loss. use and its fair value less costs to sell. are given in Note 15.3. Any changes in 3.6.3 Offsetting of financial these assumptions will impact the carrying An impairment loss is recognized if the instruments amount of defined benefit obligations. carrying amount of an asset or its cashFinancial assets and financial liabilities are Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in generating unit exceeds its recoverable offset and the net amount reported in the full in the Other Comprehensive Income. amount. Impairment losses are recognised Statement of Financial Position if, in the statement of profit or loss. Provision has been made for retirement • There is a currently enforceable legal gratuities from the beginning of service for 3.9 Cash and cash right to offset the recognised amounts all employees, in conformity with LKAS 19 equivalents and on employee benefit. However, under the Cash and cash equivalents are cash in Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, • There is an intention to settle on a net hand and demand deposits that are readily the liability to an employee arises only on basis, or to realise the assets and settle convertible to known amounts of cash and completion of 5 years of continued service. the liabilities simultaneously subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of the cash flow The liability is not externally funded. The 3.7 Inventories statement, cash and cash equivalents settlement of the liability is based on legal Inventories are valued at the lower of cost consist of cash in hand and deposits in liability method or the following basis as and net realisable value. Costs incurred banks net of outstanding bank overdrafts. applied by the respective entities. in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for 3.10 Employee benefits as follows; 3.10.1 Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a post• All inventory items, except employment benefit plan under which manufactured inventories and workan entity pays fixed contributions into 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Length of each No. of month’s entitled in exchange for those goods or expected life of the financial assets or service (Years) salary for services. liability (or, where appropriate a shorter completed year of period) to the carrying amount of the 3.13.1 Sale of goods financial asset or liability. When calculating service Revenue from sale of goods is recognised the effective interest rate, the Company Up to 20 1/2 at the point in time when control of estimates future cash flows considering Over 20 up to 25 3/4 the asset is transferred to the customer, all contractual terms of the financial Over 25 up to 30 1 generally on delivery of the goods. The instruments, but not future credit losses. Over 30 up to 35 1 1/4 Company considers whether there are other promises in the contract that are The calculation of effective interest rate Over 35 1 1/2 separate performance obligations to includes all transaction costs and fees 3.10.3 Short-term benefits which a portion of the transaction price and points paid or received that are an Short-term employee benefit obligations needs to be allocated. In determining the integral part of the effective interest rate. are measured on an undiscounted basis transaction price for the sale of goods, Transaction costs include incremental and are expensed as the related service is the Company considers the effects of costs that are directly attributable to the provided. variable consideration, the existence of acquisition or issue of a financial asset or significant financing components, non-cash liability. Interest income is presented in 3.11 Provisions consideration, and consideration payable finance income in the Statement Profit or Provisions are recognised when the to the customer (if any). Loss. Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past 3.13.1.1 Variable consideration 3.14.2 Gains and losses event, it is probable that an outflow If the consideration in a contract includes Gains and losses on disposal of an item of resources embodying economic a variable amount, the Company estimates of property, plant & equipment are benefits will be required to settle the the amount of consideration to which it determined by comparing the net sales obligation and a reliable estimate can be will be entitled in exchange for transferring proceeds with the carrying amounts of made of the amount of the obligation. the goods to the customer. The variable property, plant & equipment and are When the Company expects some or consideration is estimated at contract recognised net within “other income” in all of a provision to be reimbursed, the inception and constrained until it is profit or loss. reimbursement is recognised as a separate highly probable that a significant revenue asset, but only when the reimbursement reversal in the amount of cumulative 3.14.3 Other income revenue recognised will not occur when the Other income is recognised on an accrual is virtually certain. The expense relating associated uncertainty with the variable basis. to any provision is presented in the Statement of Profit or Loss net of any consideration is subsequently resolved. 3.15 Expenses reimbursement. Expenses are recognised in the profit or 3.13.2 Assets and liabilities arising from rights of return loss on the basis of a direct association If the effect of the time value of money 3.13.2.1 Right of return assets between the cost incurred and the is material, provisions are discounted Right of return asset represents the earnings of specific items of income. All using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, Company’s right to recover the goods expenditure incurred in the running of the when appropriate, the risks specific to the expected to be returned by customers. The business has been charged to income in liability. When discounting is used, the asset is measured at the former carrying arriving at the profit for the year. For the increase in the provision due to the passage amount of the inventory, less any expected purpose of presentation of the Statement of time is recognised as a finance cost. costs to recover the goods, including any of Profit or Loss, the function of expenses 3.12 Ordinary shares potential decreases in the value of the method is adopted. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. returned goods. The Company updates the Repairs and renewals are charged to profit Incremental costs directly attributable to measurement of the asset recorded for any or loss in the year in which the expenditure the issue of ordinary shares are recognised revisions to its expected level of returns, is incurred. as a deduction from equity, net of any tax as well as any additional decreases in the effects. value of the returned products. 3.15.1 Borrowing costs 3.13 Revenue from Contracts Borrowing costs directly attributable 3.14 Other income and gains with Customers to the acquisition, construction or 3.14.1 Interest Revenue from contracts with customers is production of an asset that necessarily Interest income and expense are recognised when control of the goods or recognised in profit or loss using the takes a substantial period of time to services are transferred to the customer at effective interest method. The effective get ready for its intended use or sale an amount that reflects the consideration interest rate is the rate that exactly are capitalised as part of the cost of to which the Company expects to be discounts the estimated future cash the asset. All other borrowing costs are payments and receipts through the expensed in the period in which they 137 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest returns with respect to situations in accounting profit nor taxable profit and other costs that an entity incurs in which applicable tax regulations are or loss connection with the borrowing of funds. subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. • In respect of deductible temporary 3.15.2 Finance income and finance differences associated with cost 3.16.2 Deferred tax investments in subsidiaries, equity Interest income and expense are Deferred tax is provided using the accounted investee and interests in recognised in profit or loss using the liability method on temporary differences joint ventures, deferred tax assets are effective interest method. The effective between the tax bases of assets and recognised only to the extent that interest rate is the rate that exactly liabilities and their carrying amounts it is probable that the temporary discounts the estimated future cash for financial reporting purposes at the differences will reverse in the payments and receipts through the reporting date. foreseeable future and taxable profit expected life of the financial assets will be available against which the or liability (or, where appropriate a Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences can be utilised. shorter period) to the carrying amount all taxable temporary differences, except: of the financial asset or liability. When The carrying amount of deferred tax • When the deferred tax liability assets is reviewed at each reporting date calculating the effective interest rate, the arises from the initial recognition of and reduced to the extent that it is no Company estimates future cash flows goodwill or an asset or liability in longer probable that sufficient taxable considering all contractual terms of the a transaction that is not a business profit will be available to allow all or part financial instruments, but not future combination and, at the time of of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. credit losses. the transaction, affects neither the Unrecognised deferred tax assets are The calculation of effective interest rate accounting profit nor taxable profit reassessed at each reporting date and includes all transaction costs and fees or loss are recognised to the extent that it has and points paid or received that are an become probable that future taxable • In respect of taxable temporary integral part of the effective interest rate. profits will allow the deferred tax asset to differences associated with Transaction costs include incremental be recovered. investments in subsidiaries, equity cost that are directly attributable to the accounted investee and interests Deferred tax assets and liabilities are acquisition or issue of a financial asset or in joint ventures, when the timing measured at the tax rates that are liability. Interest income is presented in of the reversal of the temporary expected to apply in the year when finance income in the Statement Profit differences can be controlled and the asset is realised or the liability is or Loss. it is probable that the temporary settled, based on tax rates that have been 3.16 Tax expense differences will not reverse in the enacted or substantively enacted at the Tax expense comprises current and foreseeable future. reporting date. deferred tax. Current tax and deferred Deferred tax assets are recognised for Deferred tax relating to items recognised tax are recognised in the Statement of all deductible temporary differences, outside the Statement of Profit or Loss Profit or Loss except items recognised the carry forward of unused tax is recognised outside the Statement directly in Other Comprehensive credits and any unused tax losses. of Profit or Loss. Deferred tax items Income. Deferred tax assets are recognised are recognised in correlation to the 3.16.1 Current tax to the extent that it is probable that underlying transaction either in other Current income tax assets and liabilities taxable profit will be available against comprehensive income or directly in are measured at the amount expected to which the deductible temporary equity. be recovered from or paid to the taxation differences, and the carry forward of authorities. The tax rates and tax laws unused tax credits and unused tax The Company offsets deferred tax assets used to compute the amount are those losses can be utilised, except: and deferred tax liabilities if and only that are enacted or substantively enacted if it has a legally enforceable right to • When the deferred tax asset relating set off current tax assets and current at the reporting date to the deductible temporary tax liabilities and the deferred tax Current tax relating to items recognised difference arises from the initial assets and deferred tax liabilities relate directly in Other Comprehensive Income recognition of an asset or liability in to income taxes levied by the same is recognised in Other Comprehensive a transaction that is not a business taxation authority on either the same Income and not in the Statement of combination and, at the time of taxable entity or different taxable entities Profit or Loss. Management periodically the transaction, affects neither the which intend either to settle current tax evaluates positions taken in the tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to 138 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC realise the assets and settle the liabilities out the principles for the recognition, Company’s tax filings in different simultaneously, in each future period in measurement, presentation and jurisdictions include deductions related which significant amounts of deferred disclosure of leases and requires to transfer pricing and the taxation tax liabilities or assets are expected to be lessees to recognise most leases on the authorities may challenge those tax settled or recovered. Statement of Financial Position. treatments. The Company determined, based on its tax compliance and transfer 4. General No restatements were made to pricing study that it is probable that 4.1 Events Occurring After comparative Information as a result of the its tax treatments be accepted by the the Reporting Date Company’s adoption of SLFRS 16. taxation authorities. The Interpretation All material post reporting date events did not have an impact on the financial 4.4.1.2 IFRIC Interpretation 23 have been considered and where statements of the Company. Uncertainty over Income appropriate adjustments or disclosures Tax Treatment have been made in the respective notes 4.4.1.3 Amendments to SLFRS 9: The Interpretation addresses the to the Financial Statements. Prepayment Features with Negative accounting for income taxes when tax Compensation Under SLFRS 9, a 4.2 Earnings Per Share treatments involve uncertainty that debt instrument can be measured at The Company presents basic earnings affects the application of LKAS 12 amortised cost or at fair value through per share (EPS) for its ordinary shares. Income Taxes. It does not apply to taxes other comprehensive income, provided Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the or levies outside the scope of LKAS that the contractual cash flows are ‘solely profit or loss attributable to ordinary 12, nor does it specifically include payments of principal and interest on the shareholders of the Company by the requirements relating to interest and principal amount outstanding’ (the SPPI weighted average number of ordinary penalties associated with uncertain criterion) and the instrument is held shares outstanding during the period. tax treatments. The Interpretation within the appropriate business model specifically addresses the following: for that classification. The amendments 4.3 Statement of Cash Flows • Whether an entity considers to SLFRS 9 clarify that a financial asset The Statement of Cash Flows has been uncertain tax treatments separately passes the SPPI criterion regardless of prepared using the “indirect method”. an event or circumstance that causes Interest paid is classified as operating • The assumptions an entity makes the early termination of the contract cash flow. Interest income is classified as about the examination of tax and irrespective of which party pays or cash flows from investing activities. treatments by taxation authorities receives reasonable compensation for the early termination of the contract. These Dividends paid are classified as financing • How an entity determines taxable amendments had no impact on the cash flows. profit (tax loss), tax bases, unused financial statements of the Company tax losses, unused tax credits and tax 4.4 Changes in Accounting rates 4.4.1.4 Amendments to LKAS Policies and Disclosures 19: Plan Amendment, 4.4.1 New and amended standards • How an entity considers changes in Curtailment or Settlement and interpretations facts and circumstances The amendments to LKAS 19 address Several Accounting Standards the accounting when a plan amendment, The Company determines whether to amendments and interpretations curtailment or settlement occurs during consider each uncertain tax treatment apply for the first time in 2019/20, a reporting period. The amendments separately or together with one or more but do not have an impact on the specify that when a plan amendment, other uncertain tax treatments and uses financial statements of the Company. curtailment or settlement occurs during the approach that better predicts the The Company has not early adopted the annual reporting period, an entity resolution of the uncertainty. any standards, interpretations or is required to determine the current amendments that have been issued but The Company applies significant service cost for the remainder of the are not yet effective. judgement in identifying uncertainties period after the plan amendment, over income tax treatments and it curtailment or settlement, using the 4.4.1.1 SLFRS 16 Leases assessed whether the Interpretation had actuarial assumptions used to re-measure SLFRS 16 supersedes LKAS 17 Leases, an impact on its financial statements. the net defined benefit liability (asset) IFRIC 4 Determining whether an reflecting the benefits offered under the Arrangement contains a Lease, SICUpon adoption of the Interpretation, plan and the plan assets after that event. 15 Operating Leases-Incentives and the Company considered whether it has An entity is also required to determine SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance any uncertain tax positions, particularly the net interest for the remainder of of Transactions Involving the Legal those relating to transfer pricing. The the period after the plan amendment, Form of a Lease. The standard sets 139 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS curtailment or settlement using the net those amendments. An entity applies policies and the reported amounts of defined benefit liability (asset) reflecting those amendments for annual reporting assets, liabilities, income and expenses. the benefits offered under the plan and periods beginning on or after 1 January Judgements and estimates are based the plan assets after that event, and the 2019, with early application permitted. on historical experience and other discount rate used to remeasure that net factors, including expectations that are defined benefit liability (asset). Since the Company’s current practice is believed to be reasonable under the in line with these amendments, they had circumstances. Hence actual experience The amendments had no impact on the no significant impact on the financial and results may differ from these financial statements of the Company as statements of the Company. judgements and estimates. it did not have any plan amendments, curtailments, or settlements during the 4.5 Standards Issued but not Estimates and underlying assumptions period. yet effective are reviewed on an ongoing basis. The new and amended standards and Revisions to accounting estimates are 4.4.1.5 Annual Improvements 2015interpretations that are issued, but not recognised in the period in which the 2017 Cycle yet effective, up to the date of issuance estimates are revised if the revision • LKAS 12 Income Taxes of the Company’s financial statements affects only that period and any future The amendments clarify that the income are disclosed below. The Company periods. tax consequences of dividends are intends to adopt these new and amended linked more directly to past transactions standards and interpretations, if Information about significant areas or events that generated distributable applicable, when they become effective. of estimation uncertainty and critical profits than to distributions to owners. judgements in applying accounting Therefore, an entity recognises the 4.5.1 Amendments to LKAS1 policies that have the most significant income tax consequences of dividends and LKAS 8: Definition of effect on the amounts recognised in the in profit or loss, other comprehensive Material financial statements is included in the income or equity according to where The Institute of Chartered Accountants following notes. it originally recognised those past of Sri Lanka issued amendments to transactions or events. LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial 5.1 Going Concern Statements and LKAS 8 Accounting The Directors have made an assessment An entity applies the amendments for Policies, Changes in Accounting of the Company’s ability to continue as a annual reporting periods beginning Estimates and Errors to align the going concern taking into consideration on or after 1 January 2019, with early definition of ‘material’ across the the current and expected effects of application permitted. When the entity standards and to clarify certain aspects COVID-19 on the Company . The first applies those amendments, it applies of the definition. The new definition directors have prepared projected them to the income tax consequences states that, ’Information is material if cash flow information for the twelve of dividends recognised on or after the omitting, misstating or obscuring it could months from the year end 31 March beginning of the earliest comparative reasonably be expected to influence 2020 taking into consideration the period. decisions that the primary users of estimation of the continued business general purpose financial statements impacts of COVID-19. In response to Since the Company’s current practice is make on the basis of those financial the uncertainty arising from this, the in line with these amendments, they had statements, which provide financial Directors have considered a wide range no significant impact on the financial information about a specific reporting of factors taking account of reasonably statements of the Company. entity.’ possible downsides. • LKAS 23 Borrowing Costs The amendments to the definition of The Company has taken actions which The amendments clarify that an entity material are not expected to have a includes efficient ways to manage treats as part of general borrowings any significant impact on the Company’s working capital, deferral of operating borrowing originally made to develop financial statements. and capital expenditure, possible a qualifying asset when substantially all diversification of operations for of the activities necessary to prepare 5. Critical Accounting alternate income sources (eg : face mask that asset for its intended use or sale are Estimates and production), managing the reserves and complete. Judgements negotiating with financial institution for The preparation of Financial the additional capital. The Company is The entity applies the amendments to Statements in conformity with SLFRS/ expected to continue to operate, within borrowing costs incurred on or after LKAS’s requires management to make available cash levels and the terms of its the beginning of the annual reporting judgements, estimates and assumptions debt facilities and the concessions given period in which the entity first applies that affect the application of accounting by the government for the repayments. 140 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Based on these forecasts the Directors finished goods can be resold as 1st or believe that Company has the ability to 2nd Grade stocks as well as to determine continue as a going concern. Therefore, the appropriate level of impairment the Financial Statements continue to be for items which may not be resold or prepared on the going concern basis. which would be sold in the local market at a nominal price. Such judgements 5.2 Taxation include managementch expectations Uncertainties exist with respect to the of repeat orders to utilize the finished interpretation of complex tax regulation, goods in stock and the price that would changes in tax laws, and the amount be recovered through a sale in the local and timing of future taxable income. market. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term 5.4 Determination of Useful nature and the complexity of existing Lives of Property, Plant contractual agreements, differences and Equipment arising between the actual results and Management assigns useful lives and the assumptions made, or future changes residual values to property, plant and to such assumptions, could necessitate equipment based on the intended use future adjustments to tax income and of assets and the economic lives of expense already recorded. The Company these assets. Assessing the useful lives of establish provisions, based on reasonable the plant and machinery, especially in estimates, for possible consequences relation to items of Plant and Machinery of audits by the tax authorities of the which are idle requires judgment. Such respective countries in which it operates. judgments include the evaluation of The amount of such provisions is based the production capabilities of items of on various factors, such as experience plant and machinery also considering of previous tax audits and differing the possibility of utilizing items of plant interpretations of tax regulations by and machinery in producing marketable the taxable entity and the responsible fabric in the future. In making this tax authority. Such differences of determination, management has also interpretation may arise on a wide taken into account possible effects that variety of issues depending on the the COVID-19 outbreak may have on conditions prevailing in the respective the Company’s business and product domicile of the companies. lines. Refer Note 3.4.6 for useful lives used in depreciating Property, Plant and Deferred tax assets are recognised for Equipment in the Company unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based on upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together as with future tax planning strategies. 5.3 Valuation of Inventories The Company manufactures and sells fabric based on customized specifications made by its customers. The price of fabric manufactured by the Company varies based on the Company’s determination of whether the stock items are 1st Grade or 2nd Grade Stocks. Judgement is required to assess whether 141 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6. PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT 6.1 Gross Carrying Amounts As at Additions/ Disposals/ As at 01.04.2019 Transfers Transfers/ 31.03.2020 USD USD USD USD At valuation Freehold Land 2,977,194 2,977,194 At cost Buildings 7,421,974 7,421,974 Water Treatment Plant 2,221,729 2,221,729 Plant and Machinery 33,293,591 2,404,104 (2,119,019) 33,578,676 Motor Vehicles 1,101 (1,101) Furniture and Fittings 1,915,596 132,231 2,047,827 Office Equipment 273,660 2,874 276,534 Computers 434,363 91,202 525,565 Factory Equipment 3,767,317 286,227 4,053,544 Safety and Medical Equipment 178,508 1,615 180,123 Bungalow Equipment 7,853 7,853 Total Value of Depreciable Assets 52,492,886 2,918,253 (2,120,120) 53,291,019 6.2 In the course of construction As At Incurred Transfers As At 01.04.2019 during 31.03.2020 the year USD USD USD USD Work in Progress 417,677 2,884,873 (2,643,700) 658,850 Total gross carrying amount 52,910,563 5,803,126 (4,763,820) 53,949,869 6.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Balance Impairment Charge Disposals/ Balance As at of Idle Plant for the Year Transfers As at 01.04.2019 & Machinery 31.03.2020 USD USD USD USD USD At Cost Buildings 2,497,064 185,561 2,682,625 Water Treatment Plant 1,550,307 68,452 1,618,759 Plant and Machinery 19,138,747 443,024 1,453,817 (2,115,928) 18,919,660 Motor Vehicles 1,101 (1,101) Furniture and Fittings 1,217,849 143,471 1,361,320 Office Equipment 247,110 7,341 254,451 Computers 291,331 45,609 336,940 Factory Equipment 3,022,752 211,222 3,233,974 Safety and Medical Equipment 116,818 10,552 127,370 Bungalow Equipment 7,853 7,853 Total Depreciation 28,090,932 443,024 2,126,025 (2,117,029) 28,542,952 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 6.4 Net Book Values As at 31st March 2020 2019 USD USD At Cost Freehold Land 2,977,194 2,977,194 Buildings 4,739,349 4,924,910 Water Treatment Plant 602,970 671,422 Plant and Machinery 14,659,016 14,154,844 Furniture and Fittings 686,507 697,747 Office Equipment 22,083 26,550 Computers 188,625 143,032 Factory Equipment 819,570 744,565 Safety and Medical Equipment 52,753 61,690 Bungalow Equipment 24,748,067 24,401,954 In the course of construction Work in Progress 658,850 417,677 Total carrying amount of property, plant and equipment 25,406,917 24,819,631 6.5 During the financial year, the Company acquired Property, Plant & Equipment to the aggregate value of USD 3,159,426 (2019 USD 1,733,345). Cash payments amounting to USD 2,788,702 (2019 USD 1,469,566) were made during the year for the purchase of Property, Plant and Equipment. 6.6 Property, plant and equipment includes fully depreciated assets having gross carrying amounts of USD 10,526,008 which are still in use. (2019 USD 10,108,634). 6.7 25 permanent buildings are located in Narthupana Estate, Neboda where the principle place of the business is operated. 6.8 The Company revalued its land (extent of 54.3 Acres) during the financial year 2018/19. The fair value of the land was determined by using market comparable methods which mean that valuation performed by the valuer are based on market prices, significantly adjusted for difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. The fair value of land is based on valuations performed by Messrs P.B Kalugalgedara and Associates., an accredited independent valuer, on 31 March 2019. The significant unobservable valuation input used for Revaluation of Land, is the estimated market price of a perch of land, which was estimated as follows: Land extent of 34.1 acres of Land in Anguruwatota demarcated by survey plan Rs. 85,000 a perch. Land extent of 20.2 acres of Land in Anguruwatota demarcated by survey plan Rs. 18,750 a perch. Significant increase/(decrease) in estimated price per perch in isolation would result in a significantly higher/(lower) fair value. The surplus arising from the revaluation ,was transferred to a revaluation reserve. If land was measured using the cost model, the carrying amounts would be USD 1,331,519 (2019 USD 1,331,519) 6.9 The Company recorded an impairment loss of USD 443,024 relating to items of idle plant and machinery during the year. The impairment was recognised based on specific identification of assets which are unlikely to be brought back into use by the Company. 143 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2020 2019 USD USD Software Cost At beginning of the year 1,303,134 1,297,509 Acquisitions 113,809 5,625 At end of the year 1,416,943 1,303,134 Amortization At beginning of the year (1,239,017) (1,145,479) Amortization (57,816) (93,538) At end of the year (1,296,833) (1,239,017) Net Book Value 120,110 64,117 8. INVENTORIES 2020 2019 USD USD Raw materials 4,654,773 5,083,173 Less : Impairment for slow moving items (339,676) (247,480) 4,315,097 4,835,693 Work-in-progress 6,064,726 4,477,163 Less : Impairment for slow moving items (138,967) (124,460) 5,925,759 4,352,703 Finished goods (8.1) 3,057,553 2,041,008 Less : Impairment for slow moving items (651,657) (423,061) 2,405,896 1,617,947 Stock consumables 2,616,308 2,493,177 2,616,308 2,493,177 15,263,060 13,299,520 8.1 Second grade finished goods amounting to USD 181,611 (2019USD 98,697) are carried at net reializable value. 9. TRADE RECEIVABLES 2020 2019 USD USD Trade receivables 6,447,771 8,543,291 Less : Impairment loss recognised (9.2) (146,721) (149,084) 6,301,050 8,394,207 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 9.1 The aging analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Neither past Past due but not impaired due nor 0 60 61-120 121-180 181-365 Total > 365 days impaired days days days days As at 31/03/2020 1,230,366 3,660,613 558,298 793,140 58,633 6,301,050 As at 31/03/2019 4,881,802 3,165,670 221,575 96,314 28,846 8,394,207 See note 29 on credit risk of trade receivables, which explains how the Company manages and measures credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired. 9.2 The impairment recognised in relation to Trade Receivables of the Company has been based on a collective impairment model and is as follows: 2020 2019 USD USD Balance as at the beginning of the year 149,084 205,854 Impairment loss/(reversal) recognized during the year (2,363) 26,397 Written off of previously recognized impairment loss (83,167) Balance as at the end of the year 146,721 149,084 10. OTHER RECEIVABLES 2020 2019 USD USD VAT recoverable 168,271 248,746 Claim receivable 17,323 10,746 WHT recoverable 8,081 8,738 ESC receivable 258,147 Staff loans & advances 205 4,799 Deposits 97,692 100,903 549,719 373,932 11. ADVANCES AND PREPAYMENTS 2020 2019 USD USD Advances paid to suppliers 621,538 240,604 Other prepayments 141,590 132,895 763,128 373,499 11.1 No advances/prepayments have been made to related parties. 145 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS IN CASH FLOW STATEMENT Components of Cash and Cash Equivalents 12.1 Favorable Cash and Cash Equivalent Balances 2020 2019 USD USD Cash and Bank Balances 533,469 284,635 533,469 284,635 12.2 Unfavorable Cash and Cash Equivalent Balances 2020 2019 USD USD Bank Overdraft (899,423) (840,068) (899,423) (840,068) Total cash and cash equivalent balance for the purpose of cash flow statement (365,954) (555,433) 13. STATED CAPITAL 2020 2019 Number USD Number USD Ordinary shares (13.1) 207,740,888 17,561,761 207,740,888 17,561,761 13.1 Fully Paid Ordinary Shares 2020 2019 Number USD Number USD Balance at beginning of the year 207,740,888 17,561,761 207,740,888 17,561,761 Balance at the end of the year 207,740,888 17,561,761 207,740,888 17,561,761 13.2 Nature and Purpose of Reserve Revaluation Reserve The Revaluation Reserve is maintained to record any surplus on revaluation of the Company’s Land, net of the tax effect of such re-valuation 14. INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS 2020 2019 Amount Amount Total Amount Amount Total Repayable Repayable Repayable Repayable Within 1 Year After 1 Year Within 1 Year After 1 Year USD USD USD USD USD USD Term loans (Note 14.1) 1,486,278 700,670 2,186,948 2,525,333 1,054,778 3,580,111 Short term loans 4,087,738 4,087,738 1,902,500 1,902,500 Import loans 9,597,515 9,597,515 8,862,162 8,862,162 Bank overdraft (12.2) 899,423 899,423 840,068 840,068 16,070,954 700,670 16,771,624 14,130,063 1,054,778 15,184,841 146 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 14.1 Term loans 2020 2019 USD USD Balance at the beginning of the year 3,580,111 5,980,620 New loans obtained 1,194,670 310,000 Repayments (2,587,833) (2,710,509) Balance at the end of the year 2,186,948 3,580,111 14.2 Aging Analysis for Interest -bearing loans and borrowings On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 years >5 years Total months months USD USD USD USD USD USD Total Interest bearing borrowings 899,422 5,588,700 9,582,832 700,670 16,771,624 As at 31.03.2020 Total Interest bearing borrowings 993,898 10,644,803 2,491,362 1,054,778 15,184,841 As at 31.03.2019 15. RETIREMENT BENEFIT LIABILITY 2020 2019 USD USD Retirement Benefit Obligation Gratuity At beginning of the year 2,534,443 2,033,015 Effects of movement in exchange rate (186,963) (227,873) Benefits paid by the plan (83,484) (110,608) Current service cost 176,522 169,561 Interest cost 253,883 192,452 Actuarial loss recognized directly in Other Comprehensive Income 51,476 477,896 At end of the year 2,745,877 2,534,443 15.1 Expenses recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss 2020 2019 USD USD Current service cost 176,522 169,561 Interest cost 253,883 192,452 430,405 362,013 15.2 Legal Liability as at 31st March 2020 2019 USD USD Legal Liability 2,084,357 1,860,206 147 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.3 The Gratuity liability as at 31st March 2020 is based on an actuarial valuation carried out by Actuarial and Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, a firm of professional actuaries. The following key assumptions were made in arriving at the above figure. 2020 2019 USD USD Rate of discount 10% 11% Salary increase 9% 10% Retirement age 60 Years 60 Years Weighted average remaining working life 6.92 Years 6.95 Years Assumptions regarding mortality are based on a 1967/70 Mortality Table, issued by The Institute of Actuaries, London. 15.4 A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumptions as at 31st March 2020 is as follows: Salary increment rate Discount rate 1% Increase 1% decrease 1% Increase 1% decrease USD USD USD USD As at 31st March 2020 232,899 (209,301) (194,961) 220,197 As at 31st March 2019 218,637 (196,249) (182,986) 206,864 15.5 Maturity Profile 2020 2019 USD USD Within the next 12 months 237,634 197,589 Between 1 to 5 years 915,319 827,055 Between 5 to 10 years 713,846 652,926 More than 10 years 879,078 856,873 2,745,877 2,534,443 16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2020 2019 USD USD Trade Payables Related Parties (16.2) 107,682 111,104 Others 7,155,962 8,388,538 Other Payables 161,097 229,587 7,424,741 8,729,229 148 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 16.1 Aging Analysis for Trade and Other Payables. On demand Less than 3 3 to 12 1 to 5 years >5 years Total months months USD USD USD USD USD USD 31.03.2020 Related party 47,048 39,964 19,906 764 107,682 Others 1,186,594 5,705,801 138,585 172,510 113,569 7,317,059 Total 1,233,642 5,745,765 158,491 173,274 113,569 7,424,741 31.03.2019 Related party 49,146 59,508 2,450 111,104 Others 1,350,468 6,591,303 511,731 46,820 117,803 8,618,125 Total 1,399,614 6,650,811 514,181 46,820 117,803 8,729,229 16.2 Payable to related parties Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction 2020 2019 USD USD Puritas (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of oxypura products 1,691 Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Fellow Subsidiary Dividend payable 505 Limited The Kingsbury Hotel PLC Fellow Subsidiary Entertainment facility 554 Hayleys Travels (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations, ticketing and other travel 13,485 12,216 related services Hayleys Tours (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations and travel related services 15,418 3,246 Hayleys Aventura (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase spare parts and obtained 9,305 7,222 technical support Haycolur (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchases of dyes & chemicals 9,625 Energynet Pvt. Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Service charge of electrical 763 8,145 equipment's MIT Cargo (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 25 9,396 Hayleys Advantis Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Dividend payable 733 Logiwiz Limited Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 115 134 Advantis Projects & Engineering Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 12,307 (Pvt) Ltd Expelogix (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 3,320 4,085 Agility Logistics (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 3,011 295 Hayleys Business Solutions Int. Fellow Subsidiary Payroll charges 6,059 3,090 (Pvt) Ltd Delmege Forsyth & Co.(Pvt) Ltd Affiliate Company Purchases of mechanical items 519 Fentons Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Instillation of fire solutions & cabling 30,026 23,892 Singer Sri Lanka PLC. Fellow Subsidiary Purchases of electrical items 6,822 16,932 Advantis Freight (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 15,850 107,682 111,104 17. OTHER CURRENT NON FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2020 2019 USD USD Accrued Expenditure 758,594 1,006,995 Advances Received 552,449 464,787 1,311,043 1,471,782 149 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18. REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS 18.1 Disaggregated revenue contracts 2020 2019 USD USD Sales of Fabric 66,820,704 69,616,351 Sundry Sales 295,019 324,288 67,115,723 69,940,639 18.2 Geographical Sales 2020 2019 USD USD Direct exports 5,834,324 8,078,153 Indirect exports 60,104,867 60,750,732 Local sales 1,176,532 1,111,754 67,115,723 69,940,639 18.3 In relation to Indirect exports and sundry sales, the performance obligation is satisfied upon delivery of the goods. In relation to Direct exports, the performance obligation is satisfied upon shipment of the goods considering the terms under which the shipment has been carried out. 18.4 Payments for all revenue from contracts with customers is generally due within 30 to 45 days from delivery. 18.5 Contract assets from advances received amount to USD 552, 449 (2019-USD 464,787) and are reflected in Note 17 19. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2020 2019 USD USD Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 35,792 Creditors write back 24,544 67,049 60,336 67,049 20. OTHER EXPENSES 2020 2019 USD USD Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13,738 Impairment of idle property, plant and equipment 443,026 90,019 443,026 103,757 21. NET FINANCING COST 21.1 Finance income 2020 2019 USD USD Gain on translation of foreign currency (5,191) (98,989) (5,191) (98,989) 150 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 21.2 Finance cost 2020 2019 USD USD Interest on short term borrowings 649,649 723,367 Interest on long term loans 155,970 268,026 Finance cost 805,619 991,393 21.3 Net finance cost 2020 2019 USD USD Net finance cost 800,428 892,404 22. PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2020 2019 USD USD Profit before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following; Staff cost (Note 22.1) 7,771,528 7,765,053 Directors' fees 16,976 13,910 Directors' emoluments 277,730 232,533 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,126,025 2,020,888 Impairment of idle property, plant and equipment 443,024 90,019 Amortization of intangible assets 57,816 93,538 Legal fees 20,276 49,071 Audit fees 13,468 15,059 Non-audit professional services 7,712 5,006 Donations 8,815 5,076 Impairment charge for slow moving inventories 335,299 84,282 Impairment charge /(reversal) for receivables (2,363) 26,397 Research & development 19,579 16,793 22.1 Staff cost 2020 2019 USD USD Salaries and other personnel cost 6,675,559 6,758,917 Defined contribution plan costEPF and ETF 665,564 644,123 Defined benefit plan costRetiring gratuity 430,405 362,013 7,771,528 7,765,053 23. INCOME TAX The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31st March are as follows : 2020 2019 USD USD Irrecoverable Economic service charge (ESC) (Note 23.3) 344,283 Provision for deferred tax (Note 23.2) 398,291 446,250 Income tax expense reported in the Statement of profit or loss 398,291 790,533 151 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23.1 Reconciliation of Current Tax Expenses and product of Accounting Profit 2020 2019 USD USD Profit before tax 1,668,902 1,848,868 Disallowable expenses 3,497,295 2,777,482 Tax deductible expenses (1,302,053) (2,366,785) Tax loss set-off (3,864,144) (2,259,565) Taxable income/(loss) Income tax @ 14% Details of Tax Losses carried forward Tax Loss brought forward 5,233,769 7,960,214 Add: incurred during the year Less: Set off against the current income tax liability (3,864,144) (2,259,565) Effects of movement in exchange rate (152,227) (466,880) Tax Loss carried forward 1,217,398 5,233,769 Company’s profit from exports is taxed at 14%. 23.2 Deferred Tax Assets, Liabilities and Income Tax relates to the following Statement of Statement of Profit Financial Position or Loss and Comprehensive Income 2020 2019 2020 2019 USD USD USD USD Deferred Tax Liabilities Capital allowances for tax purposes 2,662,335 2,757,331 (94,996) 71,695 Tax on re-valuation of land 230,395 230,395 28,475 2,892,730 2,987,725 (94,996) 100,170 Deferred Tax Assets Tax effect of tax loss carried forward 170,436 732,727 562,292 381,702 Defined Benefit Plans 384,423 354,822 (29,601) (70,201) Impairment for Slow Moving Inventories 158,242 111,300 (46,942) (11,799) Impairment for Doubtful Debts 20,541 20,872 331 7,948 733,642 1,219,722 486,080 307,650 Net Deferred Tax Liability 2,159,088 1,768,004 Deferred Income Tax Charged to Profit or Loss 398,291 446,250 Deferred Income Tax Charged to Other Comprehensive 28,475 IncomeLand re-valuation Deferred Income Tax Reversal to Other Comprehensive (7,207) (66,905) IncomeDefined benefit plan Charge to Statement of Profit or Loss and Other 391,084 407,820 Comprehensive Income 152 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC 23.3 With the enactment of the Inland Revenue Act No.24 of 2017, the Company is able to claim all taxable losses to the extent of taxable income in an entity. Considering that Economic Service Charge (ESC) paid is recoverable only during the year of payment and two subsequent years. Management has made an assessment of ESC recoverable and an amount of USD nil. (2019-USD 344,283) has been provided for in these Financial Statements. 24. BASIC / DILUTED EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE Basic Earnings/(loss) per share is calculated by dividing the profit/(loss) for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The following reflects the income and share data used in the earnings per share computations. 24.1 Amount Used as the Numerator: 2020 2019 USD USD Earnings attributable to Ordinary Shareholders of the Company for Earnings per Share 1,270,611 1,058,335 1,270,611 1,058,335 24.2 Number of Ordinary Shares Used as the Denominator: 2020 2019 Number Number Weighted Average Number of Ordinary Shares in issue applicable to 207,740,888 207,740,888 Basic Earnings per Share 207,740,888 207,740,888 153 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES 25.1 Transactions with the parent and related entities during the year a) 2020 2019 Name of the Company Relationship Nature of Transaction USD USD Hayleys PLC Parent Providing finance, data 645,716 633,775 processing, secretarial, personnel and administration services Puritas (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase oxypura products 1,888 210 Hayleys Agriculture Holding Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchases of chemicals 98 104 Quality Seed Company (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Landscaping charges 1,200 Hayleys Electronics Lighting (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of electronic items 469 The Kingsbury Hotel PLC Fellow Subsidiary Entertainment facility 3,971 1,717 Hayleys Travels (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations, ticketing and other 123,576 98,805 travel related services Hayleys Tours (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Reservations and other travel 38,193 9,634 related services Hayleys Aventura (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase spare part items and 49,236 94,255 obtained technical support Haycolour (Pvt) Limited Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of dyes & chemicals 928 10,255 MIT Cargo (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 73,705 58,518 Hayleys Advantis Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Cost of intangible assets/Service 16,365 Agility Logistics (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 23,712 8,944 Advantis Freight (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 18,368 5,004 Logiwiz Limited Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 760 840 Advantis Projects & Engineering (Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 19,788 12,673 Expelogix (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Logistic service 16,924 21,334 Hayleys Business Solutions Int.(Pvt) Ltd Fellow Subsidiary Payroll charges 39,709 39,913 Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC. Affiliate Company Purchase of tiles 2,803 Lanka Tiles PLC Affiliate Company Purchase of tiles 337 Fentons Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Instillation of fire solutions & 94,889 66,440 cabling Delmege Forsyth & Co.(Pvt) Ltd Affiliate Company Purchase of mechanical items 7,688 2,440 Energynet Pvt. Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Service charge of electrical 2,995 13,268 equipment's Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of tea 282 134 Hayleys Lifesciences (Pvt) Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of Stationery 377 4,189 Singer Sri Lanka PLC Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of electrical equipment 54,791 55,507 Haymat Private Ltd. Fellow Subsidiary Purchase of mats 52 b) Transactions with all related parties have been carried out under relevant commercial terms and conditions. All transactions are settled in cash in the short term and are non-interest bearing c) Amounts due from /to related parties are reflected in these Financial Statements within notes 9 &16 and directly in the Statement of Financial Position. 154 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC d) Mr. K.D.D.Perera who is a Director of the Company has a significant influence on the operation of Pan Asia Bank PLC. The Company has carried out transactions in the ordinary course of business with Pan Asia Bank PLC during the year, the details of which are as follows: Facility 2020 2019 Facility Outstanding Interest Facility Outstanding Interest Amount amount & charges Amount amount USD & charges USD USD incurred USD incurred during the during the year USD year USD Pan Asia Bank Trade facility 3,000,000 2,415,075 97,804 3,000,000 2,119,385 106,177 Overdraft facility (5,951) (5,749) 25.2 Transactions with Key Management Personnel Key management personnel (KMP) are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity. Accordingly, the Directors of the Company (including executive and non executive Directors) have been designated as KMP of the entity while their immediate family members have also been identified as related parties. An immediate family member is defined as spouse or dependent. A dependent is defined as anyone who depends on the respective Director for more than 50% of his/ her financial needs. a) Loans to Key Management Personnel No loans have been provided to the Directors of the Company. b) Compensation of key management personnel 2020 2019 USD USD Short term employment benefits 277,730 232,533 The amounts disclosed above are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period related to key management personnel. 26. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 26.1 The amount of capital expenditure approved by the Directors but not contracted for was USD 5,905,405. (2019-USD nil) 26.2 Contingent liabilities as at 31 March 2020 was nil. (2019 USD 273,510). 27. ASSETS PLEDGED The following assets have been pledged as security for liabilities. Nature of Assets Nature of Liability Carrying Amount Pledged Included under 2020 2019 USD USD Plant & Machinery, Primary Mortgage for Loans and 15,261,986 14,826,266 Property, Plant & Equipment Water Treatment Plant Borrowings Land & Buildings Primary / Concurrent mortgage for 7,716,543 7,902,104 Property, Plant & Equipment Loans and Borrowings Inventories Primary / Concurrent mortgage for 12,646,752 10,806,343 Inventories Loans and Borrowings Trade Receivables Primary / Concurrent mortgage for 6,301,050 8,394,207 Trade Receivable Loans and Borrowings 155 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no material events occurring after the date of Statement of Financial Position that require adjustments to or disclosure in the financial statements. 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Company’s financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations. The Company’s financial assets included trade other receivables, cash and cash equivalent that arrive directly from its operations. The Company is exposed to Market risk, Interest rate risk, Foreign currency risk and liquidity risk. The Company continuously evaluates the mentioned risks and appropriate actions are being taken with assistance from Group Treasury Department to minimize the adverse impact arising from such risks . Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprise three types of risk: interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Financial instruments affected by the said risks in the Company includes loans and borrowings, . The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at 31 March in 2020 and 2019. The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: The sensitivity of the relevant statement of profit or loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 March 2020 and 2019. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Company’s debt obligations with floating interest rates. The Company manages its interest rate risk by constantly monitoring the interest rates and negotiating them with the banks through assistance from the Parent Company’s Treasury. Company’s strategy is to keep the borrowing rates at AWPLR for LKR borrowings and USD borrowings at 3 Months LIBOR +2.9 % or less. Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected. With all other variables held constant, the Company’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings outstanding as of the reporting date is as follows: 2020 2019 Increase/Decrease Effect on profit Increase/Decrease in basis Effect on in basis points before tax -USD points profit before tax -USD 0.47 (76,009) 0.61 (90,188) -0.47 76,009 -0.61 90,188 Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities (when local expense is denominated in a different currency from the Company’s presentation currency). The Company manages its foreign currency risk by closely monitoring the rates with the assistance of the Parent Company’s Treasury. Transactions are entered in to on carefully chosen dates to maximize the positive impact on exchange variance while caution is practiced to negate and minimize any negative effect. 156 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC The Company does not hedge its exposure to fluctuations on the translation in to USD of its LKR denominated expenses. However, care is taken to reduce such liability thus nullifying any impact on exchange variance. No currency hedge is applied against other major currencies such as EURO or GBP due to their triviality. Foreign currency sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in LKR and EURO exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Company’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. The movement in the post-tax effect is a result of a change in the monetary assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies such as LKR and Euro, where the functional currency is US dollars. 2020 2019 Change in Effect Change in Effect on LKR Rate on profit LKR Rate profit before before tax tax -USD -USD Change in LKR Exchange Rate 3% 28,681 3% 32,346 -3% (30,455) -3% (34,347) 2020 2019 Change in Effect Change in Effect on EURO Rate on profit EURO Rate profit before before tax tax -USD -USD Change in Euro Exchange Rate 3% 3,115 3% 1,146 -3% (3,308) -3% (1,217) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by customer wise and is subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major all clients. The calculation is based on actual incurred historical data. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets reported in these financial statements. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are well reputed; cash rich and operate in largely independent markets. The possible delay in getting past due receivables from the customers and request for extended credit periods as a result of COVID-19 are being managed through negotiations with customers on settlements and invoicing /Letter of Credit discounting arrangements with Banks. Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with the Company’s policy. However, currently the Company does not hold any cash deposits or any other financial instrument other than those disclosed and is not affected by any credit risk emanating from such balances. 157 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Liquidity risk The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts and bank loans. The Company’s policy is that the gearing is managed to a sustainable level. Company forecasts its financial commitments and collections on a weekly basis and any gap is bridged with an alternate fund sourcing in consultation with the Parent Company Treasury and financial institutions. Approximately 96% of the Company’s debt will mature in less than one year at 31 March 2020 (2019: 93%) based on the carrying value of borrowings reflected in the financial statements. The Company assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low. Access to sources of funding is sufficiently available and debt maturing within 12 months can be rolled over with existing lenders. Liquidity risk arising from extending credit periods to customers due to COVID -19 is being managed through negotiating additional overdraft /short term financing facilities with Banks and in addition , discounting customers’ invoices and Letters of Credit through which 80%-90% advances expected to take upfront from the Banks. Excessive risk concentration Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Company’s performance to developments affecting a particular industry. In order to avoid excessive concentrations of risk, the Company’s policies and procedures include specific guidelines to focus on the maintenance of a diversified portfolio. Identified concentrations of credit risks are controlled and managed accordingly. The maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments are provided in Notes 14.2 and 16.1 to the financial statements. Capital Management The Company’s Capital is made up of both equity and debt capital which have been disclosed in Notes 13 and 14 respectively. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial assets of the Company include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other receivables, whilst financial liabilities include trade and other payables and interest bearing loans and borrowings. The management assessed that cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, trade and other payables approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short term maturities of these instruments. The management also assessed that long term variable rate borrowings approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the market based interest rates charged. 158 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION TRANSLATED INTO LKR As at 31 March 2020 2019 LKR ‘000 LKR ‘000 ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, plant and equipment 4,890,832 4,418,391 Intangible assets 23,121 11,414 4,913,953 4,429,805 Current Assets Inventories 2,938,139 2,367,581 Trade receivables 1,212,952 1,494,337 Other receivables 105,821 66,567 Advances and prepayments 146,902 66,490 Cash and cash equivalents 102,693 50,671 4,506,507 4,045,646 Total Assets 9,420,460 8,475,450 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and Reserves Stated capital 1,968,193 1,968,193 Revaluation reserve 272,441 251,948 Retained earnings 275,055 51,673 Exchange fluctuation reserve 1,027,475 907,485 Total Equity 3,543,164 3,179,299 Non-Current Liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings 134,879 187,772 Deferred tax liabilities 415,624 314,740 Retirement benefit obligations 528,581 451,182 1,079,084 953,693 Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 1,429,263 1,553,977 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3,093,659 2,515,434 Amounts due to Hayleys PLC 22,914 11,040 Other current non financial liabilities 252,376 262,007 4,798,212 4,342,458 Total Equity and Liabilities 9,420,460 8,475,450 The financial statements prepared and presented in US Dollars reflect the economic substance of underlying events and circumstances of the enterprise. The supplementary information in SL Rupees is presented for convenience purposes only. The statements presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR) are not a full set of financial statements and are not purported to comply with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard. They represent selected information taken from the US Dollar financial statements, translated into LKR generally using the principles set out in Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKAS) 21 for the translation of financial statements to a presentation currency from a measurement currency. Revenue and costs are converted using the average exchange rate for the period. Assets and liabilities are converted using the exchange rate at the end of the year. The revenue reserves incorporates the profit for the period reflected in the income statements. In accordance with advice received from the Urgent Issue Task Force of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, stated capital is represented at it’s original LKR value. Followings exchange rates were used to convert the financials into LKR. 31.03.2020 31.03.2019 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income 182.15 171.33 Statement of financial position 192.50 178.02 159 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME TRANSLATED INTO LKR Year ended 31 March 2020 2019 LKR ‘000 LKR ‘000 Revenue from contracts with customers 12,225,353 11,982,988 Cost of sales (10,640,692) (10,554,294) Gross Profit 1,584,661 1,428,694 Other operating income 10,990 11,488 Administrative expenses (914,680) (818,882) Distribution expenses (150,476) (133,858) Other expenses (80,699) (17,777) Net financing costs (145,801) (152,896) Profit before tax 303,995 316,768 Income tax expense (72,550) (135,443) Profit for the year 231,445 181,325 Other Comprehensive Income not to be reclassified to profit or loss Surplus on revaluation of land 34,846 Income tax effect on revaluation of land (4,879) Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (9,377) (81,878) Income tax effect on actuarial loss on defined benefit plans 1,313 11,463 Total Comprehensive Income, Net of Tax 223,381 140,878 Basic / Diluted Earnings per Share 1.11 0.87 160 10year 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 compound USD USD USD USD USD USD USD USD USD USD growth % Results Net turnover 2 67,115,723 69,940,639 57,686,803 55,537,401 59,924,103 65,031,509 61,252,088 44,193,490 45,936,097 58,322,307 Profit after tax (183) 1,270,611 1,058,335 (679,516) 490,267 1,845,409 679,920 (1,388,400) (3,642,771) (7,581,712) (7,078,596) Funds Employed Stated capital 12 17,561,761 17,561,761 17,561,761 17,561,761 17,561,761 17,561,761 13,563,304 13,563,304 6,534,102 6,534,102 Reserves (24) 844,285 297,464 (524,791) 23,706 (434,262) (2,052,032) (2,875,191) (1,508,395) 2,012,633 9,594,346 TEN YEAR SUMMARY Shareholders' fund 1 18,406,046 17,859,225 17,036,970 17,585,467 17,127,499 15,509,729 10,688,113 12,054,909 8,546,735 16,128,448 Borrowings (4) 16,771,624 15,184,841 16,706,671 19,686,731 16,818,660 18,951,491 16,866,448 12,655,851 19,996,108 23,706,118 (both short & long term) 35,177,670 33,044,066 33,743,641 37,272,198 33,946,159 34,461,220 27,554,561 24,710,760 28,542,843 39,834,566 Assets Employed Non current assets (1) 25,527,027 24,883,748 25,167,948 24,833,016 23,096,764 22,610,098 22,622,634 24,304,984 25,750,288 27,616,695 Current assets 2 23,410,426 22,725,793 20,921,177 21,942,322 19,649,659 22,507,145 19,490,701 11,753,515 13,006,227 18,987,220 Current liabilities net of borrowings 9 (8,854,818) (10,263,029) (8,952,285) (6,112,839) (5,575,020) (7,535,519) (11,615,635) (8,632,504) (7,453,474) (3,954,781) Provisions 6 (4,904,965) (4,302,446) (3,393,199) (3,390,301) (3,225,244) (3,120,504) (2,943,139) (2,715,235) (2,760,198) (2,814,569) Capital Employed (1) 35,177,670 33,044,066 33,743,641 37,272,198 33,946,159 34,461,220 27,554,561 24,710,760 28,542,843 39,834,566 Cash Flow Net cash inflow/(outflow) from 2,205,200 2,927,550 4,235,513 1,916,117 2,606,119 (1,392,458) (3,763,827) 589,410 5,660,679 (4,837,120) operating activities Net cash outflow from investing (2,863,628) (1,466,816) (2,375,774) (4,521,131) (2,734,731) (1,712,927) (401,501) (507,460) (1,339,693) (2,485,654) activities Net cash inflow/(outflow) from 847,907 (1,767,129) (2,572,428) 2,939,367 (2,420,540) 10,185,800 1,291,588 5,654,647 (1,827,919) 897,130 financing activities Increase / (decrease) in cash & cash 189,479 (306,395) (712,690) 334,353 (2,549,151) 7,080,416 (2,873,740) 5,736,597 2,493,067 (6,425,644) equivalents Key Indicators Earnings/(Loss) per share (basic) USD 0.006 0.005 (0.003) 0.002 0.009 0.004 (0.008) (0.025) (0.120) (0.1394) Net assets per share USD 0.089 0.086 0.082 0.085 0.082 0.075 0.07 0.08 0.13 0.31 Dividend per share Rs. 0.60 161 Gearing % 48 46 50 53 50 55 61 51 70 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC Turnover to capital employed (times) 1.91 2.12 1.71 1.49 1.77 1.89 2.22 1.79 1.61 1.46 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GLOSSARY OF FINANCIAL TERMINOLOGY ACCOUNTING POLICIES DEBT/EQUITY RATIO EQUITY The specific principles, bases, Debt as a percentage of Shareholders’ Shareholders’ funds conventions, rules and practices adopted funds. by an entity in preparing and presenting FAIR VALUE Financial Statements. DEFERRED TAXATION The price that would be received to sell Sum set aside for income tax in the an asset or paid to transfer a liability in ACCRUAL BASIS Financial Statements that may become an orderly transaction between market Recording revenues and expenses in payable/receivable in a financial year participants at the measurement date. the period in which they are earned or other than the current financial year. It incurred regardless of whether cash is arises because of temporary differences FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT received or disbursed in that period. between tax rules and accounting A financial instrument is any contract conventions. that gives rise to both a financial assets ACTUARIAL GAIN/LOSS ON in one entity and a financial liability or DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN DIRECT EMPLOYMENT equity instrument in another entity. Gain or loss arising from the difference The workers employed by the Company. between estimates and actual experience INTEREST COVER in an entity’s defined benefit plan. DISCOUNT RATE A ratio showing the number of times A rate used to place a current value on interest charges is covered by earnings AMORTIZED COST future cash flows. It is needed to reflect before interest and tax. Amount at which the financial asset the fact that money has a time value. or financial liability is measured at MARKET CAPITALIZATION initial recognition, minus principal DILUTED EARNINGS PER Number of Shares in issue at the end of repayment plus or minus the cumulative SHARE the period multiplied by the share price amortization using the effective interest Profit attributable to equity holders at the end of the period. method of any difference between that divided by the weighted average number initial amount and the maturity amount of ordinary shares in issue during the MARKET VALUE ADDED and minus any reduction for impairment period adjusted for options granted but or Nunn-collectability. Market capitalization minus not exercised and outstanding unexpired shareholders’ funds. warrants. ASSETS TURNOVER Revenue divided by average total assets. NET ASSETS EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) Total assets minus long term and current Profit attributable to equity holders BORROWINGS liabilities. divided by the weighted average number Bank loans and overdrafts. of ordinary shares in issue during the period. NET ASSETS PER SHARE CAPITAL EMPLOYED Net assets at the yearend divided by the EBIT number of Ordinary shares in issue Shareholders’ funds plus debt. Earnings before interest and tax (Includes other operating income). NET PROFIT RATIO CASH EQUIVALENTS Profit after tax attributable to equity Liquid investments with original EBITDA holders of the Company divided by total maturities of three months or less. revenue. Earnings before interest, tax, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES depreciation and amortization. NET WORKING CAPITAL Conditions or situations at the date EFFECTIVE RATE OF Current assets minus current liabilities. of Statement of Financial Position, the financial effect of which are to be TAXATION determined by future events which may Income tax including Deferred tax over ORGANIC WASTAGE or may not occur. Profit before tax. Bio-degradable waste. CURRENT RATIO ENERGY INTENSITY PRICE EARNINGS RATIO Current Assets divided by Current Total energy consumed by the Company Market price of share as at the yearend Liabilities. divided by in GJ divided by the divided by Earnings Per Share. Production in MT 162 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC PUBLIC HOLDING RECYCLE Percentage of shares held by the public The process of converting waste into calculated as per the Colombo Stock reusable materials. Exchange Listing Rules as at the date of the Report. RISK MANAGEMENT The identification, analysis, assessment, QUICK ASSET RATIO control and avoidance , minimization or Current Assets other than inventory elimination of unacceptable risk. divided by Current liabilities. SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS RETURN ON ASSETS (ROA) Total of issued and fully paid share Profit after tax divided by average total capital and both capital and Revenue assets. Reserves. RETURN ON CAPITAL STEWARDSHIP EMPLOYED (ROCE) The role of supervising or taking care of Earnings before interest and tax as a the organization. percentage of average shareholders’ funds plus total debt. TOTAL ASSETS Noncurrent assets plus current assets. RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) Profit after tax as a percentage of TOTAL DEBT Average shareholders’ funds. Long term loans plus short term loans and overdrafts. 163 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 INVESTOR INFORMATION ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 31ST MARCH,2020 Residents Non-Residents Total No. of shares held No. of No. of % No. of No. of % No. of No. of shares % shareshares shareshares shareholders holders holders 1 1,000 1,896 653,417 0.315 9 3,850 0.002 1,905 657,267 0.316 1,001 10,000 1,244 5,193,736 2.500 4 23,700 0.011 1,248 5,217,436 2.512 10,001 100,000 543 17,953,909 8.642 12 523,654 0.252 555 18,477,563 8.895 100,001 1,000,000 85 21,799,864 10.494 8 1,659,851 0.799 93 23,459,715 11.293 Over 1,000,000 12 158,784,995 76.434 1 1,143,912 0.551 13 159,928,907 76.985 3,780 204,385,921 98.385 34 3,354,967 1.615 3,814 207,740,888 100.000 ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 31ST MARCH,2020 Residents Non-Residents Total Categories of shareholders No. of No. of % No. of No. of % No. of No. of shares % shareshares shareshares shareholders holders holders Individuals 3,571 35,991,128 17.325 31 1,598,618 0.770 3,602 37,589,746 18.095 Institutions 209 168,394,793 81.060 3 1,756,349 0.845 212 170,151,142 81.905 3,780 204,385,921 98.385 34 3,354,967 1.615 3,814 207,740,888 100.000 MARKET VALUE The market value of an ordinary share of Hayleys Fabric PLC. was: Year ended 31 March 2020 2019 LKR LKR Highest 19.00 (on 05th Dec. 2019) 13.70 (on 26th Apr. 2018) Lowest 7.40 (on 14th May 2019) 8.40 (on 4th July 2018) Year end 8.70 8.50 Share Trading 2020 2019 No. of transactions 29,871 7,911 No. of shares traded 138,910,057 24,782,369 Value of shares traded (LKR) 2,024,251,747 241,563,086 164 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC MAJOR SHAREHOLDING The twenty major shareholders and the percentage held by each is as follows : First twenty shareholders as at 31 March 2020 No. of Shares No. of Shares As at 31/03/20 % As at 31/03/19 % 1 HAYLEYS PLC NO 3 SHARE INVESTMENT ACCOUNT 122,487,023 58.96 122,487,023 58.96 2 THE CEYLON GUARDIAN INVESTMENT TRUST PLC A/C # 02 5,575,613 2.68 8,417,992 4.05 3 EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND 5,540,727 2.67 5,540,727 2.67 4 THE CEYLON INVESTMENT PLC A/C # 02 5,126,810 2.47 8,247,810 3.97 5 HAYLEYS ADVANTIS LIMITED 5,036,850 2.42 5,036,850 2.42 6 HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED 3,472,257 1.67 3,472,257 1.67 7 SEYLAN BANK PLC/ARRC CAPITAL (PVT) LTD 2,395,877 1.15 80,112 0.04 8 SRI LANKA INSURANCE CORPORATION LTD-LIFE FUND 2,124,044 1.02 9 HATTON NATIONAL BANK PLC ASTRUE ALPHA FUND 2,119,396 1.02 1,000,000 0.48 10 MRS.V.SARASWATHI 2,000,000 0.96 650,535 0.31 11 MR.A.M.WEERASINGHE 1,850,000 0.89 1,850,000 0.89 12 MELLON BANK N.A-ACADIAN FRONTIER MARKETS EQUITY FUND 1,143,912 0.55 13 BANK OF CEYLON NO.01 ACCOUNT 1,056,398 0.51 774,098 0.37 14 COMMERCIAL CREDIT AND FINANCE PLC 945,969 0.46 4,549 0.00 15 MR.R.E. RAMBUKWELLA 871,330 0.42 543,850 0.26 16 MR.K.A.S.R NISSANKA 674,450 0.32 700,000 0.34 17 MR.D.K.A.K. WEERATHUNGA 651,000 0.31 18 BANK OF CEYLON A/C NDB WEALTH GROWTH FUND 600,000 0.29 774,565 0.37 19 ALLNATT INVESTMENTS (PRIVATE) LIMITED 565,844 0.27 565,844 0.27 20 PEOPLE'S LEASING & FINANCE PLC/L.P.HAPANGAMA 561,681 0.27 556,681 0.27 Total 164,799,181 79.33 160,702,893 77.36 The issued number of shares of the company as at 31.03.2019 207,740,888 as at 31.03.2020 207,740,888 2020 2019 Registered Shareholders as at 31 March 3,780 3,589 The percentage of shares held by public as at 31 March 36.88% 36.92% No.of shareholders representing Public Holding as at 31 March 3,806 3,582 Float adjusted Market Capitalization as at 31 March LKR 666,549,103.60 LKR 651,932,454.72 The Company complies with option 5 of the Listing Rules 7.13.1 (a) which requires a minimum public holding of 20% for a company having a Float Adjusted Market Capitalisation of less than Rs. 2.5 Bn. DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING Direct holding No. of Shares No. of Shares Directors’ shareholding as at 31 March 2020 2019 Mr. A.M.Pandithage Nil Nil Mr. K.D.D.Perera ** 4,090 4,090 Mr. S.C.Ganegoda 50,000 Nil Mr. H.Somashantha 20,000 20,000 Mr. R.N.Somaratne 50,000 25,000 Mr. E.R.P.Goonetilleke Nil Nil Dr. N.S.J.Nawaratne Nil Nil Mr. A.S.Jayatilleka Nil Nil Mr. R.Rohitha Bandara 5,000 5,000 Mr.M.H.Jayasinghe Nil Nil Mrs. Y.Bhaskaran Nil Nil ( alternate Director to Mr.K.D.D.Perera ) ** Mr.K.D.D.Perera holds 51.01% directly and indirectly of the total issued shares of Hayleys PLC which has 122,487,023 shares in Hayleys Fabric PLC. 165 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Twenty Eighth Annual General Meeting of Hayleys Fabric PLC, will be held at the Registered Office of the Company, at No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, on Monday 27th July 2020 at 12.00 Noon and the business to be brought before the meeting will be: 1. To consider and adopt the Annual Report of the Board and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March, 2020 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To re-elect Dr.N.S.J. Nawaratne, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 3. To re-elect Mr.K.D.D. Perera, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 4. To re-elect Mr.H. Somashantha, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 5. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. 6. To authorize the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been re-appointed as Auditors for the year 2020/21. 7. To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. NOTE : A shareholder is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of himself and a proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 by 12.00 Noon on 25th July 2020. By Order of the Board HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC HAYLEYS GROUP SERVICES (PRIVATE) LIMITED Secretaries Colombo 1st July 2020 166 ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 | HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC FORM OF PROXY I/We* ………………………………………………………………………………………………………… (Full name of shareholder**) NIC No./Reg. No. of Shareholder(**)………………………………………………………………………………………………………… of …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… being a shareholder/shareholders of HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC hereby appoint, 1………….……………………………………………………………………………………………………. (Full name of Proxyholder**) NIC No.of proxyholder (**)………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… of ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. or failing him/them,* 2. ABEYAKUMAR MOHAN PANDITHAGE (Chairman of the Company) of Colombo, or failing him, one of the Directors of the Company as my/our* proxy to attend, speak and vote as indicated hereunder for me/us* and on my/our* behalf at the Twenty Eighth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Monday 27th July 2020 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid meeting and at any adjournment thereof. For Against 1 To consider and adopt the Annual Report of the Board and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2020, with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2 To re-elect Dr.N.S.J. Nawaratne, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director 3 To re-elect Mr.K.D.D. Perera, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director 4 To re-elect Mr.H. Somashantha, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director 5 To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. 6 To authorize the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs. Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been reappointed as Auditors for the year 2020/21. (***) The proxy may vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting of which due Notice has been given. As witness my/our* hands this ……………… day of………………… 2020. Signature of Shareholder Witness (**); Name ……………………………………………………………….…………………………………………………………….………… Signature ……………………………………………………………………….…………………………………………………………… Notes: (a) * Please delete the inappropriate words. (b) A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General meeting of the Company, is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of him/her and the proxy need not be a shareholder of the company. ** Full name of shareholder/proxy holder and their NIC Nos and Witness are mandatory. Your Proxy Form will be rejected if these details are not completed. (c) A shareholder is not entitled to appoint more than one proxy to attend on the same occasion. (d) Instructions are noted on the reverse hereof. (e) This Form of Proxy is in terms of the Articles of Association of the Company. 167 HAYLEYS FABRIC PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 FORM OF PROXY Instructions as to Completion 1. To be valid, this Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company, No.400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, by 12.00 Noon. on Saturday 25th July 2020. 2. In perfecting the Form of Proxy, please ensure that all details are legible 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman of the Company (or failing him, one of the Directors) as your proxy, please insert the relevant details at 1 overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. Please indicate with an X in the space provided how your proxy is to vote on each resolution. If no indication is given, the proxy in his discretion will vote as he thinks fit. Please also delete (***) if you do not wish your proxy to vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting. 5. In the case of a Company / Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. Where the Form of Proxy is signed under a Power of Attorney (POA) which has not been registered with the Company, the original POA together with a photocopy of same or a copy certified by a Notary Public must be lodged with the Company along with the Form of Proxy. 7. In case of Marginal Trading Accounts (slash accounts), the form of Proxy should be signed by the respective authorised Fund Manager/Banker with whom the account is maintained. 168 CORPORATE INFORMATION NAME OF COMPANY BANKERS Hayleys Fabric PLC Standard Chartered Bank Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation LEGAL FORM Hatton National Bank PLC A Quoted Public Company with Limited Liability Bank of Ceylon (Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1993) National Development Bank PLC Sampath Bank PLC COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER Deutsche Bank AG PQ 37 Citibank, N.A. ACCOUNTING YEAR END Seylan Bank PLC 31st March Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC People’s Bank PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY DFCC Bank Manufacturing of knitted fabric AUDITORS DIRECTORS Ernst & Young A.M. Pandithage Chairman Chartered Accountants, E.R.P. Goonetilleke Managing Director 201, De Saram Place, K.D.D. Perera Colombo 10. S.C. Ganegoda H. Somashantha R.N. Somaratne Dr. N.S.J. Nawaratne A.S. Jayatilleka I.B.R.R. Bandara M.H. Jayasinghe (Appointed w.e.f. 1st April 2019) Ms. Yogadinusha Bhaskaran (Alternative Director to K.D.D. Perera) SECRETARIES Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd. 400, Deans Road,Colombo 10. Telephone: (94-11) 2627650/51/52/53 REGISTERED OFFICE 400, Deans Road , Colombo 10. Telephone: (94-11) 2627000 MAIN OFFICE & FACTORY Narthupana Estate , Neboda. Telephone: (94-34) 4297100, 2242055 Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd w ww. hay ley s f abr ic. c om
