UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2020 TABLE OF CONTENT NJORD LAW FIRM 1. What we do UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2. Who we are 6. Human Rights 3. Our business fundamentals 7. Labour 4. What be believe in 8. Environment 5. CEO Statement 9. Anti-Corruption WHAT WE DO WE WORK as problem solvers for private and business clients, nationally and internationally WE SPECIALIZE in more than 30 areas of expertise WE SPEAK, THINK AND COOPERATE in more than 25 languages WE COMBINE EXPERTISE & PRACTICAL EXPERIENCE with customized counselling – in plain language WHO WE ARE 215 EMPLOYEES 109 LAWYERS in Denmark and the Baltics in Denmark and the Baltics 20 NATIONALITIES 60 % WOMEN with a strong worldwide network 40 % men FOUR COUNTRIES 38 YEARS Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania is the average age of all the lawyers FIVE OFFICES 52 YEARS Aarhus, Copenhagen, Riga, Tallinn, and Vilnius is the average age of the equity partners OUR BUSINESS FUNDAMENTALS INTERNATIONAL NJORD strives to be regarded by our clients and the market as the leading international and Nordic law firm widely recognised for providing professional and value-creating solutions to our clients. OPENNESS Our organisational structure is flat, ensuring easy access to decision-making processes and maximum influence. This results in a strong sense of community and commitment among employees and has made NJORD a popular and valued place of work. STRONG CORE Our employees make up our business. Therefore, their well-being and the working environment is a high priority. MOVEMENT We are not afraid to ask questions and challenge. We focus on expanding and developing our consultancy in sectors where regulation affects the activities of our clients. København WHAT WE BELIEVE IN SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Whoever has the ability and the opportunity also has the duty. As a law firm, we have a voice in society – it is imperative that we use it wisely to influence society in a positive direction. DIVERSITY We believe that diversity is a must and a strength. Therefore we invest in internationalization, minorities and inclusion. Our diversity makes us strong together. PRO BONO We support Digital Responsibility (Digitalt Ansvar), Repair Café, Unconventional Ventures, Red barnet, Danish Cancer Society, Amnesty International, Turkish migrants, Association of Danish churches, Danchurchaid & UN Women. CO₂-NEUTRAL Since 2018, we have been tracking our carbon footprint and compensating through climate investments. Certified by IHS Markit, NJORD is the first CO₂-neutral law firm in Denmark. København CEO STATEMENT NJORD Law Firm has been a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2016. When we joined the United Nations Global Compact, we incorporated the ten principles into our Code of Conduct. Therefore, the principles are a big part of our values and the way we run our business. We are continuously working to uphold our existing initiatives taken the recent years, but we are also taking new actions to abide by the ten principles. At NJORD we take pride in being a company that cares. As a law firm, we have a voice in society – it is imperative that we use it wisely to influence society in a positive direction. In 2016, we joined the Association of Danish Law Firms’ codex (advokatKODEKS) and formulated NJORD Law Firm’s Code of Conduct. In 2018 NJORD received the Danish AdvokatKODEKS award for our efforts against digital offenses, which shows that the industry supports the project and our hard work. Since 2018, we also have been tracking our carbon footprint and compensating through climate investments. Certified by IHS Markit, NJORD is the first CO₂neutral law firm in Denmark. With this report, we are proud to reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative covering Human Rights, Labour, the Environment, and Anti-Corruption. 30 April 2020 Lars Lokdam, managing partner, CEO 3 HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIONS • NJORD Law Firm safeguards diversity as it is one of our fundamental values. NJORD respects and acknowledges our employees’ differences and the DIGITAL RESPONSIBILITY individual’s identity. We see diversity in the composition of employees as NJORD Law Firm takes digital and social responsibility. our strength, as each employee enriches NJORD with his or her experience. We fight for those whose voices are not heard in cases about digital criminal offences. • At NJORD there are 60% women and 40% men. Our focus is to develop and OUR LEGAL WORK MAKES A DIFFERENCE Therefore we feel an obligation to act. support a diverse workplace where everyone is welcome regardless of gender, marital status, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, religion, disability or LEGAL JUSTICE ON THE AGENDA age. Over the last few years, all established media in the country – both tv, radio and newspapers – have followed NJORD's work to combat digital violations. This recently • Openness, respect and tolerance together with diversity are our core values, resulted in a three-part documentary by the Danish Broadcasting Corporation (DR). which is why we ensure a healthy and safe work environment, where discrimination, bullying and harassment are not tolerated. • We want a healthy and attractive workplace, where physical and psychological well-being and safety are in focus. We are continuously WATCH THE DOCUMENTARY working to maintain a good work environment, where employees can expect to be treated properly and respectfully by the management and colleagues. HUMAN RIGHTS OUTCOMES • We enforce our Human Resource Policy and employee satisfaction surveys to ensure that everyone can be happy at work. “It does not make much of a • Since 2016, NJORD Law Firm has made a serious effort to combat and create difference to say that you are not attention to digital criminal offences in Denmark. We have worked pro bono and assisted in a number of cases within this field and worked with the government to allowed to share pictures without tighten the minimum and maximum sentences for digital sexual offences, as well as consent if the actual sharing has no worked to set higher compensations to the victims. consequences. The legislation then is • Furthermore, NJORD Law Firm has participated in establishing the member but a hollow shell. We must show that association – Digitalt Ansvar – which is working for up-to-date legislation, effective the legal system works by ensuring investigation, better knowledge, data and purposeful education. In 2018 NJORD that digital violations also have received the Danish AdvokatKODEKS award for our efforts against digital offenses. consequences.” • We have achieved increased maximum penalties and tort for digital sexual violations, an increased focus by the police and the digital platforms on digital – Miriam Michaelsen, violations and now see a serious tendency towards a change in digital behavior. partner at NJORD Law Firm and lawyer in more than 30 cases of digital infringements LABOUR ACTIONS OUTCOMES • NJORD Law Firm ensures a safe and healthy work environment by • We have an annual satisfaction survey, a workplace assessment (APV) continuously taking a number of measures for the improvement of every third year, regular job satisfaction surveys, and action plans to the physical and psychological work environment. handle employees’ stress, absence due to illness and occupational accidents. • We set out to securing a good work life for everyone – and not just for employees in NJORD, but also for those who have difficulties in • Every year, we take in multiple interns and trainees, and we have gaining a foothold in the Danish workforce. employees with salary subsidy with a view to full-time employment. We dare to see opportunities in new employees with special profiles. • Employees at NJORD Law Firm have an influence on the development of the business. They participate in the strategy processes and • We offer our employees health insurance and a collective accident continuously provide input to improvements and new initiatives. insurance in order to help the employees to a better life, if the damage has occurred. ENVIRONMENT ACTIONS OUTCOMES • NJORD Law Firm contributes to a sustainable environment by making • We work with suppliers who have ambitious CSR policies. When environmental savings and reductions. investing in products and services, it is always a priority that the production is environmentally friendly, organic and that the product is • At NJORD we work actively to reduce the use of plastic and if possible durable and of high quality. Hotel bookings are booked through we buy office supplies that are made of recycled materials Goodwings whereby the profits go to charity around the world. • NJORD Law Firm takes a number of measures for the improvement of • We have replaced plastic bottles by tap water, which is served at the environment, such as reducing air travels by prioritizing meetings and for employees. international meetings in online meeting rooms, reducing waste in general and recycling, reducing the use of paper and printing, and • Recently we introduced a new approach to the handling of waste to reducing food waste by optimizing every purchase. reduce output by 500 plastic bags per week. • NJORD Law Firm has become carbon neutral certified, as one of the • At our offices, bicycles are available, so that our attorneys can first law firms in Denmark. transport themselves quickly and sustainably to court hearings, trials, and meetings throughout the city. • All PCs at our offices use a special power-saving program reducing the power consumption to an absolute minimum when we are not working. ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTIONS OUTCOMES • NJORD ensures a high ethical level. • All employees have pledged to respect and abide by the rules of the Danish Bar and Law Society. • As a law firm, we are obliged to prevent money laundering and corruption. • NJORD Law Firm has drawn up a memorandum that specifies the demands pursuant to the Act on Measures to Prevent Money • None of NJORD’s employees give or receive undue advantages to or Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. All employees are obliged to from Danish or international officials. observe the rules of this act and ensure to be updated on any changes and amendments. • We have a policy on how to entertain clients and business partners internally and externally. • In all cases including cross-border activities, we advise and recommend clauses to fight and prevent corruption DETERMINED TO MAKE CHANGES THROUGH OUR LEGAL WORK
