FORWARD Sustainability Report 2019 34 STRATEGIC PILLAR: VISION RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Economic Sustainability 34 A trusted global company Corporate Governance and building a sustainable future. Risk Management 38 Supply Chain and Responsible Procurement 51 MISSION Product Quality and Safety 54 We deliver solutions for 57 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY sustainable urbanisation safely, responsibly and profitably. Occupational Safety and Health 57 Labour Practices, Talent Management and Human Rights 64 Community Development 71 02 GROUP OVERVIEW 82 OTHER INFORMATION Letter to Stakeholders 2 About this Report 82 Highlights 5 GRI Content Index 83 Building a Sustainable Future 6 Independent Assurance Statement 87 Global Presence 8 Independent Verification Statement 89 Group Structure 10 LBG Assurance Statement 2019 91 Sustainability Framework 11 Key Personnel 92 Materiality 12 Sustainability Management 14 Awards & Recognition 17 Sustainable Development Goals 18 United Nations Global Compact 20 22 STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Climate Action 22 Environmental Management 27 WE ARE BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS. Keppel is an eco-system of companies providing solutions for sustainable urbanisation, whether in terms of meeting energy and environmental needs, or providing various urban development, connectivity and asset management solutions. We are making sustainability our business, through creating diverse solutions which are good for the planet, for people and for Keppel. GROUP OVERVIEW LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS GRI 102-14 KEPPEL IS COMMITTED TO and has been woven into the performance appraisal of senior management across the Group. We will avoid highly pollutive SUPPORTING THE EFFORTS OF businesses such as coal-fired plants, and focus more on renewables and cleaner THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY energy such as gas. We will also include an internal carbon price in the evaluation AND THE SINGAPORE GOVERNMENT of all major investment decisions. For our existing businesses and assets, we will focus on enhancing energy efficiency, TO ADVANCE CLIMATE ACTION. including harnessing renewable energy where possible. WE WILL PUT OUR ENGINEERING We will put our engineering capabilities to work on solutions to combat climate CAPABILITIES TO WORK ON change, and in the process, also create new business opportunities for the Group. SOLUTIONS TO COMBAT Last year, we established a new business unit, Keppel Renewable Energy, to pursue CLIMATE CHANGE. opportunities for Keppel as a developer, owner and operator of renewable energy infrastructure. Our pivot towards renewables and LOH CHIN HUA cleaner fossil fuels can already be seen Chief Executive Officer DEAR STAKEHOLDERS, COMMITTED TO CLIMATE ACTION in some of our businesses such as Keppel Over the past few years, there has been Offshore & Marine, with renewables and A TEST OF RESILIENCE growing international consensus on the LNG-related solutions making up over 60% COVID-19 is having a significant impact importance of sustainable development of new orders secured in 2019. on the lives of countless people around and climate action. At the United Nations the world. Many governments have Climate Action Summit last September, On 1 January 2020, Keppel Bay Tower, Scope 3 emissions, such as emissions an overall employee engagement score responded by taking unprecedented 70 countries committed to deliver more where Keppel Corporation is headquartered, from business travel. We have also of 86%, higher than the 82% and 80% steps, including lockdowns and border ambitious national climate plans in 2020, became Singapore’s first commercial set long-term targets to reduce water achieved in 2017 and 2015 respectively, controls, to flatten the infection curve. in pursuit of the goal of net-zero emissions development to be fully powered by consumption and waste intensity, and and significantly higher than the average The pandemic has caused considerable by 2050. Singapore has also enhanced renewable energy. Through energy increase renewable energy generation. of 76% among Singapore companies. hardship for affected communities, its pledge under the Paris Agreement, efficiency initiatives implemented across We were also recognised in Forbes’ Global sharply slowed down global economic with an aim to peak its emissions the Group in 2019, as well as energy savings STRONG FOUNDATIONS 2000 rankings as one of the World’s Best activity, and disrupted many aspects of around 2030, half the emissions from from Keppel Land’s Green Mark-certified Commitment to good corporate governance Regarded Companies 2019 and World's modern life that we have come to take its 2030 peak by 2050, and achieve net developments, we have saved an estimated is essential to the sustainability of any Best Employers 2019. for granted. For companies, COVID-19 zero emissions as soon as viable. To 862,264 GJ of energy in the past year, business. In 2019, Keppel Offshore & Marine has also underscored the importance incentivise industries to improve energy translating to an estimated $60 million became one of the first companies in Safety is a core value at Keppel, and of looking at long-term risks, having efficiency and reduce emissions, Singapore in cost savings. Singapore to achieve global certification we are guided by a robust Health, comprehensive business continuity plans, implemented a carbon tax in 2019, with for the ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management Safety and Environment policy which and ultimately of building sustainable the intention of increasing it over the next Since 2014, we have set ourselves a System. We are progressively implementing all our employees and suppliers are businesses that remain resilient amidst 10 years, and is actively pursuing cleaner target to reduce carbon emissions the same standard throughout the Group. required to adhere to. Amid COVID-19, adversity and can respond nimbly to energy solutions. intensity by 16% from 2020 business as We have also enhanced the Group’s the health and well-being of our employees, unexpected developments. usual levels. In 2018, we set a longer-term whistle-blower policy with centralised contractors and other stakeholders have Keppel is committed to supporting the target to achieve a 28.8% reduction in procedures and whistle-blower reporting been our top priority and we have put in While COVID-19 is currently the focus efforts of the international community carbon emissions intensity from 2010 channels including email and local place various measures to minimise the of media and public attention, climate and the Singapore government to advance levels by 2030. Both targets are aligned toll-free hotlines. spreading of the virus, including working from change remains one of the most serious climate action. with national goals set by the Singapore home where possible and safe distancing challenges facing the world today. Government over the years. I am pleased Our people are our most valuable resource. measures at the workplace. I am also Like COVID-19, it transcends borders In 2019, the Board reviewed the to report that as at end-2019, we have We respect and uphold fair employment pleased to share that we achieved our and can fundamentally transform the Company’s sustainability reporting achieved a more than 30% average practices, and human rights principles. goal of zero fatalities in 2019, for the first world as we know it. Unlike COVID-19, framework and material environmental, reduction in carbon emissions intensity In 2019, we formalised our corporate time in over 25 years. We will continue to its impact may be even greater, more social and governance (ESG) factors. from our 2010 baseline, and are well statement on diversity and inclusion, innovate and improve our safety standards, devastating, and longer lasting. There is We have included Environmental on track to achieving our 2020 target. which is publicly available on our website. to ensure that everyone goes home safe no quick fix or vaccine for climate change. Stewardship as a key strategic thrust, We are committed to investing in people every day. Efforts to combat climate change require and climate action as a material ESG factor We will continue to explore how we can development to grow the capabilities of coordinated and sustained international that we should focus on. push ourselves to do even more for our workforce to drive Keppel’s growth Suppliers of the Keppel Group of effort, long-term commitments, and climate change. Starting from this year, and continue creating value for our companies are expected to abide by trade-offs that we must each be Environmental sustainability is a key we have expanded our tracking of carbon stakeholders. This year, in the Company’s the Keppel supplier code of conduct, prepared to make. consideration in our business decisions, emissions from Scope 1 and 2 to include Employee Engagement Survey, we achieved which covers business conduct, labour 2 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 3 GROUP OVERVIEW LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS and environmental aspects. We are support the planting of 10,000 trees over the committed to engaging with our suppliers next five years in parks and nature reserves to evaluate their sustainability performance. in Singapore, reflecting our heightened In 2019, all new suppliers were screened commitment to environmental stewardship in accordance with ESG criteria, and and climate action. NParks has announced 99.97% of qualified suppliers endorsed that this is the single largest donation pledged the code or have their own codes which for tree planting in Singapore to date. met Keppel’s requirements. STRENGTHENING DISCLOSURES Since 2018, Keppel has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, As we seek to build a sustainable future, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative promoting sustainable business we look forward to deepening collaboration practices. We affirm our support of the Global Compact’s 10 principles on with all our stakeholders to create diverse human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and this report serves solutions which are good for the planet, as our Communication on Progress. for people and for Keppel. We also support the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and are working towards incorporating its recommendations on voluntary CARING FOR THE COMMUNITY climate-related disclosures in our Keppelites are making a positive impact reporting framework. in communities wherever we operate. I am proud to share that Keppel Volunteers BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE contributed more than 18,000 hours to Today, Keppel is an eco-system of companies serving the community, more than our providing solutions for sustainable target of 10,000 hours, and an increase urbanisation, whether in terms of meeting of over 4,000 hours compared to 2018. energy and environmental needs, or providing Our volunteer outreach includes activities various urban development, connectivity in Singapore such as packing and and asset management solutions. distributing food and household items to low-income households, as well as We are encouraged by the international overseas programmes such as poverty recognition of our sustainability efforts. alleviation efforts in Mabian County in Keppel Corporation was upgraded to Sichuan Province, China, and the Words the highest triple-A rank in the Morgan on Wheels initiative in Ho Chi Minh City, Stanley Capital International (MSCI) Vietnam, to promote literacy. During the ESG ratings in February 2020, and COVID-19 pandemic, we also committed ranks among the top 11% of industrial more than $5 million to support international conglomerates in the MSCI All Country and local efforts to combat the coronavirus. World Index based on ESG criteria. For the first time, Keppel also won the We are committed to care for the Singapore Environmental Achievement underprivileged and uplift lives. In 2019, Award in the services category at the Keppel pledged $500,000 over the next Singapore Environmental Council’s three years to support the sheltered Environmental Achievement Awards 2019. workshop programme run by SPD, a local charity supporting persons with disabilities. As we seek to build a sustainable The programme aims to help persons with future, we look forward to deepening disabilities improve their job prospects collaboration with all our stakeholders through providing vocational training, to create diverse solutions which are therapy and employment support services. good for the planet, for people and Beyond financial support, Keppel will bring for Keppel. the Group’s capabilities in areas such as engineering, workplace safety, business development and marketing to help enhance the sheltered workshop programme through skills-based volunteerism. More recently, in 2020, we have also pledged LOH CHIN HUA to donate $3 million to support NParks’ One Chief Executive Officer Million Trees movement. The donation will 8 May 2020 4 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited GROUP OVERVIEW HIGHLIGHTS Sustainability Benchmarks Accolades AAA Singapore Environmental Achievement Award Rating achieved in the MSCI ESG ratings. Ranked top 11% of all industrial conglomerates in the MSCI All In the services category at the Singapore Environment Country World Index, based on ESG criteria. Council's Environmental Achievement Awards 2019. Economic Value Emissions Reduction $8.2b >30% Of economic value generated for our stakeholders. Average reduction in carbon emissions intensity from our 2010 baseline achieved by operations in Singapore and overseas. Energy Savings Suppliers $60m 100% In estimated cost savings from energy efficiency Of all new suppliers were screened in accordance initiatives implemented in 2019 and from with environmental, social and governance criteria. Keppel Land’s Green Mark-certified developments. Safety Accolades 0 Forbes’ Global 2000 Rankings Top 250 World’s Best Regarded Companies, and Workplace fatalities across our global operations in Top 500 World’s Best Employers in 2019. 2019, for the first time in more than 25 years. Employee Engagement Training & Development 86% 27.6hrs Overall engagement score, significantly higher than Of training per employee globally. the average of 76% among Singapore companies. Social Investments Volunteerism $9.6m >18,000hrs Invested in worthy social causes, including caring Of community service achieved by Keppel Volunteers, for the underprivileged, supporting education, and an increase of over 4,000 hours compared to 2018. protecting the environment. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 5 GROUP OVERVIEW BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE GRI 102-2 URBAN LIVING We shape skylines and lives through vibrant and sustainable urban developments. MARINE 17 Quality homes We serve the marine industry with an array WE DEVELOP, OPERATE AND MANAGE of vessel solutions and services. 18 Green office buildings A SPECTRUM OF SOLUTIONS TO MEET THE 16 Specialised vessels 19 Smart townships NEEDS OF SUSTAINABLE URBANISATION. ASSET MANAGEMENT We create enduring value with quality ENERGY investment products and platforms. We support the safe and efficient harvesting of energy sources to power 1 Private funds, REITs the world’s needs. 5 and Business Trust Gas and Electricity Retail 16 2 17 1 Smart rigs 2 7 Offshore wind farm solutions 3 Floating production systems 4 4 FLNG vessels and LNG carriers 3 5 Floating power plants and FSRUs 6 6 LNG bunkering 9 7 Power plants 8 District cooling and heating plants 19 13 18 CONNECTIVITY We connect people and businesses with information, goods and services in an increasingly digital economy. 11 Communications Solutions 8 9 Floating data centre parks 12 10 Data centres 10 11 Urban logistics 15 14 ENVIRONMENT We green cities with solutions for waste and water & wastewater treatment. 12 Waste-to-energy plants 13 Integrated waste management plants 14 Wastewater treatment plants 15 Desalination plants 6 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 7 GROUP OVERVIEW GLOBAL PRESENCE GRI 102-4 | 102-6 | 102-7 3 5 1 4 Total FY 2019 Revenue $7.6b Markets outside of Singapore contributed about 42% of the Group’s revenue for FY 2019. 6 1 2 4 ASIA $5,825m AUSTRALIA & MIDDLE EAST $134m NEW ZEALAND $196m • China • Qatar 2 • India • United Arab Emirates 3 • Indonesia EUROPE $456m 5 • Japan • Belgium NORTH AMERICA $815m • Malaysia • Bulgaria • Myanmar • United States • Germany • Philippines • Italy 6 • Singapore • Ireland SOUTH AMERICA $154m • South Korea • Netherlands • Vietnam • Brazil • United Kingdom 8 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 9 GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP STRUCTURE GRI 102-5 | 102-7 | 102-45 KEPPEL CORPORATION LIMITED Offshore & Marine Property Infrastructure Investments • Offshore rig design, construction, • Property development • Energy infrastructure • Asset management repair and upgrading • Investments • Environmental infrastructure • Master development • Ship conversion and repair • Infrastructure services • Investments • Specialised shipbuilding • Logistics and data centres • Communications • Investments KEPPEL OFFSHORE & KEPPEL LAND LIMITED KEPPEL INFRASTRUCTURE KEPPEL CAPITAL HOLDINGS MARINE LTD HOLDINGS PTE LTD PTE LTD 100% 100% 100% 100% Keppel FELS Limited 100% Keppel Land 100% ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE Keppel REIT Management 100% – various holding companies Limited Keppel Shipyard Limited 100% Southeast Asia and India Keppel Gas Pte Ltd 100% Alpha Investment Partners Ltd 100% Keppel Singmarine Pte Ltd 100% Keppel Land China 100% Keppel Electric Pte Ltd 100% China Keppel Infrastructure Fund 100% Keppel LeTourneau 100% Keppel DHCS Pte Ltd 100% Management Pte Ltd Keppel Bay Pte Ltd 100% Keppel Nantong Shipyard 100% Keppel Merlimau Cogen 49% Keppel DC REIT 100% Company Limited Keppel REIT3,4 49% Pte Ltd5 Management Pte Ltd6 China ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE Keppel Pacific Oak US REIT 50% Offshore Technology 100% Management Pte Ltd Development Pte Ltd Keppel Seghers Pte Ltd 100% Keppel Pacific Oak US REIT4 7% Keppel Marine & 100% INFRASTRUCTURE SERVICES Deepwater Technology Pte Ltd Keppel Infrastructure 100% Services Pte Ltd KEPPEL URBAN SOLUTIONS Keppel AmFELS LLC 100% PTE LTD United States 100% INVESTMENTS Keppel FELS Brasil SA 100% Brasil Keppel Infrastructure Trust4 18% M1 LIMITED2 100% Keppel Philippines Marine Inc 98% The Philippines KEPPEL TELECOMMUNICATIONS & KEPPEL RENEWABLE TRANSPORTATION LTD 100% ENERGY PTE LTD Keppel Subic Shipyard Inc 86% 100% The Philippines LOGISTICS & DATA CENTRES Floatel International Ltd 50% KRISENERGY LTD4 Bermuda Keppel Logistics Pte Ltd 100% Cayman Islands 40% Dyna-Mac Holdings Limited4 24% Keppel Data Centres Holding 100% Pte Ltd7 UrbanFox Pte Ltd 85% Keppel DC REIT4 23% SINO-SINGAPORE TIANJIN ECO-CITY INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT CO., LTD1 China 50% GROUP CORPORATE SERVICES Control & Accounts Human Resources Tax Corporate Communications Legal Treasury Strategy & Development Risk & Compliance Information Systems Corporate Development Audit Health, Safety & Environment Notes: 1 Owned by a Singapore Consortium, which is in turn 90%-owned by the Keppel Group. 2 Owned by Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation Ltd (19%), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Keppel Corporation, and Konnectivity (81%), a joint venture between Keppel Corporation and Singapore Press Holdings. 3 Owned by Keppel Land Limited (44%) and Keppel Capital Holdings Pte Ltd (5%). 4 Public listed company. 5 Owned by Keppel Infrastructure Holdings Pte Ltd (49%) and Keppel Infrastructure Trust (51%). 6 Owned by Keppel Capital Holdings Pte Ltd (50%) and Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation Ltd (50%). 7 Owned by Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation Ltd (70%) and Keppel Land Limited (30%). Updated as at 11 March 2020. The complete list of subsidiaries and significant associated companies is published on pages 201 to 210 of Keppel Corporation's Report to Shareholders 2019. 10 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited GROUP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK GRI 102-49 WE REGARD OUR STRATEGY Keppel is an eco-system of companies, collaborating to provide solutions for SUSTAINABLE a fast-urbanising world. We regard sustainable urbanisation both as a corporate URBANISATION responsibility and a source of business opportunities. We are harnessing the Group’s capabilities and proven track record in engineering, project development, operating BOTH AS A and managing specialised assets, capital and asset management, and growing new CORPORATE businesses aligned with these competencies. RESPONSIBILITY In 2019, Keppel Corporation’s sustainability reporting framework and material ESG factors AND A SOURCE were updated and refined, taking into account changes in the external environment as well as a comprehensive review of the Company’s material ESG factors which was conducted from OF BUSINESS December 2018 to April 2019. OPPORTUNITIES. Reflecting our increased focus on environmental sustainability, the three strategic pillars under the framework have been updated to (1) Environmental Stewardship; (2) Responsible Business; and (3) People and Community. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP We will do our part to combat climate change, and are committed to resource efficiency and reducing our environmental impact. We will avoid highly pollutive businesses such as coal-fired plants, emphasise renewables and cleaner energy such as gas, and channel our engineering capabilities as a solutions provider to contribute to the fight against climate change. We have set targets to reduce waste, water and carbon emissions intensity, and to invest in renewable energy generation. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS The long-term sustainability of our business is driven at the highest level of the organisation through strong corporate governance and prudent risk management. Through our integrated business model, we seek to improve both the magnitude and quality of our earnings with more recurring income, while enhancing returns through active capital recycling. We work closely with stakeholders in our value chain to enhance their sustainability performance, and continue to drive innovation and seize new opportunities. PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY People are the cornerstone of our businesses. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace, as well as investing in training and developing our people to help them reach their full potential. As a global citizen, Keppel believes that as communities thrive, we thrive. We are committed to uplifting communities wherever we operate, and supporting initiatives that protect the environment, promote education and care for the underprivileged, with the goal of building a sustainable future together. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 11 GROUP OVERVIEW MATERIALITY GRI 102-21 | 102-46 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENTS ARE IMPORTANT COMPONENTS OF KEPPEL’S SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND REPORTING. MATERIALITY MATRIX Ranking of material issues in terms of relative importance to stakeholders 1. Business Ethics & Integrity 2. Corporate Governance Issues Issues 3. Product Safety & Quality 9-16 1-5 4. Cyber Security & Data Protection 5. Occupational Health & Safety 6. Economic Performance Importance to External Stakeholders 7. Training & Development 8. Talent Attraction & Retention 9. Economic Contribution to Society Issues 10. Customer Service Engagement 17-22 11. Waste Management Issues 12. Water Management 23-27 13. Emissions Issues 6-8 14. Energy Management 15. Sustainable Design 16. Climate Action 17. Research & Development Issues 18. Sustainable Supply Chain Management 28-29 19. Capital Allocation & Asset Management 20. Labour & Human Rights 21. Diversity & Inclusion Importance to Internal Stakeholders 22. Community Development 23. Fair Treatment of Suppliers 24. Biodiversity The outcome of the materiality review was a matrix illustrating the degree of importance that internal and external stakeholders accord to the company’s material issues. 25. Land Degradation & Contamination 26. Employee Wellness 27. Rights of Local Communities 28. Noise Pollution 29. Collective Bargaining Legends Business Practices Environment Labour Communities 12 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited GRI 102-46 | 102-47 | 102-49 PROCESS Our materiality assessments are based on Reporting Principles from the GRI Standards Identify Prioritise Integrate Review & Validate on Defining Report Content – stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 materiality and completeness. We identify the From the list Important The material Company’s of material material matters issues are Materiality with respect to sustainability material ESG issues identified, are managed reviewed reporting, as defined by GRI Standards, factors through we prioritise those as part of and validated includes topics and indicators that reflect that have the annually, taking stakeholder our business the organisation’s significant economic, most significant into account consultations, an impact on processes, with changes to our environmental, and social impacts; assessment of mechanisms in our ability to businesses and and would substantively influence long-term global place to monitor successfully societal trends. the assessments and decisions trends and an execute our the effectiveness of stakeholders. internal review of strategy and of our approach, our businesses. deliver long-term and targets set to A comprehensive review of the Company’s value to our drive behaviour material Environmental, Social and stakeholders. and measure Governance (ESG) factors was conducted performance. from December 2018 to April 2019. The process was supported by an independent consultant and involved surveys, workshops and interviews with around 170 internal and external SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK stakeholders, an assessment of long-term Strategic Pillar Material ESG Factors global trends and an internal review of our businesses. The review resulted Environmental in a comprehensive matrix categorising Stewardship factors according to their importance to internal and external stakeholders. Factors were prioritised according to their importance to both internal and Climate Action Environmental external stakeholders. Management Arising from the review, a revised sustainability reporting framework and an updated set of material ESG factors were presented to and approved by Responsible Keppel Corporation’s Board of Directors. Business Economic Corporate Supply Chain & Product Sustainability Governance & Responsible Quality & Risk Procurement Safety Management People and Community Occupational Labour Practices, Community Safety & Talent Development Health Management & Human Rights Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 13 GROUP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GRI 102-18 | 102-19 | 102-20 | 102-22 | 102-26 | 102-29 | 102-31 | 102-32 SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES ARE MANAGED AND COMMUNICATED AT ALL LEVELS OF THE GROUP. The Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City (pictured) is a model for sustainable development, and brings together Keppel's capabilities to create a highly liveable, smart and green community. BOARD STATEMENT ON SUSTAINABILITY “The key material environmental, social and governance factors for Keppel Corporation have been identified and are regularly reviewed by Keppel Corporation’s Board of Directors and management. The Board oversees the management and monitoring of these factors and takes them into consideration in the determination of the Company’s strategic direction and policies.” Keppel Corporation Board of Directors The Board and management of Supporting the Steering Committee is the Keppel Corporation regularly review Group Sustainability Working Committee, as well as oversee the management and co-chaired by Mr Sebastien Lamy, Director monitoring of the material Environmental, of Group Strategy & Development and Social and Governance (ESG) factors Managing Director of Keppel Technology & of the Company, and take them into Innovation, and Mr Ho Tong Yen, Director consideration in the determination of of Group Corporate Communications, the Company's strategic direction Keppel Corporation. and policies. The working committee, comprising The Group Sustainability Steering discipline-specific working groups with Committee provides guidance on strategic representatives from across our different and operational issues. The committee businesses, executes and reports on is chaired by Mr Loh Chin Hua, Keppel the Group’s efforts across the material ESG Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) aspects of climate action, environmental and Executive Director, and comprises CEOs management, economic sustainability, of key business units across the Group. corporate governance & risk management, 14 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited supply chain & responsible procurement, of material ESG factors were presented • Singapore National Employers product quality & safety, occupational to and approved by Keppel Corporation’s Federation to promote excellence safety & health, labour practices, Board of Directors. Please refer to in employment practices; talent management & human rights, pages 11 to 13 for more details. and community development. • Workplace Safety & Health Council MEMBERSHIPS IN ASSOCIATIONS to build industry capabilities to better STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-13 manage WSH and promote safety GRI 102-21 | 102-42 | 102-43 In addition to engaging our stakeholders, and health at work; Regular engagement with our stakeholders we participate as members of various helps us determine our material areas of focus. organisations, including: • The Institute of Policy Studies to support the analysis and discussion We have applied Reporting Principles from • United Nations (UN) Global Compact of public policy in Singapore; the GRI Standards on defining report content, as a Signatory, and Global Compact which include stakeholder inclusiveness, Network Singapore as a member. • Singapore Institute of International Affairs whereby stakeholders are defined as entities We are committed to the 10 principles to deepen understanding and forge or individuals that can reasonably be expected of the Global Compact and support the stronger partnerships between countries to be significantly affected by Keppel, or UN sustainable development goals; in the region; and whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of Keppel to implement the • Singapore Institute of Directors to • GRI Singapore as a member of the Company's strategy or achieve its objectives. promote the professional development Founding Consortium to support of directors and corporate leaders companies in ASEAN with relevant Keppel conducted a stakeholder consultation and uphold the highest standards services and training to manage and exercise from December 2018 to April 2019. of corporate governance and report their most material ESG impacts1. All stakeholder groups were represented ethical conduct; in the consultation exercise, and their inputs informed our comprehensive review of the • Securities Investors Association Company’s material ESG factors. Arising (Singapore) to engage the investment 1 Please refer to www.globalreporting.org/ information/news-and-press-center/Pages/ from the review, a revised sustainability community and promote good ASEAN-Regional-Hub-opens-in-Singapore.aspx reporting framework and an updated set corporate governance; for more information on this new initiative. KEPPEL GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE THE KEPPEL CORE VALUES* GRI 102-16 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Climate Action Sustainability Steering Committee Environmental Management Sustainability Working Committee Economic Sustainability Corporate Governance & Secretariat Risk Management Supply Chain & Responsible Procurement Product Quality & Safety Occupational Safety & Health * Refreshed on 1 March 2020 Labour Practices, Talent Management & Human Rights Community Development Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 15 GROUP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT OUR STAKEHOLDERS GRI 102-21 | 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-44 EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS GOVERNMENTS Significance Significance Significance People are our most valuable asset. Customer satisfaction is crucial to Governments shape the business We are committed to investing in the the success of our businesses. We are environments in which we operate. Political development of our people. We adopt committed to continually improving factors, policies and regulations can affect merit-based recruitment practices and our range of products to better how businesses are run and also create emphasise diversity and inclusiveness. meet customers’ needs, including new opportunities for companies. We track through harnessing insights from topics of concern to governments and customer engagement. regulatory bodies wherever we operate, and seek to not only comply with but also support the policies of national and regional governments. Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Vision, strategy and direction; innovation; Product quality & safety; Health, Safety and Opportunities for business collaboration productivity; collaboration; talent Environment (HSE) excellence. and investment; sharing of industry best management; people development. practices; setting industry benchmarks. Approach Approach Approach Annual employee engagement surveys; regular Regular meetings; ongoing communication Periodic visits and meetings; industry townhalls and other engagement programmes; via different channels; regular customer forums; support for national and training; mentorship programmes. satisfaction surveys. regional initiatives. Our Response Our Response Our Response Read more about how we manage our Read more about how we engage Read more about how we collaborate with global workforce on pages 64 to 70. customers on pages 54 to 56. governments to raise industry standards on pages 62 and 63 as well as page 69. SHAREHOLDERS LOCAL & INVESTORS SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES Significance Significance Significance Shareholders play an important role in Strong, effective relationships with our As active members of our communities, the financing and governance aspects suppliers give our businesses strategic we aim to contribute towards their of our business. Our Investor Relations Policy and operational advantages. By effecting continued well-being. We engage sets out the principles that the Company stringent procurement processes and community leaders to develop abides by to ensure a level playing field a supplier code of conduct, we aim to impactful programmes that drive and help shareholders and prospective encourage our suppliers to adopt more community development. investors make well-informed decisions. sustainable practices. Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Key Topics & Concerns Business strategy and direction; Compliance; HSE excellence; fair treatment; Community investments; donations to economic performance. responsible procurement practices. charitable and environmental causes; volunteer programmes. Approach Approach Approach Regular conference calls; shareholder Regular meetings by project managers Regular meetings and community meetings; briefings to retail shareholders; and HSE teams with key subcontractors outreach initiatives. facility visits; results webcasts; ongoing and suppliers; regular site visits email and phone communications. by management. Our Response Our Response Our Response Read more about how we engage the Read more about how we work with Read more about how we collaborate investment community on pages 40 and 41 suppliers to influence their sustainability with community partners to support of Keppel Corporation’s Report to performance on pages 51 to 53. social development and environmental Shareholders 2019. causes on pages 71 to 81. 16 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited GROUP OVERVIEW AWARDS & RECOGNITION MSCI World ESG Leaders Index FTSE4Good Index Series iEdge SG ESG Indices Keppel Corporation has been upgraded to Keppel Corporation has been included as Keppel Corporation continued to be listed a triple-A rating in the MSCI environmental, an index constituent of the FTSE4Good among the top 10 constituents of the iEdge SG social and governance (ESG) ratings1 as Index Series for the first time in 2019. ESG Leaders Index (formerly SGX ESG Leaders at February 2020. Keppel Corporation is The FTSE4Good Index Series identifies Index) and iEdge SG ESG Transparency Index ranked among the top 11% of industrial companies demonstrating strong ESG policies (formerly SGX ESG Transparency Index) for conglomerates, based on ESG criteria, in the and practices. To be included in this index, the fifth consecutive year. The iEdge SG ESG MSCI All Country World Index (ACWI), MSCI’s companies are independently assessed Indices are composed of SGX-listed companies flagship global equity index, which covers more on more than 300 indicators, which are that are considered ESG leaders with than 3,000 constituents. Keppel Corporation applied according to each company's unique established and leading ESG practices, and is a constituent on the MSCI ACWI and World ESG risk exposure. meet sustainability reporting requirements. ESG Leaders Indexes, and has been included on the MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes since 2014. Euronext Vigeo World 120 Singapore Environmental Workplace Safety and Health Awards Keppel Corporation was listed as an index Achievement Awards The Keppel Group was conferred 18 awards component of the Euronext Vigeo World 120 Keppel Corporation was recognised at the Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) for the seventh consecutive year. Developed for its sustainable business practices, Awards 2019 organised by Singapore’s Ministry by Euronext, the primary exchange in the winning the Singapore Environmental of Manpower and the WSH Council. The Group Eurozone, and Vigeo, the leading European Achievement Award in the services category received accolades in the following categories: agency in corporate social responsibility at the Singapore Environment Council's Safety and Health Award Recognition for ratings, the Euronext Vigeo World 120 Environmental Achievement Awards 2019. Projects Awards, WSH Performance Awards, comprises 120 of the highest-ranking The annual Singapore Environmental WSH Innovation Awards and WSH Awards listed companies globally in terms of Achievement Awards is one of the for Supervisors. This is the largest number of performance in corporate responsibility. most prestigious awards in the region, awards won by a single organisation in 2019. and recognises organisations for their excellence in environmental stewardship. Forbes Global 2000 Top 250 Forbes Global 2000 Top 500 Sustainable Business Awards World’s Best Regarded Companies World’s Best Regarded Employers Keppel Corporation received special Keppel has been recognised in Forbes' Keppel has been recognised in Forbes' recognition in the workforce category at Global 2000 rankings as one of the World's Global 2000 rankings as one of the World's the Sustainable Business Awards 2019. Best Regarded Companies in 2019. To create Best Employers in 2019. Forbes partnered The awards, organised by Global Initiatives the list of top 250 World's Best Regarded with Statista to shortlist the top 500 World’s in partnership with PwC Singapore, Companies, Forbes partnered online Best Employers from Forbes' annual recognise businesses with sustainable statistics portal Statista to whittle Forbes' list of the world's 2,000 largest public business practices. annual list of the world's 2,000 largest public companies based on 1.4 million employment companies down to 250, based on criteria of recommendations sourced from a global poll trustworthiness, social conduct, the strength of and regional surveys. their products and services and how they fare as employers. Sustainable Business sg Awards Singapore 1 The use by Keppel Corporation of any MSCI ESG Research LLC or its affiliates (“MSCI”) data, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendation, or promotion of Keppel Corporation by MSCI. MSCI services and data are the property of MSCI or its information providers, and are provided ‘as-is’ and without warranty. MSCI names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 17 GROUP OVERVIEW SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GRI 102-12 WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE INTERNATIONAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AGENDA, AND WILL LEVERAGE COLLABORATION AND PARTNERSHIP TO SUPPORT THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs). WE HAVE INCORPORATED 10 OF THE SDGs AS A SUPPORTING FRAMEWORK TO GUIDE OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY. Strategic Pillars Material Issues SDGs Approach Highlights Strategic Pillars Material Issues SDGs Approach Highlights Environmental Climate Action Our suite of solutions for energy, urban living, As part of our environmental sustainability Responsible Supply Chain & We work closely with our suppliers to make All our suppliers are qualified in accordance clean environments and connectivity help strategy, we will avoid highly pollutive Responsible a positive impact on their sustainability with our requisition and purchasing policies, Stewardship cities urbanise in a sustainable manner. businesses such as coal, and will work towards Business Procurement performance. screened based on ESG criteria, and are growing and expanding renewables and circular expected to sign and abide by the Keppel economy solutions. Supplier Code of Conduct. We will be introducing an internal carbon price in the evaluation of all major investment decisions and enhancing our climate risk assessment. Product Quality We exercise due care and diligence in the We consider proper design, handling, storage We support the Taskforce on Climate-related & Safety design, construction and operation of our and disposal of materials as early as the Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and are working products and services to ensure that they planning stage of our projects. At the project towards incorporating its recommendations in do not pose hazards to customers. execution stage, we carry out project reviews our reporting framework. and quality assurance programmes. We will continue to engage our customers for continuous service improvements. People and Occupational Providing a safe and healthy working We achieved our goal of zero fatalities across Environmental We are committed to minimising our To support the climate change agenda, Safety & Health environment for all stakeholders is fundamental our global operations in 2019. Management environmental impact, and are focused on we have targets to reduce our carbon Community to our commitment to conduct business sustainable management and efficient use emissions intensity. We have also set new responsibly. We are strong advocates for safety Keppel also clinched 18 awards at the of natural resources. targets to reduce waste generation and water and health in the broader community, and Workplace Safety and Health Awards 2019, consumption, as well as invest in renewable champion national and industry initiatives which is the highest number of awards won We aim to reduce waste generation through energy generation. We have been tracking our to raise standards and drive innovation in by a single organisation for the year. resource efficiency, recycling and reuse of Scope 1 and 2 emissions since 2010, and will these aspects. natural resources. start tracking Scope 3 emissions from 2020. Labour Our businesses spark economic growth, We achieved an Employee Engagement Score Practices, productivity and jobs. Our hiring policies of 86% in 2019, an improvement over our score Talent ensure equal employment opportunities of 82% in 2017 and significantly higher than the Responsible Economic We regard sustainability both as Keppel’s business operations generate Management & for all, and we are committed to invest average of 76% among Singapore companies. Sustainability a corporate responsibility and a source employment, opportunities for suppliers and Business of business opportunities. tax revenues for governments. Human Rights in nurturing our human capital. Our stance on human rights is articulated in We uphold and respect the fundamental our corporate statement on human rights, We are committed to applying our knowledge, The Keppel Technology Advisory Panel principles set out in the UN Universal while our stance on diversity and inclusion skills and technology to drive innovation and is a key platform to advance the Group’s Declaration of Human Rights and the is articulated in our corporate statement on support economic development and the technology leadership. Separately, International Labour Organisation’s declaration diversity and inclusion, which was formalised well-being of our communities. Keppel Technology & Innovation serves as on fundamental principles and rights at work. in early-2019. Both statements are publicly a Group-wide resource to sharpen focus available online. on innovation and be a catalyst for change. Community Through collaboration with our stakeholders, Keppel commits up to 1% of the Group’s We have set targets to invest in sustainabilityDevelopment we mobilise and share knowledge, expertise net profit to worthy social causes. linked innovation. and technology, as well as financial and human resources to support the achievement We invested $9.6 million in social causes Corporate We will conduct ourselves according to the Keppel Offshore & Marine has become one of the SDGs. in 2019. This included a donation to assist Governance highest ethical standards and comply with all of the first companies in Singapore to achieve deserving students from low income families & Risk applicable laws and regulations wherever we global ISO 37001 anti-bribery certification in 2019. We encourage and promote effective public, via the Institute of Technical Education (ITE) Management operate. Our tone on regulatory compliance is We will work progressively towards ISO 37001 public-private and civil society partnerships Education Fund, a contribution to SPD, clear and consistently reiterated from the top of certification for all other Keppel entities. through the sponsorship and support of a Singapore charity supporting persons with the organisation. We have zero tolerance for thought leadership and dialogue platforms. disabilities, greening efforts in Singapore, fraud, bribery, corruption and violation of laws An e-training and assessment exercise covering as well as to the China Foundation for Poverty and regulations. key policies, including Keppel’s Employee Code Alleviation as part of an ongoing partnership to of Conduct, is carried out on an annual basis. aid impoverished rural communities in China. Keppel Volunteers achieved over 18,000 hours of community work in 2019. Keppel Care Foundation, the Group’s philanthropic arm, has disbursed over $44 million since its launch in 2012. The foundation supports care for the underprivileged, education and environmental causes. 18 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 19 GROUP OVERVIEW UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT GRI 102-12 WE ARE A SIGNATORY OF THE UNITED NATIONS (UN) PERFORMANCE DATA GLOBAL COMPACT AND ARE COMMITTED TO Principle Approach Measures UPHOLDING ITS 10 PRINCIPLES ON HUMAN RIGHTS, ENVIRONMENT Sustainability is a key consideration in the Company’s We have defined the kinds of pollutive sectors we will Principle 7 investment decisions, and environmental sustainability not go into, such as coal-fired plants, the businesses LABOUR, ENVIRONMENT AND ANTI-CORRUPTION. Precautionary approach to has been woven into the performance appraisal of we will maintain, and those which we will focus environmental challenges senior management across the Group. more on, such as renewables. In addition, an internal carbon price will be applied in the evaluation of all Principle 8 The Group’s risk-based strategies are used to assess, major investment decisions. The following index describes the progress we have made in 2019. Initiatives to promote greater avoid, reduce and mitigate environmental risks and environmental responsibility impacts. Climate-related risks, including physical and We support the Taskforce on Climate-related transition risks, are incorporated in our Enterprise Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and are working PERFORMANCE DATA Risk Management framework. towards incorporating its recommendations in our Principle 9 Principle Approach Measures Development and reporting framework. diffusion of environmentally The proactive management of our environmental impact HUMAN RIGHTS Keppel upholds and respects the fundamental Our stance on human rights is formalised in our friendly technologies enables us to improve resource efficiency, reduce We have established a new business unit, Principle 1 principles set out in the UN universal declaration corporate statement on human rights which is cost and support the global climate change agenda. Keppel Renewable Energy, to pursue opportunities Support of human rights of human rights and the International Labour publicly available online. for Keppel as a developer, owner and operator of Organisation’s (ILO) declaration on fundamental Our approach to environmental management covers renewable energy infrastructure. We will also look into Principle 2 principles and rights at work. Our suppliers are expected to abide by the the following aspects: re-purposing our technology for renewables. Exclusion of human rights Keppel supplier code of conduct, which sets our abuses Our approach to human rights is informed and guided expectations for suppliers to respect and uphold • fulfilling compliance obligations; All our key business units are certified to the ISO 14001 by general concepts from the UN Guiding Principles fundamental human rights in their operations. • protecting the environment by preventing or environmental management system, which guides on Business and Human Rights. mitigating adverse environmental impacts; how we identify, manage, monitor and control Where applicable, our business units conduct outreach • enhancing environmental performance; environmental issues. We respect the values and cultures of the people programmes and briefings to subcontractor workers • achieving financial and operational benefits that and the communities in which we operate, and aim to inform them of their employment rights, and the can result from implementing environmentally Read more about our initiatives to promote greater to serve as a positive influence. available channels to report any violation of their rights. sound alternatives that strengthen Keppel’s environmental responsibility on pages 22 to 33. market position; and In the broader community, we contribute towards • communicating environmental information to providing educational opportunities to the relevant interested parties. disadvantaged through scholarships and bursaries, as well as offer skills development and job training ANTI-CORRUPTION Guided by our core values and the Keppel Group We have a strict code of conduct that applies to all opportunities at our workplaces. Principle 10 Code of Conduct, we are fully committed to ensuring employees, who are required to acknowledge and Measures against corruption that compliance is a central pillar of our management comply with the code. The code covers areas from Read more about how we screen and qualify and an integral part of our corporate culture and conduct in the workplace to business conduct, our suppliers on pages 52 and 53. business processes. We will do business the including clear provisions on prohibitions against right way and comply with all applicable laws and bribery and corruption, and conflicts of interests, Read more about how we support education for regulations wherever we operate. amongst others. the disadvantaged on pages 72 and 73. Our tone for regulatory compliance is clear and We ensure that our compliance policies and procedures LABOUR We have zero tolerance for unethical labour practices We adhere to national labour laws and regulations consistently reiterated from the top and throughout are communicated effectively to all employees and Principle 3 such as child labour, forced labour, slavery and wherever we operate. In Singapore, both local and all levels of the Group. We have zero tolerance for directors. These include policies on anti-bribery, gifts Assurance of freedom human trafficking in any of our operations. Keppel foreign workers receive protection under the Penal Code fraud, bribery, corruption and violation of laws and hospitality, agent fees, donations and sponsorships, of association also supports the elimination of exploitative labour. and employment legislation such as the Employment and regulations. solicitation and extortion, conflict of interest, and Act and Workplace Safety and Health Act. In addition, insider trading, amongst others. Principle 4 Unions are our partners and we place great foreign workers, especially the lower-skilled and Our regulatory compliance governance structure is Elimination of all forms of emphasis on maintaining a harmonious relationship. lower-income workers, are accorded additional designed to strengthen our corporate governance. The procedures and rules defined in the Group’s global forced and compulsory labour Approximately 19.3% of our global workforce protection under the Employment of Foreign The board risk committee supports the Board in its anti-bribery policy encapsulate key points of the are bargainable employees covered by Manpower Act and the Employment Agencies Act. oversight of regulatory compliance and is responsible Group’s zero-tolerance approach towards bribery. Principle 5 collective agreements. for driving the Group’s implementation of effective Abolition of child labour The Keppel supplier code sets out the standards compliance and governance systems. An e-training and assessment exercise covering all of conduct which our suppliers are expected to key policies, including the Keppel Group Code of Conduct, adhere to in relation to child labour, forced labour, We continue to improve our risk-based due diligence is carried out an annual basis, and targeted training focused freedom of association, equal opportunity and process for all third-party associates who represent on line manager responsibilities and employee obligations fair compensation. the Keppel Group in business dealings, including our were conducted in 2019. All 16,544 directors and employees joint venture partners, to assess the compliance risk completed the e-training and toolbox training in 2019. Read more about our labour practices and supplier of the business partner. In addition to background code of conduct on pages 64 to 70, and 52 and 53. checks, the due diligence process incorporates Enhancements were made to the Whistle-Blower Policy, requirements for third-party associates to with centralised procedures and whistle-blower reporting Principle 6 Our hiring policies ensure equal employment The Keppel Group Code of Conduct sets the tone in acknowledge understanding and compliance channels, including an email hotline, local toll-free Elimination of discrimination opportunities for all. New hires are considered relation to the Group’s stance against discrimination with our code of conduct. whistle-blower hotlines for Singapore, Brazil, China, USA, based on individual competencies as well as on any basis. Vietnam, Indonesia, Philippines, Australia, UK and Germany, organisational and job fit. Our employment Keppel’s Whistle-Blower Policy encourages and an online reporting portal. The manning of these statistics are reviewed regularly. We formalised a Corporate Statement on Diversity the reporting of suspected bribery or misconduct reporting channels is outsourced to a third party (KPMG). and Inclusion in 2019 to promote diversity and equal through a clearly-defined process and reporting In Singapore, Keppel adheres to the tripartite opportunity in the workplace, and have made this channel, by which reports can be made in confidence In 2019, Keppel Offshore & Marine completed the guidelines on fair employment practices and publicly available at our corporate website. and without fear of reprisal. ISO 37001 (Anti-Bribery Management System) endorses the employers’ pledge of fair employment certification for its global operations in USA, Brazil, practices. A key principle espoused in the guidelines We adhere to provisions of national laws and Middle East, China, Philippines, India and Bulgaria, thus is that the recruitment of employees should be on regulations concerning discrimination wherever completing the attainment of ISO 37001 certification at the basis of merit and regardless of race or other we operate. Our company policies and procedures all Keppel O&M operating entities globally. We will work characteristics, such as age and gender. Keppel is make qualifications, skills and experience the basis for progressively towards ISO 37001 certification for all also a signatory to the Singapore Business the recruitment, placement, training and advancement other Keppel business units. Federation’s Sustainable Employment Pledge of staff at all levels. If any discrimination is identified, to uplift employees and partners. guidelines are in place for the appropriate handling of Read more about our regulatory compliance framework, any grievance cases to address complaints, handle as well as policies and procedures to reinforce a appeals and provide recourse for employees. strong compliance culture on pages 38 to 45. 20 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 21 STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CLIMATE ACTION ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT WE ARE COMMITTED TO CLIMATE ACTION, IMPROVING RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AND REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GRI 103-2 | 103-3 2019 TARGETS 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGETS TOPICS Achieve a 28.8% reduction Achieved a 30.1% average Achieve a 16% improvement Management systems in carbon emissions intensity reduction in carbon in carbon emissions by 2030 from 2010 levels, emissions intensity from intensity from 2020 Sustainable design in addition to the target of a our 2010 baseline. business-as-usual levels. Energy efficiency 16% improvement in carbon emissions intensity from 2020 Keppel Offshore & Marine Carbon emissions business-as-usual levels. installed 21,000 solar panels LONGER TERM TARGETS with a peak capacity of Renewable energy Increase the generation and 8.8 MW at its yards in 2019 Achieve a 28.8% reduction usage of renewable energy to offset its energy demand. in carbon emissions intensity Water, waste and in our operations. by 2030 from 2010 levels. effluent management Keppel Bay Tower is the Review climate change first commercial development Achieve a 10% reduction in Compliance risks and refine climate in Singapore to utilise waste intensity by 2030 from change strategy. renewable energy to power 2019 levels. all its operations, including SDGS the offices of tenants in Achieve a 20% reduction in the building. water consumption intensity by 2030 from 2019 levels. Refined the Group’s environmental sustainability Grow portfolio of renewable strategy, which incorporates energy to 7 GW by 2030. climate change risks and opportunities. 22 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OVERVIEW performance report include the Group’s implement an internal carbon price to GRI 103-1 major subsidiaries in Singapore and evaluate all major investment decisions. There is growing international recognition overseas operations in which the Group that climate change can fundamentally has operational control. This includes We have defined the kinds of pollutive affect the way the world operates in the Keppel Offshore & Marine (Keppel O&M) sectors we will not go into, such as twenty-first century. and its significant subsidiaries – Keppel coal-fired plants, the businesses we FELS and Keppel Shipyard, Keppel will maintain, and those which we will Singapore has announced that it would Land, Keppel Infrastructure, Keppel focus more on, such as renewables. be enhancing its nationally determined Telecommunications & Transportation We have established a new business contribution under the Paris Agreement, and Keppel Capital. We expanded the unit, Keppel Renewable Energy, to pursue with an aim to peak its emissions around scope of our reporting in 2019 to include opportunities for Keppel as a developer, 2030, halve the emissions from its 2030 contributions by M1, following the owner and operator of renewable energy peak by 2050, and achieve net zero acquisition of M1 in 1H 2019. infrastructure. We will also look into emissions as soon as viable. In working re-purposing our technology to seize towards this target, the Singapore Over the past year, we have strengthened opportunities in renewables. government introduced a carbon tax, our tracking of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) under the Carbon Pricing Act, which came emissions. We have reviewed and adjusted As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, into force in 2019. The tax is applied on the our approach, reporting boundaries we are committed to upholding its principles, total direct emissions of facilities that emit and calculation methodology for closer including taking a precautionary approach 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent alignment with the requirements of an to environmental challenges, promoting (tCO2e) or more of emissions annually. operational control approach under the greater environmental responsibility, and GHG Protocol. We will account for 100% encouraging the development and diffusion Keppel is committed to support efforts of Scopes 1 and 2 emissions from operations of environmentally friendly technologies. by the international community and the over which we have operational control. Singapore government to address climate However, for assets that are considered We support the Taskforce on Climate-related change. Climate action has been identified as investments1, we will report our equity Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and are working as one of the material ESG factors for share of emissions under Scope 3. As part towards incorporating its recommendations the Group. We have woven environmental of our tracking of Scope 3 emissions, in our reporting framework. considerations into our company strategy we have also started tracking emissions and set targets to reduce our carbon from business travel2. Our three-year emissions, waste generation and water environmental performance data, as consumption intensities. Given Keppel’s disclosed on page 29, has been restated capabilities and track record, we are to reflect the changes in our reporting also well positioned to tap on business boundaries and methodology. 1 According to the GHG Protocol’s definition of opportunities that may arise from providing Investment, which includes equity investments, solutions that support international efforts MANAGEMENT APPROACH (including investments in subsidiaries, associate to combat climate change. GRI 103-2 | 103-3 companies and joint ventures) debt investments, project finance, managed investments and We are committed to do our part to client services. REPORT BOUNDARY combat climate change. As we grow our 2 The Group's travel agency provides a centralised GRI 102-48 | 103-1 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 businesses and portfolios, our investment data source for business travel. Emissions from business travel are calculated using International The boundaries for the material topics decisions will place greater focus on Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO)’s online of climate action and environmental environmental sustainability. We will emission calculator. KEPPEL CORPORATION'S CLIMATE ACTION PLEDGE As a solutions provider for sustainable urbanisation, Keppel Corporation pledges our commitment to support efforts by the international community and the Singapore government in tackling climate change. Our Climate Action Goals To factor in To optimise our To invest in green To include more To promote environmental operations and technology and increase eco-friendly eco-consciousness considerations in processes to enhance usage of renewable features in our products. among our stakeholders. our businesses. energy efficiency. sources of energy. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 23 STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CLIMATE ACTION TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) GRI 102-12 | 102-15 | 103-2 We support the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and are working towards incorporating its recommendations in our reporting framework. In this report, we voluntarily disclose our approach in four key areas as recommended by the TCFD. Recommended Disclosure Our Approach Page Reference GOVERNANCE The key material environmental, social and governance factors for Keppel Corporation, which 47 to 49 Governance around include climate action and environmental management, have been identified and are regularly climate-related risks and reviewed by Keppel Corporation’s Board of Directors and management. The Board oversees opportunities. the management and monitoring of these factors and takes them into consideration in the determination of the Company’s strategic direction and policies. The Group Sustainability Steering Committee, chaired by Keppel Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer Loh Chin Hua and comprising senior management from across the Group, provides guidance on the Group’s sustainability strategy while the Group Sustainability Working Committee, comprising discipline-specific working groups, executes, monitors and reports on the Group’s efforts. Environmental sustainability has been woven into the performance appraisal of senior management across the Group. STRATEGY Keppel's mission is to deliver solutions for sustainable urbanisation. Our suite of solutions for energy, 22 to 26 Actual and potential urban living, clean environments and connectivity help cities urbanise in a sustainable manner. impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities. During the year, the Board reviewed the Company’s material ESG issues and strengthened its focus on climate action. As part of our environmental sustainability strategy, we have defined the kinds of pollutive sectors we will not go into, such as coal-fired plants, the businesses we will maintain, and those which we will work towards growing and expanding, such as renewables and circular economy solutions. We will also be introducing an internal carbon price in the evaluation of all major investment decisions. The Group considers environmental factors during the planning and design of our projects and assets, such as property and infrastructure developments, as well as during their operational phases. We have established a new business unit, Keppel Renewable Energy, to pursue opportunities as a developer, owner and operator of renewable energy infrastructure. We have also been re-purposing our technology, such as in the offshore and marine business, to seize opportunities in renewables. RISK MANAGEMENT Risks and opportunities relating to climate change have been recognised as fundamental to 47 to 49 Processes used to identify, the Group. These relate to physical and transitional risks stemming from climate change and assess, and manage environmental management, which present both risks and opportunities for the Group. climate-related risks. A Sustainability Risk Framework, aligned to the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework, guides the Group on the specific processes and methods applied in identifying, assessing and managing sustainability-related risks and opportunities. As part of an environmental sustainability strategy workshop, business units across the Group participated in a discussion by an external environmental consultant on opportunities and risks associated with climate change. The discussions were facilitated by the external environmental consultant, and covered risks specific to the industries in which Keppel operates. Beyond managing climate-related risks and opportunities under the ERM framework, all our key business units are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management system, which guides how we identify, manage, monitor and control environmental issues. The Group is also actively pursuing opportunities to harness its capabilities to provide solutions for sustainable urbanisation, which can help to reduce climate-related risks. METRICS AND To support the climate change agenda, we have targets to reduce our carbon emissions intensity. 22 TARGETS We have also set new targets to reduce waste generation and water consumption, as well as Metrics and targets used invest in renewable energy generation. to assess and manage climate-related risks and We have been tracking our Scopes 1 and 2 emissions since 2010, and will start tracking Scope 3 opportunities which are emissions from 2020. material to our business. In measuring and reporting our greenhouse gas emissions, we reference global standards including the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard, and use the operational control approach in accounting for our emissions. 24 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited The Group obtained its first green loan facilities in 2019 to finance eligible green projects including Seasons City (pictured) in the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City. SUSTAINABLE DESIGN are fully powered by clean energy and are RENEWABLE ENERGY In line with our mission of providing equipped with smart LED lighting systems The Group has a target to grow our solutions for sustainable urbanisation, and indoor air-quality monitors. portfolio of renewable energy to 7 GW by the Group considers environmental factors 2030, and has also continued to promote during the planning and design of our In Singapore, The Garden Residences, the generation and usage of renewable projects and assets such as property and a joint venture between Keppel Land and energy. Keppel installed a total capacity infrastructure developments, as well as Wing Tai Asia, was certified to the BCA of 8.8 megawatt peak (MWp) at its yards during their operational phases. Green Mark Award GoldPlus standard for its in 2019, and currently has a total capacity green features, which includes the use of of 8.95 MWp. Keppel will continue to grow A leading green developer, Keppel Land energy efficient air-conditioning units, LED its renewables capacity with plans to install has garnered a total of 84 Building and light fittings and motion sensors, and rain an additional capacity of 1.11 MWp in 2020. Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA) water harvesting. Green Mark Awards, of which 16 are Keppel Bay Tower Platinum. The total estimated reduction In China, Park Avenue Central achieved On 1 January 2020, Keppel Bay Tower, where in energy consumption from all of Keppel the LEED Gold and WELL Gold certification Keppel Corporation is headquartered, became Land’s Green Mark-awarded projects for its environmentally friendly features and Singapore’s first commercial development when they are fully completed will be over efforts to improve the health and well-being to use renewable energy to power all its 220 million kilowatt hours (kWh) per annum, of its occupants. In Vietnam, Keppel Land’s operations, including the offices of tenants which is the equivalent amount of energy Saigon Centre received the Green Mark Award in the building. required to power more than 40,000 homes1 for Buildings (Overseas) Gold standard for in Singapore for one year. This translates its well-insulated façade, highly efficient Keppel Land, the owner and operator of to cost savings of about $45 million and chiller plant, air distribution system and Keppel Bay Tower, will be installing an a carbon emissions reduction of almost lightings, and efficient water fittings, among assembly of photovoltaic (PV) panels 95,000 tonnes annually. In addition, a total other green features. spanning about 400 square metres (m2) annual water savings of about 2.5 million on the roof of the 18-storey Keppel Bay cubic metres is also achieved. In 2019, the Keppel Marina East Desalination Tower, as well as its six-storey podium Plant in Singapore achieved the Public Utilities block. When completed in 1H 2020, Keppel To recognise Keppel Corporation, Board’s ABC Waters Certification (Gold), Bay Tower’s PV system is expected to Keppel Land and Keppel Capital for their which is the highest accolade that can be generate an energy yield of about 100,000 kWh commitment towards environmental attained by developers. With its integrated per annum. Keppel’s latest initiative to install protection and efforts in improving staff sustainable stormwater management PV panels at Keppel Bay Tower reduces the health and well-being, BCA and Health system, stormwater run-off will flow from building’s reliance on grid power. Promotion Board (HPB) awarded all three the plant’s green roof into a natural filtration companies the BCA-HPB Green Mark system, known as a bio-retention basin. The 1 Based on the average energy consumption of a Platinum certification for Healthier run-off is later collected in rainwater Housing Development Board five-room flat, which Workplaces in 2019. All three locations harvesting ponds to be recycled. is 471 kWh/month (source: SP Group). Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 25 STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CLIMATE ACTION Keppel Land, through its electricity retailer, design, engineering, procurement, The loans are being used by Keppel REIT to Keppel Electric, is also purchasing Renewable construction, installation and commissioning finance or re-finance eligible green projects Energy Certificates (RECs), which are of a 900MW offshore high voltage direct and by Keppel Land China to finance the generated from PV panels installed in current converter station and an onshore development of Seasons City (Phase 1), Keppel O&M’s yards in Singapore. converter station. Scheduled to be a BCA Green Mark Platinum (Provisional) completed in 2024, the two converter commercial project in the Sino-Singapore Together with the purchase of RECs, stations will be deployed in the German Tianjin Eco-City. these initiatives will result in a reduction sector of the North Sea. Keppel O&M of over 2,400 tonnes of carbon emissions also secured a contract from Ørsted for per annum – an amount which would two offshore wind farm substations otherwise require about 12,000 trees to which will be deployed in Ørsted’s Greater absorb over about 50 years. Changhua offshore wind sites in Taiwan. The substations are scheduled to be Offshore Renewables completed in 2021. In 2019, Keppel O&M made significant strides into the renewable energy sector, Keppel O&M will continue to seize with gas and renewable solutions making opportunities in offshore renewables up over 60% of the company's new orders. and gas, which is considered to be one Significantly, the company secured new of the safest and cleanest fossil fuels. contracts worth about $720 million for 1 This includes a $505 million green loan facility secured by Keppel REIT's nearly 80% owned offshore wind projects in the German GREEN FINANCING subsidiary Ocean Properties; a $170 million sector of the North Sea and Taiwan. Reflecting the Group’s commitment to green loan facility secured by Keppel Land, through sustainability, Keppel business units, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Keppel Land China for the development of Seasons City (Phase 1) in In May 2019, Keppel O&M, through a namely Keppel REIT and Keppel Land China, the Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City, China; and an consortium with Aibel AS, secured a obtained their first green loan facilities in unsecured $150 million green loan facility obtained contract from TenneT Offshore for the 2019, amounting to a total of $825 million1. by Keppel REIT. Renewables and gas solutions made up more than 60% of Keppel O&M's new orders in 2019. 26 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT WE PROACTIVELY MANAGE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT TO IMPROVE RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AND SUPPORT THE GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE AGENDA. MANAGEMENT APPROACH international convention for the prevention GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 of pollution from ships (MARPOL 73/78) The proactive management of our which is the main international convention environmental impact enables us to improve covering prevention of pollution of the resource efficiency, reduce costs and marine environment by ships, while our support the global climate change agenda. data centres are certified under the SS 564 Singapore standard for green The Group’s risk-based strategies are data centres and the ISO 50001 energy used to assess, avoid, reduce and mitigate management system2. environmental risks and impacts. Our focus areas are enhancing energy Across our key businesses, we adopt a efficiency, reducing waste generation and systems approach and apply the International water consumption, reducing our carbon Standards framework and plan-do-check-act emissions and improving our environmental model to achieve continual improvement in management systems. environmental management. The implementation of our Group-wide carbon management strategy is led by the energy efficiency committee. The committee sets targets, evaluates the effectiveness of our carbon management efforts, and monitors and reports on performance. The committee comprises representatives from business units, many of whom are certified energy managers. 1 The six technical annexes are: Annex I – Regulations for the Prevention of Pollution by Oil; All our key business units are certified Annex II – Regulations for the Control of Pollution to the ISO 14001 environmental by Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk; Annex III – Prevention of Pollution by Harmful Substances management system, which guides Carried by Sea in Packaged Form; Annex IV – how we identify, manage, monitor and Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships; control environmental issues. In addition, Annex V – Prevention of Pollution by Garbage from Ships; and Annex VI – Prevention of Air Pollution the rigs and ships we build comply from Ships. with all six technical annexes1 of the 2 Excluding Keppel DC Singapore 4. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 27 STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS FRAMEWORK AND PLAN-DO-CHECK-ACT MODEL FOR ENVIRONMENTAL DATA5 Energy Efficiency ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT GRI 102-48 | 302-1 | 303-3 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-7 | 306-2 862,264 GJ Plan Global Operations 2017 2018 2019 Of projected energy savings Establish environmental through energy efficiency objectives and processes Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 247,871 248,861 291,539 initiatives implemented in 2019 Act necessary to deliver Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) Non Renewable 1,239,692 1,254,223 1,642,415 Take actions to results in accordance and from Keppel Land's Green continually improve. with environmental policy. Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) Renewable 24,349 Mark-certified developments, Direct (Scope 1) Emissions (tCO2) 248,083 26,299 29,577 translating to estimated cost Improvement Planning Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions (tCO2) 152,344 155,503 200,759 savings of about $60 million1. Other Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions (tCO2) From Investments 197,790 198,632 1,742,672 Other Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions (tCO2) From Business Travel NA NA 2,360 Emissions Reduction Potable Water Used (m3) 1,221,486 1,981,807 2,277,792 NEWater Used (m3) 1,616,945 1,568,159 2,151,839 30.1% LEADERSHIP Recycled Water Used (m3) River Water Used (m3) 727,702 55,523 68 61,030 27,715 74 Average reduction in carbon Seawater Used (m3) 14,012,189 emissions intensity from our Recycled Waste (t) 33,132 119,349 41,904 2010 baseline achieved by operations in Singapore Performance Support and Incinerated Waste (t) 27,633 17,934 25,957 Check Evaluation Operation Do Landfilled Waste (t) 1,539 1,067 6,286 and overseas. Monitor and measure Implement the Singapore Operations processes against the processes as environmental policy, planned. Direct Energy Consumption (GJ) 116,901 141,282 184,513 including its commitments, Indirect Energy Consumption (GJ) 970,186 949,404 1,215,727 environmental objectives and operating criteria, and Direct (Scope 1) Emissions (tCO2) 32,954 14,490 18,774 report the results. Indirect (Scope 2) Emissions (tCO2) 114,374 111,924 141,430 Nitrogen Oxides Emissions (mg/Nm3) • Keppel Merlimau Cogen Plant 24.87 28.44 28 • Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant 137.53 162.13 160 Sulphur Dioxide Emissions (mg/Nm3) ENERGY Improving Energy Efficiency • Keppel Merlimau Cogen Plant 10.12 10.4 14 GRI 302-1 | 302-4 The Group is estimated to have saved • Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant 31.26 67.47 65 The Group’s energy demand comprises a 862,264 GJ2 of energy from its energy mix of direct and indirect sources of energy. efficiency initiatives in 2019 and through • Senoko WTE Plant 101.9 48.79 88 Direct energy refers to primary sources of green initiatives implemented at Keppel Land’s Average Particulate Matter Emissions (mg/Nm3) energy consumed on site by our operations, Green Mark-certified developments. The total • Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant 8.55 7.88 71 whereas indirect energy is electricity energy saving is equivalent to about 44% • Senoko WTE Plant 17.58 5.92 36 purchased from external suppliers. of the Group’s total energy consumption in Potable Water Used (m3) 535,128 620,388 856,061 2019, and translates to estimated cost savings NEWater Used (m3) 1,616,945 1,568,159 2,151,835 The Group’s primary energy sources are of about $60 million3 and an avoidance of Seawater Used (m3) NA NA 14,012,189 diesel, naphtha, piped natural gas, petrol, approximately 100,000 tCO2e in emissions4. Recycled Water Used (m3) 727,646 1,419,628 0 furnace oil and liquefied petroleum gas. These savings were achieved through the Recycled Waste (t) 27,274 19,082 32,072 In 2019, the Group consumed 291,539 optimisation of operations and processes; Incinerated Waste (t) 23,957 17,932 23,216 gigajoules (GJ) of direct energy and technological improvements, including the 1,642,415 GJ of indirect energy or electricity, adoption of more sustainable building designs compared to 248,861 GJ of direct energy and materials; and the use of energy-efficient 1 Cost savings from the reduced usage of fossil fuels, such as diesel, and a reduction in electricity consumed. The amount of savings in absolute terms is the difference in and 1,254,223 GJ of indirect energy in 2018. equipment and devices. Examples of consumption before and after the implementation of an energy efficiency project. initiatives undertaken in 2019 include: 2 The 862,264 GJ in savings comprise savings from the reduced usage of fossil fuels, such as diesel, and a reduction in electricity consumed. The amount of savings in absolute terms is the difference in consumption before and after the implementation of an energy efficiency project. The savings are converted to energy equivalent in GJ Our Singapore operations consumed based on the corresponding energy conversion factors for fossil fuels and electricity published in the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 184,513 GJ of direct energy and 1,215,727 GJ • Optimisation of chilled water pump 2015 (DEFRA 2015) Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, whereby 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ and 1 tonne of diesel = 43.33 GJ. A significant proportion of pressure system and removal of strainer the savings are achieved through green initiatives implemented at Keppel Land’s Green Mark certified developments. of indirect energy in 2019, compared to 3 The electricity conversion factor used is based on DEFRA 2015 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, whereby 1 kWh = 0.0036 GJ. Estimated 141,282 GJ of direct energy and 949,404 GJ mesh to reduce system pressure head monetary savings are calculated based on the average electricity tariff rates in 2019 as published by SP Group, whereby 1 kWh = $0.2522. of indirect energy in 2018. The data includes at Keppel DHCS’ plants at Biopolis@ 4 The electricity savings in carbon dioxide equivalent was estimated by multiplying the energy savings in kWh with the Electricity Grid Emission Factors for 2018 from one-north, Changi Business Park and Singapore’s Energy Market Authority (EMA), whereby 1 kWh = 0.4188 kg CO2. direct energy used in activities carried out 5 The environmental performance data for 2017 and 2018 have been restated to reflect the changes in our reporting boundaries and methodology. Emissions from our by both employees and contractors at Woodlands Wafer Fab Park, which investments that were previously reported under Scopes 1 or 2, are now accounted for under Scope 3 using the equity share approach. Scope 3 emissions in 2017 and our worksites. achieved energy savings of 813,500 kWh; 2018 exclude data from Keppel Merlimau Cogen Plant's power generation operations, as this was not reported in previous years due to commercial sensitivity. 28 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 29 STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT • Installing Variable Speed Drives (VSDs) WATER WASTE in three ballast pumps at our shipyards. GRI 303-1 | 303-3 GRI 306-2 Regulating the speeds of the VSDs with Water is a precious resource. The Group The Group strives to minimise waste actual demand has yielded annual continues to strengthen its water conservation generation, increase opportunities for savings of 518,400 kWh; and efforts through initiatives such as promoting reusing and recycling, as well as treat and • Upgrading to LED lightings and water-saving practices, adopting water-efficient dispose waste responsibly where other replacement of chilled water system technologies and equipment as well as options are not practicable. with WDX systems at our data centres implementing process improvements. which produced total annual energy Waste is segregated at our offices, plants savings of 7.4 million kWh. The total water consumption of the Group and yards to promote reuse and recycling. consists of potable water (water from local Used papers from our offices as well as In 2018, Keppel Land was awarded a catchment and imported water), NEWater scrap metals and damaged equipment grant of about $1.28 million by BCA to (treated wastewater from sewage), recycled recovered from our shipyards and testbed new and emerging technologies water and water drawn from rivers. The Group waste-to-energy (WTE) plants are sent for which would reduce the building’s energy consumed 4,457,346 cubic metres (m3) of recycling. Hazardous waste generated is consumption significantly and improve its water in 2019, an increase of 23% compared handled, stored and disposed in a manner energy efficiency by 20% compared to other to 3,610,996 m3 in 2018. The increase is that adheres to best practices and meets Green Mark Platinum buildings by June 2020. mainly due to acquisitions by Keppel Land local regulatory requirements1. Keppel is currently on track to meet its goal and increased water usage by Keppel FELS. of reducing the annual energy consumption Waste recycled included ferrous scrap, grits, of Keppel Bay Tower to 115 kWh/m2 Our operations in Singapore consumed plastic stretch wrap, paper and other office per annum from its initial consumption 3,007,895 m3 of water compared to consumables. In 2019, the Group recycled of about 145 kWh/m2 per annum by June 2,188,902 m3 in 2018. 41,904 tonnes (t) of refuse, which is a 2020. Keppel Bay Tower is also working decrease from 119,349 t of waste in 2018. with tenants to adopt green leases and Water consumption reduction efforts include In 2018, a reorganisation and clean-up of install energy-efficient LED lamps in their the optimisation of cooling towers at Keppel DC the AmFELS yard contributed towards a offices at no additional capital investments Singapore 5, which results in water savings significantly higher volume of recycled to the tenants, as well as helping them of 6,000 m3 per annum. Rainwater harvesting waste generated when compared to 2019. attain Green Mark certification. Moving for gas hose testing is also practised at Our Singapore operations recycled 32,072 t ahead, Keppel Land is also actively seeking Keppel FELS yards, which reduces water of waste in 2019, an increase from 19,082 t new solutions to further reduce the building’s consumption by 35,000 m3 per year. recycled in Singapore the previous year. energy consumption to below 100 kWh/m2 2 per annum, which would result in Keppel In recognition of its efforts to reduce water As a Group, a total of 25,957 t of waste was Bay Tower being 50% more energy efficient consumption, two of Keppel Logistics’ sent for incineration in 2019, which is an compared to typical office buildings warehouses in Singapore received the PUB approximately 45% increase compared to in Singapore. Water Efficient Building Certification in 2019. 17,934 t in 2018. In land-scarce Singapore, refuse is the national targets which the Singapore $10 and $15 per tCO2e by 2030. The tax incinerated at WTE plants to reduce the government had disclosed in 2009. is applied upstream, for example, on power volume of waste and to remove harmful stations and other large direct emitters. substances before disposal at the landfill. In support of the Paris Agreement, Singapore The carbon tax would have an impact on Heat from the incineration of waste is announced its intended nationally determined the business cost, which would in turn Incineration at WTE plants is an recovered to produce electricity. Incineration contribution of reducing GHG emissions impact project economics. To mitigate the 1 efficient option for land-scarce Singapore, which also reduces is also preferable to land filling in Singapore intensity by 36% from 2005 levels by 2030. impact of the carbon tax, the Group has waste volume and removes harmful and many other countries, as the direct burial In line with the government’s commitment, continued to improve our energy efficiency substances before landfill disposal. Incineration is also preferable to of waste produces significant amounts of we have set a long-term target of a 28.8% and reduce our carbon footprint, particularly the direct burial of waste which methane, a GHG. A total 23,216 t of waste was reduction in carbon emissions intensity from for businesses that are energy intensive. generates significant amounts sent for incineration in 2019, registering a 2010 levels by 2030 for our global operations2. of methane. 29% increase compared to 17,932 t in 2018, Our target was derived by adjusting the mainly due to an increase in business national target to a shorter timeframe, as Energy efficiency initiatives activity at the yards. data prior to 2010 is unavailable. 2 implemented by Keppel DHCS across its plants (pictured), 1 We are working to provide data on hazardous such as the optimisation of its As incineration of refuse is prohibited or As at end-2019, our operations in Singapore waste disposal. chilled water pump pressure 2 In calculating emissions intensity reductions, system, enabled energy savings unavailable in some countries where and overseas have achieved a 30.1% average each business division first computes its base year of 813,500 kWh. we operate, a total of 6,286 t of municipal reduction in carbon emissions intensity (i.e. 2010) emissions intensity using a normalising waste was disposed at landfill sites from our 2010 baseline and we are on factor relevant to its business activity. The total in 2019, an increase over 1,067 t in 2018. track to achieve the 2020 target of a 16% emissions intensity reduction is the difference in the Group’s average emissions intensity between Incineration is banned in the Philippines, improvement in carbon emissions intensity. the base year and the current year in which the data while waste disposal regulations in the Given the progress achieved with our existing is reported. The normalisation factors for our state of Texas in the United States require commitments, we will be reviewing our business divisions are based on their key activities and industry best practices. They are as follows: plant waste to be landfilled. targets to see if we can do even more to gross floor area in square metres for office and reduce emissions. retail premises, million man-hours for Keppel O&M EMISSIONS & EFFLUENTS and Keppel Logistics, refrigeration tonnes hour for GRI 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 l 305-4 l 305-5 | 305-7 our district heating and cooling plants; kilowatt The Singapore government implemented hour of IT power for data centres, number of base Emissions Intensity Targets a carbon tax in 2019. The carbon tax is set stations for our mobile networks and number of Keppel aims to achieve a 16% improvement at a rate of $5 per tCO2e from 2019 to 2023. subscribers for our fibre networks. The baseline year used in the intensity calculations of newly in carbon emissions intensity from 2020 Singapore will review the carbon tax rate acquired assets is as per the earliest year that such 1 business-as-usual levels. This is based on by 2023, with plans to increase it to between data is available. 30 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 31 STRATEGIC PILLAR: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT The Ocean Financial Centre developed by Keppel Land is one of the greenest buildings in Singapore, and was awarded the title of having the world's largest vertical garden (pictured) in 2013. Carbon Emissions1 All trade effluent from our operations are In 2019, total direct (Scope 1) emissions treated and discharged to water courses from the use of fuels across the Group or sewer systems in accordance with the was 29,577 tCO2e, registering a 12% environmental discharge limits and effluent increase from 26,299 tCO2e in 2018, while standards in the countries of operation. indirect (Scope 2) emissions from electricity use was 200,759 tCO2, which is a 29% COMPLIANCE increase from 155,503 tCO2 in 2018. Direct GRI 306-3 | 307-1 emissions for Singapore operations was There were no records of spillages, 18,774 tCO2e, compared with 14,490 tCO2e no sanctions pertaining to spillages, in 2018. Indirect emissions from our nor significant fines2 and non-monetary Singapore operations was 141,430 tCO2, sanctions for non-compliance with compared with 111,924 tCO2 in 2018. environmental laws and regulations that were administered by Singapore or The Group’s total other indirect (Scope 3) overseas authorities on the Group in 2019. emissions is 1,745,032 tCO2e in 2019, with 1,742,672 tCO2e from investments and 2,360 tCO2e from business travel. Other Emissions & Effluents Keppel Infrastructure continues to actively 1 The GHG conversion factors for direct (Scope 1) emissions, as well as Global Warming Potential manage the emissions from its operations. values used are based on DEFRA 2015 Government Nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxide emitted GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. from Keppel Merlimau Cogen Plant, Keppel The GHG conversion factors for indirect (Scope 2) emissions are based on the Electricity Grid Seghers Tuas WTE Plant and Senoko WTE Emission Factors for 2018 from EMA. For other Plant operated and maintained by Keppel overseas regions, 2017 grid emission factors from Infrastructure remain far below the emission the International Energy Agency were used. The GHG emission Scopes 1, 2 and 3 are as defined by standards of 700 milligrams per normal the GHG Protocol, whereby Scope 1 refers to cubic metre (mg/Nm3) and 500 mg/Nm3 emissions from company owned and operated respectively, as stipulated by Singapore’s facilities, machines, vehicles, etc. The primary sources of energy consumed on site by our National Environment Agency (NEA) Code operations are diesel, liquefied petroleum gas, of Practice on Pollution Control. naphtha, piped natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, compressed natural gas, acetylene, and refrigerants – R123, R134A, R22, R407C, R410A; Scope 2 refers In 2019, dust or particulate matter emitted to emissions from the generation of purchased by Senoko WTE Plant and Keppel Seghers electricity consumed by the company; Scope 3 Tuas WTE Plant were 36 mg/Nm3 and emissions are a consequence of the activities of the company, but occur from sources not owned 71.45 mg/Nm3 respectively, which were well or controlled by the company, including investments below the NEA emission standard of and business travel. Emissions from refrigerant 100 mg/Nm3. Variations in emissions are leakage in the shipyards are excluded. We are working to track these emissions for 2020. dependent on the type of municipal refuse 2 Significant fines are defined as fines above a incinerated by the plants. monetary value of $50,000. 32 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited SPECIAL FOCUS SOLUTIONS FOR SUSTAINABLE URBANISATION Keppel is committed to sustainability, both as a responsible corporate citizen and as a provider of solutions that help to build a more sustainable world. Across the Group, our businesses offer a suite of innovative solutions for sustainable urbanisation, to help meet the world's growing needs for energy, clean environments, urban developments, connectivity and more. We are committed to minimising our businesses are also pivoting towards completed, they will contribute to a environmental impact, focusing on enhancing renewables and cleaner fossil fuels. reduction in carbon emissions of almost energy efficiency, reducing carbon emissions At Keppel Offshore & Marine, for example, 95,000 tonnes annually. in our operations, as well as reducing waste renewables and LNG-related solutions and water consumption intensity. made up over 60% of new orders secured In January 2020, Keppel Bay Tower became in 2019. the first commercial development in To support the climate change agenda, we Singapore to utilise renewable energy to have clearly defined the businesses that we We also contribute to cleaner power all its operations, including the offices will avoid, maintain and grow, considering environments with waste and water of tenants in the building. The photovoltaic their respective environmental impacts. We treatment solutions, like waste-to-energy panel installation on the rooftop, together will include an internal carbon price in our plants, which produce significantly less with the purchase of Renewable Energy evaluation of all major investment decisions. greenhouse gas emissions compared Credits generated by PV panels at Keppel We also aim to increase the generation and to traditional direct landfilling and reduce Offshore & Marine's yards in Singapore, will usage of renewable energy in our operations. the volume of waste by up to 90%. result in a reduction of over 2,400 tonnes of Keppel is also developing the Keppel carbon emissions per annum an amount In 2014, we set the goal of achieving Marina East Desalination Plant, which would otherwise require about 12,000 a 16% improvement in carbon emissions Singapore's first large-scale dual-mode trees to absorb over about 50 years. intensity from 2020 business-as-usual desalination plant which is scheduled levels, and are well on track towards to commence operations in 2020. In terms of Keppel's connectivity business, achieving the target. We are also our data centre facilities are certified with working towards a longer term target Reflecting our commitment to green the Singapore Standard for Green Data of a 28.8% reduction in carbon emissions urban development, Keppel Land has Centres and utilise a host of energy-efficient intensity by 2030 from 2010 levels. garnered a total of 84 Building and solutions to improve power usage Construction Authority of Singapore effectiveness. We are also pursuing As countries focus increasingly on Green Mark Awards, of which 16 are innovative and greener solutions including climate change, the demand for cleaner Platinum. When all of Keppel Land's high-rise green data centres and floating energy is growing too. Keppel's Green Mark-awarded projects are fully data centre parks. In January 2020, Keppel Bay Tower became Singapore's first commercial development to be fully powered by renewable energy. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 33 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY URBANISATION TRENDS PRESENT MANY EXCITING AND INTERCONNECTED OPPORTUNITIES FOR KEPPEL, WHETHER IT IS PROVIDING SOLUTIONS IN ENERGY, URBAN DEVELOPMENT, CLEAN ENVIRONMENTS OR CONNECTIVITY. MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN 2019 GRI 103-2 | 103-3 OFFSHORE & MARINE PROPERTY INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS Secured over $2 billion Sold about 5,150 homes Construction of Keppel Completed the worth of new contracts. in Asia, mainly in China Marina East Desalination privatisation of M1, and Vietnam. Plant is on track for together with Singapore Delivered 13 newbuild completion in 2020. Press Holdings (SPH). and conversion projects. Divested assets worth $400 million in Singapore Expanded energy and Keppel Capital expanded Enlarged footprint in the and Vietnam. environmental capabilities its alternative asset offshore renewable energy with investments in MET classes with a debt industry with two contracts Completed acquisitions Holding and Zerowaste Asia. mezzanine platform. from TenneT Offshore amounting to about and Ørsted. $500 million in China, Completed first LNG cargo Keppel's listed REITs and Vietnam and India. import from North America. Trust continued to seize Reached a settlement opportunities and create agreement with Sete Brasil, Replenished residential Maintained Keppel Electric's value for Unitholders through bringing closure to the landbank with addition of position as one of the largest active investments and outstanding contracts for about 2,500 units across OEM retailers in Singapore. divestments across the construction of six rigs. China and Vietnam. Singapore, South Korea, Continued to grow the Became one of the first Germany and the Increased commercial Group's data centre companies in Singapore to United States. portfolio with addition of business, and injected achieve global certification about 136,000 square Keppel DC Singapore 4 Prime US REIT, of which for the ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery metres in China. into Keppel DC REIT. Keppel Capital is a Management System. strategic partner, was Grew logistics network successfully listed. and omnichannel solutions offerings to customers beyond Singapore. 34 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OVERVIEW MANAGEMENT APPROACH We see sustainability as being core to GRI 103-1 GRI 102-10 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 our strategy, not just in terms of how Today, more than half of the world’s The last few years have been transformative we deal with environmental, social and population live in urban areas. According for Keppel as we worked to build a more governance (ESG) issues, but as a source to estimates by the United Nations, urban resilient and sustainable company, of business opportunities, as we channel areas are projected to house 68% of people committed to delivering value and growth the Group’s capabilities and resources to globally by 20501. Urbanisation trends and for the future. The Group’s corporate meet the needs of sustainable development a growing middle class, especially in Asia, structure has been simplified with the and address the challenges posed by continue to drive demand and provide privatisation of our operating entities, climate change. opportunities for companies able to supply starting with Keppel Land, followed by solutions to meet their needs. Keppel Telecommunications & We have defined the kinds of businesses Transportation (Keppel T&T) and M1, thus that we will strictly avoid, the existing We harness the strengths of the Group allowing more efficient capital allocation. businesses that we will maintain, and those to meet the world’s growing needs for which we will grow and expand, considering sustainable urbanisation solutions. Our We have also consolidated our asset their respective environmental impacts. In business model, underpinned by strong management businesses under Keppel addition an internal carbon price will also be collaboration across verticals, provides Capital, which serves both as a platform introduced in the evaluation of our major a robust eco-system that allows us to for capital recycling and tapping investment decisions. create and capture value from all parts third-party funds for growth. We have of the Group. been deepening our presence in rapidly urbanising markets such as China and REPORT BOUNDARY Vietnam, and expanding our products GRI 103-1 and offerings, with smart, urban projects, The reporting boundary for financial data in renewables, gas solutions, asset 1 Revision of World Urbanisation Prospects (2018), this section is the same as that of Keppel management and digital connectivity Population Division of the UN Department of Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019. among our new growth engines. Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA). We have been deepening our presence in rapidly urbanising markets and expanding our offerings with smart, urban projects like the Saigon Sports City (pictured) in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 35 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN 2019 TOTAL EQUITY ($b) SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS ($b) GRI 201-1 15.0 15.0 Group net profit was $707 million, with stronger contributions from Keppel 12.5 12.5 Offshore & Marine, Keppel Infrastructure 10.0 10.0 and Keppel Capital. This was 25% lower as compared to 2018, when the Group had 7.5 7.5 benefited from $584 million in gains through the en-bloc sales of development projects 5.0 5.0 and property divestments. Group revenue 2.5 2.5 grew 27% to $7,580 million in 2019 with higher recognition of ongoing offshore & 0 0 marine and infrastructure projects, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 improved sales in the power and gas 11.9 12.3 12.0 11.6 11.6 11.1 11.7 11.4 11.3 11.2 segment, the consolidation of M1 and higher asset management revenue. Total cash dividend for 2019 will be 20.0 cents per share. This comprises a proposed final TOTAL DISTRIBUTION PER SHARE (cts) EARNINGS PER SHARE (cts) cash dividend of 12.0 cents per share as 36.0 90.0 well as an interim cash dividend of 8.0 cents per share paid in the third quarter of 2019. 30.0 75.0 24.0 60.0 GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE & TAXES PAID 18.0 45.0 GRI 201-4 In 2019, the Group received a total of 12.0 30.0 $8.6 million in financial assistance from 6.0 15.0 governments. Approximately 47% of financial assistance received was from 0 0 the government of China for business 2015 2016 2017 2018*# 2019 2015 2016 2017^ 2018* 2019 development incentives, land subsidies and 34.0 20.0 22.0 30.0 20.0 84.0 43.2 10.8 52.3 38.9 green building grants. Close to 40% relates to the Singapore government’s Research and Development grants, training grants as well as cash grants under its wage credit and employment credit schemes. The ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED ($m) RETURN ON EQUITY (%) remaining 13% was from the governments 900 15.0 of the United States and Belgium. 600 12.5 The Group has exposure to income taxes 300 10.0 in many jurisdictions. Significant assumptions are required in determining the provision for 0 7.5 income taxes. There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate -300 5.0 tax determination is uncertain during the -600 2.5 ordinary course of business. The Group recognises liabilities for expected tax issues -900 0 based on estimates of whether additional 2015 2016 2017^ 2018* 2019 2015 2016 2017^ 2018* 2019 taxes will be due. 648 (140) (839) 263 188 14.2 6.9 1.7 8.4 6.3 Where the final tax outcome of these * 2018 financial figures have been restated due to an IFRIC agenda decision on SFRS(I) 1-23 Borrowing costs matters is different from the amounts that eligible for capitalisation. # Includes the special dividend paid of 5.0 cents per share. were initially recognised, such differences ^ Includes the one-off financial penalty and related costs of S$619 million. will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made. The carrying amounts of taxation and deferred taxation are disclosed in the balance sheet in Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019. The Group operates in more than 20 countries. In 2019, the Group contributed $191 million in taxes to the various countries and tax jurisdictions in which it operates. 36 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION In 2019, staff costs amounted to $1,163 million in the form of wages and salaries, employer's contribution to Singapore's Central Provident Fund, share options and share plans, as well as other staff benefits. The Group's average number of employees in 2019 was 18,2971. ECONOMIC VALUE DELIVERED TO SOCIETY GRI 201-1 Keppel’s business operations generate employment, opportunities for suppliers and tax revenues for governments. We are committed to positively impact the communities in which we operate, and contribute to worthy social causes through donations and sponsorships. In 2019, Keppel generated $8,208 million of economic value for our stakeholders, which was distributed through our business operations to suppliers, contractors, subcontractors, employees, investors, governments and community organisations, among others. The majority of the economic value retained by Keppel after this distribution is invested in capital expenditure and acquisitions, as we seek to sharpen our competitive edge and stand ready to seize growth opportunities. Deputy Prime Minister Heng Swee Keat (centre, in white) with the ROBO KRAWLER, a robotic device developed by the Keppel-NUS Corporate Laboratory, which can weld and 1 The figures in this section do not take into account undertake inspections in confined spaces. the headcount and staff costs of associated ROBO KRAWLER is part of Keppel O&M’s companies, whereby an associated company is an Yard of the Future initiatives to improve entity, not being a subsidiary, over which the Keppel productivity by using automation and Group has significant influence, but not control. robotic technologies. Economic Value Economic Value Economic Value Generated by Keppel Distributed to Others Retained by Keppel $8,208m Operating Costs This includes purchases from suppliers and contractor costs, $737m This includes revenue, interest and investment $5,379m and other operating expenses. The majority of this is invested in capital expenditure income, and disposal gains. and acquisitions. Employee Wages & Benefits2 Employee costs include salaries and benefits. $1,163m Capital Providers This includes dividends and interest paid. $728m Governments This includes income taxes paid, net of refunds received. $191m Communities This includes voluntary donations and sponsorships disbursed that are $9.6m not business or marketing related. 2 Excludes capitalised staff costs in stocks and work-in-progress and capital expenditure. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 37 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT THE LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF THE GROUP’S BUSINESSES IS UNDERPINNED BY OUR CORE VALUES, AND DRIVEN AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL OF THE ORGANISATION THROUGH STRONG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PROACTIVE ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GRI 103-2 | 103-3 2019 TARGETS 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGETS TOPICS Continue to improve risk Launched the Technology Continue to harmonise and Governance and compliance policies, and Data Risk Management enhance risk and compliance processes and operating (TDRM) operating standards policies and processes, and Anti-corruption standards to strengthen the and programme to set strengthen their integration Risk management overall culture of risk and baseline standards for into corporate governance compliance and corporate cyber and data risks, and and business processes to Regulatory compliance governance in the Group. developed the Cyber Incident improve the Group’s risk and Response Plan. compliance culture. Embed proactive risk management as part of the Implemented the Crisis Cascade compliance best SDGS overall operating framework Management and Incident practices through targeted for risk management Reporting operating standard training, communications, and governance. covering crisis response, and monitoring. incidents reporting and Cascade compliance best business continuity planning. Strengthen feedback loop practices through targeted from business units and training and workshops. Achieved ISO 37001 supporting departments (Anti-Bribery Management in the practice of Extend the evaluation of Systems) certification by managing risks. controls and compliance Keppel Offshore & Marine for culture as part of its operations in Singapore, internal audits. Brazil, China and USA. LONGER TERM TARGETS Operationalised the Group Disciplinary Procedure Guide. Improve gender diversity over a 3-year period by ensuring Enhanced the Group’s that at least 20% of the Whistle-Blower Policy with Board will comprise female centralised procedures directors by end FY 2021. and Whistleblower reporting channels, including an email hotline and local toll-free whistle-blower hotlines for the respective countries. 38 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 2019 Board Risk Audit Internal Committee Committee Audit Nominating BOARD Committee Board Safety Remuneration Committee Committee CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Corporate Central Finance IMPAC Functions Committee IT Steering Committee Group Regulatory Compliance Management Committee Management Management Development Committees Committee Group Group Regulatory Sustainability Compliance Steering Committee Working Team Technology and Data Risk Committee OVERVIEW guidelines on and monitors the flow of GRI 103-1 information from management to the Compliance Training Board to ensure that all material information >16,000 The Board and management of Keppel Corporation Limited (“KCL”, “Keppel” or is provided in a timely manner to the Board the “Company”) firmly believe that a genuine for the Board to make good decisions. commitment to good corporate governance He also encourages constructive relations Directors and employees is essential to the sustainability of the between the Board and management, and received compliance e-training Company’s businesses and performance, between the executive and non-executive on key Group policies and are pleased to confirm that the Company directors (NEDs). At board meetings, and requirements. has adhered to the principles of the Code the Chairman encourages a full and frank of Corporate Governance 2018 ( 2018 CG exchange of views, drawing out contributions Code ), with references to the accompanying from all directors so that the debate benefits Independence of Directors Practice Guidance. BOARD’S CONDUCT OF AFFAIRS from the full diversity of views, in a robust yet collegiate setting. At annual general meetings and other shareholders’ meetings, the 10 GRI 102-18 | 102-22 | 102-23 | 102-26 | 102-33 | Out of 11 directors Chairman ensures constructive dialogue 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 are independent. between shareholders, the Board and Governance Framework management. The Chairman sets the right KCL’s governance structure is as above. ethical and behavioural tone and takes a leading role in the Company’s drive to Dr Lee Boon Yang is the non-executive and achieve and maintain a high standard of independent Chairman of the Company. corporate governance with the full support Mr Loh Chin Hua is the Chief Executive Officer of the directors, Company Secretaries (CEO) of the Company. and management. The Chairman, with the assistance of To assist the Board in the discharge of the Company Secretaries, schedules its oversight function, various board meetings and prepares meeting agenda committees, namely the Audit, Board Risk, to enable the Board to perform its duties Nominating, Remuneration and Board responsibly having regard to the flow of Safety committees, have been constituted the Company’s operations. He sets with clear written terms of reference. All the Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 39 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT board committees are actively engaged 5. Group Regulatory Compliance Working Independence of Directors and play an important role in ensuring good Team (Group RCWT), which supports The NC determines on an annual basis corporate governance in the Company and the Group RCMC and oversees the whether or not a director is independent. within the Group, and the Board is kept development and review of over-arching In January 2020, the NC carried out reviews updated on discussions of the committees compliance policies and guidelines for on the independence of each director based via circulation of minutes and regular updates the Group, as well as review training and on the respective directors’ self-declaration by the respective chairmen of the committees communication programmes; in the Directors’ Independence Checklist and at board meetings. their actual performance on the Board and 6. Keppel IT Steering Committee, which board committees, taking into account the The CEO, assisted by the management provides strategic information listing rules on the circumstances in which team, makes strategic proposals to the technology (IT) leadership and ensures a director will not be deemed independent Board and after robust and constructive IT strategy alignment in achieving and guidance in the 2018 CG Code as board discussion, executes the agreed business strategies; to the circumstances in which a director strategy, manages and develops the should not be deemed independent. Group’s businesses and implements the 7. Group Sustainability Steering Committee, The assessment of the independence Board’s decisions. He is supported by which sets the sustainability strategy and the directors are set out on page 80 management committees that direct and leads performance in key focus areas; and of our Report to Shareholders 2019. guide management on operational policies Except for the Board Safety Committee, and activities, which include: 8. Technology and Data Risk Committee, all board committees comprise entirely which operationalises the Technology independent directors. 1. Investments & Major Projects Action and Data Risk Management operating Committee (IMPAC), which guides the standards programme that enhances Independent Judgment Group to exercise the spirit of enterprise the Group’s safeguards, resilience and All directors are expected to exercise as well as prudence to earn optimal responses to cyber threats. independent judgment in the best risk-adjusted returns on invested interests of the Company. This is one of capital for its chosen lines of business, Board Strategic Review the performance criteria for the peer and taking into consideration the relevant The Board periodically reviews and approves self-assessment of the individual directors. risks, in a controlled manner; the Group’s strategic plans. A two-day Based on the results of the peer and off-site board strategy meeting is organised self-assessment carried out by the directors 2. Management Development Committee annually for in-depth discussion on strategic for FY 2019, all directors have discharged (MDC), which nominates candidates issues and the direction of the Group, to this duty well. Mr Teo Siong Seng, as nominee directors to the boards give the non-executive directors a better Mr Tham Sai Choy and Mrs Penny Goh of each unlisted company or entity understanding of the Group and its businesses, were not part of this assessment as they that the Company is invested in and to provide an opportunity for the were only recently appointed. (“Investee Company”) so as to safeguard non-executive directors to familiarise the Company’s investment. In respect of themselves with the management team Conflicts of Interest Investee Companies that are (a) listed so as to facilitate the Board’s review of the Each director must promptly disclose on a stock exchange, (b) managers or Group’s succession planning and leadership conflicts of interest, whether direct or trustee-managers of any collective development programme. In FY 2019, indirect, in relation to any transaction or investment schemes, business trusts the focus of the strategy meeting was to proposed transaction. In this connection, or any other trusts which are listed on a track the progress towards the Group’s the Company has in place a “Keppel Group stock exchange, or (c) parent companies Vision 2020 targets and to discuss the – Directors’ Conflict of Interest Policy” to of the Company’s core businesses, the strategic direction towards Vision 2030, guide directors in identifying, disclosing and Committee recommends the candidates with a view to grow Keppel as one integrated managing situations of actual or potential for the approval of the Nominating business providing solutions for sustainable conflicts, as well as situations which may Committee (NC). The MDC also provides urbanisation. To support the Board’s be perceived to be conflicts of interest. inputs, guidance and direction on oversight of the implementation of the Every director is required to promptly operational policies and human strategic plans, one business unit is disclose any conflict of interest, whether resources/organisational matters; invited to each quarterly Board meeting direct or indirect, in relation to a transaction to present its plans and current challenges, or proposed transaction with the Company 3. Central Finance Committee, which reviews, and provide the Board an opportunity to as soon as is practicable after the relevant guides and monitors financial policies perform an in-depth review into each of facts have come to his/her knowledge, and activities of Group companies; the Group’s core businesses. and recuse himself/herself when the conflict-related matter is discussed unless 4. Group Regulatory Compliance Management AN EFFECTIVE BOARD the Board is of the opinion that his/her Committee (Group RCMC), which articulates GRI 102-25 | 102-27 | 102-28 presence and participation is necessary the Group’s commitment to regulatory The Board and management fully appreciate to enhance the efficacy of such discussions, compliance, directs and supports the that fundamental to good corporate governance and abstain from voting in relation to development of over-arching compliance is an effective and robust Board whose conflict-related matters. On an annual basis, policies and guidelines, and facilitates members engage in open and constructive each director is also required to submit the implementation and sharing of debate and challenge management on its details of his/her associates for the purpose policies and procedures across the Group; assumptions and proposals. of monitoring interested persons transactions. 40 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Board Competency & Diversity The Company has in place a Board Diversity The Board will, taking into consideration The Company recognises that diversity Policy that sets out the framework and the recommendations of the NC, review in relation to composition of the Board approach for the Board to set its qualitative and agree annually on the qualitative and provides a range of perspectives, insights and measurable quantitative objectives for measurable quantitative objectives for and challenges needed to support good achieving diversity, and to annually assess achieving diversity on the Board. The decision-making for the benefit of the Group, the progress in achieving these objectives. objectives identified in FY 2019, and the and is committed to ensuring that the Board The annual assessment is led by the NC as progress towards achieving such comprises directors who, as a group, provide part of the process for appointment of new objectives, are set out below: an appropriate balance and mix of skills, directors and Board succession planning. knowledge, experience and other aspects To help the NC identify gaps (if any) in skills, The NC conducted an assessment in January of diversity (such as gender and age) so knowledge, experience and other aspects 2020 and is satisfied that the Board and the as to promote the inclusion of different of diversity in the board composition in any board committees comprise directors who perspectives and ideas, mitigate against given year of assessment, each member as a group provide an appropriate balance groupthink and ensure that the Company of the Board is required to complete a and mix of skills, knowledge, experience, and has the opportunity to benefit from all Board Diversity Matrix to indicate which other aspects of diversity. The NC is also available talent. In identifying suitable of the list of skills, knowledge, experience satisfied that the directors, as a group, possess candidates for new appointments to the and other aspects of diversity (identified by core competencies including accounting or Board, the NC would ensure that female the NC, and set out in the Board Diversity finance, business or management experience, candidates are included for consideration. Matrix, as being able to contribute to the human resource, risk management, technology, The final decision on the appointment Company’s strategy and business) the board mergers and acquisitions, legal, international of directors would be based on and driven member possesses. The returns from the perspective, industry knowledge, strategic by merit against the objective criteria set board members are then consolidated into planning experience and customer-based by the Board from time to time on the a single Board Diversity Matrix to highlight experience or knowledge, required for the recommendation of the NC, after having the Board’s current mix of skills, knowledge, Board and the board committees to be regards to the benefits of diversity and experience and other aspects of diversity effective, taking into account the Company’s the needs of the Board. and gaps therein, if any. strategy and business. OBJECTIVES FOR FY 2019 Objectives Progress Appoint at least two additional independent Mr Tham Sai Choy was appointed as a non-executive and independent director with effect from directors with some of the core competencies 1 November 2019. Mr Tham was Managing Partner of KPMG Singapore and then Chairman of already present on the Board by end-FY 2020 KPMG Asia Pacific before he retired in 2017. He was a member of KPMG’s global board, and for succession planning purposes. had served on its executive committee and risk committee, and chaired its compensation and nominations committee. As a member of the executive committee, Mr Tham was responsible for KPMG’s global strategies and planning, including developing the firm’s capabilities in cyber security, data analytics and digital transformation. Mr Tham also worked with many of Singapore’s listed companies in their audits and other consultancy work over his 36 years of practice. He was appointed as a board member with a view of being the successor to Mr Danny Teoh in the roles of Audit Committee Chairman and Board Risk Committee member. Mrs Penny Goh was appointed as a non-executive and independent director with effect from 2 January 2020. Mrs Goh was Co-Chairman and Senior Partner of Allen & Gledhill LLP, where she had, for many years, headed the firm’s corporate real estate practice. She advises listed corporations, private equity property funds, sovereign wealth funds and real estate investment trusts, and has extensive experience in a broad range of corporate real estate transactions for commercial, industrial and logistics projects in Singapore and the Asia Pacific, involving investment, joint development and profit participation structures. Mrs Goh was appointed with a view to succeeding Mr Alvin Yeo as a board member with legal expertise and to enhance the gender diversity of the Board. Broaden the skillset of directors on the Board Mr Teo Siong Seng was appointed as a non-executive and independent director with effect by appointing at least one director with the from 1 November 2019. His strong background, knowledge and experience in the China market; relevant expertise and experience that would experience in growing businesses in frontier countries such as East and West Africa, and his complement those already on the Board and knowledge and experience from serving as Chairman of the Singapore Business Federation, which would help drive the Group’s strategy. Honorary President of the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce & Industry and as director of Business China, would enhance the balance and breadth of skills of the Board, and help drive the Group’s strategy. Improve gender diversity over a three-year period With the recent appointment of Mrs Penny Goh, together with Ms Veronica Eng, the female by ensuring that at least 20% of the Board will representation on the Board is currently 18%. This objective will be met with the appointment of an comprise female directors by end-FY 2021. additional female director by end-FY 2021. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 41 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Board Information Training drawn upon while tapping into the new To effectively engage the management, Directors are provided with continuing external perspectives and insights the Board must be kept well informed of education in areas such as directors’ duties which more recent appointees bring the Company’s businesses and affairs, and be and responsibilities, corporate governance, to the Board’s deliberation. knowledgeable about the industries in which changes in financial reporting standards, the businesses operate. The Company has changes in the Companies Act, continuing The NC leads the process and therefore adopted initiatives to put in place listing obligations and industry-related makes recommendations to the processes to ensure that the non-executive matters, so as to update and refresh them Board as follows: directors are well supported by accurate, on matters that may affect or enhance complete and timely information, have their performance as board or board a. NC reviews annually the balance and unrestricted access to management, and committee members. A training mix of skills, knowledge, experience have sufficient time and resources to programme is also in place for directors and other aspects of diversity such discharge their oversight function in areas such as accounting, finance, as gender and age, and the size of effectively. Subject to the approval of corporate social responsibility, risk the Board which would facilitate the Chairman, the directors, whether as governance and management, the roles decision-making. In this review, the NC a group or individually, may seek and obtain and responsibilities of a director of a listed would also take into account the needs independent professional advice to assist company and industry-specific matters. of the Group, the collective skills and them in their duties, at the expense of In FY 2019, some KCL directors attended competencies of the Board and service the Company. talks on topics relating to the digital economy, tenure spread of the directors. cyber security governance and macroeconomic As a general rule, board papers are required trends. E-training was also conducted on b. In the light of such reviews and in to be distributed to the directors at least the Group’s policies on anti-corruption, consultation with management, the NC seven days before the board meeting so anti-money laundering, personal data assesses if there is any inadequate that the members may better understand protection, competition law, and cyber security. representation in respect of any of the matters prior to the board meeting and Site visits are also conducted periodically those attributes and if so, determines discussions may be focused on questions for directors to familiarise themselves with the role and the desirable competencies that the directors may have. Directors are the operations of the various businesses so for a particular appointment. provided with tablet devices to facilitate as to enhance their performance as board their access to and review of board materials. or board committee members. All induction, c. The NC will, in all cases, take into However, sensitive matters may be tabled at training and development costs are at consideration the following objective the meeting itself and discussed. Managers the Company’s expense. criteria identified as necessary for who can provide additional insights into the the Board and board committees to matters at hand would be present at the Board Evaluation be effective: relevant time during the board meeting. The The Board has implemented formal directors are also provided with the names processes for assessing the effectiveness i. Integrity and contact details of the Company’s senior of the Board as a whole, each of its ii. Independent mindedness management and the Company Secretaries board committees, the contribution iii. Able to commit time and to facilitate direct access to senior by the Chairman, as well as peer and effort to carry out duties management and the Company Secretaries. self-assessment of the individual director and responsibilities effectively to the effectiveness of the Board. iv. Track record of making Regular informal meetings are conducted good decisions for management to brief the directors on To ensure that assessments are done v. Experience in prospective deals and potential developments promptly and fairly, the Board has appointed high-performing companies at an early stage before formal board approval an independent third party (the “Independent vi. Financial literacy is sought, and relevant information on business Co-ordinator”) to assist in collating and initiatives, industry developments and analyst analysing the returns of the board members. d. External help (for example, and press commentaries on matters in relation Mr Michael Lim, former Chairman of Singapore Institute of Directors to the Company or the industries in which it PricewaterhouseCoopers and Land Transport and search consultants) may operates is circulated to the directors from Authority, and currently Chairman of Nomura be used to source for potential time to time. Management is also expected Singapore Limited, was appointed for this candidates if need be. Directors to provide the Board with accurate information role. Mr Michael Lim does not have business and management may in a timely manner concerning the Company’s relationships or any other connections with also make recommendations. progress or shortcomings in meeting its the Company or its directors which may strategic business objectives or financial affect his independent judgment. e. NC meets with the short-listed targets and other information relevant candidate(s) to assess suitability to the strategic issues facing the Company. BOARD COMPOSITION & and to ensure that the candidate(s) SUCCESSION PLANNING is/are aware of the expectations and The Board also reviews the budget on an GRI 102-24 the level of commitment required. annual basis, and any material variance The Board believes that orderly succession between the projections and actual results and renewal are achieved as a result of f. NC makes recommendations to the would be disclosed and explained. Management careful planning, where the appropriate Board for approval. also provides the Board members with composition of the Board is continually management accounts monthly and as under review. In this regard, the Board Re-nomination of Directors the Board may require from time to time, has put in place a formal process for The NC is also charged with the to keep the Board informed, on a balanced the renewal of the Board and the selection responsibility of re-nomination having and understandable basis, of the Group’s of new directors so that the experience regard to the director’s contribution and performance, financial position and prospects. of longer serving directors can be performance (such as attendance, 42 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited preparedness, participation and candour), it to discharge its responsibilities properly. Under the third Line of Defence, to assist with reference to the results of the The BRC considers the nature and extent the Group to ascertain the adequacy assessment of the performance of of the significant risks which the Company and effectiveness of the Group’s internal the individual director by his/her peers. may take in achieving its strategic objectives controls, business units’ CEOs and Chief and value creation; and reviews and guides Financial Officers (CFOs) are required to The directors submit themselves for management in the formulation of risk provide the Group with written assurances re-nomination and re-election at regular policies and processes to effectively as to the adequacy and effectiveness intervals of at least once every three years. identify, evaluate and manage significant of their system of internal controls and Pursuant to the Company’s constitution, risks to safeguard shareholders’ interests risk management. Such assurances are one-third of the directors retire from office and the Group’s assets, and ensure also sought from the Group’s internal at the Company’s annual general meeting, corporate sustainability. and external auditors based on their and a newly appointed director must submit independent assessments. him/herself for re-election at the annual Keppel’s System of general meeting immediately following Management Controls Framework Enhancements to Compliance Programme his/her appointment. The Group also has in place Keppel's in FY 2019 System of Management Controls As our Code of Conduct states, “we care REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK Framework (the Framework ) outlining how results are achieved, not just that they GRI 102-35 | 102-36 the Group's internal controls and risk are attained.” Implementing that core value The Remuneration Committee (RC) is management processes and procedures. by enhancing our regulatory compliance responsible for ensuring a formal and The Framework comprises three Lines of process and reminding every Keppelite of transparent procedure for developing policy Defence towards ensuring the adequacy that value is a focus of attention for us, our on executive remuneration and for determining and effectiveness of the Group's system boards, officers and line managers globally. the remuneration packages of individual of internal controls and risk management. Read more about the Group’s enhanced directors and senior management. The RC compliance programme on pages 90 to 91 assists the Board to ensure that remuneration Under the first Line of Defence, management of our Report to Shareholders 2019. policies and practices are sound in that they is required to ensure good corporate are able to attract, retain and motivate governance through the implementation Communication & Training without being excessive, thereby maximising and management of policies and procedures The Group continuously ensures that its shareholder value. The remuneration relevant to the Group’s business scope and compliance policies and procedures are framework is set out from pages 82 to 87 environment. Such policies and procedures communicated effectively to all employees of our Report to Shareholders 2019. govern financial, operational, IT and regulatory and directors. In 2019, an e-training and compliance matters and are reviewed and assessment exercise covering key policies, The RC has access to expert advice from updated periodically. Compliance governance including Keppel’s Enhanced Code of Conduct, external remuneration consultants where is governed by the respective regulatory Conflict of Interest, Whistle-Blowing, Gifts required. In FY 2019, the RC sought views compliance management committees and Hospitality, Donation and Sponsorship from external remuneration consultants, and working teams. Employees are also and Solicitation and Extortion, was carried out. Aon Hewitt, on market practice and trends, guided by the Group’s core values and 16,544 directors and employees have and benchmarks against comparable expected to comply strictly with Keppel’s completed the e-training and toolbox training. organisations. The RC undertook a review Code of Conduct. Targeted training focused on line managers’ of the independence and objectivity of the responsibilities and employees’ obligations, external remuneration consultants through Under the second Line of Defence, under the re-branded K’ompass programme, discussions with the external remuneration significant business units are required was conducted in FY 2019. The K’ompass consultants, and has confirmed that the external to conduct a self-assessment exercise training aims to educate and entrench correct remuneration consultants had no relationships on an annual basis. This exercise requires mindset, behaviours, and culture towards with the Company which would affect their such business units to assess the status fostering risk awareness, ethical behaviour independence and objectivity. of their respective internal controls at work, importance of controls and focus on and risk management processes via safety. Conflict of Interest trainings targeted RISK MANAGEMENT & self-assessment. Where required, action at those with procurement, commercial, INTERNAL CONTROLS plans are developed to remedy identified business development functions, were GRI 102-11 | 102-17 | 102-33 | 205-2 control gaps. As described under the also conducted to heighten awareness The Board, supported by the Audit Committee Group’s Enterprise Risk Management of conflict situations and to train on (“AC”) and Board Risk Committee (“BRC”), Framework, significant risk areas of declaration requirements. oversees the Group’s system of internal the Group are also identified and assessed, control and risk management. with systems, policies and processes Reporting & Investigation put in place to manage and mitigate the Keppel Whistle-Blower Policy took effect The AC’s primary role is to assist the identified risks beyond internal thresholds on 1 September 2004 and was enhanced Board with ensuring the integrity of of appetite. It includes the reporting and on 15 February 2017 to encourage reporting financial reporting and the adequacy and oversight structure involving both boards in good faith of suspected reportable conduct effectiveness of the system of internal and management of the Group and by establishing clearly defined and centralised controls and risk management. The AC business divisions and seeks to embed processes through which such reports may has explicit authority to investigate any sound risk management practices in be made with confidence that employees matter within its responsibilities, full access business decisions and operations across and other persons making such reports will to and co-operation by management and Group entities. Regulatory Compliance be treated fairly and, to the extent possible, full discretion to invite any director or supports and works alongside management protected from reprisal. Read more about executive officer to attend its meetings, to ensure that relevant policies, processes our Risk Management & Internal Controls and reasonable resources (including and controls are effectively designed, framework on pages 106 to 112 of our access to external consultants) to enable managed and implemented. Report to Shareholders 2019. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 43 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT REGULATORY COMPLIANCE GRI 102-15 We are guided by our core values and code of conduct. We will do business the Compliance right way and comply with all applicable Culture Resources laws and regulations wherever we operate. We strive to deliver outstanding performance, whilst maintaining the highest ethical standards. We are clear with our tone for regulatory compliance, which is consistently Compliance, Policies & emphasised from the top and throughout Risk Assessment, Regulatory Procedures all levels of the Group. We have zero Review & Monitoring Compliance tolerance for fraud, bribery, corruption Framework and violation of laws and regulations. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES We have made significant progress in embedding a robust compliance Key Compliance Training & framework and processes throughout Processes Communications the Group. With Keppel Offshore & Marine having obtained ISO 37001 Anti-Bribery Management Systems certification for all units globally in 2019, we are progressively implementing the same standard throughout the Group. This will ensure consistency in application and operational effectiveness of the compliance programme. We have a compliance framework that is commensurate with the size, role and activity of each business unit (BU), The Group RCMC is supported by the REGULATORY COMPLIANCE including appropriate compliance control Group Regulatory Compliance Working FRAMEWORK systems, to be able to effectively detect Team (Group RCWT), which is chaired by Our regulatory compliance framework focuses and remedy gaps. We remain focused on the Head of Group Risk & Compliance. on critical pillars covering the areas of culture; rebuilding our credibility and reputation The Group RCWT oversees the development policies and procedures; training and with our stakeholders and building a and review of pertinent regulatory communication; key compliance processes; sustainable compliance framework that compliance matters, over-arching compliance risk assessment, reviews and supports the Group’s growth. compliance policies and guidelines for the monitoring; and compliance resources. Group, as well as reviews training and GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE communication programmes. A key aspect of the framework is the Our Regulatory Compliance Governance structure of the compliance organisation. Structure is designed to strengthen Each BU has a dedicated Compliance Lead. The Head of Group Risk & Compliance our corporate governance. The Board He/she is supported by the respective risk reports directly to the Chairman of the BRC. Risk Committee (BRC) supports the and compliance teams and is responsible Similarly, the Compliance Leads of the BUs Board in its oversight of regulatory for driving and administering the compliance have direct reporting lines to the respective compliance and is responsible for function and agenda for the BU. This includes BU Audit Committee or BRCs. Furthermore, driving the Group’s implementation of providing support to BU management with BU Compliance Leads report directly to the compliance and governance systems. subject matter expertise, process excellence Head of Group Risk & Compliance. This Group Risk & Compliance serves as a and regular reporting to ensure that reporting structure reinforces independence secretariat to the BRC, assessing and compliance risks are effectively managed of the function and enables senior reporting on compliance risks, controls and mitigated. We continue to strengthen management, including members of the and mitigations. the Group’s Compliance teams with Board, to provide continuous, clear and additional professional and explicit support, and credence to the Group’s The Group Regulatory Compliance experienced officers. compliance programme. Management Committee (Group RCMC) is chaired by Keppel Corporation’s Chief Under the direction of Group RCMC and CULTURE Executive Officer and its members include Group RCWT, BUs are responsible for Culture and mindset are critical in all BU heads. The role of the Group RCMC implementing the Group’s Code of Conduct ensuring effectiveness and durability of is to articulate the Group’s commitment and regulatory compliance policies and our compliance programme. Management to regulatory compliance, direct and procedures. They are also responsible for has a key role in setting the right tone and support the development of over-arching ensuring that risk assessments of material walking the talk. This helps to embed a compliance policies and guidelines and regulatory compliance risks are conducted, strong and robust regulatory compliance facilitate the effective implementation of and that control measures are adequate programme and culture that permeates policies and procedures. and effective. all levels. 44 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Posters on anti-bribery, anti-corruption and Group complies with the requirements facets of their work. Training focused on reporting mechanisms are exhibited in our of the Personal Data Privacy Act. building risk and compliance competencies offices globally and we issue Group-wide are also organised to ensure that we are bulletins on relevant topical issues to Compliance Policies apprised on changes in approaches, best apprise, inform and reinforce compliance We maintain a comprehensive list of practices and tools. principles and messages. Key messages policies covering compliance-related are also delivered periodically by BU matters including anti-bribery, gifts and Group Risk & Compliance conducts heads to employees. We continue to hospitality, agent fees, donations and periodic site visits, particularly to locations roll out initiatives to foster a positive sponsorships, solicitation and extortion, susceptible to higher corruption risks, to compliance-centric culture. conflict of interest and insider trading, raise awareness of compliance risks. amongst others. These policies are We also leverage opportunities at various POLICIES & PROCEDURES reviewed periodically to ensure that they management conferences and employee GRI 102-16 | 102-17 are commensurate with the activities in meetings to stress the importance Employee Code of Conduct the jurisdictions in which the Group of compliance. We have a strict Code of Conduct (Code) operates. Group policies are applicable to that applies to all employees, and who all BUs and unless the jurisdictional regulatory KEY PROCESSES are required to acknowledge and comply requirements are more stringent, these Due Diligence with the Code. The Code sets out important policies represent the minimum standards We continue to improve our risk-based principles to guide employees in carrying for the Group. Concerted efforts were taken due diligence process for all third-party out their duties and responsibilities to the to ensure all compliance policies, including associates who represent the Group in highest standards of business integrity. translated versions, are made available and business dealings, including our joint It covers areas from conduct in the accessible to employees. venture partners, to assess the compliance workplace to business conduct, including risk of the business partner. In addition to clear provisions on prohibitions against TRAINING & COMMUNICATION background checks, the due diligence bribery and corruption, and conflicts of GRI 205-2 process incorporates requirements for interest amongst others. Training is an essential component of third-party associates to acknowledge Keppel’s regulatory compliance framework. understanding and compliance with We continue to review and enhance our Our programmes are tailored to specific the Code. Code to ensure that it stays updated and audiences and we leverage Group-wide properly instructive. Appropriate disciplinary forums to reiterate key messages. Other Processes action, including suspension or termination As part of our ongoing review of of employment, is taken if an employee is We have a comprehensive annual e-learning policies and procedures, we ensure found to have violated the Code. training programme which is mandatory compliance oversight is embedded in for directors, officers and employees. The key processes including areas such as We have procedures to ensure that content of the training covers the Code and gifts and hospitality, agent fees, donations disciplinary actions are carried out key principles underlying our compliance and sponsorships, as well as conflicts consistently and fairly across all levels policies. Directors, officers and employees of interest. of employees. All third parties who are required to complete assessments represent Keppel in business dealings, to successfully mark completion of the RISK ASSESSMENT, REVIEW & including joint venture partners, are also training. In addition, directors, officers and MONITORING required to comply with and follow the employees are also required to formally GRI 102-30 requirements of the Code. acknowledge their understanding of policies We continue to develop our compliance and declare any potential or actual conflicts resources and framework. This will Supplier Code of Conduct of interest. Trainings on anti-bribery and the enable the Compliance team to conduct The acknowledgement to abide by our Code in multi-languages are also carried out independent risk assessments to identify Supplier Code of Conduct is mandatory for industrial/general workers. and mitigate key compliance risks. for all key suppliers across the Group. Regular discussions are held with all BUs, The areas covered within the Supplier Code We continue to refine our compliance focusing on risk assessments including of Conduct include proper business conduct, training programmes and curriculum. specific compliance risks identified for each human rights, fair labour practices, stringent We are also focused on developing and BU. Separately, independent reviews of safety and health standards, and responsible tailoring training content to varying target compliance risks are executed within the environmental management. groups and training needs. scope of internal audits including thematic reviews of the effectiveness of key aspects Whistle-Blower Policy In addition to policy-related training of our compliance programmes. These Keppel’s Whistle-Blower Policy encourages programmes, we conduct trainings reviews provide valuable insights and the reporting of suspected bribery, violations focused on the line manager’s opportunities for us to improve our or misconduct through a clearly-defined responsibilities in developing the desired processes and programmes. process and reporting channel, by which culture and mindset regarding compliance. reports can be made in confidence and These responsibilities include the need RESOURCES without fear of reprisal. The whistle-blower to establish and maintain effective internal We recognise the need for an experienced reporting channels are widely communicated controls to ensure that processes are compliance team to effectively support the and made accessible to all. robust, and that potential gaps are identified business in compliance advisory, as well as and mitigated in a timely manner. to ensure that compliance programmes Personal Data Privacy Act and controls are effectively implemented. Guidance is provided to employees on the Our training aims to engender positive Senior management and members of the Personal Data Protection Commission’s compliance mindsets and culture, and we Board are fully committed to ensuring that advisory guidelines to ensure that the see this guiding our employees in critical we sustain a strong compliance function. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 45 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT WE UNDERTAKE ONLY RISK MANAGEMENT GRI 102-11 | 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK APPROPRIATE AND Keppel adopts a balanced approach to risk GRI 102-15 | 102-29 | 102-30 |102-31 |102-32 WELL-CONSIDERED management, undertaking only appropriate Keppel’s Board is responsible for risk governance and ensures that management and well-considered risks to optimise RISKS, CONSIDERING business returns while considering their maintains a sound system of risk THEIR IMPACT holistic impact on corporate sustainability. management and internal controls. This approach stems from the philosophy TO OUR BUSINESS, of seeking sustainable growth opportunities Through the Board Risk Committee (BRC), STAKEHOLDERS, and creating economic value by ensuring the Board advises management in formulating and implementing the risk only appropriate and well-considered risks AND LONG-TERM are assumed. management framework, policies and CORPORATE guidelines. Significant risk issues are surfaced for discussion with the BRC Risk management is an integral part of SUSTAINABILITY. the way in which we develop and execute and the Board to keep them apprised in our business strategies. It is grounded in a timely manner. our operating principles and belief that a balanced and holistic risk-reward approach The terms of reference for the BRC are is key to corporate sustainability, particularly disclosed on pages 95 and 96 of this report. our commitment to key material issues The Board has defined three risk tolerance relating to environmental, social and guiding principles for the Group which governance, and to delivering long-term determines the nature and extent of the value for our stakeholders. significant risks which the Board is willing to take in achieving strategic objectives. Our Risk-Centric Culture and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Framework These principles are: enables the Group to continue to respond 1. Risk taken should be carefully evaluated, effectively to the dynamic business and commensurate with rewards and in environment and shifting business demands line with the Group’s core strengths and to seize new value-added opportunities strategic objectives; for stakeholders. As a Group, we prudently 2. No risk arising from a single area of seek new opportunities, innovation and operation, investment or undertaking revenue streams to safeguard shareholders’ should be so huge as to endanger the interests and the Group’s assets. entire Group; and 3. The Group does not condone safety RISK-CENTRIC CULTURE breaches or lapses, non-compliance Mindsets and attitudes are key to effective with laws and regulations, as well as risk management. The Group fosters a acts such as fraud, bribery risk-centric culture through several aspects. and corruption. Ownership & Leadership & Governance Framework & Values Process & Methods Accountability Our management is fully committed The Group’s management and staff Risk management We advocate ownership to fostering a strong risk-centric are guided by our ERM framework; methodologies are applied and accountability culture and consistently supports the our core values of accountability, alongside requisite domain of risks across all review and management of risks in people-focus and safety, as well as knowledge and capabilities. employees via the all areas of business. Key messages our mission and vision, in all An integral aspect of performance evaluation encouraging prudent risk-taking daily activities. strategic and operational process. Surveys are in decision-making and business decision-making includes regularly conducted processes are interwoven into major considering and managing across the Group to meetings, speeches and publications. risks at all levels of business. assess staff ownership One part of the process and accountability is the identification and towards a strong risk, Risk-Centric Culture assessment of risks compliance and control deploying the five-step culture. The survey results method: (1) identifying; have been encouraging, Transparency & Competency Training & Communications (2) assessing; (3) mitigating; indicating a strong We promote transparency in Training and communications are (4) communicating; and risk and control culture information sharing and escalation conducted regularly to enhance (5) monitoring risks. across the Group. of risk-related matters, incidents, competency through various forums, Underlying the five-step method near-misses or events of interest. in-house publications and sharing of is a detailed risk definition Risk identification and assessment lessons learnt. Risk management is and reporting framework are embedded in key control regularly reinforced as a discipline and for risk oversight at processes. Group-wide surveys are and developed through awareness senior management and conducted periodically to assess and practice. Board levels. risk awareness amongst employees. 46 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Figure 1: ERM FRAMEWORK INCORPORATING SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Sustainability-Related Material Issues and Key Business Risks Strategic Operational Compliance Financial Emerging Opportunities External environment People, processes, Compliance with laws Internal financial Evolving or emerging Potential areas and execution of systems and and regulations; management threat(s) that of competitive business strategy Health, Safety and license to operate and controls affect business advantage arising Environment (HSE) from various risks Sustainability-related risks (e.g. Climate change physical risks and transition risks) Keppel’s risk governance framework, Our ERM framework is constantly refined to and undertake only appropriate and set out on pages 88 to 92 of our Report ensure it remains relevant in our operating well-considered risks to optimise returns to Shareholders 2019 under Principle 9 environment and where required, is tailored to in a balanced and holistic manner to deliver (Risk Management and Internal Controls), the requirements of each BU. The framework long-term value for our stakeholders. facilitates management and the BRC in takes reference from the Singapore Code of determining the adequacy and effectiveness Corporate Governance, the COSO Enterprise Proactive Risk Management of the Group’s risk management system. Risk Management – Integrated Framework, Effective risk management requires ISO 22313, ISO 31000 and the Guidebook a dynamic approach. We recognise the As a Group, we are cognisant of the dynamic for Board Risk Committees. need to continually evolve our framework environment in which we operate. We and processes to ensure our risk constantly enhance the framework and Our Risk and Compliance Committee, identification, assessment, mitigation, systems where necessary, to ensure risk comprising risk leads across BUs, drives communication and monitoring remains management remains an integral part of and coordinates Group-wide activities and effective. However, much of these depend decision-making and operations. initiatives. The Committee’s activities are on our ability to remain vigilant against facilitated by regular bilateral and BU-level evolving or emerging threats that may Keppel’s ERM framework, a component of meetings to ensure that pertinent risks are affect our different businesses. Our BU Keppel’s System of Management Controls, identified, assessed and mitigated in a risk teams identify, discuss and analyse provides the Group with a systematic timely manner. emerging risks which may have an impact approach to identifying, measuring and on the Group’s activities in meetings monitoring risks. It outlines the requirement We keep abreast of the latest developments throughout the year. Where applicable, for each business unit (BU) to recognise and best practices through participation in these are escalated for discussion and key risk areas affecting their operations industry seminars and interacting with peers consideration at the various governance and to classify the impact and likelihood and other subject-matter experts. committees for review. of these risks in a register for prioritisation and management by both BU and The table on pages 48 to 49 outlines what Through close collaboration with stakeholders the Group. The ERM framework also we have broadly identified as key risks and constant vigilance, the Group continues provides the reporting structure, monitoring for 2019. The period chosen follows our to proactively assess our risks so as to mechanisms, processes and tools used, financial reporting year, and while we respond effectively. We constantly review as well as any policies, standards or limits recognise that not all identified risks can our systems and processes to ensure to be applied in managing the Group’s be eliminated, we remain committed to that our ability to manage and respond to key risk areas. addressing every risk as they arise threats remains adequate and effective. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 47 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Material Risks Issues Mitigating Actions STRATEGIC RISKS Market & A large part of the Group’s strategic risks includes These risks receive constant high-level attention and strategy Competition market driven forces, evolving competitive meetings are held across the Group to review business strategies, landscapes, changing customer demands and formulate responses and take pre-emptive action. disruptive innovation. The Group remains vulnerable to other external factors including volatility in The BRC guides the Group in formulating and reviewing risk policies the global economy, implications of geopolitical and principles. These policies and principles are subject to periodic developments, intense competition in core markets reviews to ensure that they continue to support business objectives and disruptive technology. and are aligned to our risk tolerance levels, taking into consideration the prevailing business climate. Sustainability and Sustainability covers a broad range of material We support the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, Climate Change issues, many of which have been identified and and are working towards incorporating its recommendations in our managed according to the Group’s ERM framework. reporting framework. In addition, risks and opportunities relating to climate change have been recognised as fundamental to the A Sustainability Risk Framework (Figure 1), aligned to the ERM Group. These relate to physical and transitional risks framework, guides the Group on the specific processes and methods stemming from climate change and environmental applied in identifying, assessing and managing sustainability-related management, which present both risks and risks and opportunities. We are also committed to strengthening our opportunities for the Group. organisational capabilities in responding to climate-related risks and opportunities. Strategic Ventures, We have an established process for evaluating Together with the Board, the Investment and Major Project Action Investments & investment and divestment decisions including Committee guides the Group in taking considered risks in a controlled Divestments strategic ventures. These activities are monitored to manner, exercising the spirit of enterprise and prudence to earn the ensure that they are on track to meet the Group’s best risk-adjusted returns on invested capital across our businesses. strategic intent, investment objectives and returns, and where required, the need for timely recalibration Investment risk assessment involves rigorous due diligence, feasibility of strategies in response to the changing business studies and sensitivity analyses of key assumptions and variables. environment. These investment decisions are guided Some of the critical factors considered include alignment with Group by Group-wide investment parameters. strategy, financial viability, country-specific political and regulatory developments, contractual risk implications, as well as lessons learnt. We have defined the kinds of businesses that we will strictly avoid, those that we will maintain, and those which we will grow and expand, taking into account their respective environmental impacts. We will also be introducing an internal carbon price in the evaluation of all major investment decisions. The investment portfolio is constantly monitored to ensure that performance is on track to meet the Group’s strategic intent and investment returns. Customer & We recognise the increasing profile of consumer risks We regularly seek customer feedback and suggestions and track Stakeholder given the Group’s expansion into telecommunications them to help us better understand our customers' needs in order to Experience and growing portfolios in the retail electricity, improve the quality of our products and services. Where relevant e-commerce and gas businesses. The key issues of we conduct regular staff training, conduct surveys or align with consideration include areas such as brand trust and industry best practices to enhance customer experience. reputation, product/service quality/reliability, after-sales service/support, customer data privacy, product safety and other related matters such as customer responsiveness and the channel management across various platforms. Human Resources We continue to maintain a strong emphasis on In talent development programmes, we emphasise the importance of attracting and building a deep talent pool. This having a risk-centric mindset to inculcate the ability to identify and includes nurturing employees, maintaining good assess risks, develop and implement mitigating actions, and monitor industrial relations and fostering a conducive work residual risks. Keppel Leadership Institute helps to inculcate this environment. We are focused on strengthening mindset by embedding risk management in its key leadership courses. succession planning and bench strength, as well as building new organisational capabilities to drive business growth, whilst maintaining our status as an employer of choice. OPERATIONAL RISKS Project From project initiation through to completion, During project execution, we conduct project reviews and quality Management risk management processes are an integral part of and safety assurance programmes to address issues involving cost, project management activities to facilitate early risk schedule, quality and safety. Project Key Risk Indicators are used as detection and proactive management. The Group early warning signals to determine if remedial actions are required. adopts a systematic assessment and monitoring A Project Operational Set-up Guide detailing the key risk areas is also process to help manage key risks in projects. Attention available for BUs. We also conduct knowledge-sharing workshops to is given to technically challenging and high-value share best practices and lessons learnt across the Group. projects, including greenfield developments and the deployment of new technology and/or operations in These processes help to ensure that projects are completed on new geographies. Safety is incorporated into the design time and within budget, without compromising on safety, quality stage of projects to enhance worker safety. Projects and contract obligations. are managed in accordance with the respective country’s environmental laws and labour practices. 48 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Material Risks Issues Mitigating Actions OPERATIONAL RISKS Health, Safety & Maintaining a high level of HSE standard is of Key initiatives include a Zero Fatality Strategy with a roadmap Environment paramount importance to the Group. We constantly focused on aligning Hazard Identification Risk Assessment standards strive to raise awareness and maintain vigilance to across our global operations, enhancing competency of employees foster a strong HSE-centric culture across the Group, performing safety-critical tasks, strengthening operational controls, particularly at the ground level where the risks deploying Root Cause Analysis investigation standards across are greatest. the Group, as well as developing more proactive and leading risk indicators/matrices to monitor HSE performance standards. The Group achieved zero fatalities across our global operations in 2019. Environmental management is a major area of focus and key operating sites are closely monitored for compliance to environmental standards. In 2019, the Group clinched 18 awards at the Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) Awards for exemplary safety performances, implementation of strong WSH management systems, as well as efforts to create solutions that improve workplace safety. The Group also leverages technology to improve HSE processes and systems. Business & We have established a common shared services Recognising the need to constantly harness technology, we have Operational platform which enables us to better manage costs embarked on digitalisation initiatives and continue to take measured Processes while enhancing efficiency, productivity, compliance steps, applying a risk-based approach to optimise our processes. and controls. We have adopted ISO standards and certifications in specific business areas to standardise our processes and keep up with best practices. In addition, procedures relating to defect management, operations, project control and supply chain management continue to be refined to improve quality of deliverables. We conduct regular reviews of policies and authority limits to ensure that they remain relevant in meeting business needs. Business Continuity We are committed to operational resilience with a The Group BCM Steering Committee provides sponsorship, direction robust Business Continuity Management (BCM) and guidance to ensure that we maintain operational resilience and programme that seeks to equip us with the readiness against business disruptions to ensure that our business capability to respond effectively to business continuity plans remain current and relevant. disruptions and to safeguard critical business functions from major risks. We are cognisant of the For coordinated escalation and management of major incidents, the risks of natural disasters, pandemics, terrorism and Group Incident Reporting and Crisis Management operating standard cyber threats, as well as the failure of critical was rolled out in 2019 to guide BUs on how they should evaluate and equipment/systems. We maintain a close watch and escalate major incidents to the Group, and how the Group Crisis keep abreast of emerging threats. Management team can effectively render assistance to affected BUs or manage/respond to major incidents directly. The Group Cyber Incident Response plan is also part of our crisis management approach which details response protocols to cyber incidents/threats. We continually evaluate our plans to gauge the effectiveness and timeliness of response. In 2019, we engaged an independent party to conduct a table-top exercise to validate the response plan. The post-exercise report indicated no significant gaps in Keppel’s incident responses and plan against industry practice. During the year, the Group has also formalised the Business Psychological Readiness Programme, an initiative led by Temasek Foundation Cares. The initiative focuses on psychological support in the event of traumatic/adverse workplace events. We continually extend and strengthen our capabilities in responding to major incidents/crises with the aim of safeguarding our people, assets and stakeholders’ interests. The full impact of the COVID-19 outbreak is still unfolding. We have implemented business continuity plans to minimise disruptions to our operations and supply chain, especially in our key markets of China and Singapore. As we continue to assess and respond to the evolving situation, we are proactively implementing measures to mitigate the impact. As we deal with the economic impact of the COVID-19 outbreak, we are also focused on the well-being of our staff and stakeholders across our businesses. We have also taken a multi-pronged approach to assist those affected by COVID-19 in our communities. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 49 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Material Risks Issues Mitigating Actions OPERATIONAL RISKS Cyber Security & As Keppel moves into a more technology-focused In 2019, we formalised and implemented a Technology and Data Risk Data Protection and data-driven era, we recognise the integral Management standard which identifies, assesses and manages critical GRI 418-1 importance and concerns of cyber threats globally. technology and data assets according to leading industry guidelines such Technology and data security risks and the related as those given by the Cyber Security Agency of Singapore and the National processes/services in all forms are an integral part Institute of Standards and Technology. The programme not only seeks to of the Group’s business risks. We have established improve technology and data security standards but also to inculcate a a technology governance structure and security culture of cyber hygiene in employees across the Group. The Group has risk framework to address both general technology also embarked on various initiatives to continually strengthen our technology and data security controls, covering key areas such security, governance and controls through the refinement and alignment as cyber security, business disruption, theft/loss of of our policies, processes and systems, as well as the consolidation of confidential data and data integrity. servers and storages. We work closely with industry professionals and consultants to enhance our policies and practices on end-user computing, safeguarding information, as well as security self-assessments to identify critical gaps. In terms of innovations and emerging threats, our pool of dedicated Information Technology (IT) experts enable us to keep abreast of IT matters. They are assisted by Keppel Technology and Innovation which drives the adoption of new technology and innovation across the Group. Extensive training and assessment exercises have been conducted to heighten overall awareness of technology and data threats. We have also taken steps to safeguard corporate data assets against the loss of availability of critical systems to ensure resilience against disruptions. As a provider of mobile and fixed communications services, M1 is committed to protecting customers' data privacy and subscribes to the principles and requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act 2012. In August 2019, M1 became the first telecommunications provider in Singapore to receive the Data Protection Trustmark Certification, administered by Singapore’s Infocomm Media Development Authority. In 2019, M1 reported six incidents of data loss and three customer complaints from Singapore's Personal Data Protection Commission relating to the usage of personal data. The incidents were addressed promptly. There were no other cases of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data during the year. COMPLIANCE RISKS Laws, Regulations Given the geographical diversity of our businesses, Significant risks issues, such as risks relating to corruption in all areas of & Compliance we closely monitor developments in laws and operations within the Keppel Group where we have operational control, GRI 205-1 regulations of countries where the Group operates, are surfaced by management and assessed by the Board. With respect to ensure that our businesses and operations to corruption, significant risks include areas where external agents are comply with all relevant laws and regulations. We used for business development. regularly engage with local government authorities and agencies to keep updated on changes to laws In 2019, we continued to make improvements to our regulatory and regulations, ensuring that we can assess our compliance programme, ensuring that compliance awareness and exposures and risks effectively. We recognise that principles are further entrenched in all our activities. More details can non-compliance with laws and regulations not only be found on page 44 of this report. have significant financial impact but have potentially detrimental reputational impact on Keppel. FINANCIAL RISKS Fraud, We maintain a strong emphasis on ensuring that Regular external and internal audits are conducted to provide assurance Misstatement financial statements are accurate and presented on the accuracy of financial statements and adequacy of the internal of Financial fairly in accordance with applicable financial control framework supporting the statements. Where required, we leverage Statements & reporting standards and frameworks. the expertise of engaged auditors in the interpretation of financial reporting Disclosures standards and changes. We conduct regular training and education programmes to enhance competency of the Group’s finance managers. Keppel’s System of Management Controls framework outlines our internal control and risk management processes and procedures. For more details, please refer to page 43 of this report. Financial Financial risk management relates to our ability to Our procedures include the evaluation of counterparties and other Management meet financial obligations and mitigate credit, liquidity, related risks against pre-established internal guidelines. We conduct currency and interest rate risks. Details can be found impact assessments and stress tests to gauge the Group’s potential on pages 185 to 196 of our Report to Shareholders financial exposure to changing market situations, to enable informed 2019. Policies and financial authority limits are decision-making and the implementation of prompt mitigating actions. reviewed regularly to incorporate changes in the We also regularly monitor our asset concentration exposure in countries operating and control environment. where we have a presence to ensure that our portfolio of assets, investments and businesses are diversified against the systemic risks We are focused on financial discipline and seek of operating in a specific geography. to deploy our capital to earn the most optimal risk-adjusted returns for shareholders, while maintaining a strong balance sheet to seize new opportunities. 50 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SUPPLY CHAIN AND RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT WE WORK CLOSELY WITH STAKEHOLDERS IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN TO POSITIVELY INFLUENCE THEIR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GRI 103-2 | 103-3 2019 TARGETS 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGETS TOPICS Screen 100% of all new Screened 100% of all new Screen 100% of all new Screening suppliers suppliers in accordance with qualified suppliers in suppliers in accordance environmental, social and accordance with ESG criteria. with ESG criteria. Supplier code of conduct governance (ESG) criteria. Established an ESG Refine the implementation Due diligence To have 100% of all qualified scorecard and supplier of the ESG scorecard as part suppliers endorse the Keppel audit framework to monitor of the supplier screening supplier code of conduct. and assess suppliers’ process across the Group. SDGS sustainability performance. Expand the assessments To have 100% of all qualified of supplier performance in 99.97% of qualified suppliers suppliers endorse the Keppel relation to topics covered endorsed the Keppel supplier supplier code of conduct. in the Keppel supplier code code of conduct or have their of conduct. own codes which met Keppel’s requirements. Organised safety training for subcontract workers and shared health, safety and environment (HSE) best practices at contractor and subcontractor forums. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 51 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SUPPLY CHAIN AND RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT OUR SUPPLY CHAIN GRI 102-9 | 102-10 Division Description Offshore & Marine Subcontractors work closely with Keppel Offshore & Marine (Keppel O&M) to construct, convert and repair offshore and marine vessels in our yards. Equipment manufacturers supply us with large-scale equipment such as thrusters, engines, winches, switchgear and variable control systems for installation on offshore and marine vessels that we build for clients; as well as specialised purpose-specific equipment such as cryogenic systems and offshore drilling equipment. We also procure shipyard-specific equipment such as cranes, forklifts, transporters and panel line systems. Bulk material suppliers supply us with steel plates, steel profiles, cables, piping and paint; and consumables such as fuel, grits and gases. Property Consultants, contractors, and interior design firms provide architectural and engineering design, construction and interior design services for our real estate developments. As a manager of real estate properties, we also employ facility management companies to service our commercial buildings. Infrastructure Keppel Infrastructure engages consultants, system integrators, equipment manufacturers and suppliers, and subcontractors for the construction of plants and facilities and for the provision of environmental technology solutions. We also purchase raw materials, such as feedstock, to power the co-generation plant for our Energy Infrastructure business. In addition, we procure goods and services for the operations and maintenance of the plants and facilities. Keppel Data Centres engages external contractors for the construction of new data centre facilities, and employs facility technician companies for regular equipment maintenance. Keppel Logistics engages contractors for transportation services, warehouse operations and facility maintenance. UrbanFox, our e-commerce logistics arm, engages crowdsourced drivers for last-mile delivery services through its online platform. Investments Our managers engage subcontractors to ensure smooth operations and maintenance of our assets. The supply chain for this business also comprises mechanical and electrical equipment suppliers for some of our data centres, as well as property and facility management companies that provide building management, physical security, technical maintenance and routine cleaning services. M1 engages suppliers to support its supply of telecom equipment and services, terminals and devices, ICT solutions, software and computer hardware products, as well as cable installation. Over 90% of these suppliers are based in Singapore, in line with our primary market. OVERVIEW Screening New Suppliers on Keppel Corporation’s website. In 2019, GRI 103-1 All suppliers are qualified in accordance with 99.97% of qualified suppliers endorsed the The Group contracts local and foreign our requisition and purchasing policies, and code or have their own codes which met suppliers for our different businesses. screened based on ESG criteria. We review Keppel’s requirements. The remaining 0.03% We recognise the importance of supply potential suppliers’ industry reputation, track comprised one supplier, who was assessed chain risk management and sustainable record, financial performance, security by the business unit’s compliance team to procurement in building operational practices and certifications, with a preference be fit to be appointed, following further due resilience, and we work closely with our for suppliers with certifications for ISO 9001 diligence that was conducted. suppliers to make a positive impact on quality management system, ISO 14001 their sustainability performance. environmental management system, Third-party associates of the Group that OHSAS 18001 occupational health and provide services on behalf of a Group REPORT BOUNDARY safety assessment series or the equivalent. company or engage in business activities on GRI 103-1 behalf of a Group company are required to The data reported in this section covers All new suppliers that provide Keppel with abide by Keppel’s rules of business conduct. global operations and all subsidiaries over products and services valued at $200,000 The rules specify the Group’s policy regarding which the Group has management control. or more per contract or over cumulative ethical conduct and compliance with laws, purchase orders in the prior calendar year anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, and MANAGEMENT APPROACH are expected to sign and abide by the donations and contributions. GRI 103-2 | 103-3 | 308-1 | 403-7 | 414-1 Keppel supplier code of conduct, which We adhere to local content requirements covers areas pertaining to business The Group made progress in enhancing its and are committed towards strengthening conduct, labour practices, safety and health, enterprise resource initiative in 2019. The our base of local suppliers in countries and environmental management. All Group enhanced system provides procurement where we operate. In doing so, we support companies are required to include the managers across the Group with visibility on domestic economic growth, generate acknowledgment and signing of the code, suppliers that have been qualified by other employment opportunities and improve which is available in multiple languages, as business units. Almost all overseas business the capacities of the workforce in our part of their supplier selection procedure. units are on board, with the remaining ones host countries. The supplier code of conduct is available scheduled to come on board in 2020. 52 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited In 2019, the Group established an ESG to about 10% of the total subcontractor and order volume, among other business scorecard to consolidate key ESG data of companies registered with Keppel O&M. criteria. ESG risks are assessed based on our suppliers, which will allow us to assess a country risk perspective in areas such as and monitor their sustainability performance. Keppel Land has in place a five-step supply human rights, corruption, and the country’s Keppel O&M, including its overseas entities, chain management process that covers the environmental regulatory framework. has included the ESG scorecard as part of whole lifecycle of its project from its initiation Sustainability audits will be conducted for its supplier qualification process. We are and design development stages to subsequent high ESG risk critical suppliers, and corrective working to progressively implement the construction and operation stages. action plans will be implemented where ESG scorecard across the rest of our necessary. The critical suppliers audit business units. For all project sites covered under the scope of framework will be progressively rolled out Keppel Land’s environmental management across the Keppel Group. Due Diligence system, contractors are required to conduct Keppel is committed to managing the inherent an impact assessment based on activities BUILDING CAPABILITIES risks arising from our supply chains. The at the project site prior to construction. GRI 403-7 assessment of supplier risks and due diligence The assessment covers potential negative We work closely with our suppliers measures undertaken by the Group is an environmental impacts, including depletion and contractors to maintain high ongoing process which takes place throughout of resources, biodiversity disturbance as well as standards of conduct throughout our the lifecycle of a supplier relationship. air, water and noise pollution. Contractors business engagements. are required to establish and implement For example, Keppel O&M conducts regular appropriate measures to mitigate and/or Forums and dialogue sessions with suppliers audits of resident subcontractors to ensure prevent significant environmental impacts. and contractors are held regularly to ensure their adherence to the International Labour alignment between Keppel’s supplier code Organisation’s declaration on fundamental Keppel Land also conducts regular site visits of conduct and the respective codes of principles and rights at work and Singapore’s and internal audits as part of its supplier due conduct of our suppliers and contractors, Ministry of Manpower marine sponsorship diligence process. When lapses are identified, share experiences, and communicate our scheme requirements for the employment the company’s project team works closely expectations regarding performance. Our of local and foreign employees. with contractors to implement corrective business units have incentive programmes action plans and preventive measures. that reward and recognise contractors with The scope of these audits includes fair exemplary HSE performance. remuneration, living standards, workplace Identifying and auditing high ESG-risk critical safety and abuse and harassment. Keppel suppliers enable us to allocate our resources Keppel O&M conducts outreach programmes O&M ensures that monthly interviews are to suppliers whom we can have the greatest and briefings to subcontractor workers to done directly with subcontract workers on impact on and support in improving their inform them of their employment rights, a rotational basis to determine their levels sustainability practices and performance. and the available channels to report any of satisfaction pertaining to the above violation of their rights. The company also topics. The respective management of the In 2019, we developed an audit framework collaborates with Singapore’s Ministry of subcontractor companies are then required to manage sustainability risks among our Manpower to raise awareness among to address any areas of concern, under a critical suppliers. Critical suppliers are subcontractors on the common breaches structured mechanism of monitoring and determined by the following factors: in relation to the requirements under the close out. For 2019, focus was given cumulative order value, single order value Marine Sponsorship Scheme. SUPPLIER SELECTION AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PROCESS Qualification/ Selection Performance Management Evaluation Re-Qualification Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 All suppliers are qualified As part of the supplier We work closely with our We conduct regular reviews in accordance with rigorous selection procedure, all suppliers and contractors and assessments of supplier requisition and purchasing new suppliers that provide to maintain high standards performance, with an policies, and screened based Keppel with products and of conduct throughout our emphasis on our contractors. on ESG criteria. We review services valued at $200,000 business engagements. This includes reviewing their potential suppliers' industry or more per contract or over In identifying and focusing performance in relation to reputation, track record, cumulative purchase orders on high ESG-risk critical topics covered in our supplier financial performance, security in the prior calendar year are suppliers, we are able to code of conduct. Our work practices and certifications. expected to sign and abide channel our resources to teams provide feedback to by the Keppel supplier code support and enhance the our procurement teams to of conduct. sustainability performance help determine whether of these suppliers, and suppliers will be retained in make a bigger impact. our list of approved suppliers. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 53 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY WE DRIVE INNOVATION AND EXERCISE DUE CARE AND DILIGENCE IN THE DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GRI 103-2 | 103-3 2019 TARGETS 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGETS TOPICS Invest at least 20% of R&D Invested over 30% of R&D Invest at least 20% of R&D Innovation expenditure on sustainabilityexpenditure on sustainabilityexpenditure on sustainabilitylinked innovation. linked innovation in 2019. linked innovation. Product quality Ensure customer Continued to engage Continue to drive innovation Product safety satisfaction across our customers and review and and seize new opportunities Customer satisfaction businesses. document feedback for through synergistic continuous service partnerships. Certify products and services improvements. to sustainability-related Certify products and services SDGS standards and protocols. The majority of our key to sustainability-related business units are certified standards and protocols. to meet the ISO 9001 quality management System. 54 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OVERVIEW MANAGEMENT APPROACH GRI 103-1 GRI 103-2 | 103-3 l 416-1 Green Mark Awards 84 As a provider of solutions for sustainable Product Quality urbanisation, Keppel is committed to The ISO 9001 management system is based delivering the best value proposition to on quality management principles including its customers through execution strong customer focus, a process approach Building & Construction excellence and technology innovation, and continuous improvement. Authority (BCA) Green Mark whilst prioritising customer safety. Awards achieved by Exemplifying a commitment to execution Keppel Land to date. We continue to drive innovation and excellence, close to 100% of Keppel Land’s tap on our businesses’ knowledge projects under development in Singapore, and expertise in various fields such China and Vietnam and about 70% of Sustainability Innovation as engineering and technology development to seize new opportunities. These include meeting the growing Keppel Infrastructure’s global operations have been certified to meet the ISO 9001 management system. >30% Of R&D expenditure invested in demand for cleaner energy and sustainability-linked innovation. renewables as the world transitions to In addition to being certified to the ISO 9001 a lower-carbon economy. management system, Keppel Shipyard attained the Singapore Quality Class STAR The health and safety of our customers with People, which recognises organisations in relation to the use of our products for its excellent management practices, and services are of utmost importance commitment towards continuous improvement to us. We exercise due care and and sustainable business performance. diligence in the design, construction and operation of our products and Management systems are in place to improve services to ensure that they are safe for the operational resilience of our assets in the our customers. Infrastructure division. Ongoing efforts such as regular reporting, annual capacity tests REPORT BOUNDARY and audits help to further ensure the quality GRI 103-1 and reliability of the company’s products The boundary for the material topic and services. of product quality and safety includes the Group's major subsidiaries in Regular surveys and reviews are conducted Singapore and overseas operations in to understand customers’ needs and which the Group has management control. enhance products and services accordingly. CUSTOMER FEEDBACK 2019 (NON-EXHAUSTIVE) GRI 102-43 Division Feedback Process 2019 Outcomes Offshore & Marine Keppel Shipyard conducted customer service satisfaction surveys for 291 Achieved a customer satisfaction score of 5.7 completed projects in Singapore. out of 6. For Keppel FELS, face-to-face customer surveys were conducted once Achieved an average score of 4.3 out of 6. every four months to track customer satisfaction at each project phase. Property Keppel Land conducted service quality surveys for 11 completed projects 95.3% of respondents indicated that they were in Singapore, China and Indonesia. satisfied with the services rendered in the management and operations of the developments. Infrastructure Keppel Logistics conducts regular customer meetings and annual Maintained a customer engagement score of customer surveys. 100% in Singapore and 90% in China. Keppel Data Centres conducts an annual customer survey. Scored 80% for customer satisfaction. Keppel DHCS conducts customer satisfaction surveys. Scored 94.5% for customer satisfaction. Keppel Electric’s residential customers are surveyed by the Energy Market Scored a rating of 3.5 out of 5 points for Authority to understand customers’ level of satisfaction towards their retailer. residential customers who switched between Nov 2018 and Feb 2019. Investments Keppel REIT conducted tenant satisfaction surveys for its properties in Survey results indicated high levels of Singapore and Australia. tenant satisfaction. M1 consolidates customer feedback through its 24-hour hotlines, retail Achieved an 89.5% customer satisfaction outlines, letters to media, mystery shopping surveys and from social media. rating, exceeding its target of 85%. In July 2019, M1 replaced its customer satisfaction survey with the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to measure customer experience. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 55 STRATEGIC PILLAR: RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY Members of the Keppel Technology Advisory Panel provide Keppel with technology foresight and advice on strategic projects, and also broaden Keppel's networks. Customer Health & Safety for all its new projects in Singapore since One of KTI’s key initiatives in 2019 was Customer health and safety impacts are 2008. The guidelines are in line with the its collaboration with Keppel O&M to drive assessed for improvement in all our Singapore Workplace Safety and Health the adoption of 3D printing. In partnership significant product and service categories, Council’s design for safety regulations, with Nanyang Technological University and and throughout the products’ life cycles. which have been implemented since 2016. the Singapore Institute of Manufacturing The guidelines require safety and health Technology, Keppel O&M has been certified We consider proper design, handling, storage risks to be incorporated into the early by Lloyd’s Register for its production of and disposal of materials as early as the conceptual and planning phases of a offshore-grade steel using Laser Aided planning stage. At the project execution stage, project, enabling designers and consultants Additive Manufacturing (LAAM) technology. we carry out project reviews and quality to reduce these risks through good design This certification will support Keppel O&M’s assurance programmes. In terms of product and effective project planning. production of high-value components for safety, we adhere to design for safety offshore and marine structures. regulations for our construction projects Fostering Innovation and comply with work environment The Keppel Technology Advisory Panel KTI also kicked off Venture INC which requirements for the rigs and vessels that (KTAP) was established in 2004 as a provided a platform for the acceleration we build. Our hazard identification and risk key platform to advance the Group's and incubation of ideas from participating assessment methodologies are reviewed technology leadership. Its members include employees with guidance from innovation regularly to ensure effectiveness eminent business leaders and industry experts. The ideas shortlisted for further and relevance. experts from around the world. incubation include solutions for waste in the marine environment, enhanced worker In our business units, functional divisions, KTAP members provide Keppel with safety and smart homes. including health, safety & environment (HSE), technology foresight, advice on strategic commercial, engineering, and operations, projects, and broaden Keppel’s networks. In 2019, over 30% of the Group’s R&D as well as project and plant managers, are Collectively, members’ expertise covers expenditure was invested in sustainabilitycollectively responsible for the oversight of a wide range of topics pertaining to linked innovation, such as in renewable product and service safety. sustainable urbanisation, including floating energy and high-rise green data centres. platforms, urban design and liveability, All operational management and quality alternative energy and efficiency, as well as COMPLIANCE control systems at Keppel Offshore & Marine communication networks and digitalisation. GRI 416-2 (Keppel O&M) are aligned based on the KTAP convenes once a year with key Keppel subscribes to best practices and company’s business excellence roadmap members of Keppel Corporation’s board complies with all applicable legislations and framework. Clients are briefed on the and senior management. and requirements. management systems in place to address project-specific HSE risks. This includes the Keppel Technology and Innovation (KTI) Keppel is not aware of any violation of laws, development of HSE and emergency plans is the Group’s platform to co-create and regulations and voluntary codes pertaining which detail how risks will be managed at incubate ideas, and serves to sharpen the to the provision, use, health and safety of each phase of the project. Regular site Group’s focus on innovation. Through KTI, its products and services in 2019. audits are conducted by the client and our we aim to transform how Keppel harnesses project teams to ensure compliance to the technology and innovation to create value Keppel’s business units abide by the client’s HSE standards. for our stakeholders, including innovation Singapore Code of Advertising Practice in business models and the way we work, by the Advertising Standards Authority Keppel Land has adopted the guidelines on as well as how we collaborate with third of Singapore, as well as similar design for safety in buildings and structure parties to accelerate change. codes overseas. 56 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY IS OUR CORE VALUE. WE ARE COMMITTED TO PROVIDING SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACES FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GRI 103-2 | 103-3 2019 TARGETS 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGETS TOPICS Execute our Zero Fatality Achieved zero workplace Execute our Zero Fatality Management systems Strategy and reduce fatalities across our global Strategy and achieve zero workplace fatalities to zero. operations, for the first time workplace fatalities across Hazard identification, in more than 25 years. our global operations. risk assessment and Conduct a compliance audit incident investigation for selected business units in Total Recordable Incident Strengthen efforts to relation to the global High Rate was 2.491. promote occupational Occupational health services Impact Risk Activities health and prevent Conducted compliance Worker participation, (HIRA) standards. workplace diseases. audits for two sites in consultation Invest in technologies to relation to the global To complete global HIRA and communication drive improvements in HIRA standards. standards compliance audits Worker training safety performance. for at least one site at each Incorporated the use of of Keppel’s business units. Promotion of worker health virtual reality technologies in the Keppel Safety Training Roll out electronic safety Centre and enhanced management system across our electronic safety business units in Singapore. SDGS management system. LONGER TERM TARGETS Achieve zero workplace fatalities across our global operations. 1 Keppel introduced Total Recordable Incident Rate as a performance indicator in 2019. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 57 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH OVERVIEW a Board Safety Committee (BSC) in 2006. GRI 103-1 The BSC, Chaired by Mr Tan Ek Kia, Safety is a core value at Keppel, an a non-executive and independent integral part of our business, and a director of Keppel Corporation, adopts key focus area for our board of directors a hands-on approach in setting the and senior management. We are strategic direction and establishing committed to provide safe and healthy a safety framework to ensure that workplaces for all our stakeholders. consistently high safety standards are maintained across our business units. Processes and systems are in place Major incidents are also shared and to identify, mitigate and report risks and discussed at quarterly BSC meetings. communicate best practices across the Group, and we work with our contractors and subcontractors to ensure that they understand our requirements In 2019, we achieved zero workplace fatalities and expectations. across our global operations, for the first time in more than 25 years. REPORT BOUNDARY GRI 103-1 | 403-1 The boundary for the material topic of occupational safety and health includes The BSC leads efforts to implement the Group's major subsidiaries in Singapore initiatives and improve performance and overseas operations in which the Group with the support of the Inter-Strategic has management control. Business Unit Safety Committee, which comprises representatives from all our MANAGEMENT APPROACH business units. GRI 102-13 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-1 | 403-2 | 403-3 | 403-4 | 403-5 | 403-6 | 403-7 Many of our key business units also We focus on strengthening our establish their own BSC to oversee safety frameworks and management systems strategy and practices. The latest business as well as promoting a culture of safety unit to establish its BSC in 2019 was M1. ownership across our operations. In 2019, Keppel Corporation’s BSC and the Board & Management Oversight BSCs of our business units conducted five Keppel Corporation was the first publicly safety visits covering eight worksites in listed company in Singapore to establish Singapore and China to engage staff. GROUP HSE STRUCTURE Business Unit Level KEPPEL CORPORATION BOARD SAFETY COMMITTEE Board Safety Committee Group Health, Safety & Management Safety Committee Environment Division Inter-Strategic Business Unit Department Heads Safety Committee Project/Line Managers Health, Safety & Environment Committee 58 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Strategy, Policy & Management Systems in China to strengthen the The effectiveness of our management Our approach to safety management is implementation of Group policies, approach is reviewed regularly. During the guided by the Keppel Zero Fatality Strategy strategies and standards across our annual HSE Roundtable, senior management (ZFS). Introduced in 2016, the strategy business units in China; from the Group’s business units share insights outlines actionable items to reduce and best practices, and exchange ideas workplace fatalities to zero through five • Completed global HIRA assessments to improve safety performance. The action strategic thrusts. at the Keppel Seghers Ulu Pandan plan generated during the session is NEWater Plant and Keppel Logistics incorporated into the Group’s safety Every year, we aim to implement several sites in Singapore. There were no roadmap and strategies. key initiatives to strengthen our safety significant contraventions observed culture across the Group. In 2019, we: from these assessments; All employees and contractors at the worksites of the Group’s companies • Introduced the Keppel Road Safety Policy • Incorporated the use of virtual where Keppel has operational control are in April, where all business units that reality technology at the Keppel covered by our HSE management systems. provide their own transport or engage a Safety Training Centre and upgraded All employees and third-party suppliers and third party for employee commute to/ Keppel Telecommunications and contractors are also expected to abide by from work or for other business purposes Transportation’s safety sharing the Keppel Corporation HSE Policy, which must ensure that vehicles are roadworthy mobile application; places the highest priority on the health and fitted with seat belts for the driver and safety of people and the protection of and all passengers. Drivers are also • Conducted a survey among all assets and the environment. prohibited from using mobile phones Singapore yards on the company’s while on the road; safety culture. Four safety culture Our safety management system is routinely taskforces have been established audited by independent certification bodies/ • Held more than 30 safety leadership to address the possible areas of companies and internal audit teams. coaching programmes to train and improvement identified through the For example, Keppel Offshore & Marine's empower over 3,300 frontline managers survey, namely front line engagement, (Keppel O&M) cross-business unit audits and supervisors, including those from care culture, technical competency, and Keppel Infrastructure’s inspection for our contract workforce; and stop work authority; and Safety Compliance Assurance (iSCA) ensure that policies and management • Established a health, safety and • Carried out quarterly reviews of systems are adhered to and that safety environment (HSE) steering committee potential safety risks for projects. standards across operations are aligned. Our business units strive to achieve safety certifications in line with global best practices. Keppel O&M’s yards in Singapore, KEPPEL ZERO FATALITY STRATEGY Brazil, China, the Philippines and the United States, Keppel Infrastructure and its key subsidiaries, Keppel Land’s Singapore, China, and Vietnam divisions, as well as Build a Keppel Logistics are certified to meet the high-performance OHSAS 18001 management system. safety culture In addition, Keppel Logistics is certified to meet the hazard analysis and critical control point management system. Streamline Adopt a proactive Our data centres Keppel DC Singapore learning from approach to safety 1 and 2 are also certified to meet the incidents management Singapore Standard for information and communications technology disaster Keppel recovery services. Zero Fatality Strategy As part of the Group’s continuous improvement efforts, we are working to meet the requirements under the new ISO 45001 occupational health and safety Harmonise Leverage management system, which provides a global safety practices technology to mitigate & competency safety risks robust set of processes for improving safety in global supply chains. To date, Keppel Shipyard, Keppel Subic Shipyard, Keppel Nantong Shipyard, Keppel Housing, Keppel Infrastructure and its key subsidiaries, as well as Keppel Data Centres’ five data centres in Singapore have been certified to the new standards. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 59 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH Hazard Identification & Risk Management management techniques incorporate Across the Group, we establish and the use of the bow-tie model and hazard implement procedures to identify, assess and operability studies to identify and and mitigate safety and health hazards assess likely events that can result in related to our operations. critical failures. As part of hazard identification and risk We are also leveraging technology to management, our operational and safety drive improvements in our hazard and teams conduct periodic workplace risk management, which is a key pillar of inspections and internal audits. Training our ZFS. Group HSE is collaborating with is conducted to equip HSE personnel with Keppel Technology and Innovation to the skills to effectively manage safety explore the use of various analytics and risks. Union workers and subcontractor business intelligence tools to harness data representatives are invited to participate from incidents, identify hazards, as well as in meetings where the identification of conduct safety reporting, observations hazards, assessment of risks and the and inspections. application of control measures are discussed1. For business units whose To protect workers from potential health workers do not belong to unions, worker hazards, hearing conservation and representatives are nominated by the respiratory protection programmes various departments to participate in are implemented at certain sites with monthly safety committee meetings. higher risk levels. To protect against noise-induced hearing loss, employees Keppel’s operations are guided by five key with exposure to noise are required to safety principles, one of which is that wear hearing protection gear and everyone is empowered to stop any unsafe are screened at annual audiometric tests work. Workers are protected from reprisal conducted by a mobile medical unit. when they report work-related hazards and hazardous situations. During the daily Take 5 toolbox meeting, workers are briefed on work-specific hazards Findings from our risk assessments are including proper ergonomic practices in considered in the determination of facility material handling. For example, at Keppel requirements, training programmes and Shipyard, fit tests are conducted to ensure operational controls. For example, that respirators used are in good condition Keppel Infrastructure’s process safety and correctly fit each user before usage. 1 Representatives include members from the Keppel FELS Employees Union and the Subcontractors Executive Council at Keppel FELS; Keppel Employees Union and Subcontractor Watch Group at Keppel Shipyard; Keppel Subic Shipyard Workers Union and Supervisory Professional Technical Union at Keppel Subic Shipyard; Christian Labour Organisation and associated professional, supervisory, office and technical employees Union at Keppel Batangas Shipyard; metallurgic union of Angra dos Reis at Keppel FELS Brasil; Singapore Industrial and Services Employees’ Union at Keppel Logistics and Keppel Infrastructure, and Landelijke Bediendencentrale Nationaal Verbond voor 1 Kaderpersoneelsit at Keppel Infrastructure. 60 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Land's Safety Awareness 1 Centres in various cities like Ho Chi Minh City (pictured) provide mandatory training for contractors' employees and foster a safety culture across the company's supply chain. Group HSE conducted its inaugural 2 Global Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment (HIRA) at the Keppel Seghers Ulu Pandan NEWater Plant and Keppel Logistics sites (pictured) in Singapore. 2 Promotion of Worker Health breaks, Keppel Shipyard built three 4-storey HIRA training which covers high-risk It is mandatory for all workers, including rest areas. Each rest area accommodates activities specific to each work site. contract workers, to be covered by work up to 2,000 workers. injury compensation insurance prior The Keppel Safety Training Centre at Keppel to working at our worksites. In-house The Keppel Wellness Gallery at Keppel Shipyard in Singapore offers a complete medical centres are also located in all Shipyard features interactive health range of training and certification courses our shipyards. Across the Group, our exhibits to educate employees on the in both trade-specific and broad-based skills contractors partner with clinics to importance of having proper nutrition, for all levels of the workforce. The centre provide contract workers with access active lifestyles and good mental health. is equipped with classrooms, an e-learning to medical care. zone, and a hall with multimedia and Keppel Shipyard and Keppel Housing interactive training stations. It also features Keppel also promotes the wellness were recognised for their outstanding a life-size replica of the mid-section of a of its workforce through programmes workplace health promotion practices at tanker with various technical training areas. that address physical and mental the biennial Singapore HEALTH (Helping The centre offers key training modules health-related risks. Voluntary health Employees Achieve Life-Time Health) such as core competency and leadership promotion programmes and services Awards in 2019. development programmes, and workforce across the Group include a smoking skills qualification courses certified by the cessation hotline, healthy snacks in Enhancing Skillsets Singapore Workforce Development Agency, pantries and canteens, as well as fitness We empower and train our stakeholders conducted by qualified, full-time instructors. classes. Regular health talks on stress to ensure that all personnel are updated This model has been replicated at our yards management and diabetes prevention, on safety measures and best practices. in Brazil, China, the Philippines and the among others, are organised at various In 2019, we invested approximately United States. work sites. Workers’ dormitories $21 million in enhancing safety-related are also equipped with gyms to promote infrastructure, upgrading systems and At Keppel Land, the Safety Awareness healthy lifestyles. building knowledge and skillsets across Centres (SAC) in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; the Group. Johor Bahru, Malaysia; Jakarta, Indonesia Keppel O&M conducts regular dormitory and Tianjin, China, provide mandatory visits to engage workers on health and safety All personnel entering a Keppel-operated training for contractors’ employees and issues. Keppel Shipyard offers holistic health site must attend a site-specific safety foster a safety culture across Keppel Land’s and medical services and is equipped induction to gain familiarity on the basic supply chain. Keppel Land’s mobile SAC with a pharmacy, counselling rooms and safety requirements and potentially in Wuxi, China, is also deployed to Keppel’s designated rest areas. To provide workers hazardous on-site activities or situations. various offices and worksites in Wuxi to with a conducive environment to rest during In addition, all workers must undergo enhance safety awareness. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 61 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH Engaging Stakeholders In accordance with the company’s HSE We work closely with all stakeholders, including policy, business units are required to report Training our contractors, subcontractors, customers, and investigate all accidents, incidents and suppliers, regulators and industry associations, to maintain high safety standards throughout near misses, and ensure that lessons learnt are shared to prevent any recurrence. All 3,300 our workforce. Our subcontract workers Group companies where Keppel has operational Frontline managers and undergo the same training as direct employees. control are required to report incidents, supervisors trained and including those that involve third parties empowered through To collectively raise industry standards such as contractors, clients and visitors at safety leadership and stay abreast of industry best practices, our premises, as well as employees working coaching programmes. members of Keppel’s management and at third-party sites or commuting for safety representatives are members of work-related purposes. various councils and committees of the Investment Workplace Safety and Health (WSH) Council, such as the WSH (Marine Industries) committee, WSH (Construction and Landscape) committee, At worksites, stand-downs are conducted when incidents occur or when hazards are spotted. Reportable incidents and near $21m Invested to enhance National Work at Height Taskforce, and related misses are also promptly reported to safety-related infrastructure, industrial associations such as the Association senior management. upgrade systems and build of Singapore Marine Industries and Real Estate knowledge across the Group. Developers' Association of Singapore. Performance GRI 403-9 | 419-1 As a bizSAFE partner, Keppel O&M actively In 2019, the Group reported a total accident encourages contractors to progress through the severity rate (ASR) of 12 man-days lost levels of the bizSAFE programme. Since 2018, per million man-hours, an 81% decrease Keppel O&M has imposed a bizSAFE Level 4 from 2018; and a total accident frequency (second-highest) certification requirement rate (AFR) of 0.18 accidents per million for resident contractors before they are able man-hours in 2019, a 28% decrease to undertake work at our yards. from 20181. no. of workplace accidents reported 1 Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) = x 1,000,000 no. of man-hours worked Accident Severity Rate (ASR) = no. of man-days lost to workplace accidents x 1,000,000 no. of man-hours worked PERFORMANCE GRI 403-9 Direct Workforce Contract Workforce Total 2019 AFR (reportable accidents per million man-hours) 0.17 0.18 0.18 ASR (man-days lost per million man-hours) 11.46 12.13 12 Occupational Disease Frequency Rate 0 0 0 Total Recordable Incident Rate 3.59 1.97 2.49 Lost Time Injury Frequency 0.40 0.89 0.73 High-consequence incidents (excluding fatalities) 0 3 3 Fatal Injury Rate (fatal injuries per 100,000 employed persons) 0 0 0 Number of man-hours 34,820,644 70,547,675 105,368,319 2018 AFR (reportable accidents per million man-hours) 0.27 0.23 0.25 ASR (man-days lost per million man-hours) 6 101 63 Fatal Injury Rate (fatal injuries per 100,000 employed persons) 0 4.4 2.7 Number of man-hours 40,708,241 65,307,115 106,015,356 2017 AFR (reportable accidents per million man-hours) 0.12 0.09 0.10 ASR (man-days lost per million man-hours) 233 80 140 Fatal Injury Rate (fatal injuries per 100,000 employed persons) 11.1 3.6 6.5 Number of man-hours 51,968,923 79,087,378 131,056,301 2016 AFR (reportable accidents per million man-hours) 0 0.14 0.15 ASR (man-days lost per million man-hours) 295 230 254 Fatal Injury Rate (fatal injuries per 100,000 employed persons) 13.7 10.9 12 Number of man-hours 62,851,897 105,712,508 168,564,405 62 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited The Group recorded no fatalities for its global During the year, the Group paid one established to better disseminate operations in 2019, the first time the Group significant3 fine of $200,000 relating lessons learnt globally and ensure that has achieved this target in over 25 years. to a fatal accident involving a contractor preventive measures are taken promptly. at one of Keppel O&M's shipyards in The Group reported a total of 17 safety Singapore in October 2013. Immediate At the 13th Keppel Group Safety incidents1 in 2019, of which five incidents rectification actions were taken and Convention on 5 November 2019, involved our direct workforce and 12 mitigation measures to prevent recurrence close to 400 Keppelites, contractors, incidents our contractors. The reported have been put in place since 2013. subcontractors and business associates incidents have been classified under the came together to reaffirm their following types: RECOGNITION commitment to safety. The convention The Group was conferred 18 WSH saw the continuation of the annual • Caught in between; Awards in 2019 by Singapore’s Ministry Keppel Group Safety Awards and also • Fall on same level; of Manpower and the WSH Council. This recognised 28 safety innovation projects. • Fall from height; is the highest number of awards won by • Struck by; and a single organisation in the year. As a reminder of our common commitment • Sprain/strain. to safety, the third annual Global Safety Of the 18 awards, Keppel O&M received Time-out (GSTO) was held on 26 August 2019. Of the 17 reportable incidents, five were 12 awards under the Safety and Health During these timeouts, frontline managers of high consequence2 which led to Award Recognition for Projects (SHARP) reiterated safety messages and shared best insurance payouts under the Work category for exemplary project safety practices with Keppelites. Injury Compensation Scheme. and health management systems. Keppel FELS, a subsidiary of Keppel O&M, also All work-related incidents are jointly clinched the WSH Performance (Silver) investigated by the operational and safety Award for outstanding safety performance. teams. Where appropriate, an independent In addition, Keppel FELS was conferred team is set up to investigate fatal and high two WSH Innovation Awards, while potential incidents. All incident investigations Keppel Logistics and Keppel Merlimau 1 A workplace accident that results in the injury include an account of the events leading Cogen each scored one award in this of an employee who is given more than three up to the incident, how it occurred and category. This award serves to recognise consecutive days of medical leave or hospitalised post-incident actions, as well as a root the development of solutions which for at least 24 hours; or a workplace accident that results in the injury of a self-employed person or cause analysis and corrective action plan improve safety and enhance operations non-employee who receives treatment in hospital. to prevent recurrence. at the workplace. 2 A high-consequence incident is one from which the worker cannot, does not, or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within All of the Group’s operational entities monitor ENHANCING COMMUNICATION 6 months (e.g. amputation of limb, fracture with occurrences of occupational disease at their Keppel’s five key safety principles complications). This definition is adopted across individual sites based on their region’s are widely publicised to ingrain safety Keppel's global operations. 3 A significant fine refers to a monetary sanction regulatory requirements. No occurrences of consciousness among all stakeholders. equal to or above $50,000 that was paid during occupational disease were reported in 2019. The Group HSE Alerts system was the financial year. The annual Keppel Group Safety Convention is a valuable platform for all stakeholders to reaffirm their commitment to safety. The Chairman's Safety Trophy Challenge for 2019 was awarded to Keppel O&M's Conversions and Repairs Division. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 63 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY LABOUR PRACTICES, TALENT MANAGEMENT AND HUMAN RIGHTS WE ARE COMMITTED TO FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES, UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES AND INVESTING IN PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GRI 103-2 | 103-3 2019 TARGETS 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGETS TOPICS Conduct the Keppel Global Achieved an overall Conduct engagement surveys Fair employment Employee Engagement engagement score of 86%, to track and enhance Survey to track employee compared to 82% in 2017 employee engagement. Diversity and engagement levels. and 80% in 2015. The score equal opportunity is significantly higher than Continue to promote Continue to promote diversity and equal Non-discrimination the average of 76% among diversity and equal Singapore companies. opportunity in the workplace. Talent management opportunity in the workplace. Formalised the Corporate Maintain an average of at Training and education Continue to empower our Statement on Diversity and least 20 hours of training per workforce through techInclusion. The statement is employee globally. enabled and self-paced now publicly available on the training programmes and SDGS Keppel Corporation achieve an average of over corporate website. 20 hours of training per employee globally. Recorded an average of 27.6 hours of training per employee. 64 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OVERVIEW as well as minimum wage laws, where GRI 103-1 such laws exist. We endorse Singapore’s Training & Development >580,000hrs People are our most valuable asset. We Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment respect and uphold human rights principles, Practices and the Employers’ Pledge of Fair adhere to fair employment practices, and Employment Practices. Keppel Corporation Invested in learning and invest in developing and training our is also signatory of the Singapore Business development programmes workforce. In doing so, we enhance our Federation’s Sustainable Employment Pledge. for our employees. ability to attract and retain the best talent and grow the capabilities of our people. Globally, 5,072 people were hired in 2019. Overall voluntary turnover rate was 10.9%, Employee Engagement Score REPORT BOUNDARY a decrease from 12.7% in 2018. GRI 102-8 | 103-1 The data reported in this section takes We believe that hiring from local communities enhances our ability to understand local 86% into account significant subsidiaries and Achieved in 2019, significantly associated companies in which the Group needs, and strengthens our capabilities on higher than the average of 76% has a stake equivalent to 51% or more. the ground. We also develop talents locally among Singapore companies. Our total workforce across more than 20 to assume management positions. Across our countries was 21,049 as at end-2019. The business units, 69.8% of senior management1 figure comprises full and part-time and 67.8% of our employees are citizens or permanent employees and excludes our permanent residents of the countries in contractor workforce. which they work. MANAGEMENT APPROACH GRI 102-41 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 401-2 | 404-3 | 406-1 1 The definition of senior management across our business units varies according to the nature of the Fair Employment businesses. Business units that are smaller in scale The ability to attract and retain talent is key define senior management to be the top three to our business. We adopt fair employment individuals with the highest level of executive management, while larger business units define practices and comply with local labour senior management to be individuals holding regulations across our global operations, positions that are above a specified job grade. OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE GRI 102-8 l 202-2 DISTRIBUTION BY REGION Employees (%) Senior Management1 (%) No. of Employees % Local Hires 2 Foreigners Local Hires2 Foreigners Singapore 11,283 53.6 47.2 52.8 90.9 9.1 Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 6,293 29.9 99.0 1.0 55.5 44.5 Americas 2,967 14.1 89.5 10.5 41.7 58.3 Middle East 338 1.6 1.8 98.2 14.3 85.7 Europe 168 0.8 95.2 4.8 53.8 46.2 Total 21,049 100.0 67.8 32.2 69.8 30.2 DISTRIBUTION BY SEGMENT Employment Type (%) No. of Employees % Permanent Contract Corporate Office 580 2.8 91.2 8.8 Offshore & Marine 13,8393 65.7 77.2 22.8 Property 3,010 14.3 86.5 13.5 Infrastructure 1,906 9.1 62.2 37.8 Investments 1,714 8.1 12.7 87.3 Total 21,049 100.0 72.3 27.7 2 Locals are defined as citizens or permanent residents of the country in which they work. 3 The headcount figure of 13,839 consists of 13,474 employees from Keppel Offshore & Marine and 365 employees from Keppel Prince Engineering. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 65 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY LABOUR PRACTICES, TALENT MANAGEMENT AND HUMAN RIGHTS NEW HIRES Keppel supports re-employability beyond GRI 401-1 the statutory retirement age. Eligible No. of Employees % employees are offered post-retirement employment opportunities in Keppel, in line Total 5,072 100.0 with the Singapore Tripartite Guidelines Singapore 1,883 37.1 on the Re-employment of Older Employees. Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 1,451 28.6 As at 31 December 2019, there were Americas 1,668 32.9 241 re-employed staff in the Group, Middle East 42 0.8 of whom 67 were re-employed in 2019. Europe 28 0.6 Compensation & Benefits Keppel subscribes to a pay-for-performance philosophy. Gender (%) Age Group (%) Opportunities for advancement, promotion, <30 30 to 39 40 to 49 50 years old Male Female years old years old years old & above recognition, compensation, training and other conditions of employment are provided Overall 79.4 20.6 22.5 39.2 24.6 13.7 based on merit. Performance reviews are Corporate Office 44.1 55.9 14.6 34.2 33.8 17.5 conducted for permanent employees. The Offshore & Marine 90.7 9.3 23.3 39.4 23.0 14.2 process, undertaken jointly by the employee Property 52.9 47.1 23.0 40.7 26.0 10.3 and supervisor, entails target setting and Infrastructure 77.0 23.0 23.7 38.7 23.3 14.3 review on an annual basis. Investments 51.9 48.1 15.6 37.3 33.7 13.3 Our employees in Singapore and overseas are provided with a comprehensive range of benefits that may include paid vacation leave, TURNOVER1 medical benefits and group insurance plans. GRI 401-1 In Singapore, part-time employees are entitled to similar benefits on a pro-rata basis. 2019 2018 2017 No. of Employees 2,300 2,381 2,872 Foreign workers are an important part of our Turnover Rate2(%) 10.9 12.7 13.4 workforce in Singapore, especially in Keppel Offshore & Marine. Many of these workers have been with the company for many years and have risen to supervisory positions. No. of Employees Turnover Rate2 Besides competitive wages and bonuses for eligible employees, foreign workers under By Region direct employment in Singapore also enjoy Total 2,298 10.9 other benefits such as subsidised housing. Singapore 1,139 10.1 Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 814 12.9 Eligible female employees in Singapore Americas 295 9.9 are entitled to a maximum of 16 weeks of Middle East 35 10.4 paid maternity leave, while eligible male Europe 15 8.9 employees in Singapore are entitled to a maximum of two weeks of paid paternity leave, in accordance with the Singapore Ministry of Manpower’s legislation. In Singapore, we had a 90.2% return to work No. of Employees % of Total Turnover rate for the 83 female employees who went By Gender on maternity leave. Male 674 67.5 Female 324 32.5 The Keppel Group adheres to the respective social security contribution or pension plan By Age Group obligations of the countries in which we <30 years old 214 21.4 operate. In Singapore, the Central Provident 30 to 39 years old 470 47.1 Fund (CPF) is a comprehensive social security 40 to 49 years old 238 23.9 savings plan that enables salaried Singapore 50 years old & above 76 7.6 citizens and permanent residents to set aside funds to work towards a secure retirement. Under the CPF scheme, Keppel and its 1 Turnover is defined as the total number of employees who leave the organisation voluntarily. It does not take employees make monthly contributions to into account employees who leave due to completion of contracts, dismissal, retirement or death in service. 2 The turnover rate is defined as the percentage of employees who leave the organisation voluntarily. It does not the employees’ CPF accounts in accordance take into account turnover due to completion of contracts, dismissal, retirement or death in service. with the prevailing regulations. 66 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel's hiring policies ensure equal employment opportunities for all, and our corporate statement on diversity and inclusion was formalised in early 2019. Human Rights Collective Bargaining Our hiring policies ensure equal employment We uphold and respect the fundamental Unions are our partners and we place opportunities for all. Our employment principles set out in the United Nations (UN) great emphasis on maintaining a harmonious statistics, reviewed regularly, illustrate Universal Declaration of Human Rights and and collaborative relationship with them. the diversity of our workforce. As at the International Labour Organisation’s Approximately 19.3% of our global workforce 31 December 2019, 20.3% of our employees declaration on fundamental principles and are bargainable employees covered by are female, compared to 19.4% in 2018. rights at work. Our approach to human collective agreements. We recognise that there are certain rights is informed and guided by general segments in our businesses, such as concepts from the UN Guiding Principles Guidelines are in place for the appropriate offshore and marine, which tend to attract on Business and Human Rights. management of grievance cases. For larger proportions of male employees due Keppel Corporation is a signatory of the unionised companies, employee grievances to the nature of the jobs. At our corporate UN Global Compact and is committed to are resolved according to the grievance office and in certain parts of our businesses, the Compact's 10 universal principles, handling protocol spelt out in the such as Keppel Capital, more than half of which include principles on human rights respective agreements. our employees are female. 55.9% of the and labour practices. staff in Keppel Corporation’s Corporate All registered grievances are investigated Office and 42% of the Heads of Departments We have zero tolerance for unethical labour and tracked through to final closure. In the are females as of end-2019. practices such as child labour, forced case of a grievance, our management and labour, slavery and human trafficking in the union will undertake every reasonable There were no reported incidences of all of our operations. Our suppliers are effort to resolve the grievance promptly. discrimination raised by our employees expected to abide by the Keppel supplier in 2019. code of conduct, which holds them Across our businesses worldwide, there accountable for responsible labour practices were 26 grievance cases1 reported in 2019, in their operations. all of which have been resolved. Our commitment to human rights is Diversity & Inclusion supported by our Employee Code of We value and respect all employees 1 In Singapore, a workplace grievance is as defined Conduct, which sets the tone in relation to regardless of ethnicity, gender, religious by the Ministry of Manpower, i.e. discontent or the feeling of being victimised at work . Our overseas the Group’s stance against discrimination beliefs, nationality, age or any physical business units reference the following in defining on any basis. Our stance on human rights disability. Our stance on diversity and inclusion a workplace grievance the Keppel Group code of is articulated in our corporate statement is articulated in our corporate statement on conduct, the employment laws and regulations of the country of operation, and the collective agreement on human rights which is publicly diversity and inclusion, which was formalised between the company and the employee union, available online. in early 2019, and is publicly available online. where applicable. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 67 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY LABOUR PRACTICES, TALENT MANAGEMENT AND HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS TRAINING & TALENT DEVELOPMENT GRI 102-8 GRI 404-1 | 404-2 We empower employees through learning DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER (%) and development programmes and Male Female encourage them to reach their full potential. Overall 79.7 20.3 In 2019, employees at our key operations in Singapore received approximately By Region 34.8 hours of training on average. Globally, Singapore 81.1 18.9 the overall average number of training hours Asia (excluding Singapore) & Australia 71.2 28.8 per employee was approximately 27.6 hours, Americas 91.5 8.5 with an average of 24.7 hours for females Middle East 92.6 7.4 and 28.4 hours for males1. Europe 66.7 33.3 Keppel Corporation’s Group Human By Segment Resources drives and coordinates Corporate Office 44.1 55.9 efforts across the business units to Offshore & Marine 90.8 9.2 ensure consistency in processes Property 52.9 47.1 such as performance management Infrastructure 66.7 33.3 and talent management. Investments 41.4 58.6 Leadership Programmes By Employment Type Keppel Leadership Institute, headquartered Permanent 81.5 18.5 in Singapore, offers a diverse range of Contract 73.2 26.8 leadership and development programmes, delivered in modular and blended approaches. These programmes are designed in consultation with senior DISTRIBUTION BY AGE GROUP (%) management and are regularly refreshed to suit the Group’s evolving needs. Over <30 30 to 39 40 to 49 50 years old 200 employees have participated in the years old years old years old & above institute’s leadership programmes Overall 22.5 39.4 23.0 15.1 since 2015. By Segment Corporate Office 15.4 32.9 32.3 19.4 About 200 employees are part of the Offshore & Marine 22.7 39.2 22.9 15.2 Keppel Young Leaders programme, which Property 23.0 40.7 26.0 10.3 is the Group’s platform to nurture young talents. Members of the programme are Infrastructure 22.4 40.4 15.3 21.9 given opportunities to lead high-impact Investments 8.8 44.1 26.5 20.6 projects with guidance from senior management across the Group. Activities undertaken by Keppel Young Leaders in 2019 include the Keppel Young Leaders DISTRIBUTION BY EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION (%) Symposium, which centred on uncovering potential business opportunities brought Post Secondary/ about by a circular economy, a capacity PostBachelor's Pre-U/ building partnership with SPD to empower graduate Degree Vocational Secondary persons with disabilities (see page 80), Overall 4.8 25.9 29.6 31.8 as well as dialogue sessions with eminent By Segment external speakers. Corporate Office 12.1 47.4 31.1 1.3 Separately, the Keppel Associate Offshore & Marine 3.7 18.4 29.3 37.9 Programme offers young talents Property 6.5 44.2 29.9 18.4 opportunities for leadership development Infrastructure 5.3 31.7 31.3 27.7 through a series of job rotations and Investments 18.9 67.3 12.9 0 structured learning. Industry Programmes The Group makes significant investments to equip employees with up-to-date operational skills and certifications. We support employees at all levels of the company in furthering their education. In 2019, the Group sponsored 169 employees in pursuing further studies. 1 Training hours reported in this section excludes on-the-job training. 68 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited In 2018, Keppel Offshore & Marine TRAINING & TALENT DEVELOPMENT (Keppel O&M) signed a memorandum of GRI 404-1 | 404-2 understanding (MOU) with the National University of Singapore (NUS) to offer TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE (hrs) employees training places in an extensive 2019 2018 2017 range of academic modules and curated Global 27.6 27.1 22.6 executive programmes. The MOU, which is Singapore 34.8 29.4 22.9 part of the NUS ‘All-You-Can-Learn’ initiative, enables Keppel O&M employees to sign up for various NUS modules and executive programmes on topics such as data analytics, robotics and engineering, AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY (hrs) as well as finance and business. In 2019, Senior Management 34.8 Keppel O&M utilised over 1,000 training Managerial 28.8 places under this initiative. Executive 31.9 Keppel O&M’s technical associate and Non-Executive 21 assistant technical associate schemes are Industrial/General 27.5 offered in collaboration with the Institute of Technical Education. The two-year work-and-study programme includes classroom learning, practical skills training, on-the-job training and soft skills training. In 2019, five students participated in the programme. In partnership with the Singapore government, the Group supports the Singapore-industry scholarship which sponsors Singapore citizens pursuing their undergraduate studies in areas related to Singapore’s strategic sectors. In 2019, the Group supported one student in the programme. In 2019, Keppel Shipyard signed an MOU with Keppel Employees Union, Shipbuilding Marine Engineering Employees’ Union and the National Trades Union Congress’s e2i (Employment and Employability Institute) to underscore the company’s commitment to implement Company Training Committees (CTCs). The CTCs will play a crucial role in driving worker-centric industry transformation – assessing skills development gaps, developing training roadmaps, and rolling out robust digital and the technological skills training to develop a skilled workforce that is ready to take on Industry 4.0. In China, Keppel O&M launched a collaboration between Keppel Nantong Shipyard and Nantong Shipping College for the Overseas Training and Attachment At the Global Keppelites Forum 2019, Mr Loh Chin Hua, CEO of Keppel Corporation, programme in 2019. The two-month spoke about the Group's strategy and programme will develop employees’ skills rallied Keppelites to continue to collaborate and harness synergies to create value and in mechanical and electrical engineering, drive growth for the Group. dimension control and piping. In 2019, eight employees from Keppel O&M’s Singapore business units participated in this programme, while another eight employees from Keppel Nantong Shipyard attended training courses at Nantong Shipping College. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 69 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY LABOUR PRACTICES, TALENT MANAGEMENT AND HUMAN RIGHTS Management from Keppel interacted with children of Keppelites at the Company's Kids@Work event on 21 June 2019. The full day programme aimed to provide children with a better understanding of what their parents do at work. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT and renewables, and growing our presence in their exemplary support towards Total Employee Engagement Survey the business-to-consumer space. Employees Defence and in particular, NS. We conducted the Keppel Global Employee also took the opportunity to pose questions Engagement Survey in 2019, which has to a panel comprising senior management WORKFORCE WELLNESS been conducted at Group-level since 2009. from across the Keppel Group. We are committed to the well-being of The survey achieved a strong response our entire workforce. This includes foreign rate of 98% from a sample size of over Employees are updated on company workers who live and work away from their 5,000 employees. The Group achieved developments at regular staff dialogue families. Keppel O&M provides high-quality a high Employee Engagement Score of sessions and through digital dormitories for foreign workers under its 86% in 2019, an improvement over our communication platforms. direct employment in Singapore. score of 82% in 2017 and 80% in 2015, and significantly higher than the average Building Strong Teams The dormitories are managed by Keppel of 76% among Singapore companies. We believe that cohesive teams are integral Housing, a subsidiary of Keppel O&M, to In addition, 88% of employees surveyed to a productive workforce. We continue ensure that our foreign workers are able indicated that they would “go beyond the to build camaraderie among employees to enjoy good living conditions. These norm” to contribute to Keppel’s success. through various platforms, such as Keppel dormitories offer a range of amenities and Games, a series of sports competitions recreational facilities, including a minimart, Enhancing Communication initiated by Keppelite Recreation Club, free laundry services and sports facilities. Various staff engagement initiatives are as well as volunteer activities organised by Activities such as talent search contests organised throughout the year to enhance Keppel Volunteers. and sports events are organised to promote communication between management harmonious living and bonding. Keppel and staff. The sixth edition of the Global SUPPORTING NATIONAL DEFENCE Housing also provides counselling services, Keppelites Forum, a group-wide town hall As a company headquartered in Singapore, including a 24-hour emergency helpline, meeting, was held in January 2019. we believe in contributing towards Singapore’s to look after our workers’ mental and The event, which was also broadcast online, national security. National Service (NS) emotional well-being. In 2019, there were reached out to over 2,700 employees is a vital component of national defence no fines or non-monetary sanctions for across 72 locations globally. and we support our employees’ NS non-compliance with laws and/or commitments. Keppel Corporation was regulations imposed on Keppel Housing. During the session, Mr Loh Chin Hua, Chief awarded the NS Advocate Award for Large Executive Officer of Keppel Corporation, Companies at the Total Defence Awards Other welfare initiatives organised by shared how the Group has been reinventing organised by Singapore’s Ministry of our business units include lunchtime and repositioning itself for long-term growth, Defence in 2018. The Award, conferred talks, health screening exercises, fitness including exploring new businesses and for a period of three years, is the highest classes as well as emotional and mental future growth engines such as senior living accolade acknowledging businesses for well-being programmes. 70 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WE UPLIFT COMMUNITIES THROUGH PROGRAMMES THAT DELIVER ENDURING SOCIAL, ECONOMIC OR ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS. PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW GRI 103-2 | 103-3 2019 TARGETS 2019 PERFORMANCE 2020 TARGETS TOPICS Achieve over 10,000 hours Sponsored and participated Achieve over 10,000 hours of Social investment of staff volunteerism in a wide range of community staff volunteerism worldwide. worldwide. initiatives, investing Volunteerism $9.6 million in social and Support programmes Support programmes aligned with care for Impact measurement environmental causes. aligned with care for the underprivileged, the underprivileged, Achieved over 18,000 hours education and education and of community service, environmental protection. SDGS environmental protection. an increase of about 4,000 hours compared Drive collaboration with Drive collaboration with to 2018. organisations that share our organisations that share commitment to have a our commitment to make Committed $500,000 to the positive impact on a positive impact on “SPD Sheltered Workshop our communities. our communities. supported by Keppel” to empower persons with disabilities. LONGER TERM TARGETS Support Singapore’s One Million Trees movement with the planting of 10,000 trees over the next five years. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 71 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT OVERVIEW Beyond philanthropic giving, Keppel encourages GRI 103-1 employees to be responsible citizens. Keppel SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPENDING BY PROJECT TYPE IN 20191 (%) Keppel aims to deliver lasting social, Volunteers, the company’s volunteer movement, economic and environmental benefits works closely with the foundation to drive to the communities where we operate. volunteerism. To encourage volunteerism, In engaging and nurturing communities, Keppel grants employees two days of we contribute to building a sustainable volunteer leave annually. In 2019, Keppel future together. Volunteers around the world achieved over 18,000 hours of community service, an We invest in worthy causes that resonate increase of 4,000 hours over the 14,000 hours with the company’s values. These include in 2018. caring for the underprivileged, empowering lives through education, protecting the Keppel Volunteers organise roadshows environment, and nurturing creativity and and talks for employees across the an appreciation for the arts among children group to recruit volunteers and raise and youths. awareness on volunteering opportunities. Education2 64.0 The company has also designated August Care for the Underprivileged/ As leaders in our businesses, we also support as its Community Month to further promote Healthcare 16.8 industry efforts that foster collaboration to and drive volunteerism. Volunteers who Arts/Sports/Community promote sustainable development. participate actively are recognised for their Development Projects 13.0 contributions at an annual appreciation day held Industry Advancement 3 4.3 REPORT BOUNDARY in conjunction with International Volunteer Day. GRI 103-1 Environment 1.9 The boundary for the material topic of In 2019, Keppel conducted a survey to Total $9.6 million 100.0 community development includes the better understand the causes which its Group's major subsidiaries in Singapore, employees most identify with. The survey and overseas operations in which the results validated that our focus areas of 1 We expanded the scope of our reporting in 2019 Group has management control. care for the underprivileged, education to include contributions by M1, following the and environmental protection are closely acquisition of M1 in 1H 2019. MANAGEMENT APPROACH aligned with employees’ aspirations. 2 Includes a $5 million donation (second payment GRI 103-2 | 103-3 | 203-2 | 415-1 tranche) to the ITE Education Fund. Keppel had committed a $10 million donation to the Fund to We commit up to 1% of the Group’s net We maximise our corporate giving outcomes promote education for financially-disadvantaged profit to worthy causes. These contributions by partnering businesses and the community. students from ITE in 2018. 3 The category of industry advancement includes are coordinated and disbursed by Keppel For example, charity sales, donation drives events and thought leadership platforms that Care Foundation, the Group’s philanthropic and environmental campaigns are held at promote learning and the exchange of ideas, with arm in Singapore, which is governed by its the lobbies of our commercial buildings to the aim of raising industry standards. Keppel supports such platforms that align with our mission own Board of Directors. The Foundation engage tenants, employees and members to provide solutions for sustainable urbanisation. has disbursed over $44 million to worthy of the public. Keppel Care Foundation also In 2019, such platforms include the Singapore causes to date, since its launch in 2012. supports the dollar-for-dollar matching of Perspectives Conference by the Institute of Policy Studies, the Global Compact Network Summit, the In 2019, the Group spent $9.6 million on employee donations at the company’s Singapore Institute of Directors Conference and the social investments. fund-raising events. Responsible Business Forum. In November 2019, 150 volunteers from across the Group planted 150 coastal forest trees at Labrador Nature Reserve, which are expected to sequester 21.3 tonnes of carbon dioxide over 10 years. 72 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited “I feel very honoured to be In Singapore, our business units have been In 2018, we made a $10 million strong partners of Community Chest’s commitment to the ITE Education Fund awarded this scholarship. SHARE, a voluntary employee payroll to promote education for financially It is a recognition of my donation programme. Employees of the disadvantaged students from ITE. hard work. Coming from a Keppel Group have contributed over In 2019, the inaugural Keppel Care $3.0 million through SHARE since 1988. Foundation Scholarships were presented humble family background, to three deserving ITE students, while the scholarship will also Under the Keppel Group Donations & academic awards and bursaries were enable me to have bigger Sponsorships Policy, no donations or disbursed to 79 students. dreams, and encourages sponsorships may be made to any political party or politicians for any campaign and/or me to strive to continue related purposes. to do well.” “With my family facing TOH YI JING, Keppel Care Foundation Keppel follows the LBG (formerly London scholarship recipient pursuing Benchmarking Group) framework, the global financial challenges, this Higher Nitec in Cyber & Network standard for measuring and reporting on scholarship allows me to Security at ITE corporate community investment. As focus on my studies without managers of LBG, Corporate Citizenship has assured the data in this section. Our LBG the need to worry about Assurance Statement for 2019 can be found my education and living on page 91. expenses. I am grateful PROMOTING EDUCATION for the support Keppel Inclusive, quality education can lift has given me, and I look communities out of poverty by enabling forward to contributing children and youth to create brighter futures back to society upon for themselves and their families. Since its inception in 2012, Keppel Care Foundation my graduation.” has disbursed over $21 million to educational HO BING XUAN, Keppel Care causes, which include scholarships and Foundation-SUTD scholarship recipient bursaries for students of local universities pursuing Information Systems and institutes of higher learning. Technology and Design at SUTD $21m Including disbursements to fund bond-free scholarships, academic awards, bursaries and study grants for deserving students from low-income families. KEY PARTNERS Inputs Institute of Technical Education National University Singapore University of Singapore Institute Institute of of Singapore Technology and Design of Technology Technical Education Our bursaries provide students from disadvantaged backgrounds with access to quality education. Recipients have reported that the bursaries help to ease the financial burden on their families, with some reporting that they no longer need to take on part-time jobs to cover their school fees and daily expenses. With this financial assistance, Outputs Impact they are able to focus on their studies and benefit from a more holistic 492 educational journey. Recipients of our scholarships and academic awards have also Bond-free scholarships, bursaries, reported that the recognition has inspired them to continue to work study grants and academic awards. hard and contribute to society. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 73 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT IMPACT AT A GLANCE KEPPEL INVESTS IN WORTHY CAUSES THAT RESONATE WITH THE COMPANY'S VALUES. IN ENGAGING AND NURTURING COMMUNITIES, WE CONTRIBUTE TO BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE TOGETHER. >$44.4m Disbursed by Keppel Care Foundation since 2012. $9.6m Invested in social causes in 2019. 79 Scholarships, bursaries, study grants and academic awards awarded in 2019. >18,000hrs Of community work achieved by Keppel Volunteers in 2019, an increase of over 4,000 hours compared to 2018. >3,500 lives >1.8m Touched through our volunteerism efforts in 2019. Visitors to the Keppel Centre for Art Education since its launch 94% in 2015. Of employees affirmed that >28,000 Keppel is committed to corporate social responsibility. Students benefited from the Keppel Nights programme with Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay since its relaunch in 2013. 74 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 75 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT KEPPEL IS COMMITTED TO BEING A GOOD CORPORATE CITIZEN, AND SUPPORTS MEANINGFUL INITIATIVES THAT UPLIFT COMMUNITIES IN COUNTRIES WHERE WE HAVE A PRESENCE. CHINA In 2018, Keppel committed RMB 5 million to the China Foundation for Poverty Alleviation. The collaboration began with a three-year programme focused on needy students from 10 schools in Mabian County, Sichuan Province. In conceiving its community outreach programme in Mabian, SINGAPORE Keppel had consulted the local education bureau to ensure that Keppel has pledged $500,000 over the next three years to support the aid provided would be suitable and impactful. the sheltered workshop programme run by SPD, a local charity supporting persons with disabilities. The “SPD sheltered workshop Through Keppel’s contribution, close to 2,000 needy students are supported by Keppel” aims to help persons with disabilities improve provided with milk every school day. Over 1,300 students have their job prospects through providing vocational training, therapy also benefited from Kindles sponsored by Keppel, which are made and employment support services. Beyond financial support, Keppel available at school libraries, as well as the upgrade of school kitchens. will bring the Group’s capabilities in areas such as engineering, During the year, Keppel Volunteers in China engaged 600 students workplace safety, business development and marketing to help from four schools through interactive story-telling sessions and enhance the sheltered workshop programme through skills-based educational games. volunteerism. Keppel Volunteers will also organise activities to engage SPD's clients (see Special Focus). During the year, over 100 Keppel Volunteers packed and distributed 900 goodie bags, comprising food and household items sponsored by Keppel, to low-income households. Keppel Volunteers across the Group continued to organise and participate in activities for its adopted charities, including Thye Hua Kwan, Montfort Care, NKF and Muscular Dystrophy Association Singapore. THE PHILIPPINES In 2019, we awarded four out-of-school youths with full scholarships VIETNAM in technical trades such as flux-cored arc welding, shielded metal Keppel Land is a sponsor of the Words on Wheels (WOW) mobile arc welding and structural fitting. Keppel Batangas Shipyard also library programme, which is organised by the Singapore International conducted two training sessions for 20 out-of-school youths, and Foundation. The initiative promotes reading and learning by eventually employed 16 of the trainees. providing students with better access to educational materials including books, the internet and multimedia facilities via a mobile Over 100 volunteers participated in National Schools Maintenance library which visits participating schools on a rotational basis. Week and helped with maintenance work, the clean-up of public schools as well as the refurbishment of classrooms. A book Since the launch of Phase Two of WOW Ho Chi Minh City in reading session was also held at the SIBOL Learning Centre BRAZIL March 2018, nine volunteer trips involving over 90 employees at the Keppel-GK Eco Village, with the aim of inculcating reading Volunteers organised community events, such as a health across the Keppel Group have been held to date. About 7,000 habits in young children. education talk on malaria and dengue prevention at a school, students from seven primary and secondary schools have benefited and rallied staff to donate non-perishable food items and pre-loved from the programme. In addition, the programme also saw the winter clothing to support the underprivileged in the community. refurbishment of libraries in three schools in Ho Chi Minh City. Separately, to encourage the public to reduce consumption of single-use plastics, Keppel Land collaborated with partners in March 2019 to showcase a plastic straw art installation, ‘The Parting of the Plastic Sea’, at the Estella Place retail mall in Ho Chi Minh City. Singapore's then-Deputy Prime Minister Teo Chee Hean viewed the exhibit during his visit to Estella Place. 76 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 77 STRATEGIC PILLAR: PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION We work closely with partners to lead initiatives that conserve biodiversity and promote climate action. KEPPEL DISCOVERY WETLANDS Inputs Established with a $2.08 million contribution from Keppel, the Keppel Discovery Wetlands at the Singapore Botanic Gardens includes a plant collection of over 200 species, allowing visitors to enjoy a restored freshwater forest wetland in the heart of the city. Outputs About 1.1 million people have visited the Learning Forest, which the Keppel Discovery Wetlands is a part of, since its launch in March 2017. Keppel's Green Ambassadors continued to promote conservation by leading bi-weekly public tours at the Learning Forest. Our volunteers also facilitate craft workshops for children on wetland habitats. Impact Plants of conservation importance, such as Alstonia spatulata and the critically endangered Radermachera quadripinnata have been successfully conserved and propagated around the Keppel Discovery Wetlands. In addition, biodiversity surveys at the Learning Forest have recorded over 60 species of birds and 10 species of frogs. Employees who participated in the training reported improved presentation skills and knowledge on flora and fauna in the wetlands. Other Environmental Initiatives Outputs & Impacts Tree planting, coastal In November 2019, 150 volunteers from across the Group planted 150 coastal forest trees at Labrador Nature Reserve, clean-ups and other activities which are expected to sequester 21.3 tonnes of carbon dioxide over 10 years. This initiative by Keppel supports NParks’ Forest Restoration Action Plan, which seeks to strengthen the resilience of Singapore’s forests to climate change and enhance biodiversity through the sustained planting of native forest species. Keppel Volunteers cleared over 1,600 kilogrammes of marine trash in Singapore and the Philippines. In Ireland, Keppel Data Centres participated in the ‘DC’s for Bees’ initiative, which aims to reverse the rapid decline of the bee population in Ireland through the creation of safe habitats for bees. About 2,000 saplings were planted by volunteers from Keppel Data Centres, together with participants from 19 other companies in the data centre industry. Raising environmental In support of Earth Day 2019, Keppel organised a public screening of the world’s first feature-length documentary awareness on the circular economy, ‘Closing the Loop’, to an audience of close to 1,000 people at the Singapore Botanic Gardens. The documentary showcases examples from around the world on innovative applications of technology, process improvements and labour solutions to reduce waste and pollution. Keppel Land and Keppel REIT collaborated with PUB to organise eco-roadshows at Keppel’s commercial buildings, namely, Keppel Towers & Keppel Towers 2, Keppel Bay Tower, Ocean Financial Centre and Bugis Junction Towers. Keppel staff and building tenants were provided useful water-saving tips during the roadshows. To raise awareness on plastic pollution, Keppel Land and Keppel REIT Management jointly organised the display of an interactive microplastics artwork made from Singapore’s shore debris. Keppel Land’s community mall in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, Estella Place also featured ‘The Parting of the Plastic Sea’ straw sculpture to raise awareness of the environmental damage caused by single-use plastics. Earth Hour Keppel demonstrated its support for climate action by participating in Earth Hour 2019. Non-essential lights at 29 of Keppel’s commercial, residential and hospitality developments in Singapore and overseas were turned off for an hour. ADVANCING CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY We collaborate with governments and industry partners to support knowledge-sharing platforms that promote responsible business practices and sustainable urbanisation. Key Initiatives Outputs & Impacts Global Compact Network Keppel supported the Global Compact Network Singapore Summit 2019 as a Gold Partner. Themed ‘Reimagining Singapore Summit Businesses for Resilience’, conversations at the Summit centred around decarbonisation, inclusive workforce policies and partnerships to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SID Directors Conference Keppel was a gold sponsor of the Directors Conference by the Singapore Institute of Directors (SID) to promote the professional development of directors and corporate leaders and support thought leadership and benchmarking on corporate governance and directorship. Responsible Business Forum Keppel was the supporting partner of the Responsible Business Forum 2019, themed ‘Circularity 2030’. The forum explored solutions to scaling the start-ups, innovations and technologies that will drive the achievement of the SDGs related to the circular economy. 78 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited FOSTERING CREATIVITY & APPRECIATION OF THE ARTS We believe that the arts inspire, contribute towards civic engagement and social cohesion, and build bridges between cultures. Through supporting the arts, we aim to stimulate the cross-fertilisation of ideas, and foster creativity and expression. This will in turn contribute to the vibrancy of our communities. KEPPEL CENTRE FOR ART EDUCATION Inputs Established with a $12 million commitment from Keppel, the Keppel Centre for Art Education at National Gallery Singapore is the first art education facility of its kind in the region. The Centre has hosted over 1.8 million visitors since its launch in 2015. Keppel Volunteers also serve as Art Ambassadors and participate regularly in the Centre’s ‘Book in a Nook’ reading programme and guided school tours. Outputs As part of the Singapore Ministry of Education’s museum-based learning programme, 78% of the country’s Primary 4 pupils visited National Gallery Singapore in 2019. The majority of students participating in the programme visited the Keppel Centre for Art Education. Over 79,800 families participated in the Centre’s programmes such as ‘Book in the Nook’ and ‘Stories in Art’ in 2019. Alongside serving the local community and encouraging the young to embrace art from a young age, the Keppel Centre for Art Education was also recognised on the global stage, having won the prestigious Children in Museums Award in 2018. Impact Educators have shared that the immersive spaces at the Centre encourage creativity and self-led exploration in children, and help to improve students’ visual inquiry skills. The programmes offered at the Centre also promote familial bonding. KEPPEL NIGHTS Inputs Keppel Corporation committed $500,000, from 2018 to 2020, to Keppel Nights, a partnership with Esplanade – Theatres on the Bay to nurture a deeper appreciation of the arts among students in Singapore. Outputs In 2019, 4,868 students attended shows at the Esplanade. Since 2013, the partnership has provided about 28,000 students from more than 75 schools in the heartlands with access to arts and cultural shows presented by the Esplanade. Keppel Nights also includes an element of experiential learning, with dance and music activities that give students the chance to try out various art and cultural forms and the opportunity to enjoy a professionally-staged live performance. Impact Students have reported an increased interest in the arts and improved confidence and self-esteem after participating in Keppel Nights programmes. The sensory-friendly performances also make arts and cultural shows accessible to students with special needs. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 79 SPECIAL FOCUS EMPOWERING PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES Keppel Corporation has, through its workshop programme through skills-based like leather stitching that would allow philanthropic arm, Keppel Care Foundation, volunteerism by Keppel Young Leaders, who them to be better engaged, while pledged $500,000 over the next three years will bring their capabilities in engineering, producing commercially-viable leather to support the sheltered workshop workplace safety, business development products for sale. “Learning sewing is programme run by SPD, a local charity and marketing to improve the efficiency and not easy, but I enjoy learning new skills supporting persons with disabilities, financial viability of the Sheltered Workshop. and making new things,” said Alvin. helping it to stay relevant, current and economically viable in the longer term. Enhancements to the Sheltered Workshop “Keppel Young Leaders will continue to will include improvements to its process refine the apprenticeship programme The partnership was launched on efficiency and safety measures, developing with a view to scale up production over 3 December 2019 by Guest-of-Honour an apprenticeship programme for trainees the next two years. We will also work President Halimah Yacob, together with with higher work support needs, and a new with SPD on marketing and branding, Ms Chia Yong Yong, President of SPD, product line to refresh the workshop’s process optimisation and distribution,” Dr Lee Boon Yang, Chairman of Keppel offerings of gift products. said Mr Ivan Lim, President of Keppel Young Corporation, and Mr Loh Chin Hua, CEO Leaders and General Manager of Specialised of Keppel Corporation, on the occasion Trainees like 27-year-old Mr Alvin Tey will Vessels at Keppel Offshore & Marine. of the annual United Nations International get a better chance at achieving more Day of Persons with Disabilities. through the new apprenticeship programme. Keppel’s support also includes funding Alvin was diagnosed with Dandy Walker kerb-to-kerb transport for trainees The SPD Sheltered Workshop supported by Syndrome, a congenital brain malformation, who have difficulty commuting between Keppel aims to help persons with disabilities low vision and speech limitations. These the workshop and their homes due to improve their job prospects through conditions limit the speed and quality of the severity of their conditions. Such providing vocational training, therapy and his work at the workshop’s assembly lines. specialised transport service will make employment support services. Beyond it possible for the trainees to get out of financial support, Keppel will further Under the apprenticeship programme, Alvin their homes and participate in the contribute to enhancing the sheltered and a few other trainees are picking up skills workshop’s programmes. 1 80 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited STRONGER TOGETHER The partnership for the SPD 1 Sheltered Workshop supported by Keppel was launched by President Halimah Yacob (seventh from right), together with Dr Lee Boon Yang (sixth from right), Chairman of Keppel Corporation, Ms Chia Yong Yong (front row, second from left), President of SPD, and Mr Loh Chin Hua (fifth from right), CEO of Keppel Corporation. They were joined by management from Keppel and SPD as well as Keppel Young Leaders and SPD trainees, including Alvin Tey (fourth from right). Keppel Volunteers, together 2 with KidSTART officers from Early Childhood Development Agency, delivered care packs to families living in rental flats, and shared with them proper hand washing techniques. 2 As the world continues to fight the effectively weather this difficult environment, In addition, Keppel Care Foundation COVID-19 pandemic, Keppel is committed and emerge stronger together.” had earlier made a $300,000 donation to to supporting its stakeholders and the wider The Courage Fund, while the Keppel Group, community in this challenging time, and The CEO and CFO of Keppel Corporation, through Keppel Land China, had also made has committed over $5 million to provide as well as CEOs of key Keppel business a RMB3 million donation to the Shanghai support to communities affected by the units, volunteered to give up one month Charity Foundation, one of the largest pandemic in Singapore and China. of their salaries in April 2020 to support charity foundations in China, to support this effort, while Directors of Keppel the deployment of medical teams from In March 2020, Keppel Corporation business units would also contribute Shanghai and the provision of medical and announced a comprehensive package an equivalent amount of their annual fees. other supplies to Hubei Province and worth more than $4.2 million to help the Other members of the Group’s senior other affected regions in China. Singapore community weather COVID-19, management gave up half a month of funded by voluntary contributions from their salaries, while other Keppel employees In March and April 2020, Keppel Volunteers the Group’s directors, senior management in Singapore were free to contribute any also stepped up to serve the community and staff, with dollar-for-dollar matching amount of their choice. before the start of the Circuit Breaker period contributions from Keppel Corporation. in Singapore. They partnered KidSTART About $3.5 million will go towards officers from the Early Childhood Development Dr Lee Boon Yang, Chairman of supporting lower income households Agency to pack and deliver “care packs” Keppel Corporation, said, “As one of in Singapore, through rebates given by containing hygiene items such as hand the largest homegrown companies in Keppel Electric, M1 and City Gas to residents sanitisers, and wet wipes to low-income Singapore, Keppel will do what we can living in 1 and 2-room HDB flats. The rebates families with young children living in rental to strengthen national resilience in the are expected to benefit more than 40,000 blocks in Boon Lay and Taman Jurong, and fight against COVID-19. Through this households. In addition, $300,000 has engaged the children by teaching them package, we will provide support to also been donated to The Courage Fund proper hand washing techniques and the communities most affected by the to fund relief schemes for communities how to effectively apply hand sanitiser. pandemic, including healthcare workers in Singapore affected by COVID-19. Up to and patients, lower income families, $400,000 will be set aside to support To help the community stay safe as well as Small and Medium-Sized Keppel’s frontline staff, such as cleaners and healthy, Keppel Volunteers also Enterprises (SMEs).” and security personnel, in appreciation for participated in the #BYOBclean event, their contributions and hard work during as part of Temasek Foundation’s Stay “Keppel has stood together with the this difficult period, and also to provide Prepared initiative that provided half a community to overcome many challenges personal protective equipment, hygiene litre of free zero-alcohol hand sanitiser over the past five decades. I am confident items and other essentials to vulnerable to all Singaporean households, dispensing that with unity and determination, we can communities in Singapore. over 3,000 bottles over one week. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 81 OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT THIS REPORT This report focuses on the sustainability indicated. The Group structure is provided strategy and practices of Keppel Corporation on page 10. Significant subsidiaries and its subsidiaries, namely the material include Keppel Offshore & Marine, Keppel environmental, social and governance (ESG) Land, Keppel Infrastructure, Keppel aspects of our business operations. Telecommunications & Transportation and Keppel Capital. We expanded the This report provides an overview of our scope of our reporting in 2019 to include management approach, priorities, targets contributions by M1, following the acquisition and performance reviews in key areas. of M1 in 1H 2019. The reporting boundary for financial data is the same as that of The content was defined by identifying and Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders prioritising the Company’s material ESG factors 2019. The reporting boundaries for our through a comprehensive materiality review material topics may vary, due to differences completed in 2019 (see pages 12 and 13). in where the impacts occur most for each We printed limited copies of this report to topic. The boundaries are specified in the minimise environmental impact. A PDF version respective sections on our material issues. is available at www.kepcorp.com. To improve the monitoring and reporting Our stakeholders are advised to read of our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders in 2019, we reviewed our approach, reporting 2019, available at www.kepcorp.com/ boundaries and calculation methodology annualreport2019, for more information for closer alignment with the GHG Protocol, on the Group’s businesses, strategy, based on an operational control approach. performance and prospects. Our three-year environmental performance data on page 29 has been restated to reflect REPORTING PERIOD & STANDARDS the changes in our reporting boundaries GRI 102-50 | 102-51 | 102-52 | 102-54 and methodology. This report is published annually and covers the same period as the financial year of INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE the Company (January to December 2019), GRI 102-56 unless otherwise stated. Our last sustainability Keppel Corporation appointed an independent report was published in May 2019. Where third party, DNV GL, to provide assurance on possible, we shared three-year historical this report. The content was reviewed and information to provide a meaningful basis the accuracy and reliability of the statements for comparison. were validated in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance This report has been prepared in accordance Engagements 3000 by the International with the GRI Standards: Core Option and Federation of Accountants and DNV GL Singapore Exchange-ST Listing Rules Practice Verification Protocol for Sustainability Note 7.6 Sustainability Reporting Guide. Reporting, VeriSustainTM. The Assurance We support the Taskforce on Climate-related Statement is published on pages 87 and 88. Financial Disclosures (TCFD), and are working towards incorporating its recommendations in our reporting framework. We are a signatory to the United Nations (UN) FEEDBACK Global Compact and are committed to the GRI 102-53 10 Principles. This report serves as our Communication on Progress. This report demonstrates our commitment to keep our The report was submitted for the GRI stakeholders abreast of Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI Keppel’s sustainability performance. confirmed the correctness of the locations We welcome feedback. of the materiality disclosures (GRI 102-40 to 102-49). The GRI Materiality Disclosures Phone/Email: Service organisational mark is located Sustainability Reporting on page 83. +65 6413 6297 sustainability@kepcorp.com We used standard units of measurement. Conversion factors may be found in the Media Relations relevant sections. All dollar values +65 6413 6425 expressed are Singapore dollars. keppelgroup@kepcorp.com REPORT BOUNDARY GRI 102-46 | 102-48 | 102-49 Investor Relations +65 6413 6436 As a guide, this report covers global operations investor.relations@kepcorp.com and all subsidiaries for which the Group has management control, unless otherwise 82 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OTHER INFORMATION GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-55 THIS REPORT HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GRI STANDARDS: CORE OPTION GRI 102-54 GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives General Disclosures GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Organisational Profile GRI 102: 102-1 Name of the organisation Cover UNGC Principles General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6-7, AR 2019 (24-25) 1-10; SDG 3, 6, 7, 8, Disclosures 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17 2016 102-3 Location of headquarters Back Cover 102-4 Location of operations 8-9 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10, AR 2019 (201-210, 228) 102-6 Markets served 8-9 102-7 Scale of the organisation 8-10, 34-37 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 65 102-9 Supply chain 52 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 35, 52 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 43, 46, AR 2019 (88-92, 106-112) 102-12 External initiatives 15, 18-21, 24 102-13 Membership of associations 15, 62 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2-4 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 24, 44, 46-47, AR 2019 (16-21) Ethics & Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Inside Front Cover, 15, 45 UNGC Principles 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 43, 45, AR 2019 (99) 1-10; SDG 16 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 14-15, 39-40 UNGC Principle 10; 102-19 Delegating authority 14-15 SDG 16 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, 14-15 and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and 12-13, 15-16 social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 15, 39-40 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 39-40 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 42-43, AR 2019 (77-81) 102-25 Conflicts of interest 40 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 14-15, 39-40 and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 40-42, AR 2019 (96) 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance 40-42, AR 2019 (98-99) 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental and 14-15, 46-47 social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 15, 45-47, AR 2019 (89) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 14-15, 46-47, AR 2019 (76) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 14-15, 46-47 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 39-40, 43, AR 2019 (99) 102-35 Remuneration policies 43, AR 2019 (82-87) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 43, AR 2019 (82-87) * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 are expressed as ‘AR 2019 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2019. For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 83 OTHER INFORMATION GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives General Disclosures Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16 UNGC Principle 3; General 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 65 SDG 8, 17 Disclosures 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15-16 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15-16, 55 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 12-13, 82 102-47 List of material topics 13 102-48 Restatements of information 23, 29, 82 102-49 Changes in reporting 11, 13, 82 102-50 Reporting period 82 102-51 Date of most recent report 82 102-52 Reporting cycle 82 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 82 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 83 102-55 GRI content index 83-86 102-56 External assurance 87-91 Topic-Specific Disclosures Climate Action GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 22-24 UNGC Principles 7-9; Management 103-2/ SDG 7, 11, 12, 13 Approach 2016 103-3 Environmental Management GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 22-23, 27-28 UNGC Principles 7-9; Management 103-2/ SDG 6, 7, 11, 12, 13 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 28-29 Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 28-29 GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 30 Water 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused 29-30 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 23, 29, 31-32 Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 23, 29, 31-32 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 23, 29, 31-32 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 31 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 29, 31-32 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), and other significant 29, 32 air emissions GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 29-30 Effluents & 306-3 Significant spills 32 Waste 2016 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 32 Environmental Compliance 2016 * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 are expressed as ‘AR 2019 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2019. 84 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives Topic-Specific Disclosures Economic Sustainability GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 34-35, AR 2019 (10-21) SDG 8, 9, 11, 17 Management 103-2/ Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 36-37 Economic 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 36-37 Performance 2016 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 63 Socioeconomic economic area Compliance 2016 Corporate Governance and Risk Management GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 38-40 UNGC Principle 10; Management 103-2/ SDG 16, 17 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 50 Anti-Corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 43, 45 2016 and procedures GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 50 Customer and losses of customer data Privacy 2016 Supply Chain and Responsible Procurement GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 51-52 UNGC Principles Management 103-2/ 1-10; SDG 8, 12, 16 Approach 2016 103-3 GRI 308: 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 52-53 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 414: 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 52-53 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Product Quality and Safety GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 46 SDG 9, 11, 17 Management 103-2/ Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and 55-56 Customer service categories Health & 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 56 Safety 2016 impacts of products and services * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 are expressed as ‘AR 2019 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2019. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 85 OTHER INFORMATION GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Disclosure Disclosure Page Reference Connections to Standard Number Title and Remarks* UN initiatives Topic-Specific Disclosures Occupational Safety and Health GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 57-59 UNGC Principles 1-2; Management 103-2/ SDG 3, 8, 17 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 58-59 Occupational 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 60 Health and Safety 403-3 Occupational health services 61 2018 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on 62-63 occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 61 403-6 Promotion of worker health 61 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts 52-53, 62 directly linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries 62-63 Labour Practices, Talent Management and Human Rights GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 64-67 UNGC Principles 1-6; Management 103-2/ SDG 3, 4, 8, 17 Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 202: 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 65 Market Presence 2016 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 66 Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 66 temporary or part-time employees GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 68-69 Training & Education 2016 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 68-69 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 66 GRI 406: 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 67 NonDiscrimination 2016 Community Development GRI 103: 103-1/ Management Approach 71-73 SDG 3, 4, 15, 17 Management 103-2/ Approach 103-3 2016 GRI 203: 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 73-81 Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 73-81 Communities and development programmes 2016 GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contributions 73 Policy 2016 * References to Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 are expressed as ‘AR 2019 (page number)’. Keppel Corporation’s Report to Shareholders 2019 is available at www.kepcorp.com/annualreport2019. 86 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT GRI 102-56 INTRODUCTION agreed on with Keppel. However, our We also performed the following DNV GL Business Assurance Singapore Pte. Ltd. statement represents our independent activities to assess the adherence has been commissioned by the management opinion and is intended to inform the to reporting principles: of Keppel Corporation Ltd. (“Keppel”, Company independent conclusion of our verification • Interviewed selected senior managers Registration Number: 196800351N) to carry to Keppel’s stakeholders. DNV GL is and representatives responsible for out an independent assurance engagement responsible for planning and performing sustainability management and for the qualitative and quantitative information the engagement to obtain a limited level made enquiries to determine their (“sustainability performance”) reported in of assurance based on ISAE 3000 and understanding of stakeholder the Keppel Corporation Sustainability Report VeriSustain, i.e. whether the reported engagement and materiality; 2019 (the Report), which is available on disclosures are free from material • Reviewed the current sustainability Keppel’s website1 and in print, for the misstatement and meets disclosure issues that could affect Keppel and financial year ending 31 December 2019. requirements of the GRI Standards (2016) could be of interest to stakeholders. and selected GRI Standards (2018) for The assurance is in accordance with identified material topics, in accordance CONCLUSION the International Standard on Assurance with the Core option of reporting. We provided a limited level of assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance over non-financial disclosure presented Engagements Revised2 and Reporting BASIS OF OUR OPINION in Keppel’s Report. Based on the work Principles from the GRI Standards on Our assurance opinion is based on a undertaken, nothing has come to our Defining Report Content and Quality, and limited level of assurance engagement attention to suggest that the Report is was performed using DNV GL’s assurance undertaken for the disclosures in this not a fair representation of Keppel’s methodology VeriSustainTM3 (Version 5.0). Report. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability performance for the identified sustainability and assurance specialists scope and boundary of reporting. Without SCOPE OF ASSURANCE performed the work at Keppel’s corporate affecting our assurance opinion, we also The scope of assurance included a review headquarters and its subsidiaries in provide the following observations regarding of sustainability disclosures and performance Singapore – Keppel Offshore & Marine the adherence to the Principles for Defining data from Keppel and its subsidiaries over and Keppel Infrastructure, during March Report Content and Report Quality as which Keppel has operational control in and April 2020 to verify the qualitative defined in the GRI Standards: and outside of Singapore. The boundary and quantitative disclosures such as of the Report for identified material topics the related management approach for STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVENESS and topic-specific disclosures is defined identified material topics, and test the The Report brings out the outcomes within the Report and unless otherwise reliability of data and the robustness of of a stakeholder consultation exercise stated, includes those subsidiaries over the data aggregation processes. conducted by Keppel from December 2018 which Keppel has management control. to April 2019, covering various stakeholder As part of the verification, we planned and groups i.e. six internal and external We evaluated the Report for adherence performed our work based on DNV GL’s stakeholder groups such as customers, to the reporting principles for defining the risk-based approach to obtain the evidence employees, governments, shareholders, sustainability report content as set forth that we considered necessary to provide local communities and suppliers. Further, in the GRI Standards. We understand that a basis for our assurance opinion. Within the Report articulates Keppel’s stakeholder the reported financial data and information the framework of our verification, we engagement activities occurred at the are based on Keppel’s and respective performed the following procedures and Group and business unit levels through subsidiaries’ financial statements, which other activities: various platforms. Nothing has come to are subject to a separate independent audit • Conducted interviews with key data owners our attention to suggest that the Report process. The review of financial data taken from Keppel Corporation and its subsidiaries does not meet the requirements related from these financial statements was not including Keppel Offshore & Marine and to the Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness. within the scope of our work. Keppel Infrastructure, to understand the key processes and controls for MATERIALITY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE reporting subsidiary performance data; The Report brings out the materiality MANAGEMENT OF KEPPEL AND • Assessed the robustness of the determination process adopted by Keppel OF THE ASSURANCE PROVIDER underlying data and information and its outcomes based on the exercise Keppel has sole responsibility for the integrity flow and controls; of revisiting Keppel’s material topics through of the Report and the responsibility includes • Performed sample data analysis using the materiality review exercise conducted designing, implementing and maintaining a risk-based approach and materiality; by Keppel during December 2018 and internal controls over collection, analysis, • Challenged the sustainability-related April 2019, covering both internal and aggregation, preparation and fair presentation disclosures, statements and claims; and external stakeholder groups. Further, of the disclosures within the Report, ensuring • Performed limited testing on a sampling the process included an assessment of that the reported data is free from material basis of the selected information at long-term global trends and an internal misstatement, and maintaining integrity of Keppel’s corporate headquarters and review of the Group’s businesses. The review the information on its website. In performing subsidiaries’ headquarters to check that resulted in a matrix categorising and our assurance work, our responsibility is the selected environmental and social prioritising material topics based on solely towards the management of Keppel data had been properly measured, their importance to internal and external in accordance with the terms of reference gathered, recorded, collated and reported. stakeholders. The material topics identified 1 https://www.kepcorp.com/ 2 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 3 The VeriSustain protocol is available on request from the DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com). Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 87 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT were approved by Keppel Corporation’s to the reporting year. Nothing has come providing audit and certification of Board of Directors. Nothing has come to to our attention to suggest that the Report management systems, and accordingly our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to maintains a comprehensive system of does not meet the requirements related the Principles of Balance and Neutrality. quality control including documented to the Principle of Materiality. policies and procedures regarding LIMITATION compliance with ethical requirements, RESPONSIVENESS Our assurance relies on the premise professional standards and applicable The Report provides an overview of the that the data and information provided legal and regulatory requirements. We Keppel Group’s sustainability performance by Keppel to us as part of our review have complied with the DNV GL Code of and the processes adopted to communicate procedures have been provided in good Conduct4 during the assurance engagement with stakeholders on the corporate strategy, faith and free from misstatements. Because and maintain independence where required management approach, and achievements of the selected nature (sampling) and by relevant ethical requirements. This and performance in relation to identified material other inherent limitation of both procedures engagement work was carried out by issues, considering the overall sustainability and systems of internal control, there an independent team of sustainability context and external environment of its business remains the unavoidable risk that errors assurance professionals. DNV GL was not within the identified reporting boundary. In our or irregularities, possibly significant, may involved in the preparation of any statements opinion, the Report could further bring out not have been detected. The engagement or data included in the Report except for this the long and medium-term targets related excludes the sustainability management, Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains to the identified material topics. performance and reporting practices of complete impartiality towards stakeholders Keppel’s associated companies, suppliers, interviewed during the assurance process. ACCURACY AND RELIABILITY contractors and any third parties mentioned DNV GL did not provide any services to The Report brings out the systems that in the Report. The position statements, the Keppel during 2019 that could compromise Keppel has implemented to compile and statements for the management approach, the independence or impartiality of our work. report information in a relatively consistent case studies and examples are excluded manner as per the GRI Standards applied from the scope of our work. We did not For DNV GL Business Assurance for reporting the performance related interview external stakeholders as part Singapore Pte. Ltd. to identified material topics. Any errors of this assurance engagement. or misstatements identified during the assurance engagement were communicated The reported disclosures related to economic for correction prior to the Report being performance are based on the financial published, and were corrected by Keppel. disclosures and data, which were cross-checked In our opinion, the level at which the Report with internal documents and the audited SOH MUI YAN adheres to the principle of accuracy consolidated financial statements for Lead Assessor, and the reliability of the information transcription and aggregation errors. Limited DNV GL Business Assurance on sustainability performance can be depth of evidence gathering, including Singapore Pte. Ltd. enhanced by implementing internal inquiry and analytical procedures and verification checks to improve consistency limited sampling at lower levels in Keppel in data collection processes. were applied as per the agreed scope of engagement. The data for environmental COMPLETENESS and social performance is verified with The Report has covered the sustainability random samples of data, and the aggregated MAK HENG CHWIN strategy, management approach and data at the corporate level is used for the Operations Manager – sustainability performances against the verification. The procedures performed South East Asia material topics identified based on GRI in a limited level of assurance engagement DNV GL Business Assurance Standards. The boundary of the Report vary in nature and timing and are less in Singapore Pte. Ltd. has been explained across sections in the extent than for a reasonable/high level Report and includes the sustainability of assurance engagement. We expressly performance from the global operations, disclaim any liability or co-responsibility subsidiaries and associated companies over for any decision a person or an entity may which the Keppel Group has management make based on this Assurance Statement. control for the reporting period. VADAKEPATTH NANDKUMAR STATEMENT OF COMPETENCE Assurance Reviewer, BALANCE AND NEUTRALITY AND INDEPENDENCE Head – Regional Sustainability The Report and related linkages in Keppel’s DNV GL applies its own management Operations IME, corporate website brings out both the positive standards and compliance policies for DNV GL Business Assurance and the negative trends of Keppel’s sustainability quality control, in accordance with India Private Limited, India performance in 2019, presenting a balanced ISO/IEC 17021:2015 Conformity account of the activities and results relevant Assessment Requirements for bodies 30 April 2020, Singapore 4 The DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from the DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com). 88 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION STATEMENT INTRODUCTION SCOPE, BOUNDARY AND VERIFICATION METHODOLOGY DNV GL Business Assurance Singapore Pte. Ltd. LIMITATIONS OF VERIFICATION The verification was conducted by DNV GL (‘DNV GL’) has been commissioned by the The scope of work agreed upon with in accordance with the requirements set out management of Keppel Corporation Ltd. Keppel includes the following: in DNV GL VeriSustain, for a moderate level (“Keppel”, Company Registration Number: • Verification of the GHG emissions of verification. As part of the verification 196800351N) Singapore to carry out (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3) process, we obtained an understanding of verification of Greenhouse Gases (“GHGs”) in accordance with the requirements the systems used to generate, aggregate emissions assertions as part of its sustainability of CDP: and report GHG emission data, and the reporting and as part of the Company’s –– The Scope 1 emissions arising from: GHG data management system of Keppel. Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”) response. a) diesel consumption in the We also tested the Completeness, Accuracy The verification exercise was carried out for diesel generating (DG) sets and Reliability of the data. the Company’s GHG assertions for the period owned or operated by Keppel; from 1st January 2019 to 31st December 2019. b) diesel fuel consumption in During the verification engagement, This verification provides a moderate level owned and leased vehicles we have taken a risk-based approach, and of assurance as per DNV GL VeriSustainTM1 of Keppel; we have verified the GHG assertion made and applies a ±5% uncertainty threshold c) liquefied petroleum in the Report and assessed the robustness towards errors and omissions. gas consumption; of the underlying data management system, d) naphtha consumption; information flow and controls. Keppel is responsible for the collection, e) piped natural gas consumption; analysis, aggregation and presentation of f) compressed natural We carried out the following activities: data and information based on an operational gas consumption; • Desk review of Keppel’s reported control approach under the GHG Protocol. g) acetylene consumption; and emissions provided to us in The GHG conversion factors for direct (Scope 1) h) refrigerant consumption – spreadsheets to select sample sites emissions, as well as Global Warming Potential R123, R134A, R22, R407C, R410A. for onsite and offsite verification; values used are based on the United Kingdom’s –– The Scope 2 emissions arising from • Management interaction to review DEFRA 2015 Government GHG Conversion use of purchased electricity; data management systems of Keppel Factors for Company Reporting (Scope 1). –– The Scope 3 emissions arising from including review of data completeness, The GHG conversion factors for indirect a consequence of the activities of the emission factors used and (Scope 2) emissions are based on the Company but occurring from sources assumptions applied (data related to Electricity Grid Emission Factor for 2018 not owned or controlled by the electricity from grid, DG), diesel from Singapore’s Energy Market Authority Company, such as business travel2 consumption in DG sets owned or and Grid Emission Factor for International and equity investment companies3. operated by Keppel and, diesel Energy Agency 2017. Carbon emissions from For carbon emissions calculation consumption in owned/leased vehicles, the incineration of waste (Scope 3) are based under Scope 3 emissions, Keppel consumption of liquefied petroleum on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Corporation accounts for the gas, naphtha, piped natural gas, GHG Inventories (Volume 5 – Waste) and proportional emissions of Scope 1 compressed natural gas and acetylene emissions from business travel are and 2 emissions of its investments and refrigerant usage (R123, R134A, calculated based on the International Civil as its Scope 3 emissions. R22, R407C, R410A) for its operations, Aviation Organisation (ICAO)’s online • Site visits to the sampled Keppel and business travel; Carbon Emissions Calculator. facilities in Singapore; and • Onsite verification of data aggregation • Verification of the Company's systems and related evidences related Our responsibility of performing this work protocols, processes, management to Scope 1 emissions, Scope 2 is to the management of Keppel only and approach and controls related to emissions reported for sample in accordance with terms of reference the collection and collation of the locations at Keppel Offshore & Marine agreed with the Company. The verification GHG emission data. (Keppel FELS Limited); Scope 3 engagement is based on the assumption emissions reported for sample location that the data and information provided The organisational boundary as set at Keppel Infrastructure (Senoko to us is complete, sufficiently true and free out by Keppel covers facilities in Waste-to-Energy Plant); from misstatements. DNV GL disclaims Singapore, Australia, Brazil, Germany, • Desk review verification of emissions any liability or co-responsibility for any Hong Kong, United States and the data for sample sites located at Keppel decision a person or entity would make Asia-Pacific region, where Keppel has Telecommunications & Transportation based on this verification statement. operational control. During the process and Keppel Land; and The verification was carried out during of verification, we did not come across • Review of feedback from Keppel on March to April 2020 as part of verification any limitations to the agreed scope reported observations arising from onsite of sustainability report disclosures. of work. and offsite verification. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on www.dnvgl.com 2 Emissions from business travel excludes data from entities defined as investments Keppel Infrastructure Trust, Keppel REIT, Keppel DC REIT. 3 Equity investment companies include Keppel Infrastructure Trust (Australia-Basslink, Australia-IXOM, City Gas, SingSpring, Keppel Merlimau Cogen Plant, Senoko WTE Plant, Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant, Keppel Seghers Ulu Pandan NEWater Plant), Keppel REIT, Keppel DC REIT. Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 89 OTHER INFORMATION INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION STATEMENT Scope Source Tonnes of CO2e Emission Tonnes of CO2e Emission (tCO2e) for 2019 – (tCO2e) for 2019 – Global Operations4 Singapore Operations4 Scope 1 a) Diesel consumption in the generating sets owned or operated by Keppel; 29,577 18,774 b) Fuel (diesel) consumption in owned and leased vehicles of Keppel; c) Liquefied petroleum gas; d) Naphtha; e) Piped natural gas; f) Compressed natural gas; g) Acetylene; and h) Refrigerant usage – R123, R134A, R22, R407C, R410A. Scope 2 Purchased electricity 200,759 141,430 Scope 3 5 Business travel, emissions from equity investment companies. 1,745,032 – Total (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions) 1,975,368 160,204 CONCLUSION requirements. We have complied with On the basis of our verification methodology, the DNV GL Code of Conduct6 during nothing has come to our attention that the assurance engagement and maintain would cause us not to believe that the GHG independence where required by relevant assertions below are not a fair representation ethical requirements. This engagement work MAK HENG CHWIN of Keppel’s GHG Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 was carried out by an independent team Operations Manager emission assertions. Some data inaccuracies of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL Business Assurance identified for the sampled sites during DNV GL was not involved in the preparation Singapore Pte. Ltd. the verification process were found to be of any statements or data included in the attributable to transcription, interpretation Report except for this Assurance Statement. and aggregation errors, and the errors have DNV GL maintains complete impartiality been communicated for correction and toward stakeholders interviewed during were corrected by Keppel. the assurance process. DNV GL did not provide any services to Keppel during 2019 VADAKEPATTH NANDKUMAR STATEMENT OF COMPETENCE that could compromise the independence Assurance Reviewer AND INDEPENDENCE or impartiality of our work. DNV GL Business Assurance DNV GL applies its own management India Private Limited, India standards and compliance policies for For DNV GL, quality control, in accordance with ISO/IEC 17 April 2020, Singapore 17021:2015 – Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit DNV GL Business Assurance Singapore and certification of management systems, Pte. Ltd. is part of DNV GL – Business and accordingly maintains a comprehensive Assurance, a global provider of certification, system of quality control including documented SOH MUI YAN verification, assessment and training policies and procedures regarding compliance Lead Verifier services, helping customers to build with ethical requirements, professional DNV GL Business Assurance sustainable business performance. standards and applicable legal and regulatory Singapore Pte. Ltd. www.dnvgl.com 4 For details please refer to Keppel Corporation's Sustainability Report, page 29. The data was verified from the CR360 software used by Keppel Corporation. 5 Scope 3 emissions for equity investment companies which generate incineration waste, estimated based on the fossil carbon arising from the incineration of non-organic waste content in the incineration plant which is dry plastics in Singapore’s context. Keppel has considered carbon emission factors to be: one tonne of waste incinerated = 0.3139 tCO2 for Keppel Seghers Tuas WTE Plant, and = 0.4283 tCO2 for Senoko WTE Plant. ICAO Carbon Emissions Calculator or Carbon footprint carbon calculator used for business travel (Scope 3 emissions). 6 The DNV GL Code of Conduct is available from DNV GL website (www.dnvgl.com) 90 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited OTHER INFORMATION LBG ASSURANCE STATEMENT 2019 GRI 102-56 Corporate Citizenship is a global consulting firm which specialises in responsible and sustainable business and manages the LBG Framework. Corporate Citizenship has been commissioned by Keppel Corporation to perform independent external assurance on the company’s use of the LBG Framework to measure and report on its corporate community investment (CCI) activities, occurring between January 2019 and December 2019. The LBG Framework helps businesses measure, manage and report their CCI activities. It moves beyond charitable donations to include the full range of contributions, or inputs, made to community causes (including time, in-kind and management costs, and cash donations). It also assesses the actual results for the community and for the business, also known as outputs and impacts. (See www.lbg-online.net for more information). The purpose of our assurance engagement has been to assess whether or not the LBG Framework, and its principles, are correctly and consistently applied by Keppel Corporation in its reporting. The scope of the LBG assurance covers the information presented in the Communities section of Keppel Corporation’s Sustainability Report for 2019, on pages 71 to 81. The scope of the assurance included the following data and KPIs: • Inputs: e.g. Volunteer hours, number of volunteers, donations/sponsorships; and • Outputs: e.g. Number of beneficiaries served. The assurance engagement was undertaken at a limited level and involved the following activities: • Management interviews with key persons responsible for community investment activities to understand the process for collecting, validating and consolidating the data; • A site visit to verify the internal systems and procedures for collecting, validating and consolidating the data; and • Checks on the accuracy and consistency of the data presented in this report on pages 71-81. As a result of our work, we are satisfied, based on the limited scope described above, that Keppel Corporation has sufficiently applied the LBG Framework in its reporting. Our work has not extended to an independent audit of the data presented in this report. Corporate Citizenship Singapore 14 April 2020 Keppel Corporation Limited Sustainability Report 2019 91 OTHER INFORMATION KEY PERSONNEL GROUP SUSTAINABILITY GROUP SUSTAINABILITY GROUP SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE WORKING COMMITTEE SECRETARIAT Loh Chin Hua Sebastien Lamy Sue-Ann Huang Chairperson Co-Chairperson Senior Manager, Chief Executive Officer, Director, Group Corporate Communications, Keppel Corporation Group Strategy & Development, Keppel Corporation Keppel Corporation and Chan Hon Chew Managing Director, Ariel Tee Chief Financial Officer, Keppel Technology & Innovation Senior Executive, Keppel Corporation Group Corporate Communications, Ho Tong Yen Keppel Corporation Ong Tiong Guan Co-Chairperson Chief Executive Officer, Director, Keppel Infrastructure Group Corporate Communications, Keppel Corporation Christina Tan Chief Executive Officer, Cindy Lim Keppel Capital Director, Group Corporate Development, Chris Ong Keppel Corporation and Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Keppel Offshore & Marine Keppel Urban Solutions Tan Swee Yiow Yeo Meng Hin Chief Executive Officer, Director, Keppel Land Group Human Resources, Keppel Corporation Thomas Pang Chief Executive Officer, Caroline Chang Keppel Telecommunications & Transportation General Manager, Group Legal, Manjot Singh Mann Keppel Corporation Chief Executive Officer, M1 Tok Soo Hwa General Manager, Group Control & Accounts, Keppel Corporation Sepalika Kulasekera General Manager, Group Internal Audit, Keppel Corporation Kenny Mok General Manager, Group Risk & Compliance, Keppel Corporation R K Jaggi General Manager, Group Health, Safety & Environment, Keppel Corporation Jay Singham Executive Director, Commercial, Keppel FELS Serena Toh General Manager, Group Sustainability Strategy, Keppel Corporation 92 Sustainability Report 2019 Keppel Corporation Limited Keppel Corporation Limited (Incorporated in the Republic of Singapore) 1 HarbourFront Avenue #18-01 Keppel Bay Tower Singapore 098632 Tel: (65) 6270 6666 Fax: (65) 6413 6391 Email: keppelgroup@kepcorp.com www.kepcorp.com Co Reg No: 196800351N
