Dear Stakeholders In 2019, SSP continued to adhere the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour rights, environment sustainability and anti-corruption principles. We confirm that our company continues to commit to the principles and initiatives of Global Compact. In this Communication on Progress (2020), we briefly state our actions of integrating the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company in year 2019. Yours faithfully Dr Lim Phaik Leng Managing Director 3-1-2020 Page 1 3-1-2020 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\18 COP 2019 (Revised on 3-1-2020).docx Human Rights Principles  Assessment, policy and goals SSP continues to support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in its business activities and through the relationships with its trade partners, clients, civil society organisations and state agencies. Based on these commitments, the rights and obligations of the employees and management are clearly spelled out in our Company Office Manual. This is further emphasized in the Company Integrated Management System. We observe the Code of Conduct as stipulated in the Registration of Engineers Regulations 1990 and Code of Conduct of the Association of Consulting Engineers Malaysia, both encompass our conduct for potential customers, existing clients, business partners and our relationship with our competitors.  Implementation The Company Office Manual, Integrated Management System and Code of Ethics are applied to all our employees without exception. They are available in our company intranet and in particular on Human Rights issues and violation. Our staff are also free to submit their complaints and/or issues concerning unfair treatment via Decision Memorandum direct to the Management.  Measurement of outcomes During the reporting period, SSP did not receive any complaint from employees, business partners, clients or competitors in relation to human rights abuses, violation, nor was the Company involved in any human rights incidences. Labour Principles  Assessment, policy and goals SSP supports the International Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Right to Work and upholds the elimination of forced/compulsory labour and child labour. In addition, SSP observes non-discrimination and equal opportunity principles in respect of employment, occupation and staff career advancement. SSP asserts that all its employees and the workers of the contractors should work in a safe, healthy and risk free environment by adhering to Malaysian Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994 and its Guidelines on Occupational Safety & Health in Construction Industry (Management) 2017 and Factory and Machinery Act 1967. Page 2 3-1-2020 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\18 COP 2019 (Revised on 3-1-2020).docx  Implementation SSP continues to value good labour relations and communication with employees at all levels including complaint/suggestion system. All SSP employees have the letters of employment, which clearly state the terms, conditions and compensation. Furthermore, the Company Office Manual was also made available to all employees via company intranet elaborating the company labour policies, disclosing further information on other terms and conditions of employment, staff benefits, company rules and regulations, grievance and disciplinary procedures. SSP does not employ child or forced/compulsory labour and does not practise discrimination to its employees based on race, age, gender, religion, citizenship or political beliefs. SSP extends basic medical and hospitalisation benefits to all staff and provides them with Group Personal Accident Insurance Policy on 24 hours coverage. SSP staff are encouraged to take part in sport events organized by SSP Sport Club, which is fully funded by the company. In June 2019, SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd carried out a Recertification Audit for ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System, ISO 14001:2015 Environment Management System and ISO 45001 : 2018 and Occupational Health & Safety Management System to monitor the effectiveness of SSP Integrated Management System. Hazard/aspects identification, risk/impact assessment and determining control (HAIRADC) are prepared for the office and project sites. All workers are required to observe and practise the Company Integrated Management System in relation to Health Safety and Environment risks avoidance and mitigation. SSP also impose in the construction contracts that all the contractors should adhere to SSP’s HSE policy and safety requirements.  Measurement of outcomes SSP also did not receive report of any accident involving loss of life or bodily injury during this reporting period. Our twice a year internal audit did not detect any human right abuses, health and safety risk issues. Page 3 3-1-2020 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\18 COP 2019 (Revised on 3-1-2020).docx Environment Principles  Assessment, policy and goals SSP is committed to furthering the internationally recognised principles of environment protection in all its activities internally within the organisation and externally with its business partners, customers and clients. SSP Environmental Policy requires its employees to use energy and resources efficiently and to reduce and prevent pollution from its activities in the projects administered by the Company by adhering to Environment Quality Act 1974, the proposed Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act. SSP is committed to design and construct green, sustainable buildings that can provide energy savings, water savings, a healthy indoor environment, better connectivity to public transport and the adoption of recycling and greenery for their project and reduce impact on the environment.  Implementation SSP Integrated Management System (IMS) was formulated to guide and monitor the environmental performance of the organisation and its business partners. The IMS is a continuous process of planning, implementation, checking, corrective action and improving environmental performance and compliance. It is based on ISO 14001 principles of sustainable procurement and waste reduction. Waste is reduced through re-using and recycling efforts, while paper, water and energy are consumed through raising awareness of the employees. SSP implemented the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management System. Environmental Aspect Impact Assessment is prepared for the office and project sites. All workers are required to observe and practise the Company Integrated Management System in relation to environmental risks avoidance and mitigation. SSP also impose through the construction contracts that all the contractors should adhere to SSP’s HSE policy and environment requirements. In response to the call of world environmentalists to protect the earth ozone layer to reduce energy consumption and global warming, SSP specifies the use of environmental friendly refrigerant type R410A and energy efficient airconditioning system in all its projects.  Measurement of outcome During this reporting period, the twice a year internal audit did not detect any violation with regard to environment issues. It was recorded that there was a reduction in electrical consumption due to the use of the new energy efficient airconditioning equipment and energy saving measures. Page 4 3-1-2020 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\18 COP 2019 (Revised on 3-1-2020).docx Anti-Corruption Principles  Assessment, policy and goals SSP supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and abides the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009. SSP holds a strict zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. The company values professionalism through good reputation while abiding to competition rules. SSP pursues its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. Any direct or indirect offer, illicit payment, promise, kickback, soliciting and acceptance of bribes in any form are unacceptable practices. Furthermore, all levels of SSP employees must avoid conflict of interest where there is a material risk of damage to the interest of the clients or the company.  Implementation SSP anti-corruption policies are published in the Company Office Manual, which all staff are made aware of via induction training and awareness training. To further its anti-corruption commitment, SSP creates and supports corporate culture base on honesty and openness. The policy encourages all employees to report potential or suspected frauds or other malpractices within the organisation. The identity of any whistle-blower shall be protected. SSP only accepts payment as fees for its services rendered to its client and no other payment from third parties. If there is any possibility of conflict of interest, SSP will refrain from involvement and will withdraw from the assignment.  Measurement of outcome No fraudulent or corruption activities were reported either from internal or external sources during this period. There were also no cases of conflict of interest reported. The market standing and reputation of SSP is a living measurement and proof of its ethical practice and professionalism. Page 5 3-1-2020 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\18 COP 2019 (Revised on 3-1-2020).docx
