Sustainability Report 2019 Contents About the Report Since 2010, as Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayii A.Ş., we have been sharing corporate governance and environment and social performance information through our sustainability reports. In this year’s 3 Message from the CEO 14 Our Employees 32 Annexes sustainability report, we continue to transparently 14 Gender Equality 34 Performance Indicators present our stakeholders with our strategies, 4 About Anadolu Efes 16 Talent Management objectives, performance, and developments. This 17 Employee Engagement report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI 6 Anadolu Efes Value Chain 18 Occupational Health and Safety Standards: Core option. The information provided in the report covers our beer operations performed in 7 Sustainability Milestones 20 Environment Turkey, Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Georgia, and 21 Climate Crisis Moldova during January 1–December 31, 2019. Our 8 Highlights of 2019 22 Water Risks and Management Anadolu Efes Russia operations merged with AB 22 Circular Waste and Packaging Management InBev Russia and Ukraine operations in the first 9 Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan quarter of 2018. The merger increased our operations 11 Materiality Analysis 23 Our Value Chain from six breweries to 14 breweries in Russia and 11 Stakeholder Engagement 24 Supporting Sustainable Agriculture and Farmers Ukraine. The 2018 and 2019 data stated in the report 25 Responsible Sourcing presented this increase accordingly. 12 Ethical and Transparent Governance 25 Quality and Food Safety 12 Sustainability Management In addition, the report includes the progress on the 12 Ethics 26 Community United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the 13 Risk Management 27 Contributing to the Local Economy UNGC CEO Water Mandate, in both of which we 30 Social Investments are a signatory. Of note, this report does not include data about Anadolu Efes’ affiliates, except for their economic performance. The sustainability report of the affiliate Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. is available at the sustainability section of the www.cci.com.tr website. Click when you see this icon. Message from the CEO ABOUT THE REPORT Consistent with our Positive Impact Plan, we focus on creating a constructive impact on our employees, community the environment, and the value chain. Dear Stakeholders, As Anadolu Efes, we prioritize water risks and COVID-19 undoubtedly constitutes one of our most OUR EMPLOYEES management. In this context, we continue to invest in critical agenda items in 2020. During the pandemic, As we celebrate our 50th anniversary, we are proud efficiency projects to reduce the amount of water our priority is to protect the health and safety of all to be one of the world’s top 10 beer companies that consumed per product. Thanks to our operational our business partners, particularly our employees. exported its products to over 70 countries in 2019. water efficiency projects in 2019, we have saved Throughout this period, we have continued our Our journey started with two breweries in Istanbul 220,000 m³ of water and $160,000. We have also operations in the field of sustainability without and Izmir, and now continues in six countries with 21 renewed over 80 water resources over the past nine interruption. We undertook new responsibilities for ENVIRONMENT breweries, five malt production facilities, and one hop years as part of our project which aims to create a our industry, ecosystem and society, and developed processing facility. common sense of responsibility for the conservation and implemented social investment projects in all of the natural water resources in Russia. countries where we operate. We strive to create value for all our stakeholders while delivering a remarkable financial performance. We believe that the business world has a major role I thank our valuable colleagues, business partners, We remain consistent with our Positive Impact Plan in dealing with plastic pollution. In this context, we consumers and all stakeholders who contributed to and are focused on creating added value for our have become part of the Business World Plastic the sustainable efforts of Anadolu Efes this year. employees, society, the environment, and the value Initiative, which began in Turkey in 2019. Although chain. We continue to contribute to the local the use of plastics in our operations is as low as 1.1 Can Çaka OUR VALUE CHAIN economy, society, and the Sustainable Development percent, we are working with universities, suppliers Goals through our social investments. and entrepreneurs to develop more environmentally Anadolu Efes CEO and Beer Group President friendly solutions in packaging materials and beer We are working shoulder to shoulder with the farmers mats. Additionally, we aim to reduce the use of who have supplied our raw materials for many years. plastics in our ecosystem to 0.5 percent in the next For example, with the Smart Agriculture project we three years. have implemented in Turkey with the cooperation of WWF, we are bettering the lives of our farmers and We are one of 18 Turkish companies participating in increasing field productivity, while simultaneously the Young Sustainable Development Goals improving the quality of barley and hops. In addition Innovators Programme (Young SGD) launched by to contributing to local development with this project, Global Compact, while sharing the dreams of young COMMUNITY we also support the fight against climate change. In innovators. Russia, we run projects for the development of new barley species and contribute to the development of our farmers in that region. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 GRI 102-45 About ABOUT THE REPORT Anadolu Efes Economic Performance OUR EMPLOYEES As one of the 10 largest As 2019 marked our 50th anniversary, we continued to terms of sales volume and acquiring around two-thirds contribute to the industry growth and develop the of the sales revenues abroad. We export our products beer companies in the Turkish beer culture. to over 70 countries. We reach approximately 700 world, we export our million people through our beer and soft drink products to over 70 Operating as part of the Anadolu Group which operations and sales force. We have 21 breweries, five 5.9% performs a broad range of activities in the brewing, malt production facilities and one hop processing increase countries. beverage, retail, agriculture, automotive, stationery, facility in six countries one of which is Turkey. In ENVIRONMENT fast food restaurant, real estate, and energy industry addition, we are one of the leading players in the operations. Our group operates in 19 countries with its region that covers Turkey, the Commonwealth of 80 companies, 66 production facilities, and over Independent States, the Middle East, and Pakistan, 36.2 80,000 employees. with 26 bottling facilities located in 10 countries where million hectoliter we execute Coca-Cola’s operations. beer sales We started our journey in 1969 with two brewing factories in Istanbul and Izmir and managed to become the market leader in a short period. As Shareholding Structure Turkey’s largest brewer, we took an essential step by 2018 Annual OUR VALUE CHAIN expanding abroad in the 1990s. In 2012, we entered 2019 24% 43.05% into a strategic partnership with SABMiller Plc Proforma Change (“SABMiller”) according to our commercial sustainability goal in the global market. In 2016, AB InBev AG Anadolu Grubu Net Sales Harmony Limited Holding A.Ş. 19,164 23,314 21.7% Anheuser-Busch InBev (“AB InBev”), the world’s largest (million TRY) brewer, acquired SABMiller, distributing 24 percent of Please click here its Anadolu Efes shares to AB InBev. to reach our Operating Vision, Mission We are managing international brewery operations Profit 1,165 2,234 91.7% and Values which through Efes Breweries International N.V. (“EBI”) which (million TRY) we renewed in is a wholly owned subsidiary established in the COMMUNITY 2019. Netherlands. Furthermore, we are the main shareholder of the Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. (“CCI”), EBITDA 2,899 4,038 39.3% which manages the Coca-Cola operations in Turkey and abroad. 32.95% (million TRY) Publicly Held and Other We are the fifth largest brewer in Europe and one of the world’s top 10th largest brewer1 in the world in 1 The Barth Report 2018/2019 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4 ABOUT THE REPORT 1 Russia 2 Turkey Population: 144.0 Million1 Population: 83.0 Million1 • 11 Breweries • 3 Breweries • 29.8 mhl Brewing Capacity • 7.0 mhl Brewing Capacity • 3 Malteries • 2 Malteries • 229 Thousand Tons Malt • 115 Thousand Ton Malt Production Production Capacity Capacity • 1 Preform Production Facility • 1 Hops Processing Facility OUR EMPLOYEES • Per Capita Beer Consumption: 53 • Per Capita Beer Consumption: 11 Liters2 Liters4 • 57% Market Share3 1 • 28% Market Share3 • Market Leader3 • Market Leader3 8 3 Germany6 4 Kazakhstan 3 Population: 82.4 Million1 Population: 18.6 Million1 5 7 4 • 2 Breweries • 2.4 mhl Brewing Capacity ENVIRONMENT • Per Capita Beer Consumption: 32 Liters4 6 • 51% Market Share3 2 6 • Market Leader3 5 Ukraine 6 Georgia Population: 43.8 Million1 Population: 3.9 Million1 • 3 Breweries • 1 Brewery • 6.4 mhl Production Capacity • 1.4 mhl Brewing Capacity • Per Capita Beer Consumption: • Per Capita Beer Consumption: 31 Liters4 OUR VALUE CHAIN 41 Liters4 • 45% Market Share9 • 32% Market Share 3 • Market Leader9 • Market Leader 3 7 Moldova 8 Belarus5 Population: 4.0 Million1 Population: 9.4 Million1 • 1 Brewery • Per Capita Beer Consumption: 45 Liters 4 • 1.4 mhl Production Capacity • Per Capita Beer Consumption: 30 Liters4 • 63% Market Share 2 COMMUNITY • Market Leader 2 1 United Nations 2 AEFES estimate 3 Nielsen, January-December 2019 4 Global Data 5 Other than the exports by Efes Beer Group to the whole world, Anadolu Efes has organizations (either directly owned or through the controlling companies) in Belarus and Azerbaijan that carry out and/or coordinate the marketing, sales and distribution of group products. 6 “Efes Pilsener” brand is being produced on a contract bases by Gilde Brauerei GmbH to be sold by Efes Deutschland Gmbh, a 100% subsidiary of Anadolu Efes established in Germany. 7 Ipsos Retail Audit 8 Canadean 9 RA Top & Cities (August 2019) ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Anadolu Efes Value Chain ABOUT THE REPORT Beer OUR EMPLOYEES Production Barley ENVIRONMENT and Hops Farming Logistics OUR VALUE CHAIN Malt Packaging and Hops Consumption Production COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6 Sustainability Milestones ABOUT THE REPORT Anadolu Efes signs the United Nations Global Compact, taking We identified its commitments We signed the material issues with OUR EMPLOYEES to a global level. United Nations a comprehensive Women’s stakeholder analysis Empowerment and updates the Principles Positive Impact (WEPs). Plan strategy accordingly. Anadolu Efes obtains the We were ISO50001 Energy included We were listed in Management in the BIST the FTSE4Good We were included Systems (Borsa Istanbul) Emerging Markets in the Dow Jones ENVIRONMENT certificate, a first Sustainability Index for the first Sustainability We joined in the industry. Index. time. Index. the Business Plastic Initiative. 2004 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 OUR VALUE CHAIN We were listed in the The ISO14001 Anadolu Efes CDP Climate We became the Program with Environmental earns the We signed the first-ever Turkish Management privilege to a Bscore. CEO Water company to be System and represent Turkey Mandate, an listed in the Occuptionl Health in sustainable COMMUNITY initiative of the Vigeo Eiris and Safety agricultural United Nations Emerging Management practices at the Global Market 70 Systems United Nations Compact Ranking. established at Conference Principles. all our plants. on Sustainable Still in place Development by continuous (Rio+20) in improvement. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 Highlights of 2019 ABOUT THE REPORT OUR EMPLOYEES We joined the Business Plastic With the help of our various To date, we have developed and We funded three different Initiative. efficiency and improvement registered 17 barley seeds and 7 start-ups with the Anadolu Efes activities, we saved 37,126 MWh hops species. Special Award as part of the İTÜ We published the Gender Equality of energy and prevented the Çekirdek’s Big Bang Start-Up Guide to raise awareness on emission of 613 tons of CO2. We With “The Future is in Agriculture” Challenge. female participation in the saved nearly 7.5 million TRY Smart Agriculture Project, our workforce and gender equality. in costs thanks to our projects. farmers increased the “CSR 2.0 Approach to Corporate productivity up to 43% in barley Governance,” which featured We have combined all the training In 2019, we decreased carbon agriculture and 49% in hops. articles of faculty members from and development opportunities emissions per cooler by 66% 70 different countries, cited “The ENVIRONMENT offered to our employees under the compared with that in 2011. In the 18th Golden Compass Award Future is in Tourism” as the Best name of Efes Labs. ceremony, our “The Future is in Sustainable Tourism Practice, With the Can and Can Pop Tab Agriculture” Smart Agriculture and Anadolu Efes as an exemplary We have become one of the Reduction Project we conducted Project was awarded in two institution. companies participating in the at Anadolu Efes Turkey, we categories. Young SDG Innovators attained a reduction of 10 tons of Program. cans and 100 tons of can pop tabs At the Corporate Social over the past three years. Responsibility Summit, we received We provided 39,562 hours of the Platinum Award for the OUR VALUE CHAIN OHS training to our employees, We provided 150 hours of “Accelerate 2030” program, with a 10% increase. training to our barley which illustrates our commitment manufacturers in Turkey on to social entrepreneurship and The survey we conducted with the irrigation, fertilization, and soil collaboration. participation of 91% of our cultivation. employees working in Turkey demonstrated that our employee engagement increased by 4 points to 83%. COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 8 Anadolu Efes ABOUT THE REPORT Positive Impact Plan OUR EMPLOYEES The world encounters different trends and challenges. As urbanization and demographic changes are accelerating and consumer behavior is altering through digitalization and the development of technology, we need to change the way we produce Climate Crisis Contributing to the and consume because the present way is putting Local Economy pressure on the environment with climate crisis and diminishing resources. Water Risks and Management ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Social The climate crisis is one of the leading trends affecting agriculture and the food industry. Increasing Circular Waste and Investments temperatures, changing rainfall regimes, and Packaging Management frequent extreme weather events are a major risk, especially for the agriculture and food industries. The ANADOLU EFES growing population needs access to food through the sustainable agriculture methods protecting the POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN ecosystems. We believe that the corporate world OUR VALUE CHAIN should be a transformative power that leads to a Supporting Sustainable better future. Accordingly, we have adopted the Talent Management Agriculture and Farmers positive impact creation approach through our VALUE value-added business model. We focus on PEOPLE CHAIN Employee Engagement Responsible and augmenting our positive impact on the major impact areas of the environment, people, community, Sustainable Sourcing and value chains. With our innovative “Positive Occupational Health and Safety Impact Plan”, we announced our plans to create a better impact by establishing collaborations and Quality and Food Safety partnerships and accentuating our contribution to the Gender Equality Sustainable Development Goals. COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 ABOUT THE REPORT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN OUR EMPLOYEES VALUE PEOPLE CHAIN Approach Approach Approach Approach As a producer obtaining its raw materials from We view enriching the community as the key to longPeople are the focus of our business. Talent is the most Our positive impact creation approach transcends our nature, environmental sustainability plays a vital term success. We contribute to economic growth and crucial factor in taking our business forward. Hence, production activities; it encompasses our entire value ENVIRONMENT role in our continued operations. Climate change employment in the countries in which we operate and we invest in the talents of our employees, and we care chain. Our farmers, suppliers, dealers, and distributors, and resource security affect the agriculture and food also prioritize local development. Through various about providing a fair work environment that values as well as consumers, are among the most crucial industries significantly. Thus, tackling climate crisis is investments with social benefit, we broaden our diversity and increasing employee satisfaction. We stakeholders in our value chain. We have been working one of our highest priority focus areas. In addition, we impact area and create common value related to our manage our operations with a zero-accident approach in unison with our farmers, the producers of our raw aim to implement the waste and packaging practices activity areas. and firmly believe “safety comes first.” materials. We care about implementing joint projects supporting the circular economy and managing the with our suppliers and dealers. We always prioritize water risks. quality and food safety to ensure we offer our consumers the best products. Focus Focus Focus Focus OUR VALUE CHAIN Climate Crisis, Water Risks and Management, Contribution to the Local Economy, Social Talent Management, Employee Engagement, Supporting Sustainable Agriculture and Farmers, Circular Waste and Packaging Management Investments Gender Equality, Occupational Health and Safety Responsible Sourcing, Quality and Food Safety COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 10 GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 ABOUT THE REPORT Materiality Analysis We considered financial, social, and environmental Stakeholder Engagement risks, as well as legislative regulations, when analyzing In 2017, we asked our main stakeholders the priorities the results. We have finalized our priorities by We have mutual, open, and transparent of Anadolu Efes through a comprehensive stakeholder consulting with our executive managers and mapped communication with our stakeholders, who exert a analysis. Besides the views of our stakeholders, we have them on a matrix. The basis of our Positive Impact direct and indirect impact on our operations and also included global and industry trends in the Plan is shown in the dark blue area of the matrix play a key role in our success. We map and group our analysis. The Sustainable Development Goals, World below. stakeholders to effectively manage our relationship Economic Forum Global Risk Report, SASB Industry with them and ascertain the best communication Materiality Map, 11th Development Plan, and priorities method and frequency for each group of OUR EMPLOYEES of the peer companies in the industry were among the stakeholders. We believe that sustainability can be other sources included. attained with a multistakeholder structure. Hence, we participate in various associations and initiatives and assume an active leadership in working groups. As a signatory to the UNGC, the UNGC’s CEO Water Materiality Matrix ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Mandate and Women’s Empowerment Principles ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES ANADOLU EFES (WEPs), we are also involved in global initiatives. POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN PEOPLE VALUE CHAIN In 2019, we have taken our cooperation with the UNGC one step further. Can Çaka, our CEO, was ENVIRONMENT elected to the 2019-2022 Board of Directors at the 7th Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of the Global high Compact. He also became a Board Member of the priority Water Risks and Management Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey Supporting Sustainable Agriculture and Farmers (BCSD Turkey). Human IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Rights Climate Crisis Occupational Health Contributing Annex 1 provides detailed information about the and Safety Responsible to the Local Employee Engagement Stakeholder Groups and Communication with Sourcing Value Chain Economy and and Talent Management Responsible Management Investment Stakeholders. Marketing Quality and OUR VALUE CHAIN Food Safety Circular Waste Ethical and Packaging Equal Information on The Future is in Tourism, The Rules Corporate Management Management Opportunity Future is in Agriculture and The Future is in and Customer and Risk Diversity Satisfaction Entrepreneurship programs, which we have Management and Briefing developed in collaboration with our stakeholders, R&D and is available under the Community section Innovation of this report. medium high priority priority IMPORTANCE FOR ANADOLU EFES COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Ethical and Transparent ABOUT THE REPORT Governance OUR EMPLOYEES Our corporate governance approach, based on Ethics Committee Structure Sustainability Management transparency, responsibility, and accountability, forms the basis of the trust relationship we have established Anadolu Efes’ Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Implementing the Positive Impact Plan that we with all our stakeholders. The Board of Directors form the basis for our sustainability projects. We have developed to exert a positive impact on the comprises 11 members, four of whom are independent. regularly review the efficacy of our principles and environment, community, employees, and the value The CEO is not a Board Member. The Audit assess all business processes in compliance with these chain is possible by adopting an effective and Committee, the Early Detection of Risk Committee, principles. We expect all stakeholders, especially Chairman: CEO transparent management approach. and the Corporate Governance Committee support employees, distributors, suppliers, and other business the Board of Directors. partners, to comply with the principles that define Anadolu Efes Beer Group operates in six countries. ENVIRONMENT the code of conduct in areas such as human rights, We manage sustainability through our Sustainability Detailed information on the number of members anti-bribery and corruption, occupational health and Committee comprising representatives from countries and responsibilities of the Board of Directors safety, and responsible marketing. For cases where in which we operate and chaired by our CEO, to and its Committees is available in the Annual the principles are violated, violations can be notified Coordinator and create value by spreading sustainability across all Report 2019 and Corporate Governance Principles anonymously through the phone line assigned for Sustainability Secretariat: our operations. The Sustainability Committee and Compliance Report. each country, filling in the notification form at Committee: Corporate the Working Group set the sustainability goals and Country Directors Communications and www.efesethicsline.com or by sending an email to performance indicators with the participation of all Relations Directorate You can access all policies, principles and efes@efesethicsline.com An independent company country directors under the CEO's management. statements here. reviews these tip-offs anonymously and confidentially The Committee works to enhance our sustainability OUR VALUE CHAIN and resolves them by taking the necessary measures. performance and commitments. It also helps In addition, Anadolu Efes Ethics Committee reviews promoting different countries’ practices. the breaches and decides on appropriate disciplinary actions. Besides, the Working Group is responsible for Positive Impact Working Group Technical Planning and Logistics, supporting the Committee and implementing In 2019, Anadolu Efes received 31 notifications Sales and Marketing, Human strategies and objectives. It continues to work on regarding forgery in business and company’s financial Resources, Financial Affairs, Anadolu Efes 2030 objectives. assets, abuse of office, theft, collusion with customers Investor Relations and suppliers, human rights, employee rights, sales Representatives figures, and data manipulation. Furthermore, our joint venture received 64 notifications via the EU COMMUNITY InBev Efes’ ethics lines. All 95 of these notifications were reviewed and resolved. You can access Anadolu Efes’ Code of Business Conduct and Ethics here. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 12 ABOUT THE REPORT Risk Management Risks Monitoring Risk management is one of the priorities for Financial Risks companies that aim to attain sustained growth and Asset/liability risk, credibility, capital/debt relationship, exchange rate development and strive to achieve high performance risk, and other risks that could directly affect the company’s financial in the long term while maintaining existing assets in status. the face of global competition. OUR EMPLOYEES Strategic Risks We use performance and risk indicators as an early warning system to monitor risks and We are committed to achieving sustainable Risk factors that could affect the company’s sustainable growth and take the necessary precautions on time. The SAP ERP system integrates with all processes profitability by spreading and minimizing economic corporate governance structure, as well as the business and brand value and monitors the results of operations instantly, eliminating human errors, thereby increasing and geographical risks so that we can adapt to the such as shareholders, investor relations and mergers and acquisitions. the efficiency of the internal control system by identifying risks early. changes in consumer preferences against strong international competition using our diversified portfolio. Our risk management approach is based Operational Risks on determining all the risks that Anadolu Efes Risks that could affect all parts of the system involving suppliers and faces or could face. We manage the identified risks costumers and, thus, processes such as business continuity, compliance, with appropriate actions, and develop and monitor reputation, occupational health and environmental safety. several practices to maintain our competitive edge ENVIRONMENT and business continuity. We have risk management and internal control mechanisms in place to protect We invest in backup systems by establishing emergency management systems to prevent the values of the company’s assets and ensure Natural Risks natural risks so that systems remain unaffected and data are not lost in case of an operational efficiency and sustainability. Our entire Risks that could affect business continuity and safety such as fire or emergency. We also maintain insurance for all our facilities to minimize the risks that could operational management is responsible under earthquake. occur in case of an emergency. the supervision of our Early Detection of Risk Committee, for the early detection of any risks that may endanger the existence, development, and continuance of the company; the implementation of OUR VALUE CHAIN any necessary measures against the detected risks; We have activated the Guarantee-Risk Management System to monitor customer risks. and the undertaking of risk management activities. Customer Risks Thanks to this system that sets purchasing limits on goods, we do not issue goods when The Committee convenes 4 times a year, and customers exceed their limits. presents the Board of Directors with information, meeting results, and suggestions about all its work. This way, Corporate Risk Management is adopted Climate change is one of the major risks affecting the supply continuity of agricultural raw and monitored at the highest level in the company. materials. We consider quality, price and supply changes caused by climate change. We Climate Risks also monitor energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from all our operations for continuity of our business. COMMUNITY We are strengthening the existing systems and processes through projects and studies on Technological Risks cyber attacks, information security and personal data protection. Detailed information about the internal control system can be found in the Annual Report 2019 on page 121. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 ABOUT THE REPORT EFES LABS We have combined all the training and development opportunities offered to our employees under the name of Efes Labs. Efes Labs has four basic training topics: Leadership Lab includes leadership-oriented programs; Grow Lab focuses on competency-oriented training; Profession Lab offers professional Our Gender We published the Gender Equality Guide to raise expertise; and Welcome Lab addresses to new Equality Guide awareness on female recruits. participation in the workforce OUR EMPLOYEES and gender equality. OHS ENVIRONMENT We consider providing a healthy, safe, and ideal Activities work environment to our employees. 16 of our facilities have OHSAS 18001 Occupational Safety and Health certificates. Internship OUR VALUE CHAIN In 2019, we used VR-based selection and placement Programs program for the first time in Turkey. We conducted interviews after the selection and placement test with gamification features. We also have intern programmes COMMUNITY in Moldova, Georgia and Kazakhstan. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14 Our Employees ABOUT THE REPORT We offer an inclusive work environment that aims for a high employee engagement and equal opportunity, while respecting diversity and focusing on development. Our talented employees are the most crucial capital Gender Equality Employees by Category We provide a free work environment where our OUR EMPLOYEES that helps us accomplish our future goals. Thus, employees can organize and unionize in countries investing in our human capital is one of our strategic where such rights are recognized. The ratio of priorities. Today, we develop the tools and systems needed to invest in talent in all our operations in 59% employees working under a collective bargaining agreement was 47 percent. White Collar different countries, especially in Turkey, and focus on Diverse business environments stand out of the flock as positioning ourselves as the most desirable company to it is where better decisions are made, employee 41% ENVIRONMENT work for. We offer an inclusive work environment that satisfaction and productivity are high, and innovation Blue Collar aims for a high employee engagement and equal comes to the forefront.1 We do not discriminate our opportunity, while respecting diversity and focusing on 8,695 employees from different countries, primarily development. We base our employee relationships on from Turkey, on the grounds of their cultures, thinking our Human Resources Policy, which, in turn, is founded styles, races, religions, languages, ages, nationalities, Employees by Country on justice, equality, and honesty. We operate in a ethnic identities, and gender in human resources broad area with an ethical and transparent processes and offer equal opportunities. We draw management approach guided by the Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. In 2019, we inspiration from the diversity of our employees and their different cultural backgrounds to ensure high 66% Russia and Ukraine OUR VALUE CHAIN focused our efforts on four areas in particular and customer satisfaction and augment development and took crucial steps in these areas. innovation. 18% Turkey 1 Acquiring, developing, and retaining talent We published the Gender Equality Guide to raise awareness on female participation in the workforce 8% Kazakhstan and gender equality in 2019. We aim to instate this as 2 Strengthening competencies our company guide on gender equality. As a signatory to the UNGC and WEPs, we have 4% Georgia 3 committed ourselves to providing a fair and equitable Encouraging transparent working environment that respects human rights. We communication culture 4% Moldova COMMUNITY favor gender equality in the workplace. Besides female employment at all levels, we encourage our female 4 Creating a fun and flexible work environment employees to have a say in management. Women account for 29 percent of our employees and 36 percent of our managers. You can access Anadolu Efes’ Human Resources Policy here. For Anadolu Efes’ Code of Business 1 Diversity Matters, McKinsey & Company Conduct and Ethics, please click here. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Talent Management ABOUT THE REPORT We attach great significance to training at every stage and every level to prepare our employees for the future by focusing on the requirements of the industry and the different needs of our employees. We care about our employer brand! OUR EMPLOYEES The core of our talent management approach is to Providing qualified training and mentoring to We provided 20 hours of training build a teamwork-oriented, motivated, highly employees is an essential tool both to retain existing engaged, and highly trained workforce that functions • We organize robust internship programs to talents and increase their loyalty to the organization. A per employee on average. as a team with a focus on the company’s strategic improve our employer brand. functioning talent management process is also objectives. We always strive to be the first and most effective for employee engagement and satisfaction. preferred employer brand. Consistent with this • We have talent back-up maps. Hours of Training approach, we aim to attract the right people to the Efes Labs ENVIRONMENT right positions at our company and unlock their • We develop talent strategies for career journeys Hour/ Number of Trained potentials through effective training and development and rotations. In 2019, we have combined all the training and Person Employees opportunities. We attach great significance to development opportunities offered to our employees training at every stage and every level to prepare our • We are constantly working to strengthen our under the name of Efes Labs. Efes Labs has four employees for the future by focusing on the employee engagement. basic training topics: (i) Leadership Lab includes Grow Lab 19,164 1,080 requirements of the industry and the different needs leadership-oriented programs; (ii) Grow Lab focuses of our employees. Accordingly, we improve our • We design and implement employee recognition on competency-oriented training; (iii) Profession Lab Leadership culture that encourages raising leaders, creating a programs to enhance our business performance. offers professional expertise; and (iv) Welcome Lab Lab 5,584 195 common management language, and continuous addresses to new recruits. OUR VALUE CHAIN learning. Welcome Lab 1,756 407 Leadership Profession Lab Lab Prof. Lab 10,193 2,139 We organize leadership training sessions for We support the professional development of different levels of management. We our employees. We are planning to offer the collaborate with universities to improve the training sessions we initiated for the In addition, we aim to increase the personal and scope of programs. employees of the Technical and Marketing professional knowledge and skills of our employees Directorate to other directorates. with Inspiring Digital, an online e-learning platform. We offer interactive training sessions COMMUNITY through this e-learning platform and monitor our Grow Lab employees' attendance. Welcome Lab We offer in-class and online training that helps mastering Anadolu Efes’ competencies. We provide training to facilitate orientation processes that enable new recruits to become familiar with Anadolu Efes. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 16 We participated in the Young SDG Innovators ABOUT THE REPORT Program! We have become one of the companies participating in the Young SDG Innovators Program, organized in 10 countries by the UN Global Compact. The program aims to explain to young leadership candidates working in product and process development departments how they can incorporate OUR EMPLOYEES Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into innovation processes and that SDGs can actually be business opportunities. Performance Management Internship Program for Young Talents Measuring the employees' success with fair and Research demonstrates that both Generation Y and Generation Z will form the majority of the workforce by standard methods and providing feedback to people 2025. Thus, introducing young talents to Anadolu Efes is becoming even more important. This year, we used by establishing an effective communication process VR-based selection and placement program for the first time in Turkey. We conducted interviews after the are among the most crucial tools that enable their ENVIRONMENT selection and placement test with gamification features that was taken by 200 university students this year. development. At Anadolu Efes, we set the business Anadolu Efes was ranked Besides routine work, our interns lead a project by following the job processes they chose with their mentors. and development targets for our employees once at the beginning of every year with the Performance number one by university We do our best to introduce Anadolu Efes to more young talents. We meet young talents at campuses in Management System, which covers all our whitestudents in the TOP100 prominent universities in different countries, especially in Turkey, Kazakhstan, and Moldova through the Campus collar employees, and follow these targets Programs. We also provide students with the opportunity to get to know us on career days and through factory/ systematically. Talent Program, which experience center visits when permitted by local regulations. was organized in 2019 by @toptalent.co, one of the leading career OUR VALUE CHAIN portals in Turkey, with its “The Perfect Internship” program. Anadolu Efes has reached 20,000 university students with COMMUNITY events in all countries we operate in. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Employee Engagement ABOUT THE REPORT Retaining talents within Anadolu Efes is one of The survey we conducted in 2019 with the participation of 91% of our employees our primary goals. We focus on increasing the working in Turkey demonstrated that our employee engagement increased to 83%. engagement and satisfaction of our employees, which are our most crucial source of sustainability OUR EMPLOYEES for our achievements. We prioritize making the business environment more dynamic and flexible in all Anadolu Efes operations. Employee Engagement Volunteers Anadolu Efes Sailing We communicate openly and transparently with Program Anadolu Efes Volunteers joined forces Team Member, our employees. We attach great significance to the with WWF Turkey and ran “for good” the Sales & Investments, spread of an open communication culture within the We aim to improve employee engagement and 41st Istanbul Marathon. Field Specialist company through live broadcasts, informative video satisfaction through our Employee Engagement messages, and regular field visits to our facilities. Volunteers Program with our employees from each We use different platforms and channels to enable country who volunteered to help us. Last year, 15 ENVIRONMENT our employees to communicate effectively with Loyalty Ambassadors took opinions and suggestions each other. We organize several internal events to of 272 employees with 23 focus groups. Then, they On December 5, International Volunteer enhance collaboration and communication between determined the areas of improvement and created Day, we held a bicycle-building workshop. different departments and units and send newsletters action plans. Functions and region-specific actions are Through the Association for the Support quarterly. We support our employees participation implemented through our loyalty ambassadors. of Contemporary Life, we delivered the in volunteering activities. We provide our employees bicycles we built a chance to share their ideas through programs to children in need. such as Anadolu Efes Entrepreneurship Workshop Yusuf Şendut and Anadolu Efes Quality Circles. We listen to their OUR VALUE CHAIN suggestions on occupational health and safety at the OHS Board meetings. We supervise employee engagement through employee satisfaction surveys. The survey we conducted last year with the participation of 91 percent of our employees working in Turkey demonstrated that our employee engagement increased by 4 points to 83 percent. To further Anadolu Efes Sailing Team comprised 13 people from different departments and increase this rate, we create and regularly review participated in nearly 150 competitions, including the action plans with our employee engagement Sports activities are beneficial to increase the sense Bosphorus Cup, Göcek Rixos Sailing Cup, Tayk COMMUNITY ambassadors. Owing to our hard work, our employee of belonging, decrease work stress, and increase the Trophy, Famous Cup, TAYK and Bodrum Cup and turnover rate decreased to 10 percent in 2019. motivation of employees. Sailing is one of the sports won many prestigious awards. that increases team spirit and promotes a culture of collaboration and cooperation. In 2010, we got the Click here to watch a video of the great day we had Anadolu Efes Sailing Team together to reflect our with the Anadolu Efes Sailing Team. corporate culture and team spirit. Our sailing team ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 18 Occupational Health and Safety ABOUT THE REPORT In 2019, we provided 39,562 hours of training to our employees with a 10% increase. We manage all We consider providing a healthy, safe, and ideal work We provide regular OHS training to employees to Accident Frequency Rate OUR EMPLOYEES our operations environment to our employees as one of our most internalize OHS culture, manage risks, and work fundamental responsibilities. We manage all our according to the requirements of a safe work area. In with the goal of operations with the goal of zero occupational 2019, we provided 39,562 hours of training to our 2,0 1.86 zero occupational accidents and diseases, as well as create and develop employees with a 10 percent increase. We also a strong occupational safety and health culture. We ensured that our suppliers’ employees receive a total accidents and are committed to identifying and effectively of 2,337 hours of OHS training. diseases. ENVIRONMENT managing the occupational health and safety risks stipulated within the scope of the OHSAS 18001 1,5 Occupational Safety and Health certificate, and establishing and reviewing the objectives and My Friend is Under My Protection programs related to these risks. As of 2019, 16 of our facilities have OHSAS 18001 Occupational Safety We continued to implement the “My Friend 1,0 0.96 and Health certificates. OHS Committees that is Under My Protection” award mechanism comprise occupational physicians and occupational in Anadolu Efes Turkey to improve and 0.71 safety experts, trade union representatives, crew increase the OHS awareness of our OUR VALUE CHAIN leaders, and employee representatives meet and employees. As part of the program, we assess OHS issues every month and evaluate possible identified 282 cases of near-miss and risky 0,5 measures. The committees regularly inform the cases, and made improvements. executive management about the evaluations and analyses made. In 2020, we will complete the transition to ISO 45001 Occupational Safety and Health certification at our facilities in Turkey and Kazakhstan. COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 ABOUT THE REPORT Energy We migrate to next-generation models to increase energy Efficiency in efficiency and decrease Coolers greenhouse gas emissions from OUR EMPLOYEES energy consumption. In 2019, we reduced carbon emissions per cooler by 66% compared with that in 2011. Business Plastic In 2019, we became a part of the Business ENVIRONMENT Plastic Initiative to contribute to the fight Initiative against plastic pollution, one of the crucial environmental problems of our era. OUR VALUE CHAIN Water Efficiency Thanks to operational water efficiency projects, we saved 220,000 m3 water and Projects $160,000 in 2019. COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environment ABOUT THE REPORT As a producer obtaining its raw materials from nature, environmental sustainability plays a vital role in our continued operations. Climate change and resource scarcity affect the agriculture In 2019, we focused on improvement efforts, such as emissions by switching from LPG forklifts to electric forklifts OUR EMPLOYEES and food industries significantly. As a producer obtaining recycling and reuse of waste water, changing lighting, in Adana, Izmir, and Ankara breweries. its raw materials from nature, environmental sustainability renewing machinery and engines used in processes like plays a vital role in our continued operations. Thus, tackling production and washing, with an investment of nearly 16 With the help of our various efficiency and improvement climate change is one of our most material issues. Besides, million TRY. We provided 1,757 hours of training to our activities, we saved 37,126 MWh of energy and prevented we aim to implement the waste and packaging practices employees to enhance our environmental performance and the emission of 613 tons of CO2. We saved nearly 7.5 supporting the circular economy and managing the water raise environmental awareness. million TRY in costs thanks to our projects. ENVIRONMENT risks. Climate Crisis Energy Efficiency in Coolers We are enhancing our performance with different practices within the scope of our Positive Impact Plan, which we We ensure that our products are cooled at the consumption shaped in line with stakeholders’ opinions, SDGs, and locations so that we serve consumers with the best-quality global trends. In environmental management, we comply and ideal tasting conditions. We migrate to next-generation with all local regulations in the regions in which we operate Increasing temperatures, changing rainfall regimes, and models to increase energy efficiency and decrease and take our corporate policy and international standards frequent extreme weather events are a major risk, greenhouse gas emissions from energy consumption. We as a reference. We use ISO 50001 Energy Management especially for the agriculture and food industries. Increasing are rapidly decreasing the carbon footprint of our coolers. OUR VALUE CHAIN System and ISO 14001 Environmental Management temperatures cause changes in various crops and frequent In 2019, we reduced carbon emissions per cooler by 66 System certificates to manage our operations. Of note, 8 of floods destroy the land, while droughts adversely affect the percent compared with that in 2011. our 22 facilities have ISO 14001 and 10 have ISO 50001 water resources needed for agricultural irrigation. Failure to certificates. We collaborate to create solutions for adequately manage these risks arising from climate change environmental issues and develop projects. We are in could lead to significant disruptions in the functioning of Sustainability Team several working groups of our stakeholders such as the industries that use agricultural raw materials, especially in Member, Purchase Turkish Industry and Business Association (TUSIAD) and the food industry. Specialist the BCSD Turkey. As a member of the Environmental Protection Foundation (ÇEVKO), we continue to support As part of tackling climate change, which affects the projects handling the issue of packaging waste. continuity of our business, we monitor greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption from all our operations. COMMUNITY We share all our operations' performance via sustainability report and Turkey operations performance via Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) transparently. We prefer highly Elif Özcü efficient technologies to decrease our emissions and energy consumption. This year, we decreased greenhouse gas ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 ABOUT THE REPORT Water Risks and Management We were the first Turkish approaches to reduce the impact after consumption. We Electric Forklift Project company to sign the UNGC’s support the circular economy by increasing the use of Along with the water risks, such as changing rainfall recyclable materials and decreasing the weight of our regimes and drought, growing populations and economic CEO Water Mandate initiative packaging. We reduce raw material and energy This year, we eliminated our motor vehicle development of countries are rapidly increasing our water in 2014, which brings the consumption for logistics by decreasing the thickness of emissions and thus decreased our greenhouse consumption. The amount of freshwater we can use directly packaging and optimizing pallets used to carry products as gas emissions by switching from LPG forklifts is fixed and low, which warrants more efficient water use. It business world leaders together we achieve financial savings. to electric forklifts in our Adana, Izmir, and is crucial to develop new projects and technologies to to generate sustainable Ankara breweries. Through this project, we OUR EMPLOYEES switched to a technology that allows us to implement practices that promote productivity and reduce solutions in the area of water. reduce our environmental impact as well as consumption. Taking these measures quickly is imperative, Anadolu Efes Turkey’s Can lower our costs. especially in areas facing water scarcity. Circular Waste and Packaging and Can Pop Tab Reduction Management Project Our production processes, primarily barley and hops agriculture and packaging, require huge amounts of water. At Anadolu Efes, we determine the processes that utilize We are attempting to reduce packaging Anadolu Efes Russia’s Water high amounts of water and strive to enhance our waste and environmental impact. With the Resources Renewal Project performance. Accordingly, we focus primarily on water Can and Can Pop Tab Reduction Project efficiency practices and monitor our progress by setting Environmental pollution continues to increase rapidly every we conducted at Anadolu Efes Turkey, we Anadolu Efes Russia strives to renew water ENVIRONMENT targets. year. Wastes that are not stored or recycled regularly attained a reduction of 10 tons of cans resources to ensure that local people have adversely affect life, especially water resources. Thus, and 100 tons of can pop tabs over the access to clean natural water in the regions Besides productive agricultural practices, we develop applications to decrease waste and support the circular past three years. we operate in. We have renewed over 80 different projects and applications to reduce water economy must be developed and the effects of packaging resources over the past nine years as part consumption. Water management is now one of the must be calculated and managed throughout the value of our project, which aims to create a indicators of our executives’ individual performances. We chain. common sense of responsibility for the Eco-friendly monitor processes effectively to ensure our executives conservation of natural water resources. Beer Mats improve the processes they are in charge of. At Anadolu Efes, we aim to decrease the amount of waste generated by our operations and improve our recycling OUR VALUE CHAIN We continue to invest in efficiency projects, such as water rate. Accordingly, we are working on practices that will We work closely with universities, suppliers, recycling, fixing of water leakages, recovery via reverse contribute to the circular economy and support the and entrepreneurship ecosystem to find osmosis, and optimization of existing water lines, to reduction and reuse of waste in all our operations. eco-friendly solutions. One of the start-ups decrease the amount of water consumed per product that we collaborate with is Biolive. With produced. Thanks to operational water efficiency projects, We conduct activities to decrease the adverse Biolive, we focus on developing beer mats we saved 220,000 m3 water and $160,000 in 2019. environmental impact of packaging wastes emerging made from olive seeds instead of plastic. because of our products. We develop innovative COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 22 ABOUT THE REPORT Food Safety In all operations, we are producing in compliance Dealer and We help our dealers and distributors to harness their with the ISO 9001 Quality Distributor competencies through Anadolu Management System, the Trainings Efes Turkey’s Sales Academy. ISO 22000 Food Safety In this context, we provide OUR EMPLOYEES Management System, and the training sessions for our 570 HACCP standards. dealer employees. ENVIRONMENT Seed To date, we have Development developed and registered 17 barley seeds and seven hops OUR VALUE CHAIN species. COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 Our Value Chain ABOUT THE REPORT By implementing joint projects with our suppliers and dealers, we support local socioeconomic development. OUR EMPLOYEES We produce in six countries and export our products to over Supporting Sustainable Agriculture and developed and registered 17 barley seeds and seven hops 70 countries. We aim to strengthen all the stakeholders in Farmers species. In 2019, we provided our growers with nine certified our value chain that covers a large impact area, sustain the seeds. We provided 150 hours of training to our barley land that is our source of raw materials, protect our manufacturers in Turkey on irrigation, fertilization, and soil customers and consumers, and always offer safe, highcultivation. quality products. By implementing joint projects with our suppliers and dealers, we support local socioeconomic Our sustainable agriculture practices are based on securing Our collaborations with multiple stakeholders, including the To date, we have developed and development. the supply of raw materials, as well as supporting local Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, various registered 17 barley seeds and seven ENVIRONMENT development by empowering farmers. In addition, we aim universities, TUBITAK, and the local administrations, play a hops species. We supply the majority of the main raw materials needed to protect the soil and today’s resources for future vital role in our efforts. for our production from the soil. The climate crisis, which generations by reducing the environmental impact of With our Russian partner AB InBev, we implement the exerts a significant impact on business operations, is agriculture. We encourage planned and efficient agriculture The Future is in Agriculture: SmartBarley project to develop new barley species. As of putting a serious pressure on agricultural production as it by implementing the Contract Farming Model. Our farmers Smart Agriculture Project 2019, trials are under way to develop four new barley triggers extreme weather events and water risks. Thus, we plan their production based on the amount we commit to species. We provided training to farmers in our Russian support the development of our farmers, whom we consider buy. This ensures sustainability in our supply chain. We operations on new barley types, fertilizer use, quality as our business partner, to bring sustainable agriculture provide the certified seeds we developed at our R&D We initiated the Future is in Agriculture requirements, the scope of the Contract Farming Model, practices to life, and use technological tools in agricultural facilities to our growers so that we can avoid external project in partnership with the WWF and cost management (seven hours/person). OUR VALUE CHAIN production. We inform our farmers about efficiency and dependence on seeds. These seeds augment agricultural Turkey in 2018. Our objective is to become decreasing environmental impact. productivity and increase farmers’ profitability and, thus, the first company in Turkey to produce its their prosperity. We also provide farmers with training and own raw materials by using smart In 2019, we bought barley from 2,600 farmers and hops funding for sustainable agriculture techniques. agricultural practices. With this project, from 390 farmers, 240 of which are contracted. The share we aim to increase the efficiency of of the payments we make to our local suppliers in total We have performed R&D and innovation activities since barley and hops agriculture, empower the payments is 88 percent. 1982 to develop sustainable agricultural projects and ensure farmers, and decrease the environmental the continuation of a raw material supply that fulfills the impact of agriculture. We focus on highest quality and safety standards. To date, we have attaining the highest efficiency and quality from the unit area, reducing the use of chemicals in agricultural COMMUNITY production, and promoting eco-friendly agricultural practices to ensure the future of raw materials and maximize the positive impact on our value chain. You can access further information on the project in the Community section. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 ABOUT THE REPORT Responsible Sourcing Quality and Food Safety We work together with over 8,600 suppliers and 865 As we deliver our products to millions of people in over 70 dealers and distributors taking part in our value chain. We countries, our priority is quality and food safety. We apply attach great significance to suppliers, dealers, and international quality and safety standards to offer products distributors embracing the responsible business conduct of at the highest quality that always have the same taste to International Alliance for Anadolu Efes to enhance our positive impact on this broad our consumers. Responsible Drinking (IARD) stakeholder ecosystem. All our suppliers are obliged to comply with the Supplier Working Principles. We also In all operations, we are producing in compliance with the OUR EMPLOYEES The multistakeholder project Don’t Drink provide training sessions for our suppliers. ISO 9001 Quality Management System, the ISO 22000 and Drive, initiated by the International Food Safety Management System, and the HACCP Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD) We help our dealers and distributors to harness their standards. Thanks to our advanced production in Russia, provides lectures on the effects competencies through Anadolu Efes Turkey’s Sales technologies, we always fulfill the demands of our of driving under the influence of alcohol Academy. customers at a high standard as we consider food safety in driving schools. As a stakeholder, our primary responsibility. Anadolu Efes Russia has collaborated with over 155 driving schools and helped 570 139 293 raise awareness among more than 50,000 Responsible Marketing drivers about responsible alcohol Sober Efes Driver Application consumption. ENVIRONMENT persons days hours We market our products to millions of consumers worldwide with a responsible approach. We comply with the sales and marketing limitations required by legal regulations, as we We aim to prevent traffic accidents motivate consumers to consume consciously with our caused by drunk driving with the Sober Supplier Evaluation communication practices. We expect all our employees, as Efes Driver application, which was well as our dealers and distributors, who are our field launched by Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan in representatives, to comply with Anadolu Efes’ Marketing 2013. We offer a drop-off service by our Communications Policy. drivers at certain restaurants and bars in Almaty, where the application is in place. The project has reached nearly 100,000 OUR VALUE CHAIN We expect our suppliers to follow the Supplier Working Principles. Our supplier evaluation procedure guides us people so far. through every stage from selection to assessment. We calculate the risk scores of the suppliers that we evaluate based on criteria such as prices, quality, delivery, and service. As part of our supplier risk assessment that includes two steps, financial and operational analysis, we categorize suppliers into thee groups, namely Strategic, Regular and Operational Suppliers. We create action plans for suppliers by considering a certain score scale as part of the risk score assessment. COMMUNITY ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 ABOUT THE REPORT Future is in We supported 16 projects under The Future is in Tourism project. We reached out to nearly 200,000 Sports We continue to support sports Tourism people through the projects we supported and by Anadolu Efes created direct or indirect employment for 300 Sports Club women. In addition, we supported 500 NGOs and collaborated with 23 universities. OUR EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT Culture and Arts We support culture and arts 33 years Future is in In 2019, we continued to support entrepreneurs through various platforms continously. Entrepreneurship such as Accelerate 2030 and ITU Cekirdek. OUR VALUE CHAIN Smart In collaboration with WWF Turkey, we are expanding eco-friendly agricultural Agriculture practices that will enhance agricultural productivity. Thanks to this project, our farmers enhanced the productivity up to COMMUNITY 43% in barley agriculture and 49% in hops. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Contributing to the ABOUT THE REPORT Local Economy We contribute to the local economy by working The Future is in Tourism In 2019, “CSR 2.0 Approach to Corporate OUR EMPLOYEES We view enriching the with local suppliers and creating employment as Governance,” which featured articles of faculty community as the key to part of our value chain. By supporting sustainable members from 70 different countries, cited “The tourism, we aim to unlock Turkey’s tourism potential Future is in Tourism” the best sustainable tourism long-term success. We and create new jobs. We continue our R&D efforts practice, and Anadolu Efes as an exemplary contribute to economic growth with sustainable agriculture practices. We also institution. provide training and funding to farmers, as well as and employment in the countries ENVIRONMENT expand the production of barley and hops seeds we In the first five years of the project, we focused on in which we operate and also have developed. We encourage the emergence of a tourism-based project centered in the Çoruh prioritize local development. innovative ideas by supporting the entrepreneurship Valley in Eastern Anatolia. Since 2013, we have ecosystem in our country. provided funding for three projects every year, as Through various investments With “The Future is in Tourism” project we have well as consultancy, mentorship, and with social benefit, we broaden been executing with the Ministry of Culture and communications support and ensure the Tourism and the UNDP since 2007, we aim to applicability and sustainability of the projects. We our impact area and create utilize sustainable tourism as an alternative supported 16 projects under The Future is in common value related to our sustainable development tool and promote Tourism project. We reached out to nearly activity areas. We contribute to OUR VALUE CHAIN entrepreneurship in the development of local 200,000 people through the projects we models. supported and created direct or indirect the Sustainable Development employment for 300 women. In addition, we Goals with the projects we supported 500 NGOs and collaborated with 23 execute for social development. The book which featured universities. articles of faculty members You can watch the video on our Future is in Tourism projects by clicking here. from 70 different countries, cited “The Future is in Tourism” the best sustainable tourism COMMUNITY practice, and Anadolu Efes as an exemplary institution. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 ABOUT THE REPORT The Future is in Agriculture practices. As part of the pilot project, we measure the Hops Harvest benefits of smart and eco-friendly field applications on a land that is as large as 150 football fields. In 1971, we started producing hops that give our Thanks to this project, our farmers enhanced the products their characteristic aroma in Bilecik, productivity up to 43 percent in barley agriculture Pazaryeri, the only place where hops are grown. We and 49 percent in hops. We can collect in real time produce seven types of hops registered to Anadolu the data about soil moisture, soil temperature, Efes with our contract farmers. We aim to increase relative moisture, and temperature values from our agricultural productivity with our smart agricultural growers’ fields using smart agriculture practices such practices. We were in Bilecik, Pazaryeri, for this year’s OUR EMPLOYEES as Soil And Air Sensors, Field Health Monitoring hops harvest. After harvesting, we assessed the Through Satellite and Digital Soil Analyzer and production processes at our processing facility. measure and record them regularly. Thanks to We develop barley and hops seeds through the technologies providing information, such as plant You can watch the 2019 hops harvest by R&D works performed at our “Agricultural Product growth models, plant disease warnings, irrigation clicking here. Development Department,” since 1982 under the recommendations for irrigation fields, drought Future is in Agriculture project. We provide training monitoring for non-irrigated fields, we make the lives and funding to the growers to spread the production of the growers easier and decrease environmental of those seeds. “With the Future is in Agriculture” impact. Our farmers can access information instantly Hops project, we ensure the supply of agricultural raw from their mobile phones and take the necessary Farmer ENVIRONMENT materials from local growers, and through R&D, steps. This way, they only activate irrigation systems develop drought-resistant products which require less when necessary and decrease water consumption. water and energy consumption. As such, we aim to In addition, this technology helps preventing encourage eco-friendly agricultural practices that will disturbances, such as contamination of underground enhance agricultural productivity. water sources, caused by excessive fertilizer use and spraying. Serkan Kireç Barley Farmer In 2019, our “The Future is in Agriculture” Smart Agriculture Project was awarded in two categories in OUR VALUE CHAIN the 18th Golden Compass Award ceremony. • We received Alâeddin Asna Corporate Governance Responsibility, Consistency & Continuity Special Award, which is given to Şefik Sayaner promote the professional values and vision of Alâeddin Asna, PhD, founder of the Turkish Association of Public Relations Agencies. “The Future is in Agriculture” Smart • The Future is in Agriculture project received Agriculture Project an award in the Corporate Governance Responsibility Agriculture category. COMMUNITY We initiated the Smart Agriculture project in partnership with the WWF Turkey in 2018. Our objective is to become the first company in Turkey to produce its own raw materials by using smart agricultural practices. Through this project, we aim to encourage young growers to implement and spread the use of smart and eco-friendly agricultural ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 28 ABOUT THE REPORT The Future is in Entrepreneurship We ended the year with an award Entrepreneurship Workshop At the 11th Corporate Social We established the Anadolu Efes Entrepreneurship Responsibility Summit, organized Workshop to take intrapreneurship one step further to award local solutions and and encourage employees. Our employees can record As we believe that young people and innovative their entrepreneurial ideas in the project database ideas should be encouraged, we support the collaborations that aim to attain of the Workshop. Every year, 10 employees get the entrepreneurship ecosystem. In 2019, we continued to the global goals, we received chance to join the Anadolu Efes Entrepreneurship support entrepreneurs through various platforms. the Platinum Award for the Acceleration Program. In the Entrepreneurship OUR EMPLOYEES Acceleration Program, project owners set up their Accelerate 2030 Global Program “Accelerate 2030” program, which teams and work on their ideas for eight weeks with demonstrates our commitment experts and mentors. Those who successfully complete We were the main sponsor of Accelerate2030, the program move to the next phase, which is the which scales social initiatives that contribute to to social entrepreneurship and Incubation Program. In this phase, employees execute the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. This collaboration. a pilot project within three months and after completprogram was launched in 2019 for the first time in ing the necessary tests, their projects are ready to be Turkey. The program we performed in collaboration Blind Look introduced. with the UNDP and Impact Hub received over 70 Founding Partner applications in its first year. Joon, Biolive, Tolkido, and ENVIRONMENT Naturanas took their places among the finalists and Two Awards with Pubinno joined an intensive six-month training program to accelerate their initiatives. At the end of four months, We have been working with Pubinno, a local enterprise that produces smart Biolive, which produces natural bioplastic granules presentation materials for businesses using artificial intelligence technologies, since the from olive seeds, ranked among the 10 finalists in company came up with this innovative idea. Pubinno develops solutions that enable the global competition and became the only Turkish Sadriye Görece businesses to serve our products at the right amount and right temperature every time. initiative that represents Turkey at the Global Scaling We received the “Most Effective Company/New Start-Up Collaboration” award with Week Summit. As a company that supports social İTÜ Çekirdek Pubinno at the Corporate & Startup Day organized by Özyeğin University, Endeavor entrepreneurs, we collaborated with Biolive and Turkey, TOBB Young Entrepreneurs Board, Entrepreneur Organizations Platform and OUR VALUE CHAIN started working on producing packaging and beer We are one of the main stakeholders of ITU Bizz Consulting. Furthermore, we received the first prize in the “Inventors” category with mats with materials that has low environmental Çekirdek, one of the five largest incubation centers Pubinno’s AI-Based Smart Tap project that also won the “Most Digital Project” title at impact. in the world, since 2018. Every year, we fund three Anadolu Group’s An Idea Festival, where successful projects of the group’s company different start-ups with the Anadolu Efes Special are presented. Click here to watch the jury event of the Award as part of ITU Çekirdek’s Big Bang Start Up Accelerate 2030 Program, which was performed in Challenge and our volunteer employees mentor to collaboration with Anadolu Efes, @impacthubist entrepreneurs. and @undpturkiye. Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan’s Save To date, we have funded TL 300,000 totaly to 6 The Nature Project entrepreneurs. Impact Hub We raised and released 25 steppe eagles to nature, the symbol of Kazakhstan’s COMMUNITY Accelerate 2030's In 2019, we supported @blindlook.tr, which provides Business Partner visually impaired with access to restaurants and their landscape as part of the project. As a result, menus, Stage Online, that makes theater accessible the number of eagles increased four times in for everyone, and @ecordingmapp which offers a the Almaty region. We aim to execute this quick and technological solution to planting forests successful project on the national level. with the drone “ecoDrone”. Semih Boyacı Click here to watch the pleasant moments of the Big Bang Start-Up Challenge. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 Social Investments ABOUT THE REPORT Ülkemizin gelişiminde Sports kültür sanatın ve sporun büyük öneme sahip Anadolu Efes Sports Club olduğuna inanıyor; bu alanlarda uzun yıllardır Established in 1976, Anadolu toplumsal fayda yatırımları Efes Sports Club became the first Turkish basketball team OUR EMPLOYEES gerçekleştiriyoruz. that won a European Cup with the FIBA Korać Cup in 1996. In 2000 and 2001, Anadolu Efes Culture and Arts played the EuroLeague Final Four and the FIBA SuproLeague’s Final 33 Years of Cooperation with Istanbul Four and finished third. In the Foundation for Culture and Arts (IKSV) 2019-2020 season, Anadolu Efes again made it to the EuroLeague Final Four and Our collaboration with the Istanbul Foundation for finished as the runner-up. In the same season, Culture and Arts, which has played a crucial role in it won the Turkish Basketball League ENVIRONMENT Istanbul's cultural and artistic life started in 1987 and championship. still continues. Anadolu Efes is the first Turkish team that played We support Istanbul Film Festival, Istanbul Jazz 400 EuroLeague matches. It has 14 Turkish Festival, Istanbul Theater Festival, Istanbul Biennial, Basketball League championships, 11 Turkish Cups Istanbul Design Biennial and Salon IKSV. and 12 President’s Cups, making it the most cupwinning basketball team in each of these leagues. General Manager of IKSV OUR VALUE CHAIN Basketball Head Coach Görgün Taner Anadolu Efes Mavi Sahne Mavi Sahne Platform we built at DasDas, the heart Ergin Ataman 28 Years of Support for Theater of culture and art in Istanbul, allows young actors to stage their plays as it also offers stage performances COMMUNITY We have been supporting Turkey’s leading for university students at an affordable price. Mavi theaters such as Çolpan İlhan & Sadri Alışık Sahne hosted 35 shows staged by young actors and Theater, Eskişehir Metropolitan Municipality City welcomed 7,000 theater lovers, 4,000 of whom were Theaters, Oyun Atölyesi and DasDas since 1992, university students in the last two seasons. when we first sponsored Evita Musical in Istanbul. We have staged over 1,000 plays, including “The Rich One’s Kitchen”, in which esteemed actor Şener Şen takes the stage. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 30 Our Social Investments During ABOUT THE REPORT the COVID-19 Period OUR EMPLOYEES #Solidarityisbettertogether #WeReservedYourSeat TURKEY TURKEY We allocated 1 million TRY to support the We have been supporting culture and art food & beverage and entertainment industry since 1987. As we know that we can stick employees affected by COVID-19 as part of better together during the COVID-19 the ''Solidarity is Better Together'' campaign pandemic, we support #WeReservedYourSeat we organize with Ahbap Platform. We campaign initiated by the Theater provide shopping cards to thousands of Cooperative. ENVIRONMENT industry workers, such as waiters, cooks, #Solidarityinyourownway bussers and bartenders, who contributes TURKEY greatly to the industry. At first, we With food and drinks businesses in announced that we would support 5,000 lockdown, stray animals started having employees in the industry. But then, thanks trouble finding food. Therefore, we started #NeedsMap to the contributions of our employees, we feeding stray animals and provided cat TURKEY increased this number to nearly 7,000. and dog houses. Through Festtogether, Turkey’s first With the contribution of 150 animal-lover sustainable music festival, we have OUR VALUE CHAIN package stores, we initiated the “Solidarity contributed to meeting the needs listed on in Your Own Way” movement. We gave 5 Needs Map, especially the needs of health kg of feed for every 1 kg provided by sector. In addition, we fulfilled the package stores and donated technology device needs of students as they approximately 8 tons of food to stray switch to distance learning, and the needs of animals in collaboration with Ahbap performing arts workers and technical Platform. We also built 1,000 houses for workers in the music industry. cats and dogs. COMMUNITY KAZAKHSTAN GEORGIA MOLDOVA We supported 500 people who lost their jobs We distributed 1,000 liters of disinfectant to be We supported 2,000 entertainment and in the entertainment and catering industry. used in public transportation in Chisinau. We catering workers in Almaty and Astana. We We also sent soft drinks to over 70 infection contributed to the state pandemic fund. We delivered masks to our dealers. hospitals and supplied disinfectant materials sent soft drinks to the City Hospital. to the hospitals for two months. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 GRI 102-40 ANNEXES Annexes Annex 1: Our Stakeholder Groups and Communication with Stakeholders Annex 2: Association and Initiative Memberships and Participations Communication Stakeholder Group Stakeholder Group Method of Communication Manufacturers and Importers Association of Alcoholic Beverages (ALKİDER) Frequency The American Business Forum in Turkey (AmCham Turkey/ABFT) The Beer and Malt Producer’ Association (BMUD) The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Online live broadcasts, video messages, employee volunteering activities, The Brewers of Europe (BoE) field visits, satisfaction surveys, trimestrial bulletins, intranet portal, Anadolu Employees Always ÇEVKO Foundation Efes Quality Circles, events, OHS Board meetings, annual and sustainability The Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEIK) reports, websites and regular information emails about our actions. The Ethics and Reputation Society (TEID) Food Retailers Association (GPD) Food Supplement and Nutrition Association (GTBD) Meetings and conferences, annual and sustainability reports, websites, oneThe Public Communications and Corporate Relations Management Association Governmental on-one meetings, registered electronic mail (REM) system, via NGO Working Weekly (KİYED) Institutions Groups. Corporate Relations Institute Corporate Communicators Association (KID) Online live broadcasts, video messages, one-on-one meetings, annual and Private Sector Volunteers Association Distributors and sustainability reports, websites, dealer portal, joint projects and communication Always Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey (BCSD – Turkey) Dealers line Sustainability Academy The Turkish Industry and Business Association (TUSIAD) One-on-one meetings, audits and training, annual and sustainability reports, Turkish Researchers’ Association (TUAD) Suppliers Monthly websites. Federation of Food and Drink Industry Associations of Turkey (TGDF) The Quality Association of Turkey (KalDer) Associations and Collaborations, meetings, working groups, seminars, and conferences, annual The Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) Always NGOs and sustainability reports, websites, one-on-one meetings. The Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey (TOBB) The Turkish Seed Industry Association (TURKTED) General shareholders’ meetings, material event disclosures, press releases, The International Investors Association (YASED) Shareholders, one-on-one meetings, correspondences, conferences, intermediary institution/ Investors, and Always Analysts bank reports, periodic briefings, annual and sustainability reports, websites, stakeholder analysis. Internship programs, career days, conferences, websites, and annual and Universities Always sustainability reports. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 32 ANNEXES Annex 3: Working Groups Association Working Groups Association Working Groups High Advisory Board BMUD Economy Policies Round Table European Foundation for Alcohol Research (ERAB) Industrial Transformation Round Table The Brewers of Europe (BoE) Service Transformation Round Table The Sustainable Agriculture and Food Access BCSD Turkey Sustainable Development Round Table Working Group Entrepreneurship Round Table Corporate Communicators Association Global Affairs and EU Round Table Ethics and Reputation Society Digital Economy Round Table Private Sector Volunteers Association Investment Environment Round Table Sustainability Academy Turkey The Intellectual Rights and R&D Working Group The Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) TUSIAD The Banking Working Group Federation of Food & Industry The Tourism Working Group Associations of Turkey (TGDF) The Retail Working Group Food Supplement and Nutrition Association (GTBD) The Industry 4.0 Working Group The Employment and Social Security Working Group Manufacturers and Importers Association of Alcoholic Beverages (ALKİDER) The Gender Equality Working Group ÇEVKO Foundation The Energy Working Group Turkey Quality Association The Food, Beverages and Agriculture Working Group Corporate Relations Institute The Legal Reform Working Group Global Compact The Competition Law Working Group British Trade Office in Turkey The Corporate Law Working Group KİYED The Public Communications and Corporate The Food, Agriculture, and Healthy Living Relations Management Association Sub-Working Group The Retail Working Group China, Georgia, Iran, Kazakhstan, Romania, DEIK Germany and Iraq YASED The R&D and Innovation Working Group The Fast Moving Consumer Goods Working Group The Law and Industrial and Intellectual Property Rights Working Group The Public Relations The American Business Forum in Turkey Investment Environment Sustainability Alcoholic Drinks Sub-Committee TOBB Turkish Beverage Industry Assembly ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 ANNEXES Performance Indicators Water Consumption (m3) 2017 2018 2019 Municipal water 5,665,043 6,932,048 5,941,134 Environmental Performance Indicators Underground water 3,324,583 6,948,530 7,039,996 Total Water Consumption (m3) 8,989,626 13,880,578 12,981,130 Energy Consumption (MWh) 2017 2018 2019 Beer Production – Water Intensity (m3/hl) 0.38 0.43 0.37 Buildings fuel & electricity 799,144 1,304,949 1,312,806 Malt Production – Water Intensity (m3/ton) 6.29 5.40 6.12 Electricity purchased 221,549 355,417 337,387 Natural gas 576,886 948,656 974,710 Recycled and waste water quantity (m3) 2017 2018 2019 Generator (diesel) 709 877 710 Recycled and reused water 157,515 147,445 202,606 Vehicle fuel 41,865 43,230 22,842 Waste water 6,674,787 8,955,497 6,353,833 Diesel 14,088 14,310 13,764 Gasoline 16,898 8,314 7,465 Amount of hazardous waste (ton) 2017 2018 2019 Renewable Energy (Biogas) 3,911 4,248 10,446 Total hazardous waste 45,581 7,909 1,064 Total Energy Consumption 841,008 1,348,180 1,346,096 Sent to landfill 20 126 10 Electronic waste 65 85 133 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 2017 2018 2019 Recovered as energy 4 27 0.5 Scope 1 133,899 211,242 214,014 Reused 314 536 4 Scope 2 98,996 149,413 142,093 Other 874 7,203 717 Total 232,895 360,656 356,107 Scope 3 (Services and flights) 244* 713 776 Amount of nonhazardous waste (ton) 2017 2018 2019 *Only services are included. Total non-hazardous waste 105,082 470,267 225,308 Malt Production 2017 2018 2019 Sent to landfill 4,003 6,664 6,970 Energy Intensity (kWh/hl) 349 552 834 Recycled 17,545 391,561 154,596 Carbon Intensity (kgCO2e/hl) 94 143 201 Recovered as energy 910 1,415 882 Reused 19,656 7,845 0.5 Beer Production 2017 2018 2019 Other 57,739 62,482 51,684 Energy Intensity (kWh/hl) 35 41 36 Carbon Intensity (kgCO2e/hl) 9 11 9 The brewery in Russia received an environmental penalty of $3,402 for delaying to fulfill the license requirements for groundwater use. Accordingly, the license has been renewed and no adverse environmental effects have been observed. ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 34 GRI 102-41 ANNEXES Social Performance Indicators 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Employees Left based on Employees by Gender Female Male Female Male Female Male Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Number of Employees 1,307 3,998 1,777 5,082 2,530 6,165 Age 50 and over 43 96 35 101 18 52 Total 5,305 6,859 8,695 Age 30-50 91 376 328 604 157 432 Age 30 and under 72 182 141 219 59 186 2017 2018 2019 Employees by Category Total 860 1,428 904 Female Male Female Male Female Male Blue Collar 303 1,878 305 2,521 422 3,103 2017 2018 2019 Parental Leave White Collar 1,004 2,120 1,472 2,561 2,108 3,062 Female Male Female Male Female Male Total 5,305 6,859 8,695 Employees on Parental Leave 35 12 377 77 429 68 Employees Back from Parental 2017 2018 2019 32 12 250 69 317 61 Collective Bargaining Leave Agreement (CBA) Female Male Female Male Female Male Employees under CBA 127 896 517 2,177 1,188 2,926 Training 2017 2018 2019 Average Hours of Training per 11.2 10.3 20 Employee 2017 2018 2019 Executives based on Gender and Age Female Male Female Male Female Male Occupational Health and 2017 2018 2019 Age 50 and over 6 10 16 25 52 79 Safety Age 30-50 51 87 237 405 687 1,379 Accident Frequency Rate* 1.86 0.96 0.71 Age 30 and under 3 2 27 30 191 226 Occupational Disease Rate** 0 0 0 Total 159 740 2,614 Number of Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 *Accident Frequency Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000/Total working hours 2017 2018 2019 New Recruits based on **Occupational Disease Rate = Total number of occupational diseases x 200,000/Total working hours Gender and Age Kadın Erkek Kadın Erkek Kadın Erkek Age 50 and over 5 6 2 12 7 19 Age 30-50 57 139 85 263 147 417 Age 30 and under 77 253 95 290 205 429 Total 540 747 1,224 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 ANNEXES GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure References GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 2 102-2 4-5 102-3 43 102-4 5 102-5 4 102-6 4-5 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-7 4, 15 102-8 15 102-9 24-25 102-10 No changes 102-11 13 102-12 32 102-13 32 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. The service was performed on the Turkish version of the report ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 36 GRI Standard Disclosure References ANNEXES Strategy 102-14 3 102-15 9-10 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 12 102-17 12 Governance 102-18 12 102-19 12 GRI 102: General 102-20 12 Disclosures 2016 102-28 13 102-29 13 102-30 13 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 32 102-41 35 102-42 11 102-43 11 102-44 11 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 GRI Standard Disclosure References ANNEXES Reporting Practices 102-45 4 102-46 11 102-47 11 102-48 2018 carbon emissions have been updated in line with the change in the electricity emission coefficient. 102-49 No changes GRI 102: General 102-50 2 Disclosures 2016 102-51 2 102-52 2 102-53 43 102-54 2 102-55 36-42 102-56 No external assurance GRI 200: Economic Standard Series Procurement Practices 103-1 24-25 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 24-25 103-3 24-25 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 24 Practices 2016 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 38 GRI Standard Disclosure References ANNEXES GRI 300: Environmental Standard Series Energy 103-1 21 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 21 103-3 21 302-1 34 302-3 34 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 21 302-5 21 Water and Effluents 103-1 22 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 22 103-3 22 303-1 22 303-2 22 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-3 34 303-4 34 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 GRI Standard Disclosure References ANNEXES GRI 300: Environmental Standard Series Emissions 103-1 21 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 21 103-3 21 305-1 34 305-2 34 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 34 305-4 34 305-5 21 Effluents and Waste 103-1 22 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 22 103-3 22 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 34 Waste 2016 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40 GRI Standard Disclosure References ANNEXES GRI 400: Social Standard Series Employment 103-1 15-18 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 15-18 103-3 15-18 401-1 35 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 35 Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 19 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 19 103-3 19 403-1 19 403-2 19 403-4 19 403-5 19 GRI 403: Occupational 403-6 19 Health and Safety 2018 403-7 19 403-8 19 403-9 35 403-10 35 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 GRI Standard Disclosure References ANNEXES GRI 400: Social Standard Series Training and Education 103-1 16-17 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 16-17 103-3 16-17 404-1 35 GRI 404: Training and 404-2 16 Education 2016 404-3 17 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 15 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 15 103-3 15 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 15,35 Opportunity 2016 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 42 ANNEXES CONTACT LEGAL NOTICE Receive more information on Anadolu Efes's Sustainability Report and share your Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report (Report), Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ș. This report has been opinions or suggestions: prepared by Anadolu Efes in accordance with the GRI Reporting Principles and the United Nations Global Compact Progress Report. All information and views provided in this report may not be complete. They have been obtained by Anadolu Efes and have not been verified independently for the purpose of this document. This report SELDA SUSAL SAATÇI has been prepared for informative purposes only and does not purport to be a basis for investment decisions. The Corporate Communication and Relations Director information in this report does not constitute a proposal to sell Anadolu Efes shares or an invitation to such a sale selda.susal@tr.anadoluefes.com process. Its publication cannot be considered a legal relationship of this type. At the time of the preparation of this report, all data and related documents therein were believed to be true and information are presented in NERIMAN ERALP KALYONCUOĞLU goodwill and based on reliable sources. However, Anadolu Efes neither makes any statement nor guarantees Corporate Communications Manager and/or undertakes any commitment in relation to these data. In this regard, Anadolu Efes or any of its neriman.kalyoncuoglu@tr.anadoluefes.com subsidiaries or their board members, consultants, managers or employees are not responsible for any direct or indirect loss or damage suffered by an individual due to any information or communication relayed within the scope of the Report, or due to information present in this Report or missing from it. ANADOLU EFES BIRACILIK VE MALT SANAYI A.Ş. Fatih Sultan Mehmet Mh. Balkan Cd. No:58 Buyaka E Blok This report is prepared for corporate promotion purposes in accordance with Anadolu Efes Sustainability Tepeüstü Ümraniye 34771 Strategy. It does not contain any advertising or promotion of alcoholic beverages directed at consumers. İstanbul, Türkiye T: +90 216 586 80 00 Pbx T: +90 216 586 82 24 F: +90 216 488 78 63 www.anadoluefes.com.tr REPORTING CONSULTANT S360 Sürdürülebilirlik ve İletişim Hizmetleri info@s360.com.tr www.s360.com.tr T: +90 (212) 351 91 76 REPORT DESIGN FM Data İletişim info@data-iletisim.com www.icerikvetasarim.com T: +90 (212) 662 78 00 roundabout info@roundabout.com.tr www.roundabout.com.tr T: +90 (212) 292 07 13 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43
