Sustainability Report 2020 -1Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact -2Preface Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer – We are happy to publish our sixth Sustainability Report, which gives us a chance to present our recent progress, but also to communicate the challenges still ahead of us. The reporting cycle of this reports ranges from 1st January 2019 to 31st December 2019. This report is also our annual Communication of Progress (COP) and will be published on the UN Global Compact Website. Hereby, we reaffirm our commitment to core values in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption we made with the signing of the UN Global Compact in 2014. In 2019, we successfully maintained our international Medical Device Single Audit Program (MDSAP)-certification and adjusted the supply chain slightly. Since 1984, Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH provides high-quality healthcare products. Improving the ecological, economic and social impacts of our actions have been guidelines of our entrepreneurial activity from the very beginning. We invite all business partners and other interested parties to join and support us in realizing this vision and get in contact with us in case of any questions or suggestions. Hallbergmoos, Mai 2020 Michael Kroll Stefan Kroll Managing Directors Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH -3Contents Preface ......................................................................................................................................... 3 Contents ....................................................................................................................................... 4 1 Human Rights ..................................................................................................................... 5 2 Labour .................................................................................................................................. 8 3 Environment...................................................................................................................... 11 4 Anti-Corruption & Fair Business Practice ...................................................................... 18 5 Community Engagement ................................................................................................. 20 6 Outlook .............................................................................................................................. 22 Further information: Optima: Corporate Sustainability website http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.php/en/sustainability/sustainability.html United Nations Global Compact http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ -41 Human Rights Principle 1: We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights in our own operations Optima declares its full support for the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Optima’s operations are based in Germany, Switzerland and Italy. According to the Verisk Maplecroft Human Rights Risk Index 2016, Germany and Switzerland have a low, Italy a medium prevalence of human rights-related risks (see “Further information”). Our research and development activities are carried out exclusively in Germany, in cooperation with renowned research institutions. All quality standards and sector commitments are fully adhered to. One of our main research partners is also a signee to the UN Global Compact. Human rights in our supply chain Optima’s supply chain is exclusively located in member states of EU and Switzerland. As mentioned above, those countries are considered holding a low potential of human rights infractions. Therefore, the exposure to human rights-related risks in case of tier 1 suppliers is also considered minimal. Our detailed sustainability standards for our suppliers require them to adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles (see “Further information”). Also, tier 1 suppliers are requested to report any human rights-related incidents in their own operations or supply chains to Optima. As a measurement of outcome, we monitor the number of complaints, incidents or other issues related to human right abuses, both in our own operations and our supply chain. In the last year, as in the year before, no such incidents were brought to the knowledge of Optima. ✓ 0 human rights-related incidents -5In 2016, we included the dimension of sustainability in accordance with the content promoted by the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI Base Code, see “further information”). These topics were also addressed during the on-site audits. For Human Rights topics, this includes the following criteria: Management systems / Code of Conduct for sustainability management Harsh or inhumane Treatment Entitlement to work Additionally, we request our audited suppliers to declare conformity to the ETI Base Code, as well as to Optima’s Standards for Sustainable Procurement, and all applicable national and international laws and regulations. In 2019, we audited three of our main suppliers. Based on our own risk assessment, we have thus covered all suppliers with even a remote exposure to said risks. ✓Three successful on-site supplier audits addressing human rights issues Human rights in the downstream value chain The downstream value chain (e.g. in logistics and distribution) only allows little insights into human rights conditions. 91,5% of Optima’s sales volume is directed to EU countries (including Switzerland), 8% to Australia, New Zealand and 0,5% to Canada. As those countries are operating in areas of low to medium human rights threads, a general compliance of the downstream value chain partners with the existing legal requirements concerning human rights can be assumed. Regarding our downstream value chain, we actively encourage our partners to participate in voluntary sustainability and human rights codices, like the UN Global Compact or the German Sustainability Codex. In 2019, about two thirds of our key customers were signatories to the UN Global compact or similar voluntary codices (e.g. German Sustainability Codex), and/or have an own policy for the protection of human rights. Although this share was not increased compared to 2018, it is planned to keep engaging with value chain partners on this topic. ✓ 2/3 of key customers are publicly committed to fighting human rights abuses -6Further information Ethical Trading Initiative: http://www.ethicaltrade.org Optima: Standards for Sustainable Procurement (German) http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/microsites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/standards_for_sust ainable_procurement.pdf Verisk Maplecroft: Human Rights Risk Index 2016 https://reliefweb.int/sites/reliefweb.int/files/resources/2016_ITF_Human_Rights_Index_ 2016-01.pdf -72 Labour Principle 3: We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Working conditions One of our key concerns is the creation of optimal working conditions for all employees. Our goal is not only to match the legal requirements, but to exceed those wherever possible. Optima enables and encourages part-time employment of employees of all genders by offering flexible contracts. Equal opportunities and employee rights Optima guarantees its employees the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association as regulated by national and European laws and standards. We are an equal opportunities employer. We strive actively against discrimination of employees. We fully comply with national and European employee protection and antidiscrimination legislation. Our employees are our capital. Therefore, we provide ongoing trainings and qualification initiatives to our employees and focus on a long-term HR development strategy. Midst 2017, the headquarter of Optima was moved 30 km to Hallbergmoos. Because of the longer commuting distances and connected higher costs for our employees, we decided to support them with financial assistance and by offering attractive lunch options at the new site. This is still valid. We constantly try to improve the work-life-balance we provide to our staff. Wherever possible, we try to provide flexible solutions for new aspirants and long-term employees. -8We closely monitor the number of incidents regarding employee rights or discrimination (e.g. formal complaints, legal conflicts etc.), of which there were again none in the last year. For 2020, we also aim to keep this number at zero. ✓ 0 labour rights-related incidents No child or forced labour Our employment policy is in accordance to legal requirements and we have no employees under the age of 18, no kind of forced or compulsory labour. Labour standards in our supply chain The majority of our tier 1 suppliers are located in Germany and France. Those countries have: • a low level of child labour risk according to the Child Labour Index 2014 • a low level of working conditions risk according to the Working Conditions Index 2014 (see “Further information”) Our supplier standards for sustainable procurement also include compliance with all legal requirements and the labour-related Principles of the UN Global Compact. Our key supplier audits conducted in 2019 (see chapter 2) also covered randomly requested labour topics based on the standards put forward by the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI Base Code, see “further information” in Chapter 1), such as: Freedom of employment Freedom of association Safety and hygienic conditions Child labour Working conditions, flexibility, remunerations and benefits We have covered all suppliers with a potential exposure to said risks. ✓ Three successful on-site supplier audits addressing labour issues -9Further information Optima: Standards for Sustainable Procurement http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/microsites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/standards_for_sust ainable_procurement.pdf Maplecroft: Child Labour Index 2014 http://maplecroft.com/portfolio/new-analysis/2013/10/15/child-labour-risks-increase-china-andrussia-most-progress-shown-south-america-maplecroft-index/ Maplecroft: Working Conditions Index 2014 https://maplecroft.com/portfolio/new-analysis/2014/01/29/world-cup-host-qatar-among-11countries-downgraded-lsquoextreme-riskrsquo-working-conditions-maplecroft-index/ 10 3 Environment Principle 7: We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environmental sustainability is a key concern of the management and the employees alike. Although Optima’s products do not require large amounts of energy or natural resources in production or use, we accomplish the responsibility for minimizing negative impacts. While Optima is not directly exposed to significant environmental risks, energy and resource availability play an important role. Energy use Energy production and use is a main source of greenhouse gas emissions. The use of renewable energies is a way to reduce energy-related emissions. As we relocated, the use of pellet / woodchip heating was no longer available. Now, we are relying on district heat. Also, in December 2017 we changed our energy supply to Greenpeace Energy which we are using since then. Efficient energy and resource use are topics that need to be integrated broadly into business processes. To improve in those areas, Optima decided to transit towards a paper-free administration. In 2018, the search for an ERP-software was initiated. 2019, a decision was made and step by step this software will be implemented until 2021. This results in a progressively declining paper consumption. Within our on-site supplier audits conducted in 2019, we have also covered the subject of environmental impacts, including: Continuous improvement of environmental performance Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations ✓ Three successful on-site supplier audits addressing ecological issues 11 Transportation & Mobility Regarding energy use for transportation and packaging, Optima is working continuously on optimizing production structure and processes. One example is the restructuring of production for one of our main products. In 2019, we continued to work on improving the centralization of our distribution by sending out individual shipments directly from the location of manufacturing. Regarding sustainable employee mobility, Optima continued to use a battery-electric vehicle. The charging station provides power from renewable sources, and therefore allows emission-free business travels. The car has been used widely for nearto medium-range Optima’s electric company car, a Volkswagen e-Golf travels, and feedback by employees is decidedly positive. The energy use for 2019 was 1.457 kWh. Since the purchase, about 38.500 km have been driven with it. In 2019, the car has been used for about 7.000 km. We also decided to pro-actively step back from the use of diesel-powered cars. As one of our diesel car’s leasing contract ended, we signed a new leasing contract for an Audi A4 Gtron which is powered with natural gas instead. This not only improves the fine dust pollution caused by us but is also a significantly slimmer contribution to our carbon footprint. Furthermore, we decided to abolish one of our diesel-cars without substitution. ✓ Continued use of electric vehicle & charging infrastructure ✓ 7.000 km travelled emission-free ✓ Step-by-step reduction of diesel-related emissions ✓ Abolishment of one diesel-car 12 Resource-friendly expansion strategy Due to constantly growing company activity, we had reached the limits of our old headquarter building. We have therefore assessed several options to extend our old facility, erecting a new building or relocating to another location. In 2016, we decided to move to an existing building approximately 30 km from our previous location. Besides practical advantages, this solution also has ecological benefits, since materials and energy consumption and therefore greenhouse gas emissions for constructing a new building are avoided, which would have had a significant impact on our carbon footprint. Furthermore, the connection to public transportation is better in Hallbergmoos, so it is easier for the employees to reach the office without their own car. Downside to this solution is, however, that for some employees commuting distances may be longer to the new location. To compensate for ecological effects, Optima compensates all non-avoidable emissions also from employee commuting. In addition, we grant parallel working times to make group commuting possible. Greenhouse gas emissions balance Starting with the year 2012, we are assessing our annual Corporate Carbon Footprint, meaning the greenhouse gas emissions balance of all company operations, including upand downstream processes of the value chain. The advantage of the Carbon Footprint is that it includes emissions from energy and fuels, material-related emissions of the upstream and downstream value chains as well as other indirect emission sources like business travel and commuting of employees. Thus, it gives valuable insights into the ecologic hotspots of a company’s environmental balance and provides a single indicator that is easy to monitor. The calculation itself is carried out by our environmental consulting partner DFGE – Institute for Energy, Ecology, Economy, in accordance with the GHG Protocol standard. 13 The total emissions for Optima amount to 479t CO2e for calendar year 2017. Of these, 2% are caused by consumption of fuels for vehicles and heating (Scope 1). Emissions from purchased energy (Scope 2) also amount to 3%. The majority of emissions, with 95%, are other indirect emissions that occur along the value chains. Compared to the previous year, absolute emissions have decreased slightly from 491 t CO2e to 479 t CO2e by 2%. Several reasons can be accounted here. The sales volume decreased, the office space in Italy has been added to the calculation and business travel was cut significantly. Within Scope 3, especially the category of Purchased Goods & Services influences our emissions balance. This category includes the energy related emissions of contract manufacturing as well as value chain emissions of the materials used in production. The following graphic shows the share of emissions within Purchased Goods and Services. The biggest position within this category is held by packaging material. Besides the absolute emission amounts, we calculate our “emission intensity”, i.e. the relative emissions per piece of production output. This provides a clearer view of improvements in efficiency, even if the absolute carbon footprint is increasing due to growth in business activity. From 2018 to 2019, relative emissions increased slightly from 104 g CO2e to a value of 120 g CO2e per piece of output produced (including Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions). Here, the main reason is the decrease of sold products and parallelly the acquisition of the Italian office. ✓ Absolute emissions reduced by 2% ✓ Three successful on-site supplier audits addressing ecological issues 14 Optima a climate-neutral company Energy and resource consumption and related emissions can be reduced by efficiency measures – but only to a certain point. However, Optima also takes responsibility for all non-avoidable emissions. Therefore, we compensate all our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions as calculated in the Carbon Footprint, by financing certified emission reduction projects. Since 2014, Optima has supported a reforestation and community support project in Zimbabwe through the purchase of Verified Carbon Standard emission reduction certificates. This project not only contributes to reducing Greenhouse gas emissions, but also provides sustainable livelihood options for local communities, by funding healthcare centers, community gardens, school fee subsidies etc. Supported Reforestation/Community support project “Kariba REDD+” in Zimbabwe The Carbon Footprint as ©South Pole Group southpolegroup.com well as the compensation have been certified by TÜV Hessen, and Optima has been awarded as “climate neutral company” according to the TÜV ProfiCert Standard Climate Neutrality. Optima has committed itself to continue the compensation of 100% of non-avoidable emissions over the coming years. In 2019, this ongoing compensation has been re-audited successfully by TÜV Hessen. ✓ 100% of Scope 1+2+3 emissions compensated 15 Natural resources / raw materials An important focus area regarding environmental impacts is the provenience of natural raw materials used. Depending on the method and region of production, these may have larger or smaller environmental impacts. In the case of Optima’s products, paper is the most relevant material by quantity, as it is used in the individual product package, as well as for shipping boxes, leaflets etc. Optima’s goal is to use as much recycled paper as possible. For the remaining amount of non-recycled paper, we are using FSC (or alternatively PEFC) certified paper, wherever available. In 2017, we started to use 100% certified (or recycled) paper for all product packaging and in our office operations which is still carried out until today. Equally, Optima’s tier 1 suppliers and contract manufacturers are requested to use recycled paper wherever possible, and FSC (or PEFC) certified paper in all other cases. If no certified products are available, materials from known and legal sources must be used, which do not cause avoidable negative ecological and social impacts like deforestation, land use conflicts etc. ✓ 100% certified paper for product packaging and office use Regarding product ingredients, two important naturally sourced materials are ethanol and soy lecithin, which may be related to increased ecological impacts. However, the absolute amount of material used is limited. Optima’s tier 1 suppliers are requested to comply with all applicable environmental, health, labour and social standards when sourcing natural materials, and ensure that they do not cause avoidable negative ecological and social impacts like deforestation, land use conflicts etc. 16 Waste and recycling Regarding our products, the central focus lies on supreme quality and safety, but we also care about their end-of-life phase: Our products are not harmful to the environment and can be safely disposed of by regular means. Paper boxes, leaflets, empty glass containers and plastic caps can and should be recycled. Through their innovative formulation and application method, our liposomal eye sprays have a much longer usage time compared to alternative products. This means that the amount of waste is reduced drastically compared to other products, especially those with one-dose packaging. Further information: DFGE/Optima: Carbon Footprint Balance https://www.optimapharma.de/nachhaltigkeit/co2-fussabdruck-und-klimaneutralitaet/ TÜV Hessen: Certificate– Climate Neutrality http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/images/microsites/nachhaltigkeit/pdf/optima_tuevhesse n_klimaneutralitaet.pdf South pole Group: Kariba REDD+ Reforestation Project Description & Video http://www.thesouthpolegroup.com/projects/community-development-protects-forests# 17 4 Anti-Corruption & Fair Business Practice Principle 10: We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Clear stance against corruption Optima condemns all forms of corruption. We believe in fair and open competition and are convinced that quality, innovation and efficiency are the key to long term business success. The commitment to prevent all forms of corruption has been integrated in our internal Quality Management Handbook. Anti-corruption action in our value chain Optima has issued clear standards for its suppliers that include the compliance with all legal requirements and requests them to adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles on fighting corruption. The 2014 Corruption Risk Index by Maplecroft shows that the countries in which Optima operates and where the majority of suppliers are located have a “low” risk of corruption, with the exception of Austria with “medium” risk (see “Further Information”). Optima monitors the number of incidents related to corruption of any form, both within the company and the supply chain. In the last year, there were none such incidents brought to the knowledge of Optima. We aim to keep up this performance in the coming year. ✓ 0 corruption-related incidents Furthermore, we monitor the share of key customers that have published an own code of conduct or policy regarding corruption and/or are signatures to the UN Global 18 Compact or similar codices. In the last year, about two thirds of our key customers have made such a public commitment. Within our on-site supplier audits conducted in 2019, we have also covered the subject of business ethics based on the standards put forward by the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI Base Code, see “further information” in chapter 1), including: Bribery and fraud prevention Existence of a business ethics policy / code of conduct Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations ✓ 2/3 of key customers are publicly committed to fight corruption ✓ Three successful on-site supplier audits addressing business ethics issues Further information: Maplecroft: Corruption Risk Index 2014 http://maplecroft.com/portfolio/new-analysis/2013/09/24/corruption-risk-index-reveals-longterm-lack-will-tackle-corruption-brics/ 19 5 Community Engagement Optima compensates all its Greenhouse Gas emissions by funding certified projects around the world. However, as a locally rooted company, Optima would like to contribute to an intact and valuable environment in our Bavarian home region. Therefore, in 2015 Optima decided to support the regional initiative “Bergwald-Projekt e.V.”, which is working to re-naturalize and stabilize endangered forest areas in the Bavarian mountain regions, which were affected by climate change-related developments like storms, temperature changes and vermin damages. As in previous years, Optima is supporting the Bergwaldprojekt also in 2019. The main targets of this association is to support reforestation and stabilization of ecosystems. In 2019, Optima contributed the financial resources to reforest more than three hectares of soil with mainly sessile oak. In addition, the shareholder of Optima decided to continue the support the Oxfam project in Burkina Faso for establishing a sustainable livelihood in December 2017 for the estimated project expenses 2018 / 2019. The three core focus points of this project are the support of disadvantaged social classes as women or young generations, the adoption to new challenges caused by climate change and the maintenance of small agricultural companies which play a crucial role for the food supply for the local community. In 2019, Optima joined the Entrepreneurs for Future initiative. They support the Fridays for Future movement and the Paris Climate Agreement. In this context, Optima also supported the aid agency “World Vision” spreading their FMNR (Farmer Managed Natural Regeneration) approach for regenerative reforestation with a donation to regenerate 6.000 hectare of land. As Optima is holding shares on stock exchange listed companies, the management decided to hand over their voting rights for the shareholders’ meetings of those 20 companies to the German organization “Dachverband Kritische Aktionärinnen und Aktionäre”, which represents sustainable interests. In detail, their core values are: trying to stop coal power promoting the Sustainable Development Goals the protection of basic human rights This helps to put pressure on the management of those companies as they are openly confronted with questions about grievances in their business. Further information: Bergwaldprojekt & Plant for the Planet: Information, Project Report and Certificates: http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.php/nachhaltigkeit/klimaschutz/weiterge hendes-engagement-fuer-den-klimaschutz Plant for the Planet: Supporter List: http://www.plant-for-theplanet.org/de/unterstuetzen/partnerschaft Entrepreneurs for Future: https://www.entrepreneurs4future.de/ Oxfam’s project in Burkina Faso : https://www.oxfam.de/unserearbeit/projekte/burkina-faso-integrierter-ansatz-gegen-hunger Dachverband Kritische Aktionärinnen und Aktionäre : https://www.kritischeaktionaere.de 21 6 Outlook Our goal for the next year is to keep up our climate neutrality. In recent years, we experienced almost no valuation from our customers for tackling that topic and therefore it is getting harder and harder to justify the additional expenses. Though, we hope to provide even more attractive working conditions for our employees and to keep exceeding the expectations of our customers and the users of our products. As we believe in a green future powered by renewable energy, we think that no new investments into coal, oil or gas companies should be done anymore. We decided to take the Fossil Free Campaign1 as a role model and adopt their main guidelines: • Divestment – no further investment into fossil energy • Desponsor – no sponsorship of fossil energy companies, no shareholding We are constantly working on improving the data quality and general awareness of the sustainability-topic across our supply chain. Of course, our influence is limited due to the comparably small amounts of batches we order per supplier, but we still try to spread the general idea and benefits of responsible and sustainable company management. So far, several of our suppliers showed general interest but felt not ready to start with implementing a CSR-management so far. We invite all partners, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders to communicate openly with Optima regarding all sustainability topics. All new information and reports will be published in the sustainability section of our homepage: http://nachhaltigkeit.optimapharma.de/index.php/en/sustainability/sustainability.html 1 https://gofossilfree.org 22 © 2020 Optima Pharmazeutische GmbH Ludwigstraße 49, 85399 Hallbergmoos, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 811 / 555 393 0 E-Mail: info@optimapharma.de Internet: www.optimapharma.de Produced with assistance by DFGE – Institute for Energy, Ecology, Economy Kreitstr.5, 86926 Greifenberg, Germany Tel.: +49 (0) 8192 / 99733-20 E-Mail: info@dfge.de Internet: www.dfge.de 23 -
