SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 HEALTHY LIVING SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CONTENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 About Bakkafrost 4 Content Our sustainability journey 5 WHAT’S IN THIS REPORT 2019 Interview with Regin Jacobsen 6 Our Healthy Living Plan 8 This is Bakkafrost’s third sustainability report. The Bakkafrost and the UN Sustainable Development Goals 9 document provides an overview of performance against our two-year Healthy Living Sustainability Bakkafrost salmon at a glance 10 Plan, for the reporting period 1 January to Material sustainability topics 11 31 December 2019. As the biggest salmon producer in the Faroe Islands, we understand our responsibility to be transparent about the Healthy Business Performance review 12 impacts we have on the local economy, society Building blocks for a sustainable business 15 and the environment. This report includes data from our UK and US operations and Havsbrún, but excludes data from the Scottish Salmon Company. Healthy People Performance review 16 Listening to our employees 21 For more information, please visit www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability Healthy Salmon Performance review 22 Promoting sustainability in Asia 27 Healthy Environment Performance review 28 Salmon aquaculture and climate change 36 Healthy Communities Performance review 37 Leaving a lasting footprint 40 About sustainability at Bakkafrost 41 Stakeholder engagement 42 Memberships and ratings 44 UN Global Compact Progress report 45 Assurance statement 46 ABOUT BAKKAFROST SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4 HAVSBRÚN About Bakkafrost BAKKAFROST HEADQUARTERS BAKKAFROST established in 1968 by brothers Hans and Róland Jacobsen Location: Faroe Islands Headquarters: Glyvrar, Eysturoy Production and business-to-business sale: salmon, packaging, fishmeal, oil and feed Longest integrated value chain in the industry. Fully-owned subsidiaries: Havsbrún, Fuglafjørður (meal, oil and feed); Bakkafrost UK, Grimsby (seafood importer and distributor); Bakkafrost USA, New Jersey (seafood producer, importer and distributor); Förka, Tórshavn (biogas plant) Listed: Oslo Børs with ticker symbol BAKKA Employees: 1,154 (929 full time equivalent), including 88 at Havsbrún. We have a further 6 at Bakkafrost UK, and 40 at Bakkafrost USA Markets served: USA (22%), Europe (37%), Eastern Europe (12%), Asia (29%) In October 2019 Bakkafrost acquired The Scottish Salmon Company (SSC), a Scottish salmon producer which is not included in this report Map excludes farming sites not in operation in 2019 Key • We finance our operations through a mixture of cash flow and shareholder capital Resources • We rely on the expertise, competencies and values of our workforce to operate and take our business forward, as we grow and evolve • We depend on a range of natural resources which make it possible to produce world-class quality salmon • We rely on state-of-the-art production facilities and service vessels to operate with optimum efficiency and volume • We benefit from a strong reputation for high-quality salmon and feed products, enabling us to grow our market share • We depend on healthy relationships with our stakeholders for optimal conditions to create shared value Fishmeal, oil and feed Breeding Smolt Biogas Sea water Processing Sales/Marketing Our Value Chain FISHMEAL FISH OIL FISH FEED BROODSTOCK HATCHERIES BIOGAS FARMING FSV HARVESTING PROCESSING PACKAGING SALES/MARKETING Output 130,000 t 90-100,000 t 20 farming sites 6 farming service 4.074 DKK From 2023 all primary and 70,000 t of 450 t of 700 t of fish 15 million 400g of waste con­ in oper­ati­on vessels (including 57,184 t of billion operating 300 t of fish oil roe used will 40,000 t salmon, annual fishmeal daily feed daily smolts annual version annual across 16 fjords – 4 live fish salmon harvested revenues daily capacity be from the secondary annual packaging capacity capacity capacity capacity new sites in carriers) and 74 2019 Sales to 30+ Faroese strain capacity. capacity Expected 2020 Hvalba, Gøta, Nes smaller boats countries New smokehouse The Pristine farming environment, efficient Bakkafrost High nutritional content from sustainable marine sources, Short transportation time for salmon Efficient processing capabilities and Good market Improved biosecurity circular solutions, zero antibiotics or non-GMO and sustainable ingredients due to short distances product development reach Difference growth hormones Value • We create value for our shareholders by maximising returns, and for the Faroe Islands through tax revenues and through direct and indirect employment opportunities Created • We meet growing global demand for protein with healthy and efficiently-produced salmon products • We contribute towards improved infrastructure in the Faroe Islands • We collaborate with the aquaculture industry to promote responsible and sustainable practice (Please see our Annual Report for our consolidated financial statements) OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Our sustainability journey 2003 2010 2013 2015 2017 2018 Faroese We became We became We became the Our meal and We launched our Healthy Living Plan We celebrated our 50th anniversary Veterinary Model the first feed a founding first Faroese oil division in our first sustainability report, to and announced a DKK 10 million introduced, factory to receive member of the company to get ASC received MSC accelerate our progress on material Healthy Living Fund, including a 3-year reducing GLOBAL G.A.P. Global Salmon Chain of Custody Chain of Custody sustainability issues and to increase partnership with the University of the mortality rates certification Initiative certification certification transparency Faroe Islands to support natural sciences 2019 We doubled the We signed the first number of ASC ASC-only contract certified sites (from 7 with Chinese retailer to 14) which provided Hema, promoting 80% of salmon sustainable food harvested that year consumption in Asia We began construction on our We began smoking new biogas plant, our salmon in-house, which will convert using wood certified farming waste into as sustainable renewable energy, heat and fertiliser We announced the acquisition of the Scottish Salmon Company 2020 2022 2022 2030 We will update our Healthy We will have a new, more efficient service We will begin operations at a new hatchery and Will report on our target to reduce Living sustainability strategy vessel to support our biosecurity strategy Faroese broodstock facilities, and start an offshore CO2 emissions from operations in and begin operations at our new project to support our biosecurity strategy the Faroe Islands biogas plant 2019 REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6 Interview with Regin 2019 in review REGIN JACOBSEN, CEO OF BAKKAFROST Q: 2019 was another important year for the salmon industry and for Bakkafrost. Looking back, what are your main reflections on the year? A: We have had another year of strong financial results with increased volumes and maintained profits. We are also pleased to be making progress with our growth strategy. Our journey has been characterised by delivering industry-leading growth and profitability, combined with a focus on value-creation and sustainability. A very important occasion for us was in September, when we announced the acquisition of the Scottish Salmon Company. The company has the capacity to harvest 50,000 tonnes per year, so there is great opportunity for growth. The acquisition was also attractive for us because of the great potential for synergies and the transfer of best practices. This move has made us the fourth-largest salmon producer in Europe with that comes greater responsibility. The end of 2019 also marked the end of the first phase of our Chief Executive Officer Regin Jacobsen Healthy Living Plan – our first public commitment to address our most material sustainability issues. strides certifying our farms to the best-practice Aquaculture Fish health and welfare remains a top priority for us and, Stewardship Council (ASC) standard. We doubled our number through large investments in biosecurity, we’ve managed to Q: Can you give us some highlights of the progress of certified farms in 2019, and we are positive we will meet significantly improve salmon survival rate in 2019. Bakkafrost made in 2019 in addressing its social and our commitment to the Global Salmon Initiative (GSI) to have environmental responsibilities, through the plan? all sites in the Faroe Islands certified by the end of 2020. We were delighted to be recognised at the Faroese Business A: We are happy with the progress we have made since we Working with customers to promote ASC in Asia has also been Awards for our biogas business Förka, which won Faroese first launched our sustainability plan. We’ve made great a highlight for us. Business Initiative 2019. 2019 REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 I really value the sustainability projects continue being successful. We believe that coming together Good work is being done to make and green solutions at Bakkafrost. to address many of these risks through national initiatives, the company even more sustainable, such as our unique Faroese Veterinary Model, has given us an especially in relation to the Anonymous, Employee Survey, advantage, and we are proud to be leading the way in areas such as fish health and welfare. Our collaboration with the GSI environment. Bakkafrost Faroe Islands and our commitment to various standards and certifications, Anonymous, Employee Survey, such as the ASC, have also enabled us to work with other Bakkafrost Faroe Islands The new plant, which will process waste from salmon and farmers to address industry sustainability issues. dairy farms into fertiliser and renewable energy, will be in operation in 2020 and have a considerable local impact. As well as our continued focus on certification and investments to address industry challenges such as sea lice and disease, in health and welfare and minimising environmental impacts. We regulary receive positive feedback following customer 2019, we also increased our focus on systemic issues such We will be looking at how we can best deliver this updated visits – they are often impressed with the efficiency and as climate change. We began exploring how we can decouple sustainability strategy with maximum impact. sustainability of our operations. However, I think one of the growth from our environmental impact in this area. You can most meaningful measures of success for us in 2019 was how read more about this in our updated Healthy Living Plan. We will also continue exploring offshore options which in employees responded when we asked them to rate us on our the future could further reduce the impact we have on the approach to sustainability, in our first company survey. They Q: What characterises the updated Healthy Living Plan? nearshore environment. not only felt we were taking responsibility for our role in A: As before, our updated three-year Healthy Living sustaina­ addressing the UN Sustainable Development Goals, but they bility plan was designed around a vision to enable healthy Q: What can we look forward to in this third also felt they had a good understanding of how they could living for millions of people through the provision of healthy sustainability report for Bakkafrost? Anything you’d contribute in their roles. Having sustainability embedded into and nutritious salmon. We believe we have a critical role to like to highlight? our culture is a must if we are to be fit for the future. play in the shift towards healthy and sustainable diets to meet A: We have aligned our sustainability reporting with the the demands of the growing population. Although farmed international Global Reporting Initiative standard again We were also delighted to be named among the Best Performers salmon is one of the most efficient sources of animal protein, this year, which we believe improves the quality of our in the Coller FAIRR Protein Producer Index, which ranks the it is important that global production is expanded responsibly. reporting and provides greater transparency on how we are world’s largest listed protein producers on sustainability. We working towards our vision. In this report we have increased were recognised as the best-performing aquaculture company We have had input from experts, to develop a more ambitious transparency in areas such as fish welfare, carbon emissions for not using antibiotics since 2004. plan, aligned with our most material issues. It builds and and social effect. improves upon our initial plan by going further in areas such Q: Despite the continued strong financial results and as social impact, and as mentioned, placing a greater focus on I hope you enjoy reading it and I welcome any feedback progress with your sustainability agenda, you are still issues of growing stakeholder interest, such as climate change. directly to me at reja@bakkafrost.com. facing several significant issues in the industry. What have you done in 2019 to address these? Q: What challenges do you see in the road ahead? What A: We are very much on a journey. The salmon industry has are your priorities for 2020? faced some difficult challenges over the years, and we are still A: One of our main priorities will of course be the integration learning in many areas, along with the rest of the industry. of the Scottish Salmon Company into Bakkafrost, and we are This has made it imperative for us to understand and take a looking forward to sharing best practice in addressing the long-term view of the risks facing our business if we are to common challenges shared by us, such as improving fish HEALTHY LIVING PLAN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 8 Bakkafrost’s Healthy Living Plan Our mission is to produce healthy, world-class salmon. We believe that by investing in the health of our business, our people, our salmon, the environment and the communities in which we operate, we will enable healthy living for millions of people globally. Our Healthy Living Plan outlines our sustainability goals for the Faroe Islands in one place. Healthy Business Healthy People Healthy Salmon Healthy Environment Healthy Communities To grow efficiently and To be a preferred employer To exceed leading standards To minimise our environmental impact To create shared value STRATEGIC responsibly PRIORITY • Have zero cases of • Renew our employee strategy • Maintain our high omega-3 levels • Further optimise feed distribution • Set up a new ‘Healthy Living’ Fund noncompliance • Launch an employee engagement • Maintain high customer satisfaction with • Continue phasing out copper-treated nets • Implement stakeholder engagement • Have customer net survey product quality • Implement a sustainable feed policy plan promoter score (NPS) of 9 • Have zero fatalities • Reduce fish mortality to 6% • Implement a new community 2019 out of 10 or above • Have ASC certification across all sites investment plan PERFORMANCE • Invest in a new biogas plant (end of 2020 GSI goal) AGAINST • Further develop and implement nonOUR 2020 medicinal treatments with high focus on COMMITMENTS fish welfare • Have zero fish escapes See page 12 for more details See page 16 for more details See page 22 for more details See page 28 for more details See page 37 for more details • Have zero cases of non• Have industry-leading employee • Maintain our high omega-3 levels • Increase size of smolt released to 500gm • Actively educate key stakeholders on compliance engagement scores • Remain antibiotic-free • Become certified against ISO14001 environmental the benefits of salmon aquaculture • Actively engage customers in • Launch internal sustainable • Maintain salmon survival rate at 94% or standard • Increase collaboration with key waste reduction behavior campaign above • Have zero fish escapes stakeholders to achieve the Healthy • Maintain high NPS and • Maintain gender diversity in senior • Increase research to optimise fish welfare • Optimise feed strategy to maintain industry-leading Living Plan customer satisfaction with positions and product quality FCR • Increase transparency on local value quality scores • Reduce absence rate by 10% • Maintain industry-leading approach to • Continue research into sustainable feed ingredients creation 2023 GOALS • Update procurement policy • Become certified against ISO45001 animal welfare • Investigate new sustainable marine sources for • Continue DKK 10m 3yr investment in and supplier code of conduct standard • Reach and maintain ASC certification of all fishmeal Healthy Living Fund • Influence the improvement • Have zero fatalities Bakkafrost salmon • Measurably reduce environmental impact from of aquaculture practices packaging • Extend ISO9001 standard • Have above 97% water recirculation rate in certification hatcheries (where possible) • Exclusively produce salmon • Reduce scope 1 and 2 CO2 footprint from Faroese from the unique Faroese operations by 50% by 2030 breed • Set scope 3 CO2 reduction target in 2020 • SDG 2 Zero Hunger • SDG 5 Gender Equality • SDG 2 Zero Hunger • SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation • SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic • SDG 7 Affordable and Clean • SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic • SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation • SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy Growth Energy Growth • SDG 14 Life Below Water • SDG 9 Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure • SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals • SDG 8 Decent Work and • SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals • SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production SDGs Economic Growth • SDG 13 Climate Action • SDG 9 Industry, Innovation, • SDG 14 Life Below Water and Infrastructure • SDG 15 Life on Land UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 Bakkafrost and the UN SDGs Potential for limited positive impact Responsibility to mitigate potential negative impact Bakkafrost and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) SDG 5 Gender Equality: SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation: The UN SDGs set out 17 global goals for social, environmental Achieve Gender equality and empower women and girls. Ensure availability and sustainable management of and economic progress between 2015 and 2030. The goals seek water and sanitation for all. to address the greatest challenges and opportunities faced by We are contributing towards target 5.5 by ensuring equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of We are addressing target 6.3 by introducing measures society today. decision-making in the company. to minimise the impact of our operations on the fjord environment; 6.4 by increasing water efficiency; and 6.6 At Bakkafrost we view the goals as representing broad by minimising future pollution from agriculture through stakeholder expectations on global issues, so we have used them liquid fertiliser to be produced at our biogas plant. as part of the materiality assessment which is the foundation for our 2023 Healthy Living Plan. During our strategic planning process, we referred to aspects of the Future-Fit Benchmark, SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy: SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production: designed to make the SDGs a reality. Ensure affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. energy for all. We have conducted a mapping of the SDGs against our activity to We are addressing target 12.3 by reducing food understand which are most relevant for us. We have distinguished We will be contributing towards target 7.2 from 2020 losses; target 12.2 by maximising efficiency of natural between areas where there is potential for high positive impact, by increasing the share of renewable energy in the resources used in our feed; 12.5 by adopting a circular areas for limited positive impact, and areas where we have a Faroe Islands’ energy mix from our planned biogas approach across different elements of our value responsibility to mitigate potential negative impacts. plant; and 7.3 by increasing energy efficiency in our chain; and 12.6 by increasing transparency on our operations. sustainability performance. Below, you can see how we’ve assessed our contribution to the goals, which you can read more about throughout the report. SDG 9 Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure: SDG 13 Climate Action: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and Take urgent action to combat climate change and its sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. impacts. Potential for high positive impact We are contributing towards target 9.4 by upgrading We will build the climate resilience of our company and assets across our value chain to make them more value chain, and look to reduce emissions associated SDG 2 Zero Hunger: sustainable, as well as contributing towards new with own operations. End hunger, achieve food security and improved infrastructure in the Faroe Islands. nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. We are contributing towards target 2.4 by providing SDG 14 Life Below Water: SDG 15 Life on Land: an efficient and healthy source of protein and essential Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of fatty acids to feed the growing population. marine resources for sustainable development. terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land We are contributing towards target 14.4 by only using degradation and halt biodiversity loss. marine ingredients certified as sustainable; and 14.1 by SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth: managing our impacts on the fjord environment. We are addressing target 15.2 by sourcing certified Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, sustainable paper and wood products and only employment and decent work for all. procuring non-GMO, Pro-Terra certified soy protein for our animal feed; and 15.5 by implementing measures We are contributing towards target 8.1 through our to reduce the impact from salmon aquaculture on the SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals: nearshore environment and increasing research into substantial contribution to the Faroese economy; 8.5 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize this area. by creating full and productive employment with equal the global partnership for sustainable development. opportunities as the largest private employer in the country; 8.7 through the strict standards outlined in We will continue to look for data to enable us to benchmark and, where We are contributing towards target 17.16 through our Code of Conduct and Supplier Standard; and 8.8 by relevant, increase our contribution to the SDGs, particularly in the context collaboration and partnerships to develop and share applying labour standards throughout our value chain of the Faroe Islands. best practice solutions that address systemic challenges (in line with third party certification). in aquaculture. BAKKAFROST SALMON AT A GLANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 10 Bakkafrost salmon at a glance NUTRITION ENVIRONMENT & HEALTH BAKKAFROST RDI 2019 2012 OMEGA-3 LEVELS RDI CO2e SURVIVAL RATE MEAN 2.7g 0.25g Recommended Daily 0.6g 95.43% per 40g typical serving of per 100g Intake salmon GSI average Bakkafrost salmon OMEGA-3 TO 6 RDI ASC CERTIFIED SEA LICE COUNT RATIO 80% 0.43 1.4 Recommended Daily Intake of Bakkafrost salmon harvested in 2019 Average over 12 months of female adult lice – all sites PROTEIN LEVELS RDI AUDITS PASSED ESCAPES 20.0g 58g Recommended Daily 100% 141,564 per 100g at Bakkafrost in 2019 Bakkafrost salmon in 2019 Intake VITAMIN B12 LEVELS RDI FEED CONVERSION RATIO MEDICINE IN BATH MEAN 2µg 1.12/1 0 4.02µg per 100g Recommended Daily Intake Bakkafrost salmon (1.2-1.5kg GSI average) Used by Bakkafrost to treat sea lice in 2019 VITAMIN E LEVELS HYDROGEN PEROXIDE RDI ANTIBIOTIC USE MEAN USE 3.83mg 9mg 0 0 Recommended Daily per 100g by Bakkafrost in 2019 Intake by Bakkafrost in 2019 Bakkafrost data calculated through an analysis of whole salmon GSI data: Global Salmon Inititative variations between all Bakkafrost sales sizes from 3-4 kg up to 7+ kg. RDI Sources: Nordic Nutrition 2012 and EFSA MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Material • Government regulation and compliance: Ability to meet growing demand through regulated growth, and compliance with relevant laws, regulations and local and international standards. sustainability topics • Ethical conduct: Upholding and promoting standards of good business practice throughout the value chain, consistent with Bakkafrost’s values and principles. Healthy • Customer satisfaction: Listening to customers and meeting changing customer needs and standards. Business • Innovation: Investing in innovation through research and development, to meet changing customer demands, capitalise on opportunities, and drive leading sustainability standards. • International relations: Managing impact on the brand from international relations issues. In 2019, we carried out our second materiality assessment, reviewing the most significant economic, social and • Human capital: Ability to attract and retain diverse talent and expertise, build workforce competency, and maintain high employee engagement through job satisfaction and engagement with company values. environmental risks and opportunities for the company and • Health, safety and wellbeing: Maintaining a high standard of occupational health and safety and creating our stakeholders. Healthy a healthy working culture. People • Human rights: Supporting and respecting the protection of all internationally recognised human rights and ensuring that none of these is breached through complicity or negligence. Bakkafrost’s business partners The analysis included various stages of desk research; are also expected to comply with these principles. a management team review of the issues with greatest operational, financial, and reputational impact; and a • Product quality and human health: Maintaining high product quality, by meeting the highest standards consultation with a representative group of external to avoid chemical contaminants, while providing nutritious, efficient and sustainable animal protein for stakeholders, which the CEO and management team selected optimum human health. • Fish health and welfare: Upholding leading welfare standards and limiting the use of chemicals and based on their level of interest in the company. Healthy medicines in the prevention of disease and sea lice. Salmon • Certification and collaboration: Collaborating to address systemic social, environmental and industry We carried out in-depth interviews with 19 stakeholders challenges through external standards and certification. representing a diverse range of groups including investors, customers, suppliers, community representatives, national • Local pollution: Minimising pollution of the local environment from each stage of the value chain (including regulators, NGOs and sustainability experts. We approached effluent waste, marine debris, and local water, noise and air pollution), and investing in environmental initiatives. at least two representatives from each group to participate, • Biodiversity: Working to avoid operations negatively impacting or contributing towards biodiversity loss helping us identify and prioritise key issues through an at any stage of the value chain, including the spread of disease and sea lice between farmed and wild fish populations, and any potential impacts on other wildlife or ecosystems. online questionnaire and subsequent in-depth interview. • Sustainable fish feed: Ensuring sustainable and responsible fishmeal, oil and feed production, including Healthy sourcing of raw materials and fish stock management. The result of this analysis was an updated list of 20 material Environment • Resource optimisation, waste, and packaging: Optimising the use of resources and minimising the environmental impact of waste from product’s lifecycle, (including food and packaging). sustainability issues that was used by our management • Water: Efficient use of fresh water at all stages in the value chain and investment in new technology to team to develop the second phase of our Healthy Living reduce use. • Climate change and energy: Limiting GHG emissions throughout the value chain – for example through Sustainability strategy (see page 8). efficient energy consumption and generation of renewable energy – and addressing climate change risks. We found that biodiversity and fish welfare had climbed up • Responsible leadership: Demonstrating leadership on industry issues, and responsible corporate the list of issues that we had invited stakeholders to rank citizenship. in order of importance. Adapting to climate change risk also • Community engagement and transparency: Engaging with the local community and promoting emerged as an issue of growing importance in the interviews. transparency on material issues. Healthy • Value generation: Adding value in society through tax contribution, community investment, and Here is the updated list of twenty issues. employment. Communities HEALTHY BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 12 Healthy business Performance review WHY IT IS IMPORTANT customers. We expect this trend towards transparency in STRATEGIC PRIORITY Aquaculture now accounts for 50% of the world’s fish that is responsible food-production to continue, and we understand made for food and this is expected to grow by 37% between that as well as meeting our ambitious production commitments, • To grow efficiently and responsibly 2016 and 2030 (FAO: 2018). we also have a role in providing the information shared with consumers on these topics. 2019 PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR 2020 COMMITMENTS Bakkafrost has an ambitious growth strategy which has enabled us to compete in the world’s fastest growing foodCommunicating this, and demonstrating our commitment • Have zero cases of non-compliance producing sector. In order to grow in a small country like the to producing healthy world-class salmon, responsibly and • Have a customer net promoter score (NPS) of 9/10 or above Faroe Islands requires untraditional and innovative ways sustainably must remain a priority for us. This includes • Invest in a new biogas plant of thinking, so as well as ensuring efficient growth (using continuing to increase transparency and third-party certification 2023 COMMITMENTS innovative technology), we are also growing our operations to assure the sustainability and quality of our production. This overseas to maximise output. is part of our Healthy Living Plan, championed by our Board. • Have zero cases of non-compliance • Actively engage customers in waste reduction To grow responsibly and sustainably, we must do so within By producing high-quality protein for a global market • Maintain high NPS and customer satisfaction with quality scores regulatory limits, while ensuring that we uphold the highest responsibly and efficiently, and through our investment in • Update procurement policy and supplier code of conduct standards of conduct. We are comitted to going beyond innovation and sustainable infrastructure, and renewable • Influence the improvement of aquaculture practices • Extend ISO9001 standard certification compliance on important issues. energy solutions, we are contributing towards UN Sustainable • Exclusively produce salmon from the unique Faroese breed Development Goals 2, 7, 8 and 9. For more information see Listening and responding to our customers’ needs and page 9. maintaining good international relations are also paramount. 2020 FOCUS More information on our corporate strategy to grow a healthy • Begin work updating our supplier standard In 2019, production increased to an average of more than a business can be found in our Annual Report. • Continue strengthening customer relationships and million portions of salmon a day, serving business customers responding to changing needs – such as importers, food producers, large supermarkets and GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE • Begin operations at the new biogas plant restaurant chains – in more than 30 countries across four Continuing to meet local and international standards is critical key markets: USA (22%), Europe (37%), Eastern Europe (12%), for sustainable growth. It is our company policy to comply SDGs and Asia (29%). As consumers in these markets increasingly with all relevant laws and governmental rules and regulations demand peace-of-mind about the sustainability of the food where we operate, and the responsibility of all employees to • SDG 2 Zero Hunger they buy, our direct customers’ demands have also increased. adhere to the standards and restrictions imposed by those • SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy • SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Recently we have found our strong sustainability record has laws, rules and regulations. We strive to meet, and preferably • SDG 9 Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure strengthened our relationship with some of our most important exceed, the requirements of all relevant legislation. This HEALTHY BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 means demonstrating leadership on issues at a national and international level. Our business relies heavily on the Faroe Islands’ natural capital, so compliance, leadership and openness on environmental issues are key. When the Faroese Veterinary Standard was introduced in 2003, a number of new restrictions were introduced to better control the farming environment. We cooperate with the environment agency and comply with all Faroese environmental and aquaculture legislation, which covers minimum standards for production at each stage of the value chain. Our farming licenses are subject to environmental impact assessments which guide part of our approach to reducing and society. For us this means acting responsibly, showing opportunity to raise concerns through formal grievance and our environmental impact. We go beyond compliance by respect, and being persistent, efficient and ambitious. whistleblower programmes. This includes any concerns about voluntarily signing up to, and conforming with, international ethical conduct, our failure to uphold our Code of Conduct or standards (such as the ASC), to raise the bar for the industry as These values are outlined in our Code of Conduct, which aims comply with, for example, food safety standards. a whole on certain sustainability issues. to create a sound corporate culture. Our Code requires all employees to observe high standards of business and personal We have an ongoing commitment to have zero cases of nonethics in the conduct of their duties and responsibilities. They In 2019, we: compliance. must employ a fair and honest approach in every dealing with • Launched our updated Corporate Responsibility Policy. other employees and all external stakeholders. • Introduced a new whistleblower programme. In 2019, we: Ethical conduct not only involves being a good corporate • Had zero cases of non-compliance (which we aim to citizen, but also ensuring our suppliers meet our standards. Our In 2020, we plan to update and strengthen our supplier meet again in 2020). suppliers are asked to adhere to our occupational health, safety standard, to reflect the increased focus on material issues of and wellbeing, human rights, child-labour, and environmental growing importance. • Implemented measures to comply with the 2018 standards, which are aligned with the ASC Standard. General Data Protection Regulation requirements, ahead CUSTOMER SATISFACTION of the new 2021 deadline for the Faroe Islands. Please see our Code of Conduct for more information on our Building long-term relationships with our customers is anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money laundering and other important if we want to maintain our position as a preferred ETHICAL CONDUCT standards of ethical conduct and how we evaluate our approach supplier of world-class salmon in the marketplace. This means It is important to go beyond compliance to ensure that we to ethical conduct through our Code. listening to them and meeting their changing needs and continue to uphold and promote good business practice standards. One way we do this is through our annual customer throughout the value chain, consistent with our core values Bakkafrost has an online mechanism through which members survey, where we give all our customers an opportunity to and principles. Our values guide our behaviour and approach of the public can raise a complaint or make a claim about give feedback on issues ranging from product quality and to creating long-term value for our customers, shareholders unethical or unlawful behaviour. Employees have the service to packaging. We have also been giving our customers HEALTHY BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14 “At Lidl we have a commitment to source INNOVATION 100% of our seafood from sustainable In 2019, we: As a relatively new industry, innovation is key to the development and growth of aquaculture. Investing in innovation fisheries or responsibly managed • Brought in new customers from the European and US markets. and research and development is key if we are to meet changing farms. Bakkafrost meets the social and customer demands, capitalise on opportunities, and sustainably environmental requirements outlined in • Started smoking our salmon in-house, launching our forge ahead. As part of our ambitious growth plan, we have our policy, and in 2019 we were very new product to the Faroese market. invested heavily in new technologies that have both helped us pleased to increase our order with them.” • Continued to develop product lines to meet customer to manage risk (e.g. the non-medicinal sea lice treatment now requests. carried by our service vessels a technology we continue to • Continued to build the Bakkafrost brand, with branded optimise) and to exploit opportunities for growth and product Martin Hesse, Purchasing Manager, LIDL sales to the US, European and Asian markets. development (e.g. circular solutions for waste management and • Received a net promoter score of 8.76 (56). Please see for energy). page 23 for our customer scores on quality. In 2019, we: the opportunity to see our operations for themselves at our • Began building a new biogas plant – our largest biennial Customer Summit. Over two days they visit our entire In 2020, as we continue product development, meeting investment into the circular economy to date – which value chain and receive insight on a variety of topics including customers’ changing demands on packaging. We will also will start receiving waste from our farms and Strond our quality and sustainability standards. continue to build stronger relationships with our customers hatchery in the summer. See more on page 32. through closer engagement, through initiatives such as chef • Continiued transferring innovative technology, such as Our ongoing aim is to secure loyalty and trust from our seminars and demonstrations in China, and our two-day improved water recirculation at our hatcheries. customers by providing outstanding service through a reliable, Customer Summit in the Faroe Islands. efficient, and responsible approach. More information on our • Continued to develop the resilience of our Faroese customer strategy can be found in our Annual Report. salmon roe as part of our unique breeding programme. CUSTOMER NET PROMOTER SCORE (NPS) 2019 100 10 • Continued our research into optimising feed quality and Average customer satisfaction rating Bakkafrost has been in a growth period for a number of years; 80 sustainability. 9 this growth accelerated significantly since the lead-up to our Net Promoter Score (NPS) 60 8 listing on the Oslo Stock Exchange in 2010, and more recently 40 In 2020, we will begin operations at the new biogas plant. 7 with the acquisition of new companies in the US and the UK. As 20 6 we grow and expand into new markets, our sales and customer INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS numbers have increased in step with production. 2017 2018 2019 5 The Faroe Islands maintain good international relations. -20 -40 4 However, there is ongoing public interest in Bakkafrost’s While we respond well to increasing and changing customer -60 3 pilot whale hunting policy. We have strict internal guidelines demands e.g. through new product development and a -80 2 mandating that employees must not take part during work move towards third-party certification we inevitably meet -100 1 hours and our equipment must not be used in any way. The challenges along the way, some outside of our control. However, Net Promoter Score (NPS) Average customer satisfaction rating Faroese Aquaculture Association, of which Bakkafrost is a our commitment to maintaining long-lasting relationships has Reflecting the views of customers representing 42% of revenue member, has made a statement with our position signed by all enabled us to address these, and to continue to grow our in 2017, 32% in 2018 and 69% of the revenue in 2019. farming CEOs. customer base, bringing our most loyal customers with us. HEALTHY BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Healthy business Bakkafrost has the longest integrated value chain in the industry. In 2019, we continued to expand by opening our own smokehouse in the Faroe Islands and investing in a lumpfish company, which Building blocks for a will provide cleaner fish for use in our sea farms. sustainable business As well as improving traceability in our value chain, bringing things in-house has strengthened our ability to control the quality of our end-product, and to ensure our social and environmental sustainability standards are met across production. For example, our new smokehouse, which began operations in September 2019, will only use wood from certified sustainable sources and will reduce emissions from transportation. It has also increased employment opportunities for people from the local community. The new operation will produce around 250 tonnes of smoked ASC salmon each year. Our investment into the Faroese lumpfish company will also enable us to optimise quality and fish welfare through closer cooperation with producers and researchers. We have already started stocking our pens with the locally-bred fish and anticipate the new company will be at full capacity by 2021. These investments build on our announcement in 2018 to invest DKK 100 million to build a new biogas plant in the Faroe Islands, contributing renewable energy to the electricity mix which aims to be 100% green by 2030. “Growing our value chain is a great way for us to reduce risk and capitalise on opportunities. We plan to use our latest investments as a way to further embed our Healthy Living responsible business principles.” Høgni Dahl Jakobsen, CFO, Bakkafrost HEALTHY PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 16 Healthy people WHY IT IS IMPORTANT A healthy, capable and engaged workforce is fundamental for municipalities in the Faroe Islands; and a further 46 in our US and UK operations. a healthy business. Our employees create and maintain our Performance competitive advantage. This means we must invest in them and promote a healthy working culture that is built on strong Our ability to have a diverse and inclusive workplace, to attract and retain talent and expertise, to build workforce review values. We continuously strive to create an attractive and open company culture with meaningful jobs in a safe and competency, and to maintain high employee engagement, is the starting block for our human resources team. sustainable working environment. Our Code of Conduct outlines our approach to creating optimal Our business initially comprised a number of Faroese salmonworking conditions and culture, including our commitment to farming companies and a local meal, oil and feed producer create a professional and positive work environment which is STRATEGIC PRIORITY strategically consolidated over a number of years. In recent inclusive and free from discrimination. • To be a preferred employer times, the business has expanded internationally to include a sales office in the UK, a small operation in the USA and, at the Unemployment rates in the Faroe Islands are among the lowest 2019 PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR 2020 end of 2019, a sizable farming company in Scotland. in the world at 1.7%. In 2019, the employment rate was high for COMMITMENTS both men 87%, and women 84% (source: Hagstova Føroya). In this context, integration and adaptation have become a • Renew our employee strategy priority if we are to maintain consistent world-class standards. • Launch an employee engagement survey BAKKAFROST WORKFORCE 2019 • Have zero fatalities This means promoting an environment where people are able BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT to learn new ways of doing things, and to understand and live Temporary Permanent 2023 COMMITMENTS by Bakkafrost’s values. This will not only ensure we are able to employment employment continue growing the business, but are also able to evolve to Female 1 432 • Have industry-leading employee engagement scores meet the changing demands from our external environment. • Launch internal sustainable behaviour campaign Male 4 717 • Maintain gender diversity in senior positions • Reduce absence rate by 10% Our culturally diverse workforce means that the company Total 5 1,149 • Become certified against ISO45001 standard benefits from diversity of thought and a corporate culture of • Have zero fatalities Total: 1,154 inclusivity. The aquaculture industry often involves physically 2020 FOCUS demanding work, so ensuring the health, safety and wellbeing BY AGE of our employees is also at the top of our list of priorities. We Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Over 67 • Develop our apprenticeship programme expect the same standards for everyone in our value chain. years old years old years old (retirement age) • Develop our company health offering Female 186 146 90 11 • Develop policy for gender equality and continue roll out of internal initiatives By providing meaningful and safe employment opportunities • Strengthen human rights assessment we are contributing, whether to a larger or lesser degree, Male 228 265 193 35 towards UN Sustainable Development Goals 5 and 8. Please Total 414 411 283 46 SDGs see page 9 for more information. Total: 1,154 • SDG 5 Gender Equality Further data on workforce composition (including diversity), turnover HUMAN CAPITAL • SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth and training can be found at www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability We employ 1,108 (883 full-time equivalent) people across 25 HEALTHY PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 In 2019, 12% of our Management Team (up from 7% in 2018) and 17% of our Board of Directors were female. According to a report, the average female representation on Faroese Boards was 27% in 2019 (Tróndarson, 2019). We are increasing our focus on supporting gender equality in the workplace, which, in 2019 we accomplished specifically through training and communications. Our HR policies reflect our commitment to value the expertise and contribution from all employee groups. This includes making provisions for individuals over the retirement age Suðuroy (Hvannhagi), Employee Hiking Day 2019 who wish to continue their duties. Attracting young talent is also a critical part of our employment strategy. We take on aquaculture industry. Nevertheless, finding new ways to reduce turnover will continue to be an area of focus for our employee strategy going forward. Data on our turnover can “Ensuring equal opportunities at all be found online. levels of decision-making should be a priority for all organisations. Gender Giving our employees a voice is a key element of our people equality in the workplace makes clear strategy. In 2019, we launched a new online corporate social business sense, and we have seen media platform that very successfully replaced our intranet as positive results here at Bakkafrost.” a preferred communication tool. This gives every employee an opportunity to feedback and engage with colleagues at every Anna Johansen, Group Quality Manager, Bakkafrost aquaculture and has proved a great way to attract new talent level on anything from company news and social events, to Management Team and support student study, leading to the recruitment of current affairs. It has also proved to be an invaluable tool to highly-skilled candidates. share best practice on important topics such and health and safety, and sustainability. apprentices, interns and industrial placements across a variety Employment rates in the Faroe Islands are the highest in of disciplines including marketing, finance, aquaculture Europe which, together with Bakkafrost’s strong reputation, We have also launched a new feedback mechanism in the form and marine biology, as well as two-week work experience has led to good retention over the years. However, the low of an annual employee survey. See more on page 21. students from local schools. Students regularly go on to take unemployment rates makes it more challenging to find lowerup permanent jobs with us, and all apprentices are offered skilled labour and often leads to employment of seasonal To ensure we continue meeting the highest health, safety and employment. workers such as students. welfare standards, we carry out annual training using both internal and external trainers who deliver modules on topics We also regularly host student visits to our headquarters Because of this, we continue to have a high turnover in ranging from hygiene, first aid, workplace safety (including and processing facilities. Every year, we are a main sponsor our production facility, where young people often work for safety at sea), and safe chemical use, to fish welfare. We of the Faroese Jobmatch employment event. The networking a short period before moving on to further studies. This is review our courses regularly. conference gives students a window into the world of very common in the Faroe Islands across the fisheries and HEALTHY PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 18 provision and parental leave, it even extends the period of full • Launched a new employee online communication tool, parental pay for permanent employees. Employees are also taken up by 77% of the workforce, as part of increased offered free access to a gym and sport facilities. efforts to create an open culture. We pride ourselves on our efforts to bring together employees • Delivered new training modules to our farmers from all parts of the business at various company-wide events (including sustainability training). throughout the year. These are not only opportunities for • Begun the rollout of line-manager training to employees, employees to get to know each other, but also a way to reward starting with the foremen in our hatcheries. their contribution to our success with things that matter to them. • Increased guidance for our management team on At our annual Company Day, all employees from the Faroes diversity, inclusion and discrimination, with a training come together to hear about our business priorities through session from external experts. We also delivered presentations, to receive training, and to enjoy an evening of diversity training to all employees on Company Day and entertainment. During organised company hikes employees get made it an integral part of line-manager training. This the chance to meet each other and visit our operations; and at is part of our increased efforts to promote an open and an annual Christmas celebration, employees and their families inclusive working environment. are invited to celebrate in the company’s success with gifts and • Ran an event at head office on World Environment entertainment (in 2019 we held one in Glyvrar attended by more Day where the CEO communicated our updated than 1000 people, and one in Suðuroy attended by over 200). Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Policy. This was also communicated to employees on Company Day. Following the success in previous years, in 2019, we organised Suðuroy (Hvannhagi), Employee Hiking Day 2019 two company hikes. Around 200 employees of all ages and • Continued work to integrate the Ten Principles of abilities joined the CEO and knowledgeable guides for a hike the UN Global Compact to pledge our commitment to We have also recently developed and begun the rollout of in areas of outstanding natural beauty and their ears were fed protect human rights; respect the freedom of association two-day line-manager training courses, delivered by external with stories of the local culture and traditions while they fed and the right to collective bargaining; and to have a experts. These include guidance on topics such as leadership, their stomachs at a communal meal. workforce free from forced/compulsory/child labour, diversity, communication and conflict management. Employees and discrimination. See page 45 for more. will also participate in external training and education when relevant, and we offer relevant development opportunities to In 2019, we: In 2020, we will continue to strengthen our human capital. As well our management team. • Increased high-skilled hires across the business, with as building our apprentice programme, we will bring in another three new biologists at our hatcheries, two technicians biologist to work on fish welfare and quality in our hatcheries. In line with our strategic priority of being a preferred at our biogas plant, and an experienced health and We will continue to roll-out line-manager training across the employer and in recognition that a happy workforce is a safety manager. business and strengthen our approach to promote diversity and stable and sustainable workforce, we have designed a marketgender equality in the workplace, through a new policy. • Took in two long-term interns and three apprentices. leading benefits package for employees: all employees are eligible for bonus shares and, in 2019, 188 enrolled in a share • Launched a new employee engagement survey, with We will also launch an internal sustainable behaviour saving plan. All permanent employees receive life, accident 76% participation. See more on page 21. campaign, to support our environmental commitments. and critical illness insurance after three months’ employment, • Continued our worker integration initiative, offering and Bakkafrost not only meets national legislation on pension regular Faroese language classes to foreign workers. HEALTHY PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 sites, and our harvest and processing plant, which are also resource and capability by hiring a dedicated expert externally audited and certified to the GLOBAL G.A.P. standard. onto our management team. This includes strict minimum worker health safety and welfare requirements, including regular employee training and safety • Continued health and safety training, including at our maintenance. Our large service vessels are audited against the annual Company Day (attended by around 80% of International Safety Management code. employees). • Further improved health and safety reporting. Our 14 ASC-certified farming sites have had additional audits, • Continued to upgrade our land sites with physical to ensure international standards on health and safety in the wellbeing in mind. work environment are met. Recommendations from audits • Increased safety measures in hatcheries with a new at specific sites are typically rolled out across all our farms. alarm system. This has been the case with fire safety, where we have now implemented protocols which go above and beyond national • Continued to give employees the opportunity to provide regulations, and with the introduction of more frequent feedback through local working groups. Gjógv, Employee Hiking Day 2019 emergency preparedness training at farming sites. We also • Carried out an employee engagement survey, which have ASC Chain of Custody covering Processing and Harvest. ranked us above average for employee working HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING conditions (see more on page 21). At Bakkafrost we are committed to continually improving the We promote employee health and safety through a number of • Included employee health, safety and wellbeing as a standards of occupational health and safety and to creating protective measures (e.g. protective clothing), and preventative critical element of our updated employee strategy. a healthy working culture. The Board of Directors has overall measures (e.g. our various local safety working groups which • Offered employees the opportunity to participate in the responsibility for this topic and it is a standing agenda point report to our Health & Safety Board). All sea farmers and Klaksvík Royal Run, in which around 170 employees at all meetings. seafarers are required to have health checks every two years participated. (at the company’s expense) to ensure they are fit for work. In our Code of Conduct, we outline our commitment to our • Organised two company employee hiking events (in employees to create a good and sound working environment Employee wellbeing is promoted through our internal policies. Gjógv and Suðuroy) to promote health and wellbeing and to systematically seek to attain an injury and accidentErgonomic design is central to all new building projects (and and personal connections within the business, with free workplace. In order to do this, we have adopted a set of is evident in our state-of-the-art production plant, head office around 200 participants. guidelines based on the highest health and safety standards, and new Strond hatchery). We are dedicated to ensuring • Gave employees the opportunity to volunteer at on land and at sea. reasonable working hours and to providing extra-curricular our annual beach clean-up, to maintain the pristine activities like access to gyms, running races, company hikes environment around our fjords. We have internal safety procedures and guidelines for each and volunteering opportunities. division, this includes emergency preparedness procedures In 2020, we will continue to improve the company’s safety in place for all relevant sites – for example for fires, personal culture through an increased focus on risk management, for injury or illness, man overboard etc. – and we carry out risk In 2019, we: example reporting near-misses, sharing best-practice and assessments at all our sites which includes hazard identification. • Had zero fatalities and further reduced our lost time knowledge on our new employee communication platform injury rate. (accessible to all employees), and increasing management We conduct internal audits annually across our entire value safety briefings at site visits. We will also aim to further • Continued to focus on health and safety, increasing chain – meal, oil and feed production, hatcheries, farming reduce the number of personal accidents through stronger HEALTHY PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 20 BAKKAFROST FAROE ISLANDS LOST TIME INJURY RATE LTIR PER MILLION WORKING HOURS 28.74 2017 13.07 2018 10.232019 (including UK and US) Please see our sustainability pages online for our farming division LTI data reported in the 2018 report, more health and safety indicators, and our basis for reporting. UK numbers do not include SSC. prevention measures, by the implementation of a new Safety Management System, and will begin preparing the business for the ISO45001 certification. Please refer to these pages where we disclose further health, safety and wellbeing data. HUMAN RIGHTS We respect the protection of all internationally recognised human rights and make sure that we are not complicit in Bakkafrost has a grievance procedure in place and we have human rights abuses. also introduced a whistleblower program that is promoted and In 2019, we: accessible to our employees. • Had 90% of Bakkafrost employees covered by collective We respect freedom of association and right to collective bargaining agreements (the remaining 10% are either bargaining and do not engage in any trafficked, forced or Our discrimination policy is in accordance with the ILO highly-skilled managers or specialists). compulsory labour, including the exploitation of children as conventions. Discrimination in the workplace is not tolerated, • Did not receive any internal or external whistle-blower a labour force. We are a member of the Faroese Employers’ and we have policies and procedures in place to deal with reports, relating to human rights, discrimination, or Association, which negotiates collective agreements for complaints of discrimination. forced/child labour. the highly-unionised Faroese private labour market. Employee rights are protected by the unions and the union The wellbeing of all people in our value chain is also important representatives, for example to ensure our employees earn to us, so we expect the same standards of our business In 2020, we plan to develop our supplier auditing programme, fair living wage in accordance to collective agreement. partners. They are contractually obliged to meet our Supplier including strengthening our assessment of supplier compliance Standards which, among other requirements, ask them to with our standards on human rights. We meet with unions regularly and strive to have a good and ensure all labour is carried out in a safe work environment, constructive relationship with them. Employee representatives free from discrimination and the exploitation of children. We are given time off from work to fulfil their duties (including also expect our suppliers to pay fair wages to their workers in three-day training courses). accordance with local laws and regulations. HEALTHY PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 In 2019, for the first time, all Bakkafrost employees were given Healthy people the opportunity to make their voice heard through an online employee engagement survey. Listening to our employees 76% of employees provided feedback, which we believe will help us strengthen our human capital. We invited our workforce to feed back across a range of parameters, including: working conditions, remuneration, learning and development, management and reputation. These all contribute towards employee satisfaction and motivation and employee loyalty, as overall indicators of employee engagement. Bakkafrost scores were very slightly below average for the sector for satisfaction & motivation and slightly above average for loyalty. Bakkafrost performed above average both for the beverage and food sector in the Nordic region on scores relating to senior management, which were considerably higher than the benchmark. We also scored above average on working conditions. Through initiatives such as team action plans, we are making a commitment to improve areas on which we didn’t score so well. Bakkafrost added an additional parameter for sustainability, which along with scores on senior management, was the area with the highest scores. My company takes responsibilty for its role in the achievement of the UN 80 Sustainable Development Goals 71 72 74 81 79 81 “Overall, we were very pleased with the results from the survey, and have made a commitment to employees to follow I’m aware of my company’s up with them on the areas we could be doing better. Already we sustainability (environmental, social 82 and economic) objectives have made a commitment to improving line-manager training Satisfaction & Motivation Loyalty on topics such as leadership, diversity, conflict management Bakkafrost I understand how I can contribute and communications.” Heini Kristiansen, HR Group Manager. towards achieving my company’s See more commitments made to our employees under Healthy GELx Food & Beverage Manufacturing Nordic countries 77 sustainability (environmental, social GELx Denmark and economic) objectives in my role people on page 16. HEALTHY SALMON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 22 Healthy salmon Performance review WHY IT IS IMPORTANT a priority for salmon farmers, both in the Faroe Islands and STRATEGIC PRIORITY Aquaculture has been identified as one potential sustainable further afield. Addressing these risks to ensure the quality solution to meet the increasing demand for nutritious and safety of our salmon while striving to maintain the • To exceed leading standards protein to feed the growing population. Farmed salmon is highest health and welfare standards, has also called for a 2019 PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR 2020 among the healthiest proteins due to its high long-chained high degree of voluntary coordination between companies COMMITMENTS omega-3 fatty acids, vitamin D, selenium, and B vitamins and large investments in new technology for continuous content. However, for production to be sustainable, it must improvement. We expect that changing farming conditions • Maintain our high omega-3 levels be conducted responsibly, in a way that minimises potential will also give rise to new challenges which will come into • Maintain high customer satisfaction with product quality • Reduce fish mortality to 6% negative consequences. greater focus over the coming years. • Have ASC certification across all sites (by end of 2020) • Further develop and implement non-medicinal treatments with high focus on fish welfare The Faroese fjords provide optimal salmon farming Producing high-quality, safe, nutritious and healthy salmon • Have zero fish escapes conditions due to the location, size and organisation of the is also important for human health, to meet nutritional needs industry. The consolidation of the Faroese salmon industry without inadvertent impacts. 2023 COMMITMENTS – from 63 farming companies in 1989 to three in 2017 – has made it easier to coordinate biological improvement, Through our focus on a responsible approach to aquaculture, • Maintain our high omega 3 levels • Remain antibiotic-free ensure effective cooperation with the authorities, and share we are contributing, whether to a larger or lesser degree, • Maintain salmon survival rate at 94% or above knowledge to address risks such as sea lice and disease. towards UN Sustainable Development Goals 2, 6, 14 and 17. • Increase research to optimise fish welfare and product quality • Maintain industry-leading approach to animal welfare Please see page 9 for more information. • Reach and maintain ASC certification of all Bakkafrost salmon The unique Faroese Veterinary Model, introduced in 2003, brought with it strict regulation, tightened controls, and PRODUCT QUALITY AND HUMAN HEALTH 2020 FOCUS promoted voluntary segregation of farming sites and Maintaining world-class quality remains our top priority. operations. This had a revolutionary impact on fish health Our salmon provides a nutritious, efficient and sustainable • Continue strengthening our responsible approach to delousing • Begin exclusively sourcing roe with improved tolerance for PMCV and welfare standards across the Faroes which combined source of animal protein, high in long-chained omega-3s. • Hire another biologist for our freshwater sites with additional company efforts, not only increased survival Every step of our production is focused on maintaining the • Audit all remaining farming sites in the Faroe Islands to ASC standard rates from 18% to 6% between 1993 and 2010, also increased highest standards to avoid contaminants, while providing • Certify US operation with the BRC standard • Implement a new internal control management system the harvesting weight of Faroese salmon by 20%. Over the high nutritional value for human health. With forty years of same period there was a decrease in the feed conversion salmon farming experience, we understand that the quality SDGs rate of 2%, and an improvement in productivity of over 40% of our product relies not only on perfect environmental (source: www.industry.fo). conditions, the highest health and welfare standards, but also • SDG 2 Zero Hunger • SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation on top-quality feed. • SDG 14 Life Below Water The industry still faces challenges, however. Tackling sea lice • SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals and diseases such as pathogenic ISA and gill health, remains We aim to provide our salmon with a diet as close to the HEALTHY SALMON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 natural diet of wild salmon as possible. We believe this provides measurable benefits, including the healthier nutritional value of our end-product. The vertical integration of our fishmeal, oil, feed and salmon production gives us an advantage of sourcing the highest quality marine ingredients from well-managed North Atlantic fisheries for our feed. This enables us to use a high percentage of sustainable marine content which gives our salmon a high content of long-chained omega-3 fatty acids, known to be effective in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. In 2019, we had a mean omega-3 of 2.7g per 100g of salmon fillet. We conduct ongoing research through small and large-scale trials to continue to develop optimum feed products, for optimum quality and health. We have a good track record when it comes to minimising pollutants. In 2015, we were the first company to start filtering environmental pollutants (dioxin and dioxin-like PCBs) from the fish oil we produce for our feed, despite it being already well within EU safety limits. Our feed remains of our product, to ensure it complies with Faroese and entire value chain are covered by third-party certification, free from medicine, growth-promoting hormones, and any international health and food safety regulations. which includes high international food safety standards. See salmon meal offal or waste from any other farmed species. more under Collaboration and Certification on page 26. We remain far below all the limits in the EU directive on We focus on HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control undesirable substances in animal feed. Our dioxin and dioxinPoint), with risk management, traceability and monitoring of like PCBs remain well within EU limits but we continue to look undesirable substances in all operations. We routinely send for new ways to further reduce these undesirable substances product samples to be tested by third-party laboratories to CUSTOMER SCORE OF BAKKAFROST in our salmon. validate the effectiveness of our food safety programs. We SALMON’S QUALITY also ensure employees receive appropriate training in food Reflecting the views of customers representing 61% of revenue in 2016, 42% in 2017, 32% in 2018, and 69% of the revenue in 2019. We only add natural antioxidants into our fishmeal and fish safety and quality. oil products to protect them from oxydation and maintaining 2% 2019 their nutritional quality. It is free from ethoxyquin. Our small processing operation in the US is registered with 38% 0% Not satisfied the FDA and has a supplier verification procedure in place to 2% Somewhat satisfied 60% 38% Satisfied Our strategic priority is to meet and where possible exceed ensure all domestic and foreign suppliers meet our leading 60% More than or very satisfied leading standards, which includes food safety standards. standards in product safety and quality. We have robust food safety and quality risk assessments, 2016 2017 2018 0% Not satisfied 0% Not satisfied 0% Not satisfied systems and controls implemented throughout the value We adhere to various standards and certification programmes 8% Somewhat satisfied 4% Somewhat satisfied 3% Somewhat satisfied chain. Quality assurance and control is integrated in every and our comprehensive internal control system is regularly 30% Satisfied 19% Satisfied 38% Satisfied 62% More than or very satisfied 77% More than or very satisfied 59% More than or very satisfied step of production. This involves daily testing and monitoring inspected by the authorities. 100% of our products and our HEALTHY SALMON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 investments in this area, the results of which we see in the and jet delousing. We are comitted to developing and In 2019, we: quality of our final product. implementing non-medicinal treatments of sea lice with • Maintained high omega-3 levels: mean of 2.7g per does not negatively impact fish welfare. Through a number 100g. We have a growing team of specialised veterinarians, of measures, such as improved monitoring and minimising biologists, and assistants all dedicated to animal health and stress during handling, in 2019, we reduced our sea lice • Increased customer satisfaction with product quality. welfare. We are are always looking for new ways to optimise count and substantially increased survival rates from the • Conducted HACCP food safety and quality training for welfare, while also respecting the natural environment and year before. We continually monitor sea lice levels which we employees. maintaining a focus on human health. This is considered in the report publicly to the authorities every two weeks. • Further reduced dioxin levels. prevention and treatment of diseases and sea lice. Our plan • Did not use formalin in our hatcheries, relying instead is to continue to increase highly-skilled farming resources. Our biosecurity strategy has also led to substantial on good husbandry and the use of natural saltwater investments to upgrade existing and build new freshwater treatments when necessary. We have produced our salmon free from any antibiotics since sites on land (such as our largest site at Strond), giving us the • Further improved the quality of our feed, enhancing 2004, and no longer use in-bath medical treatments. possibility to increase the average size of our smolts to 500 nutritional value to improve growth performance and grams (which we aim to do by 2022) before putting them out health. We now use cleaner fish (lumpfish) to prevent louse at sea. Reducing time spent at sea will increase production infestation when stocking sea pens at all but one of our capacity and reduce biological risk. • Please see our pages online for more data on dioxin sites, where the conditions are not currently suitable for the and dioxin like PCB levels. lumpfish. We have found this has minimised the need for We source from selective breeding programmes to improve • Please page 10 for more information on nutritional other treatments over the course of the salmon’s life. The fish resilience, we vaccinate all our fish, and take part in values of our salmon. use of lumpfish in salmon farming is still relatively new, so systematic group-wide biosecurity auditing. Our fish health ensuring their welfare is of upmost importance to us. team and veterinarians regularly inspect and test all farms and In 2020, we will remain committed to maintaining our high hatcheries, and the authorities conduct regular sample testing. omega-3 levels and our high customer satisfaction with As part of our investment plan, we have invested heavily product quality. We also remain antibiotic-free. in other non-medicinal methods such as freshwater, thermal Through our adherence to the 2003 Faroese Veterinary Model regulation, we commit to various salmon welfare measures, FISH HEALTH AND WELFARE such as meeting limits on fish stock density (outlined over We are heavily invested in meeting and exceeding leading ATLANTIC SALMON SEA LICE COUNT the page), which we are decreasing at our new site through MORTALITY RATE 2019 fish health and welfare standards. 2019 larger nets. We have veterinary health plans for every site 0.43 that receives ongoing biosecurity training, which includes The Faroe Islands have one of the world’s strictest national welfare guidelines on crowding and loading. veterinary standards, which Bakkafrost is committed to upholding. This includes a broad range of requirements 4.57% 2018: 0.47 2017: 0.7 including disease treatment and prevention, sea lice control, 2018: 11.56% 2016: 0.8 2017: 8.96% and transportation. The Faroese Animal Welfare act (which Average over 12 months of female includes the Five Freedoms animal welfare principles) is adult lice across all sites. For more information on fallow time and also incorporated in these standards. Ongoing innovation in medicine use, please visit our salmon aquaculture has enabled the industry to continually For historic data, visit pages online Carried out by an globalsalmoninitiative.org independent third party. improve welfare standards. We remain committed to HEALTHY SALMON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 Our very short distance (average of 22 nautical miles) from farm to harvest reduces potential stress encountered authorities: BKD and Furunculosis, where we performed MAIN CAUSES OF REDUCED early interventions. during transportation, and our employees are trained to SALMON SURVIVAL minimise the stress experienced during transportation, with • Detected no ISA or PD pathogens. 2019 measures including dietary preparations three days before • Detected PMCV. • Unpreventable technical accident at a hatchery. transportation, and careful loading. When the fish reaches • Rolled out lumpfish to all possible sites with broadly • Farming accidents at sea farm. our harvest plant they are automatically stunned before • CMS (Cardiomyopathy syndrome). successful delousing results. immediate slaughter. • Increased efforts to improve lumpfish welfare with new vaccinations, new feeding systems, through participation Nevertheless, we continue to look for new ways to improve fish in a three-year research project to optimise feed, and by welfare. As well as increasing data to optimise fish wellbeing, starting to stock locally-bred lumpfish to reduce stress FAROESE LEGAL DENSITY LIMITS in line with new legislation, we have also increased the from transportation. frequency of veterinary site visits and continued to improve < 1 kg 10 kg/m3 screening to identify and reduce potential pathogens in our • Began project monitoring salmon stress levels when 1 2 kg 15 kg/m3 stock. This is improving our ability to manage risk through entering processing facilities. 2-3 kg 20 kg/m3 preventative measures and early interventions. • Continued our focus on optimum oxygen levels. 3 kg < 25 kg/m3 • Relocated sea farming sites to more exposed areas, We have and will continue investing in highly-skilled people increasing water flow and oxygen levels. focused on improving fish welfare. • Maintained low levels of SLICE lice treatment. • Introduced a new harvest method in our factory in While we always observe legal density limits, we make In 2019, we: Vágur. decisions relating to optimal density within this limit based • Reduced mortality rates by more than 50%, with mortalities on other factors such as water quality and flow. from transport of smolt to sea at a five-year low. In 2020, we will continue strengthening our responsible approach to delousing, we will begin sourcing all roe with • Further reduced the number in mature lice through exclusive improved tolerance for PMCV, and hire another preventive measures and improved non-medicinal “Fish health and welfare is of the biologist for our freshwater sites. We will continue to delousing methods, with a greater emphasis on fish utmost importance to us. In 2019 we health and welfare. strengthen our approach, to maintain an industry-leading have strengthened our human capital, approach to animal welfare. • Put the first generation of our exclusive Faroese breed infrastructure and procedures to reduce offspring out to sea at commercial sites. Please see Healthy Environment for more on biosecurity in mortality rates at each stage of a • Hired three biologists to work on fish welfare and the context of biodiversity. salmon’s life with us. This has had very quality at hatcheries. positive results – we more than halved • Further strengthened smolt vaccination system in hatcheries. mortality from 11.56% in 2018 to • Started operations at a new farming site with reduced 4.57% in 2019.” density pens. • Reported the following notifiable diseases to the Jón Purkhús, Farming Manager HEALTHY SALMON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 26 COLLABORATION AND CERTIFICATION As well as this, we conduct internal audits at all sites, and We recognise that collaboration with the salmon industry also subscribe to a number of other external standards and is critical if we are to address the systemic sustainability certification programmes to ensure product sustainability, challenges we face. We were instrumental in the formation quality and safety and employee health and safety (see below). of the Faroese Aquaculture Association, specifically set up to promote a joint approach to the management of sea lice and disease. In 2013, we became a founding member of the Global In 2019, we: Salmon Initiative (GSI), an international leadership initiative • Doubled our number of ASC certified sites from seven to established to improve sustainability in salmon farming. 14, which provided 80% of salmon harvested that year. • Passed 100% of audits across our various certification As part of this collaboration, we have committed to having programmes. all our sites certified by the Aquaculture Stewardship ASC Council (ASC) by the end of 2020. Sites with certification PLANNED FOR 2020 • Certified our Bakkafrost USA processing operation to the at the end of 2019 were: A-25 Gøtuvík • A-06 Gulin • A-71 ASC Chain of Custody standard. Funningsfjørður • A-57 Fuglafjørður • A-12 Kunoyarnes • A-04 Lambavík • A-13 Borðoyavík • A-21 Hvannasund Suður In 2020, we aim to audit all remaining farming sites in the • A-73 Hvannasund Norður • A-18 Hov • A-05 Undir Síðu • Faroe Islands to ASC standard to meet our GSI commitment and A-81 Kolbeinagjógv • A-19 Vágur • A-85 Nes. certify our US operation with the BRC standard. We will also begin preparations to certify the business against ISO14001. RESPONSI BLE SUPPLY Our fishmeal, oil and feed production at Havsbrún, also hold multiple Our harvesting and value-added RESPONSI BLE SUPPLY MCS certifications. All units are certified to ISO9001:2015, and the meal product (VAP) production has the and oil division is certified according to the GMP+ standards, the IFFO ASC Chain of Custody certification RS certification and the MSC Chain of Custody standard. Our salmon and our VAP production is certified meal and oil production also has GMP+. according to the BRC and IFS food safety standards. Our feed production, broodstock, hatcheries, farming sites, and harvesting and processing plant, are More information on these certifications, including frequency of audits, can be found online at www. certified according to the international GLOBALG.A.P. standard which focuses on food safety throughbakkafrost.com/sustainability/data out production, fish welfare, health and safety, and environmental management. Our value chain also has the Ohne Gentechnik Non-GMO add-on. Fishmeal, oil and feed Breeding Smolt Sea water Processing Sales/Marketing FISHMEAL FISH OIL FISH FEED BROODSTOCK HATCHERIES FARMING FSV HARVESTING PROCESSING PACKAGING SALES/MARKETING HEALTHY SALMON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 Healthy salmon In May 2019, in an industry first, Bakkafrost signed a contract with Chinese retailer Hema Fresh to work Promoting sustainability in Asia towards only selling ASC certified Atlantic salmon. Bakkafrost’s Sales Director Símun Jacobsen worked with Hema on a deal to distribute Bakkafrost ASC salmon across Hema’s distribution network of over 150 stores and online channels. The move aims to raise awareness of sustainable food production and influence consumer behaviour. “ASC certification requires farms to be transparent, to minimise their environmental impacts and to promote positive outcomes for workers and communities. Thanks to Bakkafrost’s contract with Hema, now even more consumers in China will have access to responsibly produced salmon.” Songlin Wang, ASC China. The ASC Salmon Standard aims to address the key negative environmental and social impacts of salmon farming associated with sourcing of feed ingredients, disease, protection of wild salmon populations, biodiversity and ecosystems, controlling of escapes into the wild, use of medicine, labour standards and corporate citizenship. The certification requires third party auditing on a number of criteria, which exceeds national regulation in areas such as biodiversity, environmental monitoring and health and safety. “We will guide Chinese consumers to think more about responsible In 2019, we doubled the number of ASC certified sites seafood choices that help protect the from seven to 14, which provided 80% of salmon marine environment, workers, and harvested that year. We have made a commitment to communities.” reach ASC certification of all Bakkafrost salmon by the end of 2020. Huang Lin, Hema’s Purchasing Director. HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 28 Healthy environment Performance review WHY IT IS IMPORTANT As well as our operational emissions, we also produce our STRATEGIC PRIORITY The Faroe Islands provide exceptional conditions for salmon own packaging and rely on various production equipment, farming; with excellent water quality and circulation due to so it is also important for us to consider how our operations • To minimise our environmental impact strong currents and cool steady sea temperatures, we are contribute to the world’s waste problem. 2019 PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR 2020 able to produce world-class salmon. COMMITMENTS While our CO2 footprint is relatively low as an industry, Although salmon aquaculture has comparatively low CO2 we know the growing threat from climate change could • Further optimise feed distribution • Continue phasing out copper-treated nets emissions compared to other animal protein groups, and significantly impact our industry in the future. Changes • Implement a sustainable feed policy while Bakkafrost has an industry-leading feed-to-food in weather patterns (with more frequent storms), ocean 2023 COMMITMENTS conversion ratio, farming has an impact on the environment. acidification and increasing water temperatures all pose a Minimising this impact remains a priority for us. risk to the industry. • Increase size of smolt released to 500gm • Become certified against ISO14001 environmental standard • Have zero fish escapes The islands boast rich biodiversity, with particularly Bakkafrost has the longest fully integrated value chain in • Optimise feed strategy to maintain industry-leading FCR • Continue research into sustainable feed ingredients abundant bird and marine life. The nation relies heavily on the industry. This gives us a unique level of control over our • Investigate new sustainable marine sources for fishmeal income from fishing and, increasingly, tourism. Minimising impacts. Our processing plant is only 17km away from our • Measurably reduce environmental impact from packaging • Have above 97% water recirculation rate in hatcheries the impact from our activities and maintaining the pristine fish feed production, the closest farming site is only 5km • Reduce scope 1 & 2 CO2 footprint from Faroese operations by 50% by 2030 environment around our 20 farming sites across 16 of the away, and the majority of our other farming sites are within • Set scope 3 CO2 reduction target in 2020 islands’ fjords, is of paramount in importance. Respecting a 25km radius. 2020 FOCUS biodiversity beyond the immediate environment is also incredibly important, including the areas we source our feed All of our marine ingredients are sustainably sourced and • Begin implementing environmental standard ISO14001 ingredients from. come from the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Denmark or Norway. • Investigate new methods to minimise negative impacts on biodiversity This considerably minimises the carbon emissions in our • Continue to develop our feed in line with our customer needs and sustainability priorities Bakkafrost has operations in many communities throughout value chain and gives us unique traceability. • Strengthen our approach to waste management the 18 islands where, typically, industry and island • Reduce water use at our production facilities in the US • Commence work to achieve our CO2 reduction commitment inhabitants have grown up, side-by-side. This unusual setup However, we also rely on some feed ingredients to be means that communities are unavoidably impacted by us, imported across continents, and we export to markets SDGs whether by the noise and smell of operations (particularly globally, so managing our upstream and downstream impacts • SDG 6 Clean Water and Sanitation from fishmeal, oil and feed production), competition for water is an increasing area of focus for us. • SDG 7 Affordable and Clean Energy (where we have freshwater hatcheries), or by-pollution from • SDG 9 Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure • SDG 12 Responsible Consumption and Production production, traffic and effluent water. Whether to a larger or lesser degree, we are working towards • SDG 13 Climate Action • SDG 14 Life Below Water • SDG 15 Life on Land the issues being addressed in UN Sustainable Development HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 Example measures taken to minimise impact on fjords • Observe, and where necessary exceed the 8-week national requirement for fallow periods between production cycles to allow the seabed to regenerate (we had an average 17 week fallow period in 2019 to allow for recovery). • Relocation of pens, on rare occasions when tests indicate a high level of seabed loading. • Filter effluent water from production at our processing plant. • No in-bath chemical treatment of sea lice in favour of preventative and mechanical methods. • No use of diflubenzuron in delousing treatments. • Minimised use of medicine in feed. • Relocation of farms to more exposed areas with stronger currents. • Discontinued all use of copper-treated nets in 2018. • Investment in cameras to monitor feed intake. Goals 6, 7, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15. Please see page 9 for more the biomass is at a maximum) to be analysed for zinc content, information. and other measures of pollution. These limits can be found • Monthly testing of seawater quality to monitor levels of online at the Faroese Environment Agency website. phosphorus and nitrogen. LOCAL POLLUTION We are committed to minimising pollution of the local On the occasions that our pens exceed limits, we take No hydrogen peroxide was used by us in the Faroe Islands environment from each stage of the value chain, including immediate measures based on recommendations from the in 2019. effluent waste, marine debris, and local water, noise and air authorities, including relocation of pens. We always follow pollution. We are investing in a number of environmental improvement plans for pens which show indications of being Our fishmeal, oil and feed production in Fuglafjørður has initiatives to reduce these impacts. close to the limit to avoid overloading the seabed. grown up in close proximity to local residents. We are engaged in ongoing efforts to minimise smell and noise pollution from Conserving the natural capital we rely upon to produce As well as complying with strict local environmental the plant. From time to time we also receive complaints from healthy salmon is vital, so we continue to look for new regulation, we go beyond this by adhering to minimum residents regarding the noise from our farming operations. ways to manage our impact and reduce local pollution. We voluntary requirements as part of the international ASC We always investigate these and take actions to remediate. regularly send information and are inspected by third parties standard. We remain focused on addressing our impact on Notably, in 2019, we updated equipment on our feed barges such as the veterinary authority or the environment agency the fjords and will continue engaging stakeholders in this to minimise noise at one of our sites, and implemented to ensure we stay within limits and continue to minimise area. reduction measures on biofilters on the fans at our new pollution. For example, we take samples of the seabed (when hatchery in Strond. HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 30 We are actively involved in various projects which aim to across our operations in the Faroe Islands. We will also Aquaculture in the Faroe Islands does not negatively affect minimise the environmental impacts from our operations, begin implementing solutions to reduce some of the largest any of the critically endangered or endangered species in the such as our project with the University of Faroe Islands, sources of noise in Fuglafjørður. Continuing to explore Faroe Islands listed in the IUCN red list. aimed at creating a reliable model of currents in Faroese offshore option which, in the future, could further reduce fjords and coastal areas. our nearshore environmental impact also remains a priority. Please see our webpages and the Global Salmon Initiative website for further information regarding our impacts on We comply with national regulation regarding the discharge BIODIVERSITY biodiversity. of effluents. Please see www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability We must work to ensure our operations do not negatively for data on effluents. impact or contribute towards biodiversity loss at any stage We ensure that the plant proteins and oils in our feed are all of the value chain, including the spread of disease and sea non-GMO, and the soybeans are Pro-Terra certified, which is In 2019, we: lice between farmed and wild fish populations, and any our way of ensuring it is sourced responsibly and sustainably. • Hired a new manager into our quality and technical team potential impacts on other wildlife or ecosystems. We also prioritise the sourcing of North Atlantic certified to progress our approach to environmental management, marine ingredients (much of which is a co-product), to avoid with a focus on minimising pollution from our operations. All our farming sites are located in the Faroese fjords, which pressure on wild fish populations. We will continue to review are rich in marine and bird life. Taking precautions to avoid risks relating to the sourcing of our feed ingredients. • Continued optimising feed distribution, completing the spread of potential disease outbreaks and sea lice to and roll out of cameras at all our sites (last one in January between farmed and wild fish populations is incredibly We only use wood certified sustainable in our smokery and 2020), to reduce the build-up of waste under the pens, important for us, not only to ensure the health of our salmon, FSC paper in our own-brand products. which can cause zinc build-up. We also began installing but also that of wild fish populations (despite the low threat new detectors to further improve feeding efficiency and of salmonid diseases on other fish families). reduce build-up. In 2019, we: • Had more than 90% of our frames assessed as having a Avoiding fish escapes is an ongoing challenge for us. The Faroe • Had an incident where 141,564 fish escaped as a result low or medium impact on the seabed, according to the Islands are at the mercy of fierce Atlantic storms, that have of extreme weather. B-survey in the national assessment guidelines. been known to damage our nets, causing escapes. We report • Continued re-evaluating our procedures for checking • Continued to avoid all use of medicinal in-bath treatment all suspected escapes to the veterinary and environmental our nets to further minimise the risk of escapes. A new on our salmon. authorities immediately. As well as improving equipment, camera system (linked to new mechanical cleaning of • Conducted noise impact analysis in Fuglafjørður, incorporating practices to reduce the risk of introducing our nets) was introduced as an additional measure, and introduced a new waste-water treatment system and infectious diseases across production, we are also reducing we have continued updating our netting with one of the reduced odour coming from Havsbrún. the time salmon spend at sea – through our large smolt most durable products on the market. strategy – and holding regular third-party inspections to • Had no cases of non-compliance with environmental • Worked with national the Aquaculture Research Station ensure compliance with Faroese legislation. laws and regulation. We continue to cooperate with the of the Faroes Fiskaaling, on a project to build knowledge authorities to ensure we minimise the impact from our on interactions between farmed salmon and the wild We also implement measures to reduce our impact on birds activities on the benthic productivity in the fjords. trout population. and marine mammals (impacts that we report publicly), such as covering the pens with high visibility nets to avoid bird In 2020, we will continue our work to embed the principles incidences and introducing monitoring and controls to reduce In 2020, we will continue our efforts to avoid fish escapes of the UN Global Compact into our value chain. We plan seal mortality. and investigate new methods to minimise the impact from to begin implementing environmental standard ISO14001 our activities on local seal and bird populations. HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 SUSTAINABLE FISH FEED We conduct research into optimal feed composition and how suppliers are actively involved in sustainability programmes Raising healthy, nutritious, world-class salmon relies on highthis influences feed utilisation, growth performance and aimed at protecting areas of rich biodiversity. All our quality feed. Our salmon feed has a higher marine content quality changes in the final salmon product. Our biological rapeseed oil (originating from the EU and Eastern Europe) is than many of our competitors, this makes the sustainable feed factor remains even lower than the industry average, certified sustainable and we do not use palm oil in our feed. and responsible production of fishmeal, oil and feed, at our at 1.12 in 2019 (the Global Salmon Initiative members have Please see our sustainability webpages for more information subsidiary Havsbrún, all the more important. This includes a range from 1.2-1.5kg). We remain focused on keeping this on the source of marine products going into our feed. Please how we source all raw materials. The fishmeal and fish oil figure as low as possible through our feed development and note, there is a very small variation in content for Bakkafrost that goes into our feed comes from sustainably sourced fish distribution strategy. feed, which made up around 80% of all feed produced and with low-food-value and a low-market demand for direct sold in 2019 by Havsbrún. human consumption and increasingly co-products from In 2019, we increased the proportion of the fishmeal in our species fished for human consumption caught by Faroese, feed that derives from fish trimmings and off-cuts to almost Icelandic, Danish or Norwegian boats. a third, up from a quarter. We roughly maintained the use In 2019, we: of co-products in fish oil at more than half. These species • Increased the proportion of marine raw-materials in our Whilst the feed industry has been focusing on the reduction are all caught in well-regulated legal fisheries. We continually feed coming from co-products of fish destined for direct of marine raw material ingredients, Havsbrún (our meal, oil monitor the risk of using a high proportion of marine raw human consumption by almost 6%. and feed subsidiary) has chosen to continue a high inclusion materials in our feed, observing potential implications of • Voluntarily signed up to the Ocean Disclosure Project to of marine raw materials in feed, as we believe this not only migrating North Atlantic fish stocks. To mitigate these risks, further increase transparency and focus on sustainable increases its nutritional value, but is also a more sustainable we continue to use approved co-products and look for new sourcing of marine ingredients. approach given our unique geographic circumstances. Using co-product-based marine proteins. Our close relationship certified, North Atlantic marine raw materials provides us with the suppliers of our marine ingredients increases our • Began participation in a Horizon 2020 project in with good transparency in the supply chain. We believe opportunities to further develop and introduce new products collaboration with EU Fishmeal to continue exploring having a high inclusion of these ingredients is also more to improve the quality and sustainability of our fishmeal. alternative sources (such as mesopelagic fish) to environmentally sustainable – with comparatively low demand minimise risk in the food chain. on freshwater and land for production than plant proteins, as The plant proteins and oils in our feed are all non-GMO, • Introduced a new raw material which has further well as reduced transportation. It also has a meaningful socioand the soybeans are Pro-Terra certified, which is our way improved the nutritional quality of our feed. This has economic impact for the Faroese community. of ensuring it is sourced responsibly and sustainably. Our also reduced water and energy use in production. HAVSBRÚN FEED COMPOSITION IN 2019 PRODUCTION Wheat products Rapeseed oil Non-GMO SPC Marine proteins Fish oil Others 18.5% 14.8% 14.8% 32.6% 15.0% 4.4% (18,034 tonnes) (14,412 tonnes) (14,373 tonnes) (31,770 tonnes) (14,590 tonnes) (4,246 tonnes) Please note, marine proteins reported are for inclusion in feed. Havsbrún also sells fishmeal separately to customers. HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 32 we build new ones. We continue to upgrade our pens, using • Continued looking into other sustainable, high-quality stronger materials to increase their lifespan, however, old In 2019, we: marine ingredients. structures are re-used in the building of new ones or re-used in • Made significant progress with waste monitoring and • Engaged key stakeholders on a Bakkafrost sustainable other parts of the business, and we send old nets to a company reporting. Through greater co-operation with our waste feed policy statement. that recycles them into carpets. We collect and, where possible, management company we were able to report waste recycle the feed bags we use in the Faroe Islands. generated in the Faroe Islands for the first time. 96% of waste is either re-used, recycled or converted to heat In 2020, we will continue projects to develop our feed in We are committed to supporting the circular economy. Our energy and 82% of hazardous waste is recycled. line with our customer needs and sustainability priorities. new biogas plant in the Faroe Islands also will take waste • Sold almost 6000, tonnes of salmon co-products This will include further research into the sustainable feed products from our farms (and other fish and dairy farmers) to (including backbones, offcuts, bellies, skin, and heads). ingredients and investigation into new sustainable marine produce renewable energy and fertiliser. When in operation, • Completed a packaging review to help us plan for future sources for fishmeal. We will continue to work to optimise the plant has the technical capacity to convert up to 90changes to reduce the impact from our packaging on the feed strategy to maintain industry-leading feed conversion 100,000 tonnes annually of all waste from farms, providing environment. ratio. the local community with renewable heat and electricity and natural liquid fertiliser (potentially decreasing runoff from • Began implementing changes to certain packaging lines RESOURCE OPTIMISATION, WASTE AND PACKAGING farming activities into fjords). to meet one of our largest supermarket customer’s Reducing and minimising the environmental impact of waste sustainability policy. from a product’s lifecycle, is an important and growing issue • Commenced the new biogas plant build, which will start for all businesses. The global interest in responsible waste receiving organic waste from our farms and Strond management continues to grow, particularly the use plastics hatchery in summer, to be converted into biogas and that end up impacting the natural environment and human fertiliser. health. Although salmon has the highest edible yield of the five SALMON FARMING | EDIBLE YIELD largest groups of animal protein, we must continue thinking Edible yield is calculated by dividing edible meat by total body weight. about how we reduce, re-use and recycle materials from the moment the eggs enter the hatchery, right up until the salmon leaves our factory, whether from our salmon or the materials we use to produce and package it. Despite its high edible yield, we also strive to utilise all of 68% 46% 52% 38% the co-products from our salmon, selling backbones, offcuts, bellies, skin, and heads. We have recently built a factory to No data convert salmon co-products into salmon meal and oil, which Farmed Atlantic Chicken Pork Beef Lamb will increase the amount we re-use ourselves. We also have Salmon 100% utilisation of marine raw materials at our fishmeal and oil factory. We recycle or repurpose old farming nets and chains These calculations take into account differences in FCR, differences in edible yields, and the cost of progeny. Source: Global Salmon Initiative and we repair and re-use cables and pipes from old nets when HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 Please see www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability/data for our waste and packaging data. In 2020, we will continue looking for innovative ways to reduce, re-use, and recycle waste. For example, we plan to re-use tubing from farming cages as wastewater pipes at two of our hatcheries. We will also work with contractors working on new build projects at those sites to ensure they prioritise responsible waste management solutions. With improved data and monitoring we are confident we will be able to further reduce the environmental impact from our operations. We will also start working on a plan to measurably reduce the environmental impact from our packaging. WATER While we enjoy a high and regular rainfall in the Faroe Islands, the lack of infrastructure to harvest water means it is important to use fresh water efficiently in order for communities to have enough during rare dry periods. Our hatcheries have the highest demand for water, so we have invested in improved technology to harvest water at all of our hatchery sites. We were one of the first salmon farmers in the world to start recirculating water in our hatcheries, some currently recycling up to 99.7% of the water harvested to reduce pressure on local water use. In 2019, we: • Recycled approximately 34,000 cubic metres of water In 2020, we will continue to improve water use monitoring and industries (less than 3% of the footprint associated with beef per hour in our hatcheries. reporting and will continue work at our hatcheries to further production). Despite having the lowest carbon footprint optimise freshwater use through transfer of technology, with relative to the five largest sources of animal protein (outlined • Improved production efficiency at our feed plant, a target to have 97% water recirculation rate at all possible in the diagram over the page), we aim to keep ours low reducing water demands by more than 20%. hatcheries. We will also look for new ways to reduce water through efficiencies from a vertically integrated value chain. • Saved water at our processing facilities through use at our production facilities in the US. We have an opportunity to directly control our own local optimised cleaning. feed production (using a high proportion of certified North • Please see www.bakkafrost.com/sustainability for 2019 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Atlantic marine content), our own farming service vessels, water data. According to the Global Salmon Initiative, the salmon processing facilities, packaging production and a circular industry has relatively low CO2 emissions compared to other waste management solution. HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 34 Farmed salmon also has one of the lowest feed conversion Corporate Responsibility Policy outlining our approach to ratios: between 1.2-1.5 kg of feed for every 1 kg of salmon environmental management, including energy use, pollution, • Improved production efficiency at our feed plant, increase in body weight, compared to beef which uses waste and water management. This can be found at www. reducing oil consumption from feed production by more between 6-10kg to every 1 kg of meat (GSI). Our biological bakkafrost.com/sustainability. than 20%. feed conversion was even lower than the industry average • Our absolute carbon footprint went up by 4%, in 2019. in 2019, at 1.12. We remain focused to keep this low. Protein • Our carbon intensity per tonne of salmon decreased by retention from salmon is also double that of beef. As one of In 2019, we: 19%. the most efficient forms of protein, experts are promoting • Carried out work to set a scope 1 and 2 carbon reduction aquaculture as a sustainable solution to the growing demand target of 50% by 2030 for our operations in the Faroe for protein, providing it is carried out responsibly. Islands. Our commitment depends on the successful In 2020, we will commence work to achieve our carbon decarbonisation of the national grid, regulatory changes reduction commitment through new investments in our Even so, we recognise that we must continue to invest outlined in the latest Faroese Coalition Agreement, and farming operations, feasibility studies into electrification and heavily in the efficiency of our operations as we continue the affordability of renewable electricity provision. development of efficiency measures in our operations. We to grow. Our aim is to decouple carbon emissions from our will also begin work to engage our suppliers in the reduction • Sourced electricity from the national grid with 40% production, and we have managed to do this in some parts of our scope 3 emissions. renewable mix (unfortunately 8% lower than 2018). of the value chain – through electrification in areas such as feed barges, recycling of energy (at our hatcheries and feed • Continued connecting feeding-station barges to and processing factories), consolidation of operations, and mainstream electricity, reducing oil consumption from through promoting responsible behaviour. our farming operations. Nevertheless, given the young and evolving nature of our industry, we are often faced with new challenges which impact our carbon emissions, such as the delousing of our SALMON FARMING | CARBON FOOTPRINT salmon. As we continue to grow and increase the size of our A carbon footprint measures the total greenhouse gas emission caused directly and indirectly by the production of a product. A carbon footprint is measured in grams (g) of carbon dioxide equivalent (gCO2eq) per typical serving (40g) of edible protein of the product. value chain, we remain committed to looking for opportunities Data are median values. to continue this decoupling of growth from emissions. In 2020, we will begin generating renewable energy at our new biogas plant, which is expected to save 11,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions a year. Starting with our hatcheries, we also will continue to introduce more efficient technology. We also expect our emissions from electricity use to reduce as the national electricity provider SEV decarbonises the 0.60 0.88 1.30 5.92 No data grid. They are working towards a 100% renewable energy Farmed Atlantic Chicken Pork Beef Lamb target by 2030. Salmon CO2e is calculated by multiplying the emissions of each of the six greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs and SF6) We include climate change adaptation measures in our longby its 100-year global warming potential (GWP) Source: Global Salmon Initiative term plans for the business. We have strengthened our HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND CO2 EMISSIONS 2019 2017 2018 2019 YOY Change from 2018 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND EMISSIONS 2019 Energy Consumption [kWh] [kWh] 2019 [kWh] Direct energy use scope 1 264,671,752 242,687,948 241,112,265 -1 % In diirect energy [electricity] use scope 2 48,377,189 47,778,814 58,834,939 23 % Total energy use 313,048,941 291,262,405 299,947,204 3% GHG Emissions [TCO2e] [TCO2e] [TCO2e] Direct energy use scope 1 69,826 64,419 63,632 -1 % Indirect energy [electricity] use scope 2 15,723 15,719 22,444 43 % Total emissions from energy (scope 1 and 2) 85,549 80,138 86,076 7% Total scope 3 emissions (see boundary below) 255,538 GHG Intensity YOY Change from 2018 Tonnes of salmon produced 54,615 [Tonnes] 44,591 [Tonnes] 57,184 [Tonnes] kgCO2e emitted per tonne of salmon produced (all Bakkafrost group) 1,566 1,797 1,505 -16 % kgCO2e emitted per tonne of salmon produced (only farming operations) 593 552 -7 % The table above outlines the energy consumption associated with Scope • The methodology used for the carbon accounting is The Greenhouse Gas • No estimates have been made for missing or incomplete data from across the 1 and 2 emissions, and an estimate for Bakkafrost’s Scope 3 emissions in Protocol, a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition). operations. 2019. Please note: • In 2019 we quantified our indirect Scope 3 emissions for the first time. We • All emission and conversion factors for direct emissions (Scope 1) are from • All Bakkafrost group includes our biogas, broodstock, hatcheries, farming, reviewed the 15 Scope 3 categories of the GHG Protocol and identified 9 that DEFRA [UK] dataset, while emission factors for electricity use are based on harvesting, processing (including smokery), packaging, and fishmeal, oil and were material to Bakkafrost and for which there was good primary evidence the most recent statistical data available obtained direct from SEV, the Faroe feed production. This includes our US operations and the fishmeal, oil and feed, available to estimate associated emissions. Using industry carbon benchmark Islands energy generation company. and packaging which we produce and sell to other fish farmers, service vessels data we estimated the emissions associated with each category. This included used for other farms, and biogas production to be sold to the national grid. This downstream transportation and distribution of products, purchased goods • Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide equivalent (TCO2e) has been calculated and stated excludes the SSC and a small rented office space in Grimsby, UK. or services, use of sold products (refrigeration and cooking), end-of-life here – this then takes account of the global warming potential attributed to the treatment of sold products, upstream transportation and distribution, employee other two key greenhouse gases associated with combustion of fossil fuels, in • Our two-and-a-half-year production cycle means there is some variability in commuting, business travel, fuel and energy related activities and waste addition to carbon-dioxide (CO2), i.e. methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). production. Environmental data will be impacted by this and trends will be generated in operations. While we endeavor to report this figure on an annual most meaningful over a four-year period. This should be taken into account basis, we are aware that, in future, further categories may be included within • A routine internal review was completed in 2019 and led to a correction when comparing data. the scope of our Scope 3 calculation. regarding energy data for Scope 1 emissions for one Business Unit. The correction equates to less than 0.5% of Bakkafrost’s total carbon footprint in • Electricity consumption (Scope 2) gives rise to indirect emissions, i.e. via • The chosen consolidation approach for emissions was operational control. All 2018 and therefore is not considered to materially affect the carbon footprint combustion of fossil fuels by the power company to generate energy. Direct figures are direct consumption reported for each Business Unit, multiplied by for that year. Bakkafrost has introduced additional controls for the 2019 emissions (Scope 1) result from the combustion of fossil fuels, i.e. solid, liquid an energy conversion factor (as appropriate) and carbon emission factor per reporting cycle to address this issue. or gas for heating, creating propulsion in vessels etc. unit consumed. HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 36 Continued unprecedented population growth – from 7.5 billion in 2017, to an estimated 9.7 billion in 2050 (UN), will result in a Healthy environment demand for 70% more protein than is available, by 2050 (FAO). This will require the agriculture and fishery sectors to considerably Salmon aquaculture increase production. Food production is already the single largest driver of environ­ and climate change mental degradation and crossing of planetary boundaries, including climate change (EAT-Lancet 2019). With limited availability of arable land and fresh water, and heavily exploited wild fisheries, aquaculture is stepping up to meet some of this demand. Since 2014, aquaculture has provided more fish for human consumption than capture fisheries, and by 2030 it is expected to provide 60% of the fish available for human consumption (FAO). Salmon aquaculture has one of the most efficient feed-to-food conversion ratios, low CO2 emissions, and low use of fresh water, compared to other sectors, and is the world’s fastest growing food production system (GSI). See page 34 for data on this. Despite our comparatively low environmental low footprint in those areas, we recognise we have huge responsibility to neutralise our impact as much and as quickly as possible. There is a growing risk that climate change could significantly impact our industry in the future, through changes in weather patterns, ocean acidification and increasing water temperatures. In 2019, we have worked to set an ambitious scope 1 and 2 carbon reduction target of 50% by 2030, in line with climate “We are highly positive that collaborating science recommendation. This is dependant on a series of changes with Bakkafrost on this project will not only in our external environment, such as the provision of affordable renewable energy. create shared benefit for research institutions in the Faroe Islands, but also for the Faroese We have also begun financing research into the impact from aquaculture industry as a whole. Working climate change on the Faroese fjord environment, which may together on research projects with shared impact our operations in the future. Understanding this risk has become a priority for us, so we can not only increase mitigation outcomes clearly demonstrates our mission in of risks within our control, but can also adapt to factors outside collaboratively serving the social, economic our control. and environmental needs of the Faroe A new researcher at the University of the Faroe Islands has begun Islands.” modelling the Faroese near-shore fjord system to collect data across a number of areas. Professor Chik Collins, Rector, Fróðskaparsetur Føroya HEALTHY COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 Healthy communities Performance review WHY IT IS IMPORTANT “Bakkafrost is a founding member of STRATEGIC PRIORITY The Faroese economy is ranked amongst the highest in the the Faroese Aquaculture Association. world based on GDP per capita, which more than doubled • To create shared value Through the group, we look to between 1998 and 2015. In 2019, Faroese fisheries and collaborate on industry risks and aquaculture represented 94% of merchandise exports. Farmed 2019 PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR 2020 Atlantic salmon represented 45% of all seafood exports, and opportunities. Collaboration has been COMMITMENTS Bakkafrost salmon represented 34% of all exports. key to the responsible growth of the • Set up a new ‘Healthy Living’ Fund sector in the Faroe Islands, and we are • Implement stakeholder engagement plan The employment rate in the Faroe Islands is the highest pleased that Bakkafrost continues to • Implement a new community investment plan Europe: 85% in 2019. Bakkafrost remains the largest private engage openly through this platform.” 2023 COMMITMENTS employer on the islands, employing 4% of all employees (November 2019), generating considerable value though Niels Winther, Faroese Aquaculture Association • Actively educate key stakeholders on the benefits of salmon salaries, employment taxes, and corporate tax payments. aquaculture • Increase collaboration with key stakeholders to achieve the Healthy Living Plan Since our 2010 listing on the Oslo Stock Exchange, we have • Increase transparency on local value creation increased our share value by more than two thousand • Continue DKK 10m 3yr investment in Healthy Living Fund percent, generating more than DKK 1.9 million in (corporate, revenue and deferred) taxes (including Q4 for SSC). 2020 FOCUS of the fabric of our local communities, so we must behave Despite our relatively small size, Bakkafrost has a big impact as responsible leaders and look after their interests. This • Continue to scope projects which will have a meaningful on the Faroese economy and generates considerable value includes making strategic community investments and impact in our local communities • Increase communications with our customers on the for the Faroe Islands and beyond, through employment, supporting local causes. sustainability of our products taxes, returns, and community investment. We acknowledge • Increase stakeholder engagement at a farm level we have a big responsibility to everyone with a vested Through the value we create for the Faroese community and SDGs interest in our company; shareholders, employees and local our collaborative approach to business, we are contributing, communities alike. Despite our listed status, our multinational whether to a larger or lesser degree, towards UN Sustainable • SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth growth and our global market share, we are still very much Development Goals 8 and 17. Please see page 9 for more • SDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals a local company. In the Faroe Islands, many see us as part information. HEALTHY COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 38 RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP We are committed to demonstrating leadership on industry In 2019, we: issues, and acting as responsible corporate citizens. We • Increased transparency on material sustainability see this as going beyond mere compliance and optimising issues in our second sustainability report. our net impact on society. Since we have started closer • Were shortlisted for the Edie.net 2019 Sustainability engagement with the local communities, (through our Leaders Awards for our 2018 Healthy Living materiality process and regular engagements), we see that Sustainability Report. responsible leadership, particularly in the Faroe Islands, is an area in which our stakeholders expect us to excel. It is • Carried out extensive stakeholder engagement as our goal to demonstrate visible leadership on industry issues part of our 2019 materiality review (see more on and sustainability, both at an international level through page 11). our contribution to initiatives such as the Global Salmon • Continued more systematic stakeholder engagement Initiative (GSI) and at a local level – through the Faroese and openness at a local level, opening the doors Aquaculture Association and other industry groups. Bakkafrost Glyvrar Open Day 2019 of our offices and production plant in the Faroe Islands to the community. We received more than priority for us. Our powerful presence in the Faroe Islands 2,000 visitors, who were given an insight into our In 2019, we: makes it all the more important for the community to feel corporate and sustainability strategy and had the • Updated our Corporate Responsibility Policy, that we are listening and responding to their concerns on opportunity to ask our CEO questions. communicating this at various company-wide internal issues of greatest importance to them. The local communities • Regularly hosted groups of visitors to our events. throughout the islands have first-hand experience our growth, headquarters, production plant, Havsbrún and whether in infrastructure projects, such as the building of farming operations in the Faroe Islands, including • Continued engagement with the Government of the a new hatchery or biogas plant, or through of other forms local schools, customers, investors, industry groups, Faroe Islands on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. of development. While this has been mostly positive – e.g. politicians and diplomats. • Contributed to the corporate sustainability conversation, the creation of new jobs and improved infrastructure – the speaking at numerous events in the Faroe Islands and • Proactively contacted key stakeholders around our impact of our growth can also be experienced as negative. internationally. farming sites with information about our approach to sustainability and means through which to raise While we always follow local protocol regarding community concerns. In 2020, we will continue to embed the Ten Principles of consultation and have regular dialogue with community • Increased opportunities for employees to interact the UN Global Compact, covering human rights, labour, representatives, our 2017 materiality analysis highlighted with us (see more on page 43). environment, and anti-corruption into our business practices. that our local engagement could be better. We have We will also continue engagement with the Government responded with closer consultation on specific projects and • Carried out a public consultation for our new biogas of the Faroe Islands on the UN Sustainable Development greater openness about our approach to sustainability and plant. Goals and our active contribution on local and international our community investments. This was recognised when we platforms on sustainability issues related to aquaculture. revisited many stakeholders as part of our 2019 materiality In 2020, we will continue increasing stakeholder review. We also continue to increase dialogue and transparency engagement on sustainability issues. For example, through COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AND TRANSPARENCY with the investment community on sustainability issues, in communications with our customers on the sustainability Engaging with the local community and providing particular, through closer communication with responsible of our products, and through greater engagement at a farm transparency on our most material sustainability issues is a investor service providers. level. We will also continue the open approach with which HEALTHY COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 we relate to local residents with another community open aquaculture. A new researcher was hired in 2019 to develop day in the Faroe Islands. a model of the fjord system, improving knowledge for the organising a series of initiatives including industry. fjord and beach clean-ups – where employees See more on our approach to stakeholder engagement on volunteered during work hours; contributing to page 42. Our tax contribution is the largest in the Faroe Islands. We community events – such as the annual Seaman’s also make a substantial contribution through the services Day, Day at Sea, and Salmon Market where we VALUE GENERATION and products we procure to run the business. In 2019, 68% handed out free salmon and invited people to As well as the efficient production of world-class protein of our suppliers were local, with the remaining 32% coming board our ships; and offering the use of our service products, we generate value in society through tax mainly from Denmark, Norway, Iceland and other European vessels for other national clean-up initiatives. contribution, employment and community investment. countries. This includes suppliers of ingredients for our • Increased transparency on our community spend, feed, our service vessels, technology used for production at to demonstrate how we are implementing our Bakkafrost has been, and remains, integral to the survival of our farms, hatcheries and processing plants, construction, updated policy. many Faroese communities throughout the islands, where and oil and energy used for our operations. In 2019, around we create considerable prosperity. Since the instrumental 20 suppliers made up 49% of our total spend. In 2020, we will continue to scope projects with meaningful decision by the authorities to allow the consolidation impact in our local communities. of the farming industry, good management of our risks and opportunities has been key to maintaining a healthy In 2019, we: business operating in healthy communities. Since becoming • Paid more than DKK 456 million in salaries and listed, it has become increasingly important for us to balance employee costs. our shareholder returns with the local value generation. • Paid DKK 251 million in corporate and revenue taxes. In 2019, we continued the implementation of our updated community investment policy, which now supports an • Sourced 68% of products and services locally and extended range of causes, including initiatives aligned to continued our indirect contribution to the local Causes supported our most material issues at a local level. We now have a economy, contracting at least 50 local workers for dual approach to investments based on updated principles: hatchery building projects alone. 20% meeting local needs by responding to online funding • Contributed almost DKK 3 million through our 26% requests, and making proactive investments into education, Healthy Living Fund to local causes including research, sponsorship of national sporting organisations, sport, arts and culture, education, environment and 10% and Faroese arts and culture. social inclusion. We also increased investments into projects focused on addressing our material 15% 13% One of our investments has been into the University of the issues through longer-term partnerships. See the 2% 15% Faroe Islands (Fróðskaparsetur Føroya). Through a threebreakdown in the graphic opposite. year partnership to advance research in natural sciences, • Commenced our three-year partnership with the 20% National sports teams 10% Arts and culture the environment and the aquaculture sector in the Faroe University of the Faroe Islands, supporting natural 13% Local football clubs 15% Local sports clubs Islands, we will benefit from a better understanding of sciences. 2% Social inclusion of the elderly or the disabled the impact salmon farming has on the environment, and 15% Other local giving • Continued to increase our in-kind support: 26% Environment and biodiversity the potential impact climate change will have on Faroese HEALTHY COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40 Healthy communities Leaving a lasting footprint Over the years, Bakkafrost has invested millions to “Bakkafrost’s support of ROYN has promote participation in sports in the Faroe Islands. gone towards the club’s youth work. It has helped create a sociable, In the last two years alone, we have supported around healthy and safe sports environment 45 sporting organisations spanning a range of sports, from grassroots to national level. Bakkafrost has for young people in the village, particularly funded local football clubs in areas where which has really benefited our small we have farming operations. community.” We have provided support to clubs and organisations in Eyðstein Jacobsen, Bóltfelagið Royn Hvalba 16 municipalities Through annual investments but also with in-kind support such as catering contributions. impact from the funding, giving them the possibility We carried out a survey with these organisations in to finance their operations, maintain their equipment 2019 to understand the impact our investments had and improve opportunities for participation. Moreover, made. 34 organisations responded to say that more than many organisations reported not only a positive impact two thousand people had benefited from our support. on the individuals participating in the sports – through improved health, skills and experiences – but also a Around three quarters of respondents said the funding lasting benefit to the community as a whole. had helped reach people that would not have otherwise been reached, and 41% said they had been able to In 2019, Bakkafrost began supporting the football team leverage our support to raise further funds for their in Hvalba, where we have a new farming site. organisation. Most of the organisations reported a big ABOUT THE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 About sustainability at Bakkafrost SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE management approach to these issues), found on page 11 of Sustainability management and reporting is a matter for the this report. NOTES ON THE REPORT Bakkafrost Board of Directors, which in 2019 was added to Unless otherwise stated in the ‘additional information’ of our GRI Index, our reporting boundary is all Bakkafrost the agenda at every board meeting (covering topics such as Bakkafrost’s core values specify an intent to act responsibly. operations in the Faroe Islands and the new subsidiary in the our Healthy Living Fund and sustainability reporting), as well This includes thinking long-term on economic, social, and US acquired in 2018. as at the Annual General Meeting. The Board contributed to environmental issues. We follow a precautionary approach to and approved the 2019 materiality process, the updated the management of sustainability risk through an annual risk The small sales office in the UK and the Scottish Salmon Company acquired in late 2019 are not included, unless 2023 Healthy Living Plan and the 2019 sustainability report. assessment process which is reported in the Annual Report, otherwise stated. This included the review and approval of commitments to and a materiality analysis, which has been included in our mitigate climate change through CO2 reduction targets and sustainability reporting from 2018 onwards. The process This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI plans to become a TCFD (Task Force on Climate Related allocates responsibility for the mitigation of significant Standards: Core option. The index table can be found online. Financial Disclosures) supporter. operational risks. We have mapped the material issues identified by our stakeholders against the GRI Standards, and the information In addition to the Board’s oversight of sustainability, including Risks covering all Bakkafrost operations are monitored in this report has been developed to cover the GRI Standard climate change issues, Bakkafrost has a Sustainability throughout the value chain and reported against internally topics on an issue-by-issue basis. Committee, chaired by the CEO, which meets around six on a regular basis. Specific sustainability risks are reported The LTI health and safety data has been restated. Please see times a year to oversee the implementation and performance though annual external reporting. and explanation for this and the basis for reporting online. with of the Healthy Living Plan and the Bakkafrost Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Policy. Our Code of Conduct also outlines our intention to “[…] Some content in the report has been third-party audited by Januar. The assurance statement can be found on 46. strive to be market-leading in environmental protection. All The delivery of the sustainability strategy is the employees will be required to bear in mind the environmental responsibility of Bakkafrost’s management team, which effects work-related activities have on nature and the reports on a regular basis to our CEO and the Sustainability environment and apply environmentally friendly solutions Committee. The management team discusses sustainability to the extent reasonably possible.” at monthly meetings and reviews quarterly progress against the Healthy Living Plan. In 2020, this will include Further information on Bakkafrost’s approach to governance progress against CO2 reduction targets for each area of the and values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour can business. In 2019, as part of strategic business planning, they be found online under our Corporate Governance Principles. evaluated Bakkafrost’s material sustainability issues (and the STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 42 Stakeholder engagement We engage regularly with a diverse group of stakeholders on a range of topics. Our engagement plan has provided a more structured approach to talk to our stakeholders about the issues of greatest importance to them. Our senior executives and management team identify stakeholders to engage with on a routine and planned basis. These are identified as being significantly affected by our activities or having the ability to influence our successful running of the business, including how we achieve our strategy. In 2019, our most significant structured stakeholder engagement was our materiality review. We carry out these assessments every two years to help us review the most significant sustainability issues for the company (see more on page 11), upon which we subsequently build our Healthy Living Sustainability strategy. Opposite is a list of all our key stakeholder groups through which we aim to respond to stakeholders needs and interests. We will continue implementing our engagement plan in 2020. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 Group Engagement mechanisms Notes on engagement Employees Whistleblower mechanism Employees have access to an online whistleblower mechanism. In 2019, we launched our first employee engagement survey. Employee engagement survey Employees Regular contact and ongoing meetings with Unions Main topics: labour conditions, remuneration, health and safety, human capital. Unions Regular employee working group meetings In 2019, Bakkafrost engaged with workers unions Klaksvíkar Arbeiðsmannafelag and Klaksvíkar Arbeiðskvinnufelag to agree working conditions at a local hatchery. Customers Biennial sustainability materiality assessment Main topics: certification, quality, satisfaction, international relations, packaging, product development. Biennial Customer Summit (which all customers are invited to) In 2019, we brought our smoking operation in-house to be able to meet customer demand for smoked Annual online survey products. We also made some changes to our packaging including moving away from carbon black packaging Annual engagement at seafood exhibitions including: Seafood Expo North America (Boston), Seafood Global for a number of our customers as a result of customer feedback. (Brussels), China Fisheries & Seafood Expo (Qingdao), World Food Shanghai Exhibition, Ocean Group Seafood Show (San Diego), Wabel Frozen Summit (Paris) Annual engagement at client summits Suppliers Biennial sustainability materiality assessment Main topics: certification, quality, company standards (including human rights, health and safety and Ongoing engagement environmental standards). Supplier audits Government and Regular ongoing engagement Main topics: licenses and registration, fish health & welfare, pollution, biogas plant, ethical conduct, regulatory bodies international relations, UN Sustainable Development Goals. Local communities Biennial sustainability materiality assessment Main topics: new building projects, community investment, waste, water, pollution, value-creation. Ongoing engagement with local councils, harbour masters, and interest groups In 2019, we carried out a survey with all sporting organisations to which we have donated to establish our Periodic engagement at industry events with Faroese business community impact. Open house day at Faroe Islands headquarters, where the local community has the opportunity to meet our We have increased transparency on waste management and carbon emissions. CEO and ask questions We also met with community representatives about our new biogas plant, and in 2020 we will continue this Annual local events such as Seaman’s Day and Day at Sea engagement. We held our first community open house day, attended by around 2,000 people. Investors Quarterly investor roadshows and periodic engagements Main topics: transparency on all material issues. Bakkafrost has increased transparency on material issues Biennial Capital Markets Day (which all investors are invited to) Annual engagement on investor ESG ratings in each annual Sustainability Report, aligning reporting with the GRI Standard. In 2019, Bakkafrost increased Biennial sustainability materiality assessment engagement with investors on ESG issues, for example hosting the Sustainalytics Engagement team for a Periodic investor visits deeper ESG analysis. NGOs Biennial sustainability materiality assessment Main topics: pollution, fish health and welfare, community engagement. Certification Ongoing engagement with third party certification bodies, including the ASC, MSC and GLOBALG.A.P. Main topics: certification, quality (including food safety), health and safety. bodies Biennial sustainability materiality assessment Industry groups Ongoing engagement with groups including the Faroese Working Environment Service, and Faroese Main topics: fish health and welfare, human rights, innovation, collaboration and certification, international Maritime Authorities, Faroese Employers Association and Faroese Aquaculture Association, Global Salmon relations, health and safety, pollution, feed ingredients, transparency. Initiative (GSI) Biennial sustainability materiality assessment Industry experts Ongoing engagement with external vets Main topics: all material issues. and academics Biennial sustainability materiality assessment Sustainability training with experts MEMBERSHIP AND RATINGS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 44 Memberships and ratings TRANSPARENT ABOUT OUR PROGRESS We aim to have a transparent approach to sustainability. This includes reporting the progress we make in addressing our most material issues. Through ongoing stakeholder engagement, and memberships and associations, we work collaboratively to drive the agenda forward, honestly and openly. VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE MEMBERSHIPS UN Global Compact Global Salmon Initiative (GSI) Bakkafrost is a participant in the UN Global Compact and member Bakkafrost is a founding member of the initiative, of the Business Action Platform for the Ocean. which is focused on promoting sustainable aquaculture leadership through collaboration. Through the action platform, we aim to contribute to the Ocean Disclosure Project health of the ocean, through a focus on growth, innovation and In 2019, Bakkafrost voluntarily signed up to the Ocean EU Fishmeal sustainability. Disclosure Project to further increase transparency and focus on Havsbrún is a member of the EU Fishmeal sustainable sourcing of marine ingredients. Please visit www. initiative, which is a European nongovernmental Please see our Communication on Progress on page 45. oceandisclosureproject.org for Bakkafrost’s profile. organisation representing European fishmeal and fish oil producers. IFFO The Marine Ingredients Association 2019 RATINGS 2019 AWARDS Havsbrún is a member of the IFFO is an international trade organisation that represents and promotes the marine ingredients industry, such as fishmeal, fish oil and other related industries. In 2019, Bakkafrost was named among the Best Performers in the Faroese Employers Association Coller FAIRR Protein Producer Index, which ranks the world’s largest and Faroese Aquaculture Association listed producers on sustainability. We were recognised as the bestBakkafrost was instrumental in the formation performing aquaculture company for not using antibiotics since 2004. In 2019, Bakkafrost was announced as a finalist at edie’s VINNUHÚSIÐ HOUSE OF INDUSTRY of the Faroese Aquaculture Association which Sustainability Leaders Awards 2020 in the Sustainability promotes a joint approach to the management Reporting & Communications category, for the 2018 Healthy of material sustainability issues faced by the Living Sustainability Report. The awards recognise and reward aquaculture industry in the Faroe Islands. changemakers within business. In December 2019, Bakkafrost was rated 25.2 (on a scale of 0-40+) in the Sustainalytics ESG Risk Ratings assessment (a lower score indicates less unmanaged ESG risk). The company’s risk score has decreased significantly in the past year, and its risk category has improved. Please see our webpages for a comprehensive list of memberships and associations. Feedback on this report, or on other material economic, Our biogas business FÖRKA won Faroese Business Initiative 2019. environmental and social issues concerning Bakkafrost should be The new plant will process waste from salmon and dairy farms In 2019, Bakkafrost received a rating of BBB (on a scale of AAAsent to bakkafrost@bakkafrost.com. These will be shared with the into fertiliser and renewable energy. CCC) in the MSCI ESG Ratings assessment. Bakkafrost Sustainability Committee. UN GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 UN Global Compact progress report PRINCIPLE RULE/ ACTION OUTCOMES Human Rights Bakkafrost Code of Conduct No reports received through mechanism (relating to human rights violations) Bakkafrost Sustainability Policy External grievance mechanism (activly promoted to local stakeholders) 1 and 2 Support for human rights and prevention of Internal whistleblower system No reports received through employee whistleblower mechanism (relating to human rights human rights violations Whistleblower reports violations) Bakkafrost pledges to uphold all internationally proclaimed human rights as specified in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. See page 20 for more information Updated Bakkafrost Sustainability Policy Labour Bakkafrost suppliers contractually obliged to meet Supplier Standard outlining labour standards No reports to external grievance mecanism or internal whistle-blowing system relating to freedom including safe work environment, free from discrimination and the exploitation of children of the association, forced or child labour, or discrimination 3 to 6 Freedom of association, Bakkafrost Code of Conduct No need for corrective actions in 2019 abolition of forced and Bakkafrost Sustainability Policy child labour, elimination of discrimination Internal discrimination policy is in accordance to the ILO conventions 12% Management Team female in 2019 (up from 7% in 2018) 17% of our Board of Directors female (down from 20% with one male member) Goal to maintain women in leadership positions 38% of workforce female (up from 37% in 2018) See page 17 for more information Environment Biennial Materiality Analysis Updated sustainability strategy aligned with most material issues Bakkafrost Sustainability Policy Goal to have all farming sites certified to the ASC standard by end of 2020 14 sites certified in 2019 (7 in 2018) 7 A precautionary approach to environmental challenges See page 26 for more information 8 Promotion of greater Promotion of ASC to customers First exclusively ASC certified salmon contract in Asia environmental responsibility Engagement with key stakeholders on material issues New feed policy Engagement with local stakeholder in new biogas plant Collaboration with local dairy farmers and local authorities on waste management See page 32 for more information 9 Development and diffusion DKK 100 million investment into Faroe Islands first biogas plant Future reduction of up to 11,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions p.a. of environmentally friendly Future processing of up to tens of thousands tonnes annually of all waste from farms p.a. technologies See page 32 for more information 10 Anti-corruption Bakkafrost Code of Conduct (Included in handbook given to all emloyees) No reports to external grievance mechanism or internal whistle-blowing system relating to corruption See page 13 for more information INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 46 Independent assurance report To the stakeholders of P/F Bakkafrost assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is consider the risk of material misstatement of the data and P/F Bakkafrost has engaged us to provide limited assurance substantially lower than the assurance that would have information, in doing so, and based on our professional on the data and information described below and set out been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement judgement, we: in the Sustainability Report of Bakkafrost for the period 1 been performed. • Conducted interviews with management at Group level January 31 December 2019. responsible for the sustainability strategy management and Our independence and quality control reporting; Our conclusion We have complied with the code of ethics for Professional • Performed an assessment of materiality and the selection Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence Accountants issued by the international Ethics Standards of topics for the 2019 Bakkafrost Sustainability Report and we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that Board for Accountants which includes independence comparison to the results of a media search; causes us not to believe, that data and information in the and other ethical requirements founded on fundamental • Read and evaluated reporting guidelines and internal P/F Bakkafrost Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence control procedures at Group level in regard to the data to be December 2019 are without any material misstatements, and and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. Our consolidated in the 2019 sustainability report; have been prepared in all material respects in accordance firm applies international Standards on Quality Control 1 and • Conducted analytical review of the selected data in scope with the accounting principles as stated on https://www. accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality for our assurance engagement submitted by all production bakkafrost.com/en/about-us/sustainability/reports. control including documented policies and procedures sites for consolidation at group level; This conclusion is to be read in the context of what is stated regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional • Evaluated internal and external documentation to determine in the remainder of this assurance report. standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, whether information in the 2019 sustainability report is our work was carried out by an independent team with supported by sufficient evidence; What we are assuring experience in sustainability reporting an assurance. • Read other information included in the 2019 Bakkafrost The scope of our work was limited to assurance over data Sustainability Report in order to identify any material and information in the Bakkafrost Sustainability Report for Understanding reporting inconsistencies with the selected data in scope for our the period 1 January 31 December 2019. and measurement methodologies assurance engagement and our limited assurance report Data and information need to be read and understood together thereon. Professional standards applied and level of assurance with the accounting principles https://www.bakkafrost.com/ We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance en/about-us/sustainability/reports/ which management are Management responsibilities with international standard on assurance engagements solely responsible for selecting and applying. The absence of Management of Bakkafrost is responsible for: 3000 (revised) “assurance Engagements other than Audits a significant body of established practice on which to draw • Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control and reviews of Historical Financial information”. A limited to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for over information relevant to the preparation of data and assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a different, but acceptable measurement techniques and can information in the Sustainability Report that are free from reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the affect comparability between entities and over time. material misstatement, whether due to fraud of error; risk assessment procedures, including an understanding • Establishing objective accounting principles for preparing of internal control, and the procedures performed in Work performed data and information; response to the assessed risks, consequently the level of We are required to plan and perform our work in order to • Measuring and reporting data and information in the INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 sustainability Report based on the accounting principles; and • The content of Sustainability Report for the period January 1 – December 31 2019. Our Responsibility We are responsible for: • Planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether data and information for the period 1 January – 31 December 2019 Bakkafrost Sustainability Report are free from material misstatement, in all material respects, in accordance with the preparation principles; • Forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, and • Reporting our conclusion to the stakeholders of P/F Bakkafrost Tórshavn, 10th March 2020 Januar Løggilt Grannskoðanarvirki Heini Thomsen Fróði Sivertsen State Authorised Public State Authorised Public Accountant Accountant SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 48 Bakkafrost Bakkafrost • Bakkavegur P/FP/F • Bakkavegur 99•• PO Box221 POBox 221 • FO-625 • FO-625 Glyvrar Glyvrar Tel +298 40 50 Tel +298 50•00 4000 Fax +298 • Fax 4040 +298 50 09•• bakkafrost@bakkafrost.com 5009 • www.bakkafrost.com bakkafrost@bakkafrost.com • www.bakkafrost.com
