Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Consolidated Non-ﬁnancial Information Statement Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 0 1 2 3 Introduction 04 Our business 08 Corporate governance 13 People 31 1.1 Company description 09 2.1 Governing bodies 15 3.1 Employment 33 1.2 Organisation 10 2.2 Measures to prevent corruption and bribery 17 3.2 Talent management 37 1.3 Business 11 2.3 Anti-money laundering 20 3.3 Diversity 40 1.4 Business strategy and trends 12 2.4 Risk management 21 3.4 Accessibility and disability 48 2.5 Human rights 24 3.5 Organisation of work. Smart Working 52 2.6 Prevention of harassment 26 3.6 Work-life balance 55 2.7 Responsible taxpayer 27 3.7 Compensation and social benefits 58 3.8 Security 61 3.9 Social dialogue 62 4 5 6 7 Impact on society 63 Awards and Measures taken to Environment 82 4.1 SDG 4. Quality education. accolades 77 tackle COVID19 79 7.1 everis certifications 84 Education initiatives 65 7.2 Environmental and energy policy 85 4.2 SDG 10. Reduced inequalities. Social commitment 66 7.3 Environmental Management System 86 4.3 SDG 8. Economic growth. Impact 7.4 Climate Change Strategy 88 of everis' activity on employment 7.5 Circular economy 92 and local development 72 7.6 Atmospheric pollution, including 4.4 Customers 74 noise and light 95 4.5 Suppliers 75 7.7 Biodiversity 96 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annexes 97 Figures Graphs Indicators Annex 1. Materiality analysis 98 Figure 1. everis' operations around the world 09 Graph 1. Internal control system 22 Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country 108 Annex 2. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 103 Figure 2. Company’s organisational structure 10 Graph 2. Number of hires 34 Indicator 2. Type of contract 119 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-financial indicators 107 Figure 3. everis' values 14 Graph 3. Percentage of redundancies 34 Indicator 3. Number of hires 133 Annex 4. Content of Non-financial Information Figure 4. Distribution of the workforce by continent 33 Graph 4. Comparison of turnover 35 Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals 141 Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators 171 Figure 5. Average remuneration Indicator 4.2. Turnover rate 149 Annex 5. MITECO Carbon Footprint by professional category 36 Registry for everis FY19 178 Indicator 5. Wage distribution 151 Figure 6. Executive School 38 Annex 6. Independent Verification Report 180 Indicator 6. Training hours 162 Figure 7. Type of timetable and number of hours per week 53 Indicator 7. Occupational accidents and occupational illnesses 164 Figure 8. Sites with energy audits programmed for FY20 94 Indicator 8. Waste generated by the organisation 166 Indicator 9. GHG emissions 166 Indicator 10. Raw materials consumption 169 Indicator 11. Non-renewable energy consumption and intensity 169 Tables Table 1. Order of priority of spheres 05 Table 12. Average remuneration of board members 36 Table 22. Employees covered by Table 31. tCO2e emissions per country vs KPI 89 collective bargaining agreements 62 Tabla 2. % of revenues 11 Table 13. Average remuneration of senior executives 36 Table 32. tCO2e everis Spain 90 Table 23. Channels of dialogue. University 65 Table 3. Governing bodies 15 Table 14. Average remuneration Table 33. Carbon Footprint KPI trend for everis Spain 90 of corporate management 36 Table 24. Volunteering 66 Table 4. Delegate committees 16 Table 34. Measures of everis Spain Table 15. Diversity indicators 40 Table 25. Percentage of local purchases 72 emissions reduction plan 91 Table 5. Measures for the prevention of harassment 26 Table 16. Initiatives to reduce the gender gap 45 Table 26. Channels of dialogue. Customers 74 Table 35. Relative priority of the spheres 101 Table 6. Profits obtained by country 28 Table 17. Percentage of women in the workforce 47 Table 27. Channels of dialogue. Local 75 Table 36. Weighted score of material Table 7. Taxes on profits paid 29 issues in each sphere 101 Table 18. Employees with disability Table 28. Awards received 78 Table 8. Public grants received 30 in other countries 50 Table 37. Identification of material issues 102 Table 29. Certifications implemented Table 9. Headcount by country 33 Table 19. Employees who work from home in Spain 52 in everis in Europe 84 Table 38. GRI Indicators and Sustainable Development Goals 105 Table 10. Comparison of types of contract 34 Table 20. Parental leave 57 Table 30. Certifications implemented in the Americas and Africa 84 Table 39. Location of content in Act 11/2018 172 Table 12. Comparison of gender pay gap 35 Table 21. Occupational accidents 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Chairperson’s letter It is once again with great pleasure that I present you with the everis Our contribution to improving the environment and tackling climate change Non-Financial Information Report for the 2019 financial year (1 April 2019 has focused on widening the measurement scope of our carbon footprint, to 31 March 2020), prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative verified by an independent certification agency and entered in the CO2 guidelines and aligned with the United Nations' 2030 Agenda whose Global Absorption Projects and Carbon Footprint Register of the Ministry for Compact we have signed. Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge (MITECO), thereby contributing to reaching Spain's targets in the Paris Agreement. This report presents the results of our social and environmental activity in keeping with our commitment to transparency and dialogue with our Lastly, on behalf of all the members of everis' Board of Directors I have stakeholders. the honour of chairing, I would like to acknowledge and thank everis' staff – 79% of whom would recommend everis as the best place to work. I am aware of the terrible times we are living through today and must therefore clarify that the information presented in this report was collated prior to the Covid-19 pandemic and so does not reflect the pandemic's Many thanks impact on all our areas of business. This qualification aside, the Group's performance has been satisfactory over the year and we have achieved all the targets we set ourselves. I would like to especially mention the everis Group's contribution to direct job creation over the year, having hired over 9,000 skilled technology workers – 95% of whom have been taken on permanently. This volume Eduardo Serra Rexach of hires puts us in the top tier for job creation in Spain. Chairman of everis' Board of Directors Our sustainable growth strategy built on developing diverse talent has enabled us to boost the ratio of women occupying senior management positions in the Company. The percentage of the Board of Directors who are female has increased by 10 points to 27%, and one of our female executives has been promoted to CEO of one of the Group’s divisions, the first time a woman has occupied this position. Turning to our customers' faith in us, it is important to highlight that we have achieved a customer satisfaction score of eight out of ten for yet another year in the surveys on completed projects. 03 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction This report sets out the everis Group’s Statement of Non-financial This report and the Management Report were drawn up by the Board of Information for the 2019/2020 financial year (hereinafter, “FY19”) covering Directors, reflecting the commitment of the Company’s highest body to the period from 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. the management and supervision of relevant non-financial aspects of the Group’s activities. It has been drawn up in compliance with the requirements established in Act 11/2018 of 28 December 2018 on non-financial information and The Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI Standards) for preparing diversity, which amends the Spanish Commercial Code, the revised text sustainability reports were followed when drafting this report. of the Spanish Limited Liability Companies Act, approved by Royal Decree-Law 1/2010 of 2 July 2010, and Audit Act 22/2015 of 20 July 2015 Materiality analysis was carried out through a study of the most important on matters of non-financial information and diversity (resulting from Royal matters for the Company and its stakeholders to report on material issues, Decree-Law 18/2017 of 24 November 2017). the strategy for dealing with them and the concerns expressed by everis' stakeholders. The following stakeholders were identiﬁed from this analysis: Employees Board of Directors, senior management and investors NTT DATA and NTT Partners Customers and suppliers Society (local community, entrepreneurs, sources of experienced talent, including those of other companies, etc.) 04 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction The following classiﬁcation of the importance of each sphere was compiled based on this survey analysis: 1. Employment 2. Economic 3. Good governance 4. Social 5. Environmental Not Very Not Very Not Very Not Very Not Very important important important important important important important important important important 1 11 16 24 28 2 17 3 12 25 29 18 4 5 19 13 26 30 6 20 7 21 14 27 8 9 22 10 15 23 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 1. Equality. 3.92 11. Job creation. 3.96 16. Reporting transparency. 3.73 24. Customer satisfaction. 3.77 28. Environmental policy. Environmental certificates. 3.00 2. Talent management. 12. Economic sustainability. 3.69 17. Regulatory compliance 25. Suppliers (local). Training plan. Corruption and bribery Purchasing policy. Career development. 3.86 13. Pay policy. 3.65 prevention. Payments. 3.13 29. Waste prevention, recycling Code of ethics. 3.56 and reuse measures. 3. Organisation of work. 26. Volunteer and Sustainable use of resources. 2.92 Work-life balance measures. 18. Information security entrepreneurship programmes. Parental leave. 3.68 and data protection. 3.43 Social initiatives. 30. Climate change strategy. Sponsorships, partnerships Carbon footprint. 19. Reputation and image. 3.38 and social activities. 2.89 Pollution prevention measures. 2.81 The following 16 material issues in each sphere were identiﬁed using the resulting matrix, based on their average score in terms of relative signiﬁcance. 05 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction The indicators used and year-on-year changes are shown in the following table: Employment FY19 FY18 In this report, everis indicates the degree of relevance the Company % Female Top executive 12,4 10,7 assigns to each issue proposed by law, together with the policies and risks associated with each of them, and the reference indicator used for Course per person 4,69 4,18 their monitoring and assessment. Employees with disabilities 0,62% 0,57% The report also analyses compliance with the everis Group's Homeworking* 24,50% 20,30% Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. It aims to respond to changes in the market and the environment in which it operates and therefore, this report presents the results of our financial, Economic social and environmental performance in keeping with our commitment Num. hires 9.522 9.694 to transparency and dialogue undertaken with all our stakeholders. Good governance Female board members 27% 17% Independent board directors 36% 33% Employee satisfaction 80% 75% Social Satisfaction score customers 8,1 8,1 Local suppliers >90% 78% Volunteers (employees) 6% 4% Environmental Carbon Footprint* 0,73 t 0,80 t * In Spain. 06 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Introduction Quality education Diversity and inclusion Environment and energy We are working to develop everyone's We are convinced that, together, we We are staunchly committed to digital skills – especially children's – can build a more diverse and inclusive the environment and managing championing projects to improve future where new generations can be energy efficiently, encouraging the education and develop new skills who they want to be. sustainable use of natural resources, concerning creativity and innovation. the circular economy, and curbing Pledge to adhere to the UN climate change. Sustainable Development Goals everis is committed to the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 2030 Agenda as a blueprint for building a better society, through the diverse talent of our staff and the responsible use of technology. everis' ESG (environment, social and governance) strategy revolves around contributing to achieving the SDGs concerning those material issues our stakeholders consider important: economic growth, quality education, diversity and inclusion, social issues and governance. Social impact. Volunteering Governance Partnerships We help develop the communities We are committed to god corporate We cannot have a social impact if we serve thanks to our performance governance, transparency and ethical we work alone; therefore, we have and the volunteer work of our staff conduct. Given the nature of our built an extensive network in each who contribute their knowledge business and the influence technology performance sphere to be able to and experience. has on our decisions, we have created achieve greater scalability of all ten best practices for using artificial our initiatives. intelligence responsibly. 07 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 1 Our business 08 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 1. Our business 1.1 everis Spain, S.L.U. relocated its registered offices and address for tax purposes to Camino Fuente de la Mora 1, Madrid (Spain) in November 2019. This multinational consultancy firm providing business, strategy, digital In 2014, everis joined the NTT DATA Group – the eighth-largest IT services company in the world with over 123,000 employees and operating in 53 countries across Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, Europe, Latin America and Company transformation, technological application development and maintenance and outsourcing solutions.It is active in all sectors of the economy, posting a North America, and boasting a turnover of $19 billion. In turn, NTT DATA belongs to the NTT Group – one of the leading companies in the telecoms description turnover in the last financial year of €1.454 billion. The company employs over 27,000 people across Europe, the United States, Latin America and Africa. sector globally. 18 € 1.454 countries billion Andorra Argentina Belgium Brazil Chile Colombia USA Spain Netherlands Italy Luxembourg Morocco Mexico Peru Portugal UK = € 10 billion France everis NTT DATA Switzerlad 27.291 employees Spain 14.483 UK 327 Peru 3.470 Belgium 148 Brazil 2.525 USA 142 Chile 1.731 Morocco 139 Colombia 981 Luxembourg 64 Portugal 967 Netherlands 38 Italy 880 France 18 Mexico 858 Andorra 14 = 200 employees Argentina 501 Switzerland 5 09 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 1. Our business 1.2 Organisation A diagram of everis' organisation and structure at the FY19 close is shown below. It is worth noting that this report includes the non-financial information of all the companies consolidated with everis Spain S.L.U, irrespective of the Company’s ownership interests in them (affiliates shown in orange in the following figure). everis Spain SLU 1 branch in Netherlands 1 branch in Luxembourg 1 branch in Belgium 1 branch in France 1 branch in Colombia 1 branch in Switzerland 100% Fit Inversión Ideals Innovation everis BPO SLU everis Centers everis Initiatives SLU Talento SAU & Technology Group SLU 100% Venturing Services SL 1 branch in Peru 75% everis Polonia SPZOO * everis Perú SAC 99,999966% 0,000034% everis Italia SPA everis BPO Perú SAC Arilion SL everis Centers SLU everis Ingeniería SLU 99,99% 0,01% 100% 100% everis Outsourcing everis Portugal SA de Processos LDA everis México SRLCV everis Centers Group everis Aeroespacial 99,97% 0,03% Portugal SLU y Defensa SLU 100% everis USA INC everis BPO México SRLCV 2% 98,00% everis Sistemas de Seguridad SLU everis Consultancy LIMITED BPXNet LIMITED everis Argentina SA 98,81% 0,92% 100% 100% everis Aragón SLU everis Colombia SAS 0,27% Sistemas de 99,9998% 0,0002% Control Remoto SL 75% everis Panama INC * everis BPO Colombia SAS 0,00142% everis Centers 99,99858% Morocco SARL Aplicaciones de everis South Africa (PTY) LTD * everis Brasil Consultoria de 99% Simulación Simtec SL 1% 67,50% 7 branches in Brazil Negocios e Tecnologia da Informaçao LTDA 0,01% everis Centers everis Infrastructures 99,99% Latam LTDA everis Mobile SLU Operations SLU 99,99% NTT DATA Brasil Consultoria 0,01% 100% 3 branches in Brazil EM T.I. Soluções LTDA Everpross SLU everis Andorra Consulting 0,01% everis Centers IT Services SLU 99,99% Chile LTDA 99,99% Cetel Ingeniería everis Chile SA 0,01% de Sistemas SLU 99,99% 0,01% everis Infrastructures Engineering SLU everis Training Chile LTDA 0,01% 99,99% everis Belgique SPRL everis BPO Servicios Profesionales Técnicos y Tecnológicos Chile LTDA * Dormant company 0,01% 99,99% 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 1. Our business 1.3 Business everis is a multinational consulting firm with 27,291 employees providing Outsourcing 48% The Company draws on the support of an ecosystem of partners business, strategy, digital transformation, technological application comprising more than 30 technology partners, strategic alliances and Development and integration 28% development and maintenance and outsourcing solutions in all sectors: associations to tackle the challenges it faces in all of the above sectors. banking, insurance, telecoms & media, public sector, healthcare, utilities & Consultancy 24% Some of these partnerships are described below: energy, infrastructure, wholesale, tourism, logistics & transport, automotive and aerospace. Other consultancy services 0,10% The following table shows the percentage breakdown of consultancy service revenues generated by each service area: everis is a Microsoft Gold Cloud everis is a global Oracle Platinum Partner, which means we can Partner. This recognition position ourselves as a strategic demonstrates our expertise in this Consultancy Revenues Areas Ingresos partner in cloud solutions and technology and is testament to the complement everis’ offerings with maximum quality we offer in project Business consultancy Financial services 42,00% all the cloud technology Microsoft implementation. Strategy / organisation / etc. (s) 11,00% has to offer. Banking and financial markets 33,00% Information technology consultancy IT consultancy (u) 13,00% Insurance 9,00% Development and integration Public administrations 16,80% Applications development (v) 23,70% State central government 11,00% As part of the NTT DATA Group, everis is a SAP Global Partner and Roll-out and integration (w) 4,30% Regional or autonomous community government 4,80% everis is one of the world’s top Gold Partner. This relationship 10 Salesforce Global Strategic demonstrates not only our level of Local or municipal government 1,10% Partners. This represents expertise in this technology, but also Outsourcing a powerful, wide range of our top-quality project and service Information technology outsourcing (ITO) (x) 10,00% Telecommunications and media 15,00% capabilities, which enables us delivery. Together, we are constantly to support our customers from striving to boost our customers’ Application management services (AMS) (y) 32,30% revenue as much as possible. Our all sectors in their digital Energy (oil, coal, mining, etc.) and public Business process outsourcing (BPO) (z) 5,80% transformation, anywhere. partnership is a strategic one, and utilities companies (water, electricity, gas, etc.) 19,10% represents the highest level of recognition and certification, which Other consultancy services Distribution 2,30% enables us to offer solutions in all Recruitment / training / fields for all company types, on an market research, etc. (aa) 0,10% Transport and travel 2,40% international scale. Others (leisure, pharmaceuticals, etc.) 2,40% 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 1. Our business 1.4 Business strategy and trends The technology sector is enjoying a market boom, fuelled by the digital transformation which is resulting in structural and disruptive changes across all businesses. This has gained momentum in recent months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Companies are increasingly using disruptive technologies such as blockchain, the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and cognitive computing, as well as Agile methodologies as part of their drive to be more competitive in the market. This is where everis plays a key role as a business and technology consultancy ﬁrm, thanks to its operations and experience across all markets. The conﬁdence customers place in us has seen the Company's revenues growing faster than the sector average. Joining the NTT DATA Group has enabled us to expand the solutions and services we can offer, helped us provide the most innovative of answers, and increased our technological, geographical and financial resources and capabilities. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2 Corporate governance 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance Corporate everis’ values governance You grow by making your team grow. We share information with clarity. We celebrate our joint successes. Good corporate governance, beyond the mechanisms for making and enforcing decisions, is about a company’s style. We are fully responsible We are passionate about being Discerning for our decisions. the best at what we do. generosity We are fully committed We think and do things differently. to what we do. We don’t like to conform! everis’ purpose and mission are to be a global We always respect the Doing through sharing We overcome impossible challenges company, exceptional in ethical and emotional terms autonomy of others. by always having a positive attitude. and led by values where any dream can be achieved. Beliefs: Responsible Creative The Company must be guided by a balance freedom energy of economic, ethical and emotional values. We do what we love We love what we do People and development of their full potential must be our Company's purpose and they should not just be seen as a resource. Excellent professional performance is nurtured by establishing a climate of Consistency Transparency responsible freedom. We do what we say We say what we do We practise what we preach. We honor our commitments. We build trust and we are here to meet your needs. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance 2.1 Governing bodies everis has the following governing bodies to fulfil the Company’s goals and ensure its mission: Board of Directors The Board of Directors is everis’ highest decision-making body and Risks are included in the matrix according to a specific methodology that its main mission is to steer the Company, directing, managing and Chairperson Eduardo Serra Rexach uses three categories (external risks, business risks and compliance risks), representing it in all matters related to the activities it undertakes and their impact and probability of occurrence to quantify each risk. Every to fulfil its corporate purpose. everis Group CEO Fritz Hoderlein Cabistany FY, the CRO works with the Company’s other areas involved to present the Annual Risk Assessment to the Audit and Compliance Committee. The Board’s policy is to delegate day-to-day management to the Pilar Zulueta de Oya executive bodies, the CEO and the Company’s management team, Alejandro Ferreiro Yazigi This report is prepared three times a year, at the start, midway through Independent board members and to concentrate its activities on promoting, supervising and Pedro Luis Uriarte Santamarina and at the end of each FY. In short, the reports include the following controlling management. Mónica de Oriol Icaza information: At the end of FY19 (31 March 2020), and taking into account the events Chieri Kimura Report at the start of the FY: The material or most critical risks in the after the end of the year and before the formulation of the financial Tetsushi Sasago organisation are identified in the Global Risk Matrix, setting out some Board members representing statements for that year, the members of the Board of Directors with Patrizio Mapelli of the measures deemed necessary to prevent and/or mitigate them the NTT DATA Group positions in force were as follows (the departures and changes that Kei Anzai in the current FY. occurred during and after that year, before the aforementioned date Miyuki Ide of formulation, are indicated below). Report midway through the FY: Halfway through the FY, the specific Secretary of the Board Antonio Gómez Jarillo measures adopted by the Group to tackle each of the identified The function of the Board of Directors (as the most senior decision-making material risks are reported for their prevention and/or mitigation. Also body) of the everis Group’s parent company, with regard to identifying and reported are the number of incidents that have arisen, if any, the managing economic, environmental and social impacts, is to be the Members of the Board that have changed: To give an up-to-date picture, at the date status of such measures (planned or not) and an assessment thereof, ultimate guarantor, supervising and controlling the global risk management of drafting of this report, the amendments made upon close of FY19 have been taken along with any assumed risks that the Internal Audit area may have duties performed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and the Company’s other into account, along with subsequent events prior to the drafting date (30 June 2020). detected. corporate governance bodies. This function is set out in the internal Cristina Garmendia Mendizabal stood down on 21 Jun 2019, and was later replace by Mónica de Oriol Icaza, on 22 april 2020, which was recorded as an event after the control, regulatory compliance and good corporate governance principles Report at the end of the FY: A final assessment of the identified financial year and before the anual acounts. Ken Tsuchihashi stood down on 24 de applied by the Company, and the specific measures and plans established material risks is presented, including the total number of incidents, July de 2019 and was replace by Koji Miyajima in that date, Later Koji MIyajima stood and overseen and monitored by delegation by the Audit and Compliance down and was replace, as indicated below. Benito Vázquez Blanco stood down on 18 degree of completion of the measures taken to prevent and/or Committee. September 2019 and was later replace by Miyuki Ide on 31 de marzo de 2020. mitigate the risks, and any measures that are still on-going or will be Koji Ito, Manabu Tanaka y Koji Miyajima stood down on 22 Jun 2020 and was later taken, if necessary, in the following FY. In relation to this, the CRO heads up the global Risk & Insurance replace by Chieri Kimura, Tetsushi Sasago y Patrizio Mapelli. In addition, it is Management area to ensure the Company’s risks are managed at group important to note that on 18 March 2020, Pedro Luis Uriarte Santamarina, an level. As part of this risk management function, the CRO has worked with independent director, was appointed as Vice Chairman of the Board. This Risk Management and the Compliance Committee to draw up a global appointment is linked to the improvements relating to the succession procedure underway, as well as to give continuity to the best practices of good governance. Risk Matrix covering all those linked to the everis Group’s business. 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.1. Governing bodies At each meeting, the everis Group’s Internal Audit Department also Delegate committees informs the Audit and Compliance Committee of all the work carried out since the committee’s last meeting, including details of its reviews and an In exercising its organisational functions, the Board formally established two delegate committees whose responsibilities update on the recommendations acted upon by the units or areas audited. and functions are detailed below. In turn, the Audit and Compliance Committee reports to the Board in its Below it is a list of the members with its current positions, as of the end of FY19 and according to the subsequent events regular presentation at each meeting, and specifically at the end of each reported prior to the preparation of the annual accounts for that year. FY, on its conclusions on the Internal Audit area’s work and on the aforementioned risk assessment. Position Appointments and Remuneration Audit and Compliance The aforementioned risk management procedures include analysing the information collated through the channels that the Company has formally Chairperson Pilar Zulueta de Oya Alejandro Ferreiro Yazigi established, such as those deriving from its membership of business associations and its involvement in opinion forums connected with its activities. Pedro Luis Uriarte Santamarina Pilar Zulueta de Oya Mónica de Oriol Icaza Chieri Kimura Members The function of the Board of Directors of the everis Group’s parent Chieri Kimura Kei Anzai company with regard to assessing the effectiveness of the risk Kei Anzai Miyuki Ide management processes concerning economic, environmental and social Miyuki Ide matter in the organisation is also to act as the ultimate gatekeeper. The effectiveness of the aforesaid processes is therefore evaluated by Secretary Antonio Gómez Jarillo Antonio Gómez Jarillo delegation by the Audit and Compliance Committee as explained before. This committee supervises any incidents and the measures required in relation to the independent function performed by the Internal Audit global area concerning the control and effectiveness of internal processes. Members of the Board that have changed: Cristina Garmendia Mendizabal stood down and was replaced by Pilar Zulueta de Oya, on 24 July 2019, as Chairperson of Appointments and Remuneration committees. For this commission, Mónica de Oriol Icaza was also appointed as a In the same vein, the Internal Audit Department also reports quarterly, member of this committee on 20 May 2020. Ken Tsuchihashi stood down on 24 July 2019 in both committees and was lately replaced by Miyuki Ide on 31 March 2020. Koji Ito y Manabu Tanaka stood down on 22 Jun 2020 in the Appointments and Remuneration committees through the regular reports, to this committee. In turn, the latter reports to and was replaced by Chieri Kimura y Kei Anzai, respectively. Manabu Tanaka stood down on 22 Jun 2020 in the Audit and Compliance the Board of Directors to enable it to evaluate the effectiveness of the risk committees and was replaced by Chieri Kimura. management processes in the aforementioned areas. The Board of Directors carries out assessments of economic, environmental and social issues and the impacts, risks and opportunities In addition, and in order to guarantee the representation of independent directors, the Board may appoint a thereof regularly, throughout each FY and at least every two months. representative as a coordinating director or Lead Director. This person’s main role is to manage the coordination of external board members. This function may also be performed by the Vice Chairperson of the Board, when so appointed. everis has drawn up Board of Directors Regulations which lay down, as per good corporate governance and transparency principles, the rules for the organisation and functioning of everis Spain, S.L.U.’s Board of Directors. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance 2.2 Measures to prevent corruption and bribery In FY19 and pursuant to its principles of good corporate governance and At the date of preparing the non-financial information statement, the within the framework of the Global Compliance Programme it has competent court has yet to pass judgement on everis Spain, S.L.U.'s appeal implemented, the everis Group has not had to analyse or manage during the for judicial review of the (not outright and final) ruling of the Spanish National course of its business (which include business operations and opportunities) Markets and Competition Commission (CNMC) on alleged, mitigated and any material or contingent event or malpractice that could be associated with incidental, liability in alleged anti-trust practices (reported in the prior FY). possible corruption and/or bribery or that could have a material impact on In light of the exceptional global situation caused by Covid-19 and its impact the financial statements. on the processing of court cases in Spain, it is possible that any ruling on this appeal will be delayed. It is notable that this FY, the Group also received no claims or notices for alleged corruption or bribery through (internal and external) whistle-blowing In order to prevent any anti-trust practices, everis Spain, S.L is continuing systems and global channels that it has in place. In this regard, at the end to improve its overarching Compliance Programme. This involves ensuring the of FY19, it was decided to close the internal channel because the external programme is regularly updated and different measures and actions are taken channel is more popular. This is because it is accessible to all – staff and third to raise awareness and train staff, enhance internal procedures and the review parties alike – considering there is more awareness of it and it can be thereof, all overseen by the Internal Audit team. accessed externally, which reinforces its purpose and ensures the channel remains confidential and anonymous. In particular, during FY19, the everis Group launched an update of the global Compliance course, raising awareness of matters such as personal data Furthermore, during the group-wide annual corporate risk assessment by protection, issues related with intellectual property or affecting workforce the Group's Chief Risk Officer (CRO), involving its Risk Management team, relations, and competition, in line with NTT DATA's guidelines (and other no incidents or acts of corruption or bribery were identified that required any matters covered later in this report) by including practical examples in the action or subsequent adoption of appropriate measures to prevent and/or course which the Group's staff may come across during their work. This mitigate them. Consequently, the CRO did not have to report any such acts improvement has been rolled out across the Group, with local versions to the Group's Audit and Compliance Committee (the body that the Board of tailored to applicable laws and regulations in the European Union, Japan Directors delegates the specific Compliance and Risk Management functions and the United States. to). Equally, no significant incidents or acts had to be reported by the Compliance team through the Chief Compliance Officer (COO). On the other hand, the everis Group fosters a culture of zero tolerance to criminal acts in the Group (including corruption) and continues to improve That said, this FY the Group was involved in a lawsuit, although this is the measures and actions taken to prevent them. As in the previous FY, it not significant or related with corruption or bribery. continues to raise awareness of and provide training on internal anti-corruption policies and procedures, and offers global training across the organisation for all levels and categories of staff. The specific areas of training provided by the everis Group in FY19 are as follows: 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.2. Measures to prevent corruption and bribery Code of Ethics and Global Gifts and Speciﬁc awareness-raising, Professional Conduct Entertainment Policy training and communication (including the NTT DATA Global Compliance Policy) All everis Group staff must adhere to this policy, which includes specific campaigns guidelines on these matters in dealings in the public sector and private The everis Group has a Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct which, sector, as well as internally. Notably, in the public sector it is strictly At group level and targeting those who are especially exposed or pose a in addition to outlining the Company's basic principles and policies, also prohibited to directly or indirectly give or offer any gifts to entertainment risk, to prevent criminal acts, in particular those related with corruption, establishes a broad spectrum of regulatory compliances including a safe to any public workers, irrespective of their amount or value or whether bribery or money laundering in the organisation. A specific training work environment. everis is bidding for a tender that it might ultimately win, to avoid any programme has been designed for the next FY so that all actions are irregular conduct aimed at influencing decisions or receiving preferential performed in a planned and orderly manner, with the ultimate aim of Infringement of the rules contained in this Code by the persons subject treatment. The policy restricts the giving of gifts and entertainment to preventing crime risk. to it shall be deemed a violation of this and may result, depending on the cases where there is an acceptable, justified and recorded need that fully analysis of the events, in the imposition of the corresponding sanction adheres to common local commercial practices and applicable laws and and/or adoption of the corresponding legal actions. regulations. Currently available on the corporate website (www.everis.com) and for staff via the global intranet, the code prohibits corruption and bribery directly or indirectly in both the private and public sectors. Global Anti-corruption Policy Global compliance course Global Compliance Risk Matrix Applicable to all the everis Group’s workforce and all collaborators, Obligatory for all the Group’s workforce, by the NTT DATA’s express Sets out potential breaches of regulations and/or crimes associated with advisors, agents, distributors, interns and other subcontractors, provided request. This will be monitored annually and the course includes training corruption, bribery or money laundering, and the specific measures to they are acting on behalf of or partnering with everis. The everis Group on anti-corruption and anti-bribery. prevent them. This matrix has been revised this FY and a new updated also requires all third parties with which it works to adopt this policy and version created, describing the crime risks that could prevail in the ensure compliance therewith within their own organisations, including This year, the updated version of the course especially includes more Group's operations, as well as the likelihood of them occurring and their their administrators, directors, staff and legal representatives and any content on crimes, with a clear message in the organisation of zero impact. This review led to possible criminal acts associated with third parties these parties have a relationship with. tolerance to any criminal act (including corruption and bribery and related operations being ordered in terms of priority and risk category on a scale actions). The Group's employees have also been reminded that they can of 1 to 5: Low (1), Low/Medium (2), Medium (3), Medium/High (4) and All the organisation’s areas, especially its business areas, must be very access the Crime Prevention Policy and attached Crime Risk Catalogue High (5). In this matrix, no crime risks have been classified as High. The familiar with this policy and duly apply and comply with it in full. on the global intranet. The latter describes the types of criminal acts that following were included in the Medium/High category, which comprise a legal person may be criminally liable for in Spain as per the Penal Code, crimes classified in the current Penal Code and could result in the It establishes zero tolerance to any form of corruption and provides considering the Group's parent company is established in Spain and is Company being found liable: breaches of industrial and intellectual guidelines on the matter. It also specifies that in its operations, the Group therefore directly subject to these laws, as are its related group companies. property, corruption in business, discovery and disclosure of secrets, will always strive to comply with all anti-corruption rules (especially the damages, extortion and influence peddling. The recently identified crime United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Special emphasis has also been placed on other matters requiring due risks will be managed through pertinent preventive measures. Act (UKBA)) and anti-bribery and anti-money laundering rules applicable compliance, and the content associated with these has been updated: at any moment in time internationally, at a European level or in Spain. tax, labour, intellectual property, competition, and personal data It promotes the use of anti-bribery clauses prepared by the association, protection and privacy laws. TRACE International (Anti-Bribery Compliance Solutions), in all the international contracts to which the Company is party. This new version of the course has been available to all staff since 30 January 2020; 5893 employees had completed it up to the end of the financial year on 31 March. 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.2. Measures to prevent corruption and bribery Anti-corruption Pledge It is also of note that during FY19, very similar communication campaigns The anti-corruption procedures and policies are internal, although to those taking place in the previous FY were also run as follows: most are furnished to all types of business partner with which the Included in all contracts to be entered into with external advisors and Group interacts. commercial intermediaries (commission agents, representatives and Information on the Group’s internal anti-corruption procedures and distributors). It is intended to ensure compliance with all laws and policies has been shared with members of the Board of Directors. Information on campaigns run to raise awareness of and provide regulations to prevent corruption of third parties with whom the training on anti-corruption has been reported to the members of Group has dealings. The organisation’s workforce has been informed about the Group’s the Board of Directors. internal anti-corruption procedures and policies, which are prominently located on the global corporate intranet. On this point, a The Group’s employees have received anti-corruption training. Audit, monitoring, corrective new global intranet site was established in the Group this FY for all and control procedures staff to share knowledge. A new space was created on this site with all the aforementioned internal policies and procedures. This space is both highly visible and prominently located. Intended to implement effective measures to detect, monitor and correct infringing conduct that involve crimes or compliance risks in the organisation and associated with corruption and associated behaviours. Whistle-blowing channels or systems The Company had two global whistle-blowing systems or channels: 1) internal: confidential (not anonymous), available on the global corporate intranet for all the Group’s employees; and 2) external: confidential and anonymous (only if requested by the informant) on the everis corporate website (www.everis.com) for all the Group’s staff and any third parties (customers, suppliers, etc.) acting on behalf of everis or collaborating or interacting with everis in any way. This latter external channel takes inspiration from Directive (EU) 2019/1937 on the protection of persons who report breaches of Union law. As described beforehand, at the end of FY19 the internal channel was closed in favour of the external system, given that the latter is well known and accessible to everyone, staff and any third party alike. This channel is also more objective as it is operated externally by a renowned law firm and is on a cutting-edge external IT platform in Germany, thereby ensuring the channel is confidential and anonymous. 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance 2.3 Anti-money laundering Anti-money laundering measures and controls over contributions to non-profit foundations and entities in place in everis are summarised hereon. Compliance: Global Anti-corruption Policy Compliance: Global Gifts and Entertainment Policy Compliance: Global Compliance Risk Matrix Financial: Financial controls Internal audit: Internal audit controls Internal control and corporate governance Group Authority Matrix (GAM) and everis Equivalent GAM (eEGAM) No significant contributions have been made to non-profit foundations and organisations related with pro bono work by the Company (these are covered in chapters 4 and 6 of this report). In any event, these would be controlled by the measures described before. 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance 2.4 Risk management As per its internal control and good governance principles, the everis Group has a global Risk & Insurance Management area headed up and managed, at Risk management group level, by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO). As part of this risk management methodology function, the CRO has worked with Risk Management and the Compliance Committee to draw up a Global Risk Matrix covering all those linked to the Each financial year, the CRO works with the Company’s other areas Group’s business. involved to present the Annual Risk Assessment to the Audit and Compliance Committee in three stages: Risks are included in the matrix according to a specific methodology that uses three categories (risks related with external environment, business risks Stage 1: At the start of the year, the material and most critical risks and compliance risks), and their impact and probability of occurrence to are identified in the Global Risk Matrix, setting out some of the quantify each risk. The three categories are: measures needed for the financial year ahead to prevent and/or mitigate these risks or cover their impact through pertinent insurance Risks that could affect the Company’s model (primarily referring during the year in question. to protecting the Quality and Generosity Model) and its growth. Stage 2: Half way through the year, the specific measures adopted Business risks, such as exogenous or market risks, responsibility by the Group to tackle each of the identified material risks are for which is assigned by the Audit Committee to everis' executives reported for their prevention and/or mitigation. Also reported are and management. the number of incidents that have arisen, if any, the status of such measures (planned or not) and an assessment thereof, along with Operational risks, which are analysed and assessed by the Internal any issues that the Internal Audit area may have detected. Audit Department. The outcomes of this work are presented in various studies and reports and in each detailed and complete Risk Matrix of Stage 3: At year-end, a final assessment of the identified material each audit unit, after being reviewed. Operational risks are risks is presented, including the total number of incidents, degree environmental, social and economic risks and the impacts thereof. of completion of the measures taken to prevent and/or mitigate the risks, and any measures that are still on-going or will be taken, if Each FY, the parent company also includes the different measures and action necessary, in the following FY. plans in the matrix, to ensure they are not overlooked and can be prevented. An outline of the Company’s internal risk control system is provided in the This matrix has been re-reviewed by the CRO in FY19, with the support of the following figure. other areas involved across the organisation, to check whether it needs to be revised due to changes in the Group's operations and the appearance of new external events or factors that affect it. 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.4. Risk management Board of Directors As a result of the release of the Compliance Programme launched by the Company in the previous FY with a view to the Company obtaining UNE Audit Commitee 19601 Criminal Compliance Management Systems certification in FY19, actions and measures have been implemented resulting from the internal global project (Compliance Gap Analysis), with a view to building on and Internal audit enhancing this programme. Specifically, the programme has been strengthened in the area of crime prevention. Internal Audit Charter nse lin Independence and Objectivity Principles As a first step, the following actions have been taken at corporate level, e Methodology based in Standards from IAI which will see it clearly evolve: 3 rd defe Detailed Processes and Procedures Risk Assessment (& Risk Matrices): Internal working groups have met, comprising the Company's 69 Audit Units. business units and areas exposed to the greatest crime risk and 3 years Audit Plan senior management, to further raise awareness and improve training Follow Up of recommendations in connection with all the crimes classified in the current Penal Code that a legal person may be criminally liable for in Spain. Control units The Global Compliance Risk Matrix has also been reviewed and CISO / CRO / CIO / CFO / Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct. updated, as explained above, which only includes those risks that Compliance / Group Authorization Matrix. are directly linked with the Group's activity. Risk & insurance mngt. / Professional Alert System. Production area, etc. CRO Risk Assessment. A Global Crime Prevention Policy has been approved establishing Committees: Anti Corruption Policy. zero tolerance to criminal acts across the organisation and setting Compliance Com. Gift Policy. e out the standards of behaviour expected of the Group's workforce Inform. Security Com., etc Etc. nse lin and the business partners it deals with. This policy encourages the use of the Group's whistle-blowing channel, which can be used to 2 nd defe report any breaches of laws and regulations, including alleged crimes. Global units A Crime Risk Catalogue has been drawn up, which is attached to Accounting, Legal, purchasing, Accounting Policies (Rules for Segregation the aforesaid policy, describing each of the crimes classified in the treasury, people, tax, etc. of duties, access privileges, etc.). current Penal Code and which could result in criminal liability for the Committees: People Policies. companies in Spain. Global BSA Com. IT Risk Assessment. Business Economics Com., etc Global Procurement Policy. An overarching document covering the whole Criminal Compliance Etc. Management System across the organisation has been created, bringing together all the Company's measures and actions in this area. Ofﬁces, Region, Local units In a second phase, these actions will be rolled out across the other Head of Office. Defined and concrete objectives. subsidiaries in the everis Group, thereby increasing their compliance. e Head of Unit. Definition of roles and responsibilities. nse lin Head of Region. Information System. Local units: accounting, legal, Procedures, rules, action plans 1 st defe purchasing, treasury, people, tax, and internal policies. etc. (process & procedures) Operator controls performed daily. Key structured controls performed by supervisory personnel. Controls carried out by Senior Management. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate 2.4.Gestión governance | | 2.4. Gobierno corporativo Risk management de riesgos Cybersecurity As data controllers, no security breach occurred in FY19 resulting in loss of/damage to personal data in the area of customer relations that could have caused an incident in respect of data protection policy (GDPR). everis' Data Protection office is pushing ahead with projects to continuously improve vis-à-vis GDPR, rolling out procedures and technologies to make data protection measures more effective, and raise awareness and increase continuous training on personal data protection and privacy. In a context where cyber attacks are increasing exponentially, in November 2019 everis suffered a ransomware attack, which tested the level of our protection and ability to respond to cyber-attacks. Despite the complexity of the incident, our rapid and robust response enabled us to stop the attack from affecting the networks and data of our customers. The business continuity plans in place also enabled us to restore normal operations within 48 hours. Nevertheless, the incident highlighted the need to bolster cybersecurity; we have therefore allocated additional technical and human resources to ensure they are commensurate with the magnitude and complexity of existing threats. Lastly, the coronavirus crisis posed a new operational challenge to continue providing services to our customers remotely. Once again, the triggering of business continuity plans enabled around 99% of the Company to continue working from home within a few days, thereby protecting the health of our workers and contractors and ensuring our customers can continue to be served. 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance 2.5 Human rights Application of due diligence procedures related to human rights The everis Group must follow the NTT Group’s Human Rights Charter at the express request of NTT DATA, and publish this Charter on its global intranet system to inform all employees. everis UK has a specific internal policy called the Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement to comply with rules eminently punishable by law in the UK (Modern Slavery Act). This sets out preventive and punitive measures to abolish modern forms of slavery, forced labour involving children and vulnerable persons, people trafficking and sexual or other forms of exploitation. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.5. Human rights Prevention of risks of human rights breaches The everis Group has always promoted and complied with all legal The everis Group helps disabled people gain a foothold in the provisions related to upholding the freedom of association and the workplace, adhering to applicable labour laws and regulations (Spanish right to collective bargaining, as well as the provisions contained in General Disability Act) and applying existing alternative measures to international treaties and agreements (ILO Convention), EU law, the ensure they can find gainful employment. It also ensures the workplaces Spanish Constitution, the Spanish Workers’ Statute, Organic Law of these members of staff are adapted to their physical and social needs. 11/1985 of 2 August 1985 on the right to trade union representation, and Organic Law 1/2002 of 22 August 2002 on the freedom of association. The everis Group has also introduced the everislife programme, which is overarching and ensures legal measures concerning human rights are Furthermore, the Group is a global business, guided by the values of adhered to and supplemented by everis' own measures, as explained responsible freedom, discerning generosity, creative energy, consistency in chapter 4. and transparency, concerned not only for the integral development of its employees but also for the communities where it is present. Although the consultancy sector in Spain is not an activity in which these types of serious violations occur, the everis Group categorically At an internal level, the everis Group has a Code of Ethics and Professional condemns forced labour and child labour. Conduct (including NTT DATA's Global Compliance Policy) as a basic and essential tool for compliance. It also has a raft of protocols and Equally, the everis Group upholds all laws and regulations relating to the policies ensuring human rights and associated laws and regulations minimum working age, both in Spain and in the other countries where are respected in the Company, such as the Corporate Protocol against it is present, and requires its subcontractors, suppliers and other Sexual and Moral Harassment, Equality Plans, various work-life balance commercial partners to fight against child labour. policies, etc. No instances of discrimination were reported in FY19. The everis Group believes that every professional must be treated with respect and dignity, preventing any kind of discrimination on grounds of race, gender, ideology, nationality, religion, sexual orientation or any type of disability. In accordance with these rights, everis is committed to maintaining and protecting a working environment that respects its employees’ dignity and fundamental working rights using all of the measures available to it. 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance 2.6 Prevention of harassment Internal protocol for the prevention, treatment and sanctioning of workplace harassment. Specifically, and through the areas of People and Human Resources Management, there exists an internal protocol for the prevention, treatment and sanctioning of workplace harassment, both moral and gender-based, to resolve discriminatory situations and minimise their consequences, guaranteeing the rights of the people involved, with the corresponding management procedures and the co-operation of a mediator and a committee of control and prevention. everis provides its employees and third parties with channels to anonymously report problems through the whistle-blowing system. This system and its internal procedures are available on the new corporate global intranet and the corporate website: www.everis.com. While all countries are governed by the principles of the Company’s ethics code, in addition some have specific protocols and policies for dealing with harassment. The following table shows some specific measures for the prevention of harassment. Country Specific measures for the prevention of harassment Spain and Mexico Protocol against Sexual and Moral Harassment Colombia Workplace Coexistence Committee Policies against discrimination Peru in its internal regulations Measures contained in USA the Employee Handbook Following of the Advisory, Conciliation UK and Arbitration Service (ACAS) code 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance 2.7 Responsible taxpayer The everis Group is aware of the importance of transparency and good In order to manage tax affairs, everis has defined a Tax Control Framework governance vis-à-vis tax matters. Standard defining the key roles and responsibilities for managing and controlling the tax risks to which the Group is exposed. This standard is In FY18, everis' Board of Directors approved the Group's Tax Strategy founded on the three lines of defence model, which is as follows: setting out the principles and guidelines for tax affairs in everis across all the countries where it operates. First line of defence: Three internal support teams in everis who are directly involved in tax processes. They are responsible for implementing The principles governing how tax affairs are managed in everis are: controls and reporting any instances that could be an area of tax uncertainty to the second line of defence. Proactivity Second line of defence: This consists of everis' Tax Department, which Transparency is responsible for the tax control framework, and the Corporate Risks Officer. Their role is to ensure controls are in place and regularly updated Good governance in relation to areas of tax uncertainty, and to define measures to mitigate such uncertainties. The priority guidelines for managing tax matters are: Third line of defence: This comprises the Internal Audit team, whose duty is to ensure the tax control framework is fit for purpose. Compliance with tax obligations in accordance with prevailing legislation, reasonable interpretation of tax laws and exercising of the right to refer cases to the courts when it is considered that tax laws The Tax Control Framework Standard sets out the Tax Risk Management have been incorrectly interpreted. and Control Cycle which has the following stages: identification, assessment, response, monitoring and reporting. Diligent and proactive management of tax risks. everis' Tax Department uses the results of this cycle to prepare an annual Reporting to the Board of Directors of all significant operations report for the Board of Directors and the Audit and Compliance Committee in accordance with the Spanish Limited Liability Companies Act. on how tax affairs have been dealt with during the year. Professional and transparent dealings with the tax authorities During FY19, the Audit Committee evaluated the activities of the tax team in in the countries where everis operates. FY18 included in the aforementioned annual report and approved them, along with the forthcoming steps in the roll-out of the Tax Risk Management and Control Cycle. 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.7. Responsible taxpayer Pre-tax profit/(loss) After-tax profit/(loss) Proﬁts/(loss) by country Country by country FY19 (€) by country FY19 (€) Earnings were down this financial year leading to losses. Nevertheless, pre-tax Spain -141.418.553 -127.092.255 profits topped €39 million in FY18 while an after-tax profit of almost €25 million was achieved. The Economic Management Report drills down into these figures. Europe The following table shows the profits or losses posted by each country before Andorra -478.684 -478.684 and after tax. Belgium 3.306.667 3.288.803 France 306.090 228.429 Netherlands 1.482.422 1.448.297 Luxembourg 717.486 537.699 Italy 1.341.460 993.250 Portugal 2.214.100 1.383.801 UK -4.476.360 -3.610.454 Switzerland -892.390 -784.150 America Argentina -3.923.352 -3.878.235 Brazil -5.198.251 -5.303.720 Chile 5.604.618 4.713.531 Colombia 86.989 -329.124 Mexico 2.947.380 2.415.668 Peru 13.974.623 9.346.644 USA 5.936.490 4.362.929 Africa Morocco -121.541 -121.541 South Africa -4.845 -4.845 Total -118.595.652 -108.589.943 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.7. Responsible taxpayer Taxes on profits Taxes on profits Taxes on proﬁts paid Country paid FY19 (€) paid FY18 (€) The following table shows taxes on profits paid and public grants received. Spain 6.437.514 5.780.130 Europe Andorra 0 0 Belgium 0 France 0 162.720 Netherlands 270.430 Luxembourg 9.680 Italy 77.720 1.285.968 Portugal 917.774 934.632 UK 0 0 Switzerland 0 0 America Argentina 0 0 Brazil 37.762 347.177 Chile 99.679 1.241.459 Colombia 0 0 Mexico 2.082.254 376.481 Peru 7.073.564 1.979.766 USA 1.536 0 Africa Morocco 0 0 South Africa 0 0 Total 17.007.913 12.108.334 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 2. Corporate governance | 2.7. Responsible taxpayer Public grants received Public grants received Public grants received Country during FY19 (€) during FY18 (€) The following table shows public grants received. Spain 1.988.188 2.029.351,60 Europe Andorra 0 0 Belgium 594.796 0 France 0 0 Netherlands 0 0 Luxembourg 0 0 Italy 0 0 Portugal 0 0 UK 0 0 Switzerland 0 0 America Argentina 0 0 Brazil 0 0 Chile 412.950 0 Colombia 0 0 Mexico 0 0 Peru 0 0 USA 0 0 Africa Morocco 0 0 South Africa 0 0 Total 2.995.934 2.473.907 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3 People 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People People everis is firmly committed to nurturing talent, and the main goal is to achieve a top-notch professional performance by creating an environment of responsible freedom. It considers that talent, technology and innovation are key to the Company’s success. According to the everis vision, being a lever for transformation and change requires putting people first. It is about putting technology at the service of people and not the other way around. This commitment to people-focused transformation and innovation drives the Company to work on developing talent among staff, as well as all the people in everis business ecosystem (universities, public administrations, entrepreneurs, and companies, among others). From this synergy, an integrative innovation emerges, not only to make us grow as a company but to all those who place their trust in the Company. That said, the digital boom is also leading to increased competition around the globe to hire technology talent that is in very short supply, hindering the ability to attract and retain these individuals. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.1 Country Female Male Total 2019 Total 2018 Employment Spain 3.939 10.544 14.483 13.237 Europe Total headcount Andorra 3 11 14 25 Belgium 55 93 148 134 The total headcount in all the countries in which everis does business was 27,291 at the FY19 close, as can be seen from the following table. The France 2 16 18 12 centres in Spain accounted for 14,483 employees, 53% of the total, which Netherlands 11 27 38 23 is 0.4% higher than a year before. Luxembourg 6 58 64 58 The table on the right shows the distribution of the workforce by country. Italy 258 622 880 747 Portugal 360 607 967 843 Distribution of the workforce by continent: UK 96 231 327 315 Switzerland 0 5 5 Europe America 62% Argentina 144 357 501 580 Brazil 680 1.845 2.525 2.440 Chile 388 1.343 1.731 1.739 37% America 1% Colombia 380 601 981 1.194 Africa Mexico 302 556 858 653 Peru 945 2.525 3.470 2.865 USA 34 108 142 136 Africa Morocco 63 76 139 118 Indicator 1 in annex 3 shows the total headcount broken down by gender, age, country and professional category. Total 7.666 19.625 27.291 25.119 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.1. Employment Distribution by type of contract Redundancies As regards the total number and distribution of the Company’s different This financial year, a total of 1,586 redundancies were recorded, with the complete headcount being 27,291 at the end of types of contract, the following table shows the annual average the fiscal year FY19. As shown in the following graph, the percentage of people made redundant is up 1.8% year-on-year, percentage for each type of contract, with over 89% being permanent. with Colombia having the highest redundancy rate equivalent to 30% of its workforce, due to the end of a large-scale contract, following by a new contractual linkage of the previously mentioned employees to the new contractor. Type of contract % Contracts 2019 % Contracts 2018 The figures broken down by gender, age, country and professional category can be found in indicator 4.1 of annex 3. Permanent 94,30% 99,92% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% Temporary and part-time 5,70% 0,08% Spain 3% Benelux 5% This year-on-year reduction stems from a change in legislation in Spain, 0% Italy where young people are hired on an internship contract that is subsequently converted to a permanent contract. Portugal 5% The complete figures on the types of contract are shown in indicator UK 6% 2 of annex 3. A total of 9,522 new contracts were signed this financial year, which Argentina 6% is very similar to the figure of 9,694 hires in FY18. The Company took on 3,847 new workers in Spain and was named Top Employer 2020. Brazil 14% The following graph shows the number of hires in FY19 by country. 8% Chile Colombia 30% 4.737 4.897 4.897 4.555 FY17 4.139 4.026 Mexico 4% FY18 FY19 Peru 6% USA 3% 85 60 70 Morocco 6% Europe America Africa Total 6% Indicator 3 of annex 3 shows total hires and a breakdown of hires by gender, age, country and professional category. Percentage of redundancies FY19 Percentage of redundancies FY18 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.1. Employment Employee turnover Salary gap The total employee turnover rate has improved to 20.22%, almost 5% down on the previous year, with the rate for everis' pay policy ensures equal pay between genders or in relation to females slightly lower (17.95%) than for males (21.09%). Total employee turnover in FY19 broken down by age group, any other difference between individuals. Salaries for the same category gender and region can be found in indicator 4.2 of annex 3. The following graph shows the turnover by country for this are equal for women and men. year compared to the year before. Nonetheless, there is a gender imbalance in the pyramid due to the lack Turnover figures are obtained from voluntary redundancies, objective dismissals, fair dismissals, voluntary unpaid leave of women in STEM disciplines and the consultancy sector. without job reservation, unfair dismissal without just cause, leave without expiry, mutual agreement, end of job reservation and failure to pass trial period (desired and voluntary). We are monitoring the effectiveness of the measures we are taking to narrow this gap. The calculation we have made is based on the most commonly used formula: (A-B)/A * 100, where A is the hourly wage for Spain 15 men and B for women. Belgium 18 The gender pay gap has shrunk from 5% to 3.2% as shown in the table below. France 6 Netherlands 17 everis Group FY19 everis Group FY18 Luxembourg 0 21 3,2% 5% Italy Portugal 17 UK 18 Switzerland 29 Argentina 43 Brazil 32 Chile 26 Colombia 30 Mexico 20 Peru 25 USA 14 Morocco 28 Turnover rate FY19 Turnover rate FY18 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.1. Employment Average remuneration of Females Males Females Males directors and executives Board remuneration* FY19 FY19 FY18 FY18 Executive board members** 969.208 € 897.690 € The remuneration policy for the Board of Directors sets different pay for Independent board members 116.500 € 113.000 € 103.500 € 101.000 € independent and executive directors. The proprietary directors appointed by NTT DATA are not included in this Board remuneration. Average remuneration board members 399.569 € 399.569 € 367.396 € 367.396 € With regard to independent board directors, this policy includes a fixed * Board members representing the NTT DATA Group have not been included as they receive no pay from everis. annual amount and attendance and travel allowances, where applicable, ** Comprises the Board Chairperson and the CEO. for board meetings and for serving on the board committees, whether as a chairperson or member thereof. Senior executive remuneration* FY19 FY18 Executive directors – the Chairperson and CEO – are both paid a fixed Average remuneration 649.833 € 680.814 € amount and a bond-linked bonus or variable compensation that is payable to the Group's directors. The employment relationship with Average remuneration males 663.584 € 680.814 € the CEO is regulated in a commercial agreement as per article 249 of the Spanish Limited Liability Companies Act. Average remuneration females 553.574 € The fixed emoluments and annual pay for the Board, which were Corporate management remuneration** approved by the General Meeting for FY18, have remained the same for FY19. Average remuneration 400.719 € 320.360 € Average remuneration males 422.689 € 323.329 € The following tables show the average remuneration of board members, senior management and corporate management, comprising fixed Average remuneration females 334.809 € 311.452 € salaries, bonuses, allowances and indemnifications. * Includes total remuneration (fixed salary, bonus and expatriation allowances) of senior executives (CEO Europe, CEO America, CEO Evin and country managers). ** Includes total remuneration (fixed salaries, bonuses and expatriation allowances) of corporate management (Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Chief BSA Officer (CSO), Chief Legal Officer and Chief People Officer (CPO)). Average remuneration Category Female Male Total FY19 Total FY18 of the workforce Partner 133.695 138.430 137.889 146.555 The following table shows the average wage in all countries in which the Executive Director 96.039 99.418 98.875 97.762 Group does business, by professional category. The figures broken down by gender, age and country can be found in indicator 5 of annex 3. Director 85.175 90.217 89.382 92.042 To promote employment, everis’ training policy ensures the continuous learning of knowledge, methods and technologies adapted to the new Manager 58.195 61.291 60.485 61.609 requirements and highly customised. This significantly enhances employees’ employability. Respect for the staffing process is the Leader 38.432 41.041 40.264 40.399 guarantee for knowing new sectors and customers, exploring other areas and continuing to develop through project rotation. Staff 19.028 20.477 20.066 20.386 Total 25.352 28.495 27.611 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.2 Talent management everis offers different career paths and opportunities for development, to enable employees to achieve their maximum potential. In this respect, it has various kinds of tools that it uses in a customised way: Group and individual coaching Mentoring Monitoring and tutoring Annual review and continuous feedback everis takes part in programs such as the Multicompany Talent Development Programme. This initiative makes use of intercompany co-operation to help manage, development and retain talent. These measures ensure employees are constantly acquiring new knowledge, methods and technologies, thereby enhancing their employability. Global Leadership Program This program focuses on developing global leaders who know the NTT DATA group’s strategy and the services portfolio. Moreover, training in and learning everis’ policy are key aspects for attracting talent, being a benchmark employer brand, and for the integral development of its employees and their ability to contribute value. 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.2. Talent management everis University Evo everis is a company whose core asset is its people and therefore, one s t lvi of its objectives is to promote their whole-person development through es men n e ma Bus tegic Visio g tra bespoke and online training in everis and out of house. It must nurture le na in op professional development through continuous learning and new g S n pe challenges, creating a climate that enables staff to reach their maximum potential. everis University Spain therefore designs a series of more general n ti tio training plans aligned with our career model (functions, knowledge and ea v Cr nno ca v competencies) and other more specific training to meet needs at an I at it y & u ni office, sector, project, etc. level, always hand-in-hand with the strategy io n mm Co to personalise training. Executive team Leaders Staff There are several training plans available for the executive team: everis University Spain has designed training plans that cover the needs everis University Spain has designed training plans that cover the needs from a management perspective and to remain competitive: from a management perspective and to remain productive: everis executive School which is split into five areas of knowledge: Foundations for Excellence: Training courses to improve how projects Foundations for Excellence: Training courses to improve how projects Business Management: to ensure customers confide in everis. are managed by developing methodological thought processes are delivered by developing technical and methodological thought processes Evolving People: to achieve happy and highly committed teams. Empowerment Leaders: Training pathway aimed at empowering the Company's leaders League of Learning: Training plan for young, inexperienced talent Communication: to have the greatest impact and influence in the to strengthen their skills as a consultant market. Exemplary leaders: Training pathway focusing on three areas: Creativity & Innovation: to set the Group apart from our peers. innovation, sales and leadership Young Talent: Unique experience of learning through doing in the areas of experimentation (creativity, entrepreneurship and strategy), Strategic Vision: to execute the strategy in a joined-up manner. Leadership Challenge: Training programme to accelerate leadership empathy (diversity and environment), and balance (emotional skills acquisition intelligence and team building) A first-year induction plan is also offered to managers, which is intended to instil in the executive team the basic notions for managing Continuous feedback: Training pathway where feedback is used Continuous feedback: Training pathway where feedback is used projects in everis. These managers must then take their learning as a tool to motivate and develop staff as a tool to motivate and develop staff further through the training plans in place for their category. Future Leaders: Unique experience of learning through doing Inspiring Executive: Boutique programme for an exclusive cohort for leadership and focusing on methodology, communication to meet the need for our leaders to lead with a clear vision, values and innovation. and strategy. Continuous feedback: Training pathway where feedback is used as a tool to motivate and develop staff. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.2. Talent management Certiﬁcations Latam Investment in training Some of the certifications covered by everis University are PMP, CAPM, The Digital Festival of Learning (DFoL) project places special emphasis During FY19, everis invested over €18 million in training the Company's PSMI, ITIL FOUNDATION V.3, PRINCE 2 and PMO-CP, Agile: SAFe on the whole-person development of everis' consultants. DFoL consists in-house talent, which is €5 million more than the previous year. (Scaled Agile Framework), Devops Foundation certification, Team Kanban of the training needed to develop a consultant wherever they are based Upwards of 580,000 hours of training were completed. These hours Practitioner, Kanban System Design (KMP1), Kanban Management and covering all the areas needed for them to progress: SoftSkill, COM include classroom based, blended and online training across the Professional (KMP2) and 3.13 Management 3.0. Methodology, Agile and Innovation and Creativity. Company although, due to the lockdown because of Covid-19, data still needs to be processed and so the final figure could be even higher. The aim is to offer a unique learning experience through the DFoL, that can be scaled up globally; therefore, the training is mainly online. This Staff in all professional categories attended some training during the Languages allows for a global roll-out using everis' UlearnDX platform, along with year, each completing an average of 4.9 courses. This is a key indicator the online resources that facilitate and enhance learning. of our pledge to SDG 4 on quality education, and is an improvement Being able to communicate in other languages is vital in our personal and on last year's 4.8 courses per person. professional lives, and English in particular has become the lingua franca in relations with customers in a global market. Indicator 6 of annex 3 shows the number of hours of training received by professional category, country and gender. The language arm of everis University Spain offers a wide array of services to improve language skills and help in specific cases when The most popular classroom-based training programmes in Spain a language is needed. are those related with the Company's values and culture. Demand for training related to self-knowledge is in great demand, as is training This is achieved through F2F language classes, online learning, weekly in personal and professional development where leadership, sessions, workshops and intensive courses, as well as licences for communication, innovation and creativity skills and competencies are e-learning. developed. These are: #Beteam, Positive Communication, Assertive Conflict Management; Induction Course, Classroom Training_English. There are also flexible programmes: The most popular e-learning courses were: Basic Security Concepts in everis, GDPR, Environment, Corporate Compliance Programme Linguistic Advice: A service which advises and helps the student to (obligatory in everis). improve their language skills in their proposals, presentations, emails, specific matters, etc. that can be done in the classroom or online. Discussion Clubs: Informal chats in a relaxed atmosphere in the various offices. Podcasts: Podcasts on various subjects to promote language learning in a different way. BETOTW: A weekly e-mail that includes vocabulary, expressions and activities. The BETOTW community can also now be consulted. 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.3 Diversity Founded on the belief that all employees are unique and their diversity is a The key indicators are the percentage of women in the workforce and the strength, the organisation aims to foster an inclusive culture where everyone percentage of female top executives, along with the number of disabled feels they belong for who they are and can grow in a safe environment where employees. people are able to give the best they have to offer. The key barriers to fulfilment of these indicators is the lack of STEM talent everis has had a global action framework and strategy in this area since and the gender gap in these disciplines. 2019. The two priory objectives for the Company in this regard are to increase the number of women at executive level to balance the ratio of females We also use OneVoice to monitor the diversity indicator. In 2019, 82% of across the organisation, and to encourage the hiring of disabled people. our staff were satisfied with everis' handling of diversity – a very positive figure that is the same as in 2017. It is in our interest to nurture an inclusive mentality among all workers, and learn to interact with each other and incorporate diversity in all aspects, both visible and invisible. Consequently, as well as the aforementioned priority groups, actions are taken in the following areas of diversity: cultural, Financial Women in Top Disabled generational, LGBT+ and professional profile. year the workforce executive employees The global action framework comprises the following work streams: FY19 28% 12,41% 169 Raising awareness in the Company of diversity and inclusion, the impact FY18 28% 10,7% 144 of sub-conscious biases in decision-making, and the need to continue promoting equal opportunities for all. Specific actions in people processes (recruiting, promotions, analytics and training). Increasing visibility of and supporting local and targeted actions for stakeholders: promoting STEM (robotics workshops for children with a focus on females), inclusion plan for the disabled, under represented gender (mentoring, parenthood, visibility), people with cultural differences (awareness-raising and communication programmes, multiculturality workshops). Fostering of people circles (groups self managed by staff on themes of shared interest to learn from each other and have a support network): The Parenthood Experience, Women's Circle in offices including Barcelona and Santiago de Chile, GirlsGonna, Young Talent). 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.3. Diversity Gender diversity. Equal Opportunities Plan everis promotes equal treatment of men and women in respect of access to employment, to training, to promotion and to working conditions. All everis employees have the equal right to a safe working environment, free of harassment in which people who do suffer from this are guaranteed help, with the appropriate disciplinary and corrective measures being put in place to prevent these situations from being repeated. everis strives to be a benchmark in the areas of equality of opportunity, maintaining a balance in the distribution by gender of the workforce as Recruiting Development Training a whole and guaranteeing non-discrimination by reason of gender. Employer Branding Inclusion of gender and inclusion Awareness-raising and training In Spain and in response to Organic Act 3/2007 of 22 March 2007 perspective at key points in the for key cohorts. for effective equality between men and women, everis has an Equal Personalisation and diversification professional development Opportunities Plan in place in all the companies that are required to of access and hiring processes. process. Review and adaptation of comply with this law due to the size of their workforces. training content. In 2019, everis Spain S.L.'s new Equal Opportunities Plan for 2020-2025 was signed, setting out objectives and actions in the following areas: recruiting, development, training, work-life balance, communication, pay and sexual or gender harassment. The objectives are to increase the number of women on the payroll and in executive posts by improving the recruitment process, development programmes, mentoring and training, aimed at all the Company's staff; and enhancing the work-life balance and promoting inclusive communications, along with awareness of the plan and the actions set out in it among the whole workforce. In the other countries in which everis operates, it always acts in accordance with prevailing local legislation, although many countries do not yet have a specific law for equality. Work-life balance Pay Harassment In the UK, the everis is Diversity Plan seeks to increase awareness of Encourage dissemination of Uphold principle of equal pay prevention and unlock the value of diversity from the perspective of each person's information on and improve for performance of workers of Update and distribute current uniqueness. Three basic aspects are worked on: gender, culture and access to options to achieve equal value. harassment protocol. individuality. a better work-life balance. everislife: extend benefits and approved leave. Specific initiatives 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.3. Diversity Global initiatives to reduce the gender gap Promoting STEM careers We will remain committed to promoting STEM careers through workshops for children and families to spark an interest in technology, programming and robotics and to help reduce the digital gender gap. We will aim to eliminate culturally learned gender biases (further details in section 4.2). 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.3. Diversity Global initiatives to reduce the gender gap Diversity and gender Foster and promote Partnerships to equality awareness female leaders promote diversity Awareness of the value of diversity and the importance of being Participation in renowned leadership programmes and tutorship We will remain committed to promoting STEM careers through inclusive, highlighting the contribution of women throughout history of young students. Mentoring programme in Chile, supported by workshops for children and families to spark an interest in technology, and technology and celebrating key dates such as the DCI. specialists from the Network of Women in Senior Management. programming and robotics and to help reduce the digital gender gap. We will aim to eliminate culturally learned gender biases (further details in section 4.2). 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.3. Diversity Global initiatives to reduce the gender gap Employee groups Groups for employees to share ideas, seek advice, contact each other and learn together. Num. members Chile Promoting the presence 12 of women in the IT area España #girlsgonna ambassadors +75 Global The parenthood experience +40 NTT DATA Young Global Community +13 Global Senior Woman Ongoing Leadership Program assessments In addition, equality of treatment and opportunity for men and In order to identify possible inequalities, ongoing assessments are women is incorporated into talent management. To this end, in carried out which take into account the presence of men and women order to continue to improve the gender balance in the workforce in the workforce as a whole and in the various professional categories, and guarantee non-discrimination, everis is committed to backing and also in the various stages of hiring and promotion. the development of female leadership by taking part in NTT’s Global Senior Woman Leadership Programme: a programme for women executives. it is also part of the WIN (Women in NTT DATA) initiative, which seeks to establish a network of women to work together within the Group and promote equality. 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.3. Diversity Country breakdown of initiatives Spain Chile Peru As well as the work streams in the global plan regarding awareness and Technovation Partnership: participation in the event hosted by the Respect Has No Gender campaign to highlight respect as a right people circles and processes, the specific action in offices across Spain NGO Technovation with five speakers from everis giving specialist women fight for but which is not solely for them but for everybody, are set out below. Madrid and Barcelona both have specific work plans talks on cutting-edge information technologies to students. whatever their gender. Pin badges were handed out with this phrase to implement the D&I strategy in their geographies. to all workers and they were encouraged to send in their photos. Laboratoria Partnership: involvement in mentoring women Promociona 2019: a programme designed to significantly enrolled on the Laboratoria programme. In total, 35 of everis' increase the number of women in positions with high levels of staff acted as mentors. responsibility, which everis has been involved with for six years. In 2019, five directors at the Madrid office took part. Everis Women: a talk by María Isabel Aranda from REDMAD and the launch of a female mentoring programme, attended by more Work continues with the Foundation to further develop the Pulsar than 60 women from everis. programme of mentoring for young people, and the girlsgonna campaign to reduce the technology sector gender gap. Mentoring in Partnership with the Network of Women in Senior Management: mentoring programme for 15 women from everis Various training events and workshops have been run to nurture over three weeks, supported by specialists from the Network of the inclusive culture, the diversity mindset, focusing on Women in Senior Management. self-reflection and learning through experience. More than 150 people have participated in these actions from all professional Everis Volunteer Dinner: invitation to employees who volunteered categories, offices and units. for various campaigns to go out for dinner with the Company’s executives. Several in-house information and awareness-raising events have been run, such as the breakfast celebrating IWD 2020 in Madrid Session With Women: invitation to all women working on and the celebration of Pride Day 2019, with badges being handed customers' projects to come together, get to know each other out with the slogan We are all unique to all the workforce. The and chat about various topics of interest regarding professional organisation has also been involved in various expert forums in development of women and other diversity matters in everis. this field, such as: the Women and University seminar (La Rioja, April 2019) and Women and Leadership (Santander, December 2019). It also contributed to the report entitled Diversity Best Practices by Intrama (November 2019). 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.3. Diversity Country breakdown of initiatives Brazil UK Italy Sponsorship of the hackathon of Laboratorio (an NGO that trains The everis is Diversity Plan which seeks to increase awareness of and Mentoring women for the IT market), with nine women being hired as a result unlock the value of diversity from the perspective of each person's of this first event. uniqueness. Two basic aspects are being worked on: gender and culture. everis is Diversity Plan Sponsorship of the PrograMaria Summit: aimed at empowering STEM. Launch of a comprehensive plan to contribute to Stem Academy. An Academy just for women and girls offering women and girls through technology and programming. An event narrowing the gender gap in the IT sector through learning humanist university training. involving 250 women studying or working with technology. and fun involving children, teenagers and their families. Technical conferences, a room with recruitment fair mentors Stem In The City. Project in Milan to encourage females into and a room for pre-booked job interviews. Robotics. Help for girls and boys to change the world through STEM careers. science, technology and innovation. This initiative involves Event for transgender women in the IT market. Prejudices and families, encourages children to be who they want to be, and difficulties in all senses. Advice on behaviour and ways of thinking raises awareness among adults of the impact of stereotyping. to help survive and stand out in this market which is still dominated by men. Parents and teenagers from STEM Meet Up. Provides guidance to and raises awareness among teenagers of how technology is Targeting the LGBTTI + community: involvement of recruitment seen from a business perspective through a fun and engaging team in a recruitment fair through which we hired two individuals. activity and provides an insight into what working with technology actually means and the impact thereof in their daily lives. USA Equality measures contained in the Employee Handbook. 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.3. Diversity Percentage of women in the workforce At the FY19 close, 28% of the workforce were women, with men Some 27% of the members of the Board of everis' workforce currently has an average age of 33, while 0.5% are over accounting for 72%, without any case of discrimination being reported Directors are women while 73% are men. All are 60. Spain has the greatest number of employees in this age bracket (37), during this period. The distribution of women in the global workforce followed by Brazil (28) and Chile (16). In FY19, five people retired in Chile by professional category is as follows: over 50 years old except for two people in the – two women and three men. In coming years, the Company plans to run 30-50-year age range. programmes to help employees who retire transition out of work. Professional % women in the % women in the category workforce FY19 workforce FY18 Partner 11,43% 9,59% Executive Director* 16,07% 34,65% Total Top Executive 12,41% 10,70% Director 16,56% 16,21% Manager 25,96% 24,89% Leader 29,84% 28,33% Staff 28,23% 28,16% * The number of those promoted to the Executive Director category was much lower, hence the percentage difference. Indicator 1 of annex 3 shows the distribution of each country’s workforce by professional category, gender and age range. 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.4 Accessibility and disability everis meets the requirements expressed in Royal Decree-Law 1/2013 of 29 November 2013, and its method of compliance, as regards everis companies in Spain who have this obligation, is shown in the following table: Alternative measures (€) Companies Number of Employees Quota Difference in Compliance Spain* employees** with disability 2% absolute terms of quota Obligatory Real Difference in favor SECs *** everis Aragón 320 6 6 0 100% N/A everis BPO 1.126 7 22 15 32,82% 290.431,35 € 294.396,18 € 3.964,83 € everis Spain 7.139 44 142 98 30,99% 1.897.484,82 € 3.656.665,22 € 1.759.180,40 € everis Centers 2.046 14 40 26 35% 503.414,34 € 534.376,59 € 30.962,25 € 9.194,33 € en CEE everis inf Enginnering 328 5 6 1 83,33% 19.362,09 € 0€ 5.083,88 € en donación 59.370,39 € en CEE everis inf Operations 530 4 10 6 40% 116.172,54 € 0€ 28.401,08 € en donación everis Ingeniería 87 4 1 -3 400% N/A Certificado de everis initiatives 77 0 2 2 0% 19.362,24 € excepcionalidad 29/08/19 Certificado de everis Aeroespacial 214 3 4 -1 75% 19.362,09 € excepcionalidad 16/10/19 * Spanish companies subject to Royal Decree Law 1/2013 of 29 November 2013 approving the Revised Text of the General Law governing the rights of persons with disability and their social inclusion. At least 2% of the workforce in companies with 50 or more employees must be workers with disability. ** Employees at 31 March 2020 close. *** This figure shows how everis’ commitment goes beyond the legal requirement, indicating the spending by everis that exceeds the established legal obligation. This year this spending has gone on purchases in Special Employment Centres and donations. 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.4. Accessibility and disability All everis employees with disability in Spain have permanent employment contracts. Companies Number of Employees From 33% From 33% to Equal or higher Spain* employees** with disability to 65% 65% with aid than 65% everis Aragón 320 6 4 1 1 everis BPO 1.126 7 5 0 2 everis Spain 7.139 44 30 3 11 everis Centers 2.046 14 13 0 1 everis inf Enginnering 328 5 4 0 1 everis inf Operations 530 4 3 0 1 everis Ingeniería 87 4 4 0 0 everis initiatives 77 0 0 0 0 everis Aeroespacial 214 3 3 0 0 * Spanish companies subject to Royal Decree Law 1/2013 of 29 November 2013 approving the Revised Text of the General Law governing the rights of persons with disability and their social inclusion. At least 2% of the workforce in companies with 50 or more employees must be workers with disability. ** Employees at 31 March 2020 close. 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.4. Accessibility and disability Numerical Employees with Other everis companies operating in other countries adhere to the No inspections have been carried out or fines imposed regarding the Country quota disabilities following specific disability laws of those countries: hiring of disabled individuals in any of these countries, although specific action is being taken to encourage their inclusion as part of the global Spain 233 87 In Italy, the specific disability act L.68/1999 applies and 23 of the diversity and CSR plan. total workforce of 880 are disabled. The statutory requirement is 7%, which equates to 35 employees (not including the exemption In the UK, the Equality Act is in force, which requires companies to Europe granted by the competent authority). Italy has an inclusion plan hire disabled people However, in FY19 everis companies in the UK Andorra 0 0 focusing on hiring disabled technology experts, using partners had no disabled workers on their books. that specialise in recruiting the right people to fill these roles. Belgium 0 0 The table on the left shows the countries in which everis has companies but France applies the law entitled “Ioi hándicap” to companies with is not subject to a legal requirement for the obligatory hiring of employees France 0 0 more than 20 employees. However, the Company only had 17 with disability. At the FY19 close, everis reported the following figures for workers at the FY19 close. employees with disability in these companies. Netherlands 0 0 Luxembourg 0 0 Brazil has a law that imposes quotas – Act 8213/91 and the Ministry of Employment's Regulatory Instruction 20/2001 to Italy 35 23 determine the calculation base for businesses. Pursuant to this legislation, the 5% quota equates to 128 workers. Currently, Portugal 9 4 Brazil employs 31 disabled people and, as per an agreement signed with the competent authority, we have until 2022 to fill UK 0 0 the required quota of disabled staff. Switzerland 0 0 In Chile, Act 20,422/ 21,015 imposes a quota of 1%, which equates to 16 workers. We currently have 10. Awareness-raising America programmes have been run in Chile to boost the hiring of Argentina 0 1 disabled individuals. Brazil 128 31 In Portugal, Act 8213/91 is in place imposing a quota of 1% for companies with over 75 employees and 2% for companies with Chile 16 10 more than 250 employees. A plan is currently being drawn up to boost the number of disabled people who are hired. Colombia 0 3 Mexico 0 0 In Peru, General Disability Act 29973 and the implementing regulation thereof is in force, which was approved by virtue of Peru 106 10 Supreme Decree 002-2014-MIMP of 7 April 2014. It imposes an obligation on private companies with over 50 workers to hire USA 0 0 disabled individuals to make up no less than 3% of their total workforce. In our case, this is 106 people, although we currently Africa only employ 10, which is way off complying with the law and so specific action plans are being implemented. Morocco 0 0 Total 537 168 50 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.4. Accessibility and disability Disability Inclusion Plan Accessibility The Disability Inclusion Plan has several work streams around the world. The global plan will continue into 2020 with the aforementioned Furthermore, among the measures implemented by everis Spain for Although only six countries are required to meet a minimum disabled staff communications campaign, disabled recognition campaign, review of employees with disability is the offer of a parking space, adapted quota, the entire everis Group is committed to this cause. The work the accessibility of systems, and the roll-out of a support and monitoring workspace and homeworking, and support from specialists when streams are: programme for projects and people with disabilities to ensure they are the employee requests this. properly onboarded and employees at all levels have a positive experience. Awareness (awareness-raising, training and communications everis is working on universal accessibility to its work centres enabling plan via executive committees reporting outcomes). Global awareness-raising campaign the inclusion of a significant number of employees with disability as shown in the tables included in this section. Over the current year, Review and adaptation of the people experience, from recruitment Global e-learning everis relocated its Madrid office to the Novus building, which meets and selection to onboarding and life in the workplace. This work all universal building accessibility requirements. stream involves making improvements to people processes, Specialistern inclusion project in Italy support for managers, agreements with third parties, adaptation Equally, other companies are adapting their workplaces to universal of workplaces/systems, etc. Executive meetings and awareness-raising building accessibility criteria in order to increase the inclusion of people with disability. This is the case for instance in Italy, Colombia, Mexico In Spain: monitoring of fulfilment of alternative measures along and Peru where access ramps, wheelchair-adapted lifts, doors, toilets with the Procurements team. and desks have been installed along with lifts fitted with Braille buttons). The offices in Peru are located in the historic quarter and therefore cannot be structurally altered, so a provisional ramp is available that can Over the last year, a Disability Inclusion Plan has been drawn up in Spain, be used when necessary. As well as being disability friendly, the offices the overarching goals of which are to raise awareness and increase the in Brazil have a specific floor adapted for visually-impaired staff. Chile, number of disabled people who are hired. meanwhile, has refurbished its head offices (adapted toilets, access ramps, Braille signs, adapted work stations) to comply with universal Awareness-raising: a series of awareness sessions was run in all accessibility regulations. During FY19, a firm was also engaged to companies in Spain on respecting the legal obligations, alternative prepare universal accessibility reports on the offices, which were found measures and benefits of inclusion. We are currently working on to offer only partial access for the disabled. a communications plan to raise awareness and knowledge of what disability is, the types of disability and how to properly manage the inclusion of disabled people. This includes an e-learning course available to all the Company's staff (not just in Spain), as well as a disability recognition campaign to identify new workers with disabilities in the Company. Increased hiring of disabled people: a framework agreement has been drawn up in Spain with a personnel selection agency specialising in recruiting disabled people in the IT sector, and an internship agreement has also been entered into with the Madrid Asperger's Association. Partnership agreements have also been signed with the Aura Foundation, Specialisterne, Incorpora and Ecom (Barcelona). 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.5 Organisation of work. Smart Working Throughout the year the company has developed the tools needed to Homeworking adapt work time management to the requirements of the business and employees’ demands, with the aim of improving both business competitiveness and the welfare of the workforce enabling the creation Requests Female Male Total of a corporate culture focused on results. In addition, at everis, by gender adopting flexible working hours and work-life balance measures is encouraged on the basis of each project and the needs of each Requests 1.237 3.032 4.269 employee according to their daily routines. Workforce 3.939 10.544 14.483 One of the key work streams to unlock the value of talent is homeworking. Since 2016, we have been striving to put homeworking % of workforce 31% 29% 29% policies in place that fulfil the needs of each project and member of staff. The percentage of the workforce in Spain who work from home this year rose to 30.2% from 24.5% in the previously reported year. Some 17% work from home one day a week, while 11% do so two days a week. Requests Requets Workforce % Frequency by frequency March 1 day a week 2.460 17,04% Spain Homeworking KPIs* 2 days a week 1.569 10,87% Current requests to work from home 4.269 3 days a week 104 0,72% Workforce at March 2020 14.433 4 days a week 35 0,24% % of workforce homeworking 30% 5 days a week 55 0,38% Hours per week / month 46 0,32% * Does not include the companies Simumak and RSC. Total requests 4.269 14.433 30% 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.5. Organisation of work. Smart Working everis is working to promote homeworking across the globe. Each Flexitime and homeworking have been encouraged during the Turning to absenteeism, this is not a problem in everis because country is at a different stage of implementing their home-office coronavirus crisis, with 99% of everis' staff working from home. objectives are set for the employee's work and performance, which policies. In the near term, it is expected that the percentage of people offers them flexibility. working from home will increase as homeworking is rolled out in In all countries in which everis operates it always acts in accordance every country. with prevailing local legislation. everis offers flexible working hours as As required by law, it is hereby reported that worker absenteeism part of its Smart Working philosophy in those countries where this is during FY19 totalled 748,578 hours. As everis has 27,291 employees, Brazil stands out having also promoted hiring staff on 100% possible. This is the case except in Luxembourg, Switzerland, USA, absenteeism per employee and year was an average of 27 hours homeworking contracts. Other countries such as Chile and Peru, Brazil and France where hours are fixed. Countries that stand out compared to 25 in the previous year. which had still not fully rolled out homeworking, have rapidly adapted include Spain, Portugal, Argentina and Morocco where there are to the Covid-19 lockdown rules. specific summer timetables with seven-hour intensive working days For this calculation, absenteeism has been considered to be those to allow employees to better achieve a work-life balance. In Morocco, hours entered by the employees themselves directly in everis’ work Details of the number of days staff can work from home in the countries staff also work 35 hours a week during the month of Ramadan and in time management system under the “sickness” category (absence due with a homeworking policy are as follows: summer, and then 43 hours a week the rest of the year. to illness without justified sick leave), so it does not include voluntary leave, justified sick leave, maternity and paternity leave, among others, The figure below shows the type of work timetable (flexible start and and holidays and freely disposable hours. Country Days per week finish or fixed hours) and the number of hours worked per week in in accordance with the legislation in the countries where the Company Spain 1-5 days/week (30%) does business. Benelux 1-2 days/week Flexitime Fixed working hours Italy 2 days/week Portugal 1 days/week UK 1-3 days/week Argentina 2 days/week Argentina 40 h/week Luxembourg 40 h/week Belgium 40 h/week Switzerland 40 h/week Brazil 1 days/week Spain 40 h/week Brazil 40 h/week Colombia 1-2 days/week France 35 h/week Chile 45 h/week Netherlands 40 h/week Colombia 46 h/week Mexico 1 days/week Italy 40 h/week Peru 48 h/week USA Negotiated AdHoc Mexico 40 h/week USA 40 h/week Portugal 40 h/week Morocco 35-43 h/week Morocco 1 days/week UK 40 h/week 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.5. Organisation of work. Smart Working Regulation of working hours record In response to the enactment in Spain of Royal Decree 8/2019 of 8 March The goal is for employees to get in the habit of recording their time 2019 on urgent measures for social protection and job insecurity, which and attendance – as established in law – without taking away from the came into force on 12 May 2019, everis has established several teams trust-based leadership and management by objectives, and commitment of employees from the development and talent, employee relations and to flexitime and homeworking that is part of the talent value proposition. systems areas to establish a computer application that upholds the talent value proposition and is built on trust-based leadership and A pilot has been conducted involving 290 employees from all offices management by objectives. and companies. Feedback is currently being gathered to enhance the application and communication and supporting documents. It is In this respect, everis will adhere to the law while honouring its pledge expected that the application will go live in the near future. to responsible freedom, reflected in the flexitime and homeworking measures that are part of its value proposition. In Switzerland, there is also a legal requirement to record the working day, keeping track of start and finish times and when breaks are taken. Work has focused on four areas: A portal has been created to fulfil this requirement where staff and expatriates have to record these hours and their holidays. Computer application: An application has been created in OneERP, which is still in development to include improvements. Change management and communication: Focus on supporting the executive team. Spreading of key messages to introduce a time and attendance record, while ensuring the value proposition is upheld. Policies and procedures: Recording and updating of any matters related with legislation and how to comply with it in everis. Control and monitoring: In-house control of daily time and attendance record. Independent control of impacts and solutions in competitors and customers. 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.6 Work-life balance As well as the flexitime and homeworking measures described in the previous section, everis is particularly concerned about the work-life balance of its staff. Most countries where everis operates have programmes and measures in place that are added to every year. The most notable of these are as follows: Programmes everislife programme In Spain, it has a work-life balance programme in Spain called everislife. In order to achieve a work-life balance, the everislife programme The everislife programme includes the Flexiblework initiative which aims includes, among others, the following measures to promote to promote flexible working hours and access to homeworking, based homeworking: on a model that responds to employees’ needs for personal, family and work balance. Laptop computers. Some of the measures included in everislife are: Mobile phones for staff and leaders (according to the needs of the project or position). Special unpaid leave of longer than the month established in the collective bargaining agreement. Minimum social security payments, Management tools that can be accessed from outside the office seniority, and medical, life and accident insurance are maintained (Intranet, e-mail). (it is extended to up to a year). e-learning training platforms. Flexibility as regards when employees start and finish work. Access to mobile training. Homeworking policy. Virtual meetings via tele-meetings and video-conferences. A day's leave to register in the civil partnership register. International mobility through the publication of internal job vacancies Four days’ leave in the event of the death of a direct family member and payroll management of tax relief for exempt income (7P). (parent, spouse or child); everis adds a day more if the employee has to travel abroad. 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.6. Work-life balance Concilia programme Internal Work Regulations/ People Plan The Concilia programme has been implemented in Mexico. This is a Beneﬁts Plan Benelux (Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, France and Switzerland) programme of corporate flexible working measures and policies available share the People Plan programme, which includes steps to improve to all everis employees to help them cope with specific personal In Colombia there is a plan of statutory and non-statutory benefits that working conditions such as flexible working. These countries also have a situations, without losing sight of the business's raison d'être. The goal include paid leave, measures to protect the health and well-being of staff home office policy. is to balance our employees' personal and professional lives as much and their families, and support with education and finances, as well as as possible. This initiative is founded on the following premises: the Well-being initiative. Local legal minimums, established according to local labour laws, There is also Internal Work Regulations in place to regulate working Employee Handbook collective agreements, etc. relations and contribute to maintaining a decent working environment founded on respect, trust and honesty. Chapter VI of these regulations The United States has an employee relations programme designed to Improvements in everis to fulfil established legal minimums. contains the rules for homeworking through individual agreements to familiarise staff with the company and provide an overview of balance home and work life, make it easier for people with disabilities or employment practices. The associated guide emphasises the importance Personalised plans that will be tailor made to individual cases mobility challenges to work from home, etc. of a healthy work-life balance and encourages all staff to use the formal not included in the aforementioned scenarios. working hours as a guide and tailor the times they actually work so they can take time off according to their particular needs and the requirements of their job, to deal with emergencies or to act in the best interests of the customer. Part-time work is negotiated case by case and can vary from 4everFlex one working week to the next. ﬂexitime programme In Argentina, the flexitime programme is intended to establish flexible working hours to enable staff to achieve a balance between their personal and professional lives. The programme has the following components: Concilia Concilia Concilia Concilia Vida Familia Flex Equilibrio Home Working: Work from home. Personal and Paternity Time Personal and familiar situations and maternity work life Flexi8: Move where you work. FastPass: Avoid travelling at peak times. As part of the Homeoffice policy, most staff in Mexico work from home V.C: Short Friday. at least once a week. It also has a Flexitime policy so that workers can organise their working days around their personal needs while also My Day Off: Create your own free day. fulfilling the organisation's objectives. Employees in Argentina can work from home two days a week. They have flexible working hours, offering the option of changing when they work, and can also make use of the A Free Day option to take a day off and work extra hours at a later date. There is also a shorter working day in summer and staff can combine working from home and in the office. 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.6. Work-life balance Paternity and maternity Efforts are also made to make work and parenthood more compatible, The following table shows global information about employees who have taken parental leave, by gender: fostering co-responsibility and aiming to go further than just complying with the legal requirements in each country. In Spain, for instance, the Parental leave across the Group* Male Female Total following measures have been taken to better legal entitlements: Total number of employees who Supplement of up to 100% of salary during temporary disability, 19.544 7.666 27.210 have had the right to parental leave maternity and paternity leave. Total number of employees Accumulation of breastfeeding leave after maternity leave of 610 276 886 who have taken parental leave 21 calendar days (six more than legally established). Total number of employees who returned to work within the Annual educational aid. 577 268 845 period covered by this report after finishing parental leave Tax relief for nursery schools. Total number of employees who returned to work after 468 253 721 finishing parental leave and who were still employees 12 months later Other countries also offer better conditions than the legal minimum: Rates of return to work of employees Chile: possibility of a gradual return to work so that the 12 weeks 87% 76% who took parental leave of working a full day are equivalent to 24 or more weeks working a half day and not just the 18 established by law. * Figures are calculated using data for FY18 and FY19 because the period over which parents can return to work is very long. Colombia: Staff can reduce their hours by up to 25% for three months, which is compatible with breastfeeding leave. Mexico: The Concilia programme includes a further three working Digital disconnection days' paternity leave and seven calendar days' breastfeeding days on top of the statutory leave. The Company is fully aware of the need to protect its workers’ health, The right to digital disconnection outside working hours is not regulated guaranteeing their rest, leave and holiday time, and protecting their in most countries. Argentina: The EverFamily policy is in place in this country, which personal and family life. extends maternity leave by an additional month and paternity leave Only Italy has regulations in place (Regolamento aziendale per la by 14 extra days, with a gradual return to work. To ensure this protection, the Company is considering, in accordance prestazione di attività lavorativa in modalità di “lavoro agile”. Ex. artt. with legislative changes in Spain, the creation of a policy setting out the 18 e ss. legge 2 maggio 2017, n. 81), clause 4.3. Right to disconnect USA: Under its parental policy either partner has an additional four content and ways of exercising the right to digital disconnection to be of which states: Workers are entitled to disconnect from IT systems and hours each week to look after new-borns for the first six months applied in all its work centres. technological devices in accordance with their agreed objectives and of their lives. methods of work, and the degree of availability expected of them without everis is carrying out internal actions to establish the technical means these restrictions. To this end, the following technical and organisational Brazil: Has launched a new initiative called Everbaby, which for ensuring the effectiveness of the right to digital disconnection in the measures to ensure workers can switch off their devices are as follows: includes a programme of physical and emotional support during workplace and put in place appropriate training and awareness measures pregnancy for our staff who are mothers to be and for their regarding reasonable use of technology. Deactivation of corporate Skype connection/setting of status partners. Thirty-seven women benefited from the first round as not available . of this programme. Option of not replying to emails and phone calls between 8pm and 7 am, without being subject to disciplinary action. 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.7 Compensation and social beneﬁts everis employees enjoy a wide range of social benefits and personal advantages. Although these vary by location, efforts are made to offer medical insurance, financial help for food, life and accident insurance, flexible remuneration, a corporate American Express card and a flexible work schedule, among others. At the corporate level general guidelines for implementing and managing social benefits for everis employees are provided which each office adapts to its own situation. An example of this is everis in Spain, where the compensation and benefits area is managed through “Mi compensación”: an initiative aimed at optimising employees’ total remuneration. The three components of “Mi compensación” are: Launched in 2010, this is a platform on It comprises an on-line bank for the It is an online shopping portal which everis employees can acquire sole use of all staff in Spain, offering exclusively for company employees certain products and services with tax a range of financial products (e.g. with a range of options and plans benefits, which vary by location. Some current account, personal credit) that tailored to each geographical area. of the benefits include a nursery, travel can be arranged on decent terms. card and training grants. Staff in Benelux countries also have access to Agoria: an application offering numerous discounts on products and experiences such as holidays, fashion, recreation, sport, media, tickets, electronics, travel, etc. Also, in each location everis contributes to its employees’ health through actions such as health fairs, arrangements with gyms, physiotherapy in the office, fruit for employees in communal areas, among others. In addition, everis employees can create or join everclubs : groups of employees who meet to practise a specific activity or hobby. The aim is to channel initiatives that generate interest among our employees, creating common spaces in which they can share hobbies and helping to integrates new hires. For example, Colombia has five everclubs: everisBand for musical talent, everZumba, everChef, everYoga, English Club and everGames (boardgames). 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.7. Compensation and social beneﬁts Psychological and physical well-being everis promotes the well-being of its employees with initiatives and projects aimed at looking after their psychological and physical health through initiatives such as Well-being. Speciﬁc Well-being programmes Spain UK In the Madrid office this year the Well-being programme has been Gympass Infograph of self-care The Well-being programme in the United Kingdom aims to improve implemented, which consists of three services: Wellness, Social Wellness activities in the summer well-being and mental health. The everis Happiness Movement , Awareness and Work-Life Balance. Well-being services Futurlife: healthy eating founded on a positive philosophy, includes a series of activities eHealth Challenge Fruit providing advice and tools to be happier at work. Wellness: We foster whole-persona well-being. Everclubs Book exchange Meditation Plant your eco4ever tree #Enjoywellbeing aims to change behaviour so that all physical and Social awareness: We raise awareness of and encourage Laughter therapy workshops Skin cancer detection service emotional needs can be met to achieve a better balance between body participation in social causes on international days. Better sleep workshops and mind. Social support and privacy tools are used along with strategies to adopt and maintain healthy habits. Work-life balance: We strengthen measures to achieve These actions are performed through Cyclical Campaigns that seek a better balance between personal and professional life. to generate positive emotions and the engagement of employees with The following activities were performed: the Company, promoting actions closely associated with the personal Wellness well-being services: everis is committed to its staff's overall well-being of employees and their productivity which lead to their Body Mind well-being and has therefore developed a holistic well-being plan emotional equilibrium and healthy work-life balance. covering the physical, mental and social spheres. A raft of services is Supply of fruit in the office Mindfulness provided directly to employees on everis' premises including: physiotherapy, dietary advice, sports advice, mindfulness workshops... Physical activities: football, Mindfulness e-learning Pills aug sep e basketball, company fun o ul ndness m Physical: Comprising actions to improve physical well-being. #sum #mi eon runs and padel tennis Stress management ov j me #m nov Fostering a culture of healthy habits and exercise. rti tournaments. jun ct Assertive conflict management work Cyclical Campaigns Mental: Focused on boosting mental well-being, promoting life Flu vaccinations balance Talks, workshops healthy environments and providing tools for healthy work. may dec and master classes Employee assistance #e v e rc l u b e s Important programme (EAP) Social: Creating a social climate that nurtures collaboration pr international day ja a n and a comprehensive culture of well-being. m ar Article Everis Happiness Movement feb # t a k e c a re Gift Mindfulness Summer School Social awareness: The social awareness campaigns in February and March 2020 coincided with “World Cancer Day”, “International Women's Day”, and “International Day of Happiness”. 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People | 3.7. Compensation and social beneﬁts Peru Mexico Chile In Peru, the programme includes the following initiatives: a support programmes has been in place since 2011 offering dietary Flu vaccination campaign, Play Time partnerships, advice to staff, with employees covering part of the cost and everis football tournaments. Physiotherapy service paying the rest. Details of this are provided in the accompanying document. Psychoprophylaxis and nutritional advice during pregnancy The Employee Support Programme (PAE) is also under way offering Colombia Nutrition programme critical cases. Currently there are 24 physiological support (personalised and over the phone) to meet all critical cases under nutritional surveillance and 240 in the the staff's needs in Mexico. Activities run in this country include Health Week . regular Nutrition programme. Programme handling stress Brazil USA In-house workshops, including massage sessions and yoga classes Staff here benefit from membership to a platform (gympass) providing Access to various programmes promoting emotional and physical Healthy basket. Consists of distributing a piece of fruit access to a network of gyms across Brazil to promote physical health. well-being. to collaborators every Monday The Digital Health by Sharecare programme includes clinical Personal finance workshops programmes designed to meet each employee's needs and provides tailor-made digital resources to help them look after their health. Benelux Work-life balance. Social awareness initiatives were as follows: Everfootball is the name of everis' traditional football tournament in People Plan for the plan Move connect enjoy yoga classes, During this financial year, programmes such as Days out of school were Brazil. It takes place at the back end of each year and employees who sessions with physiotherapists, sponsorship of fun runs, etc. are run, including a Robotics programme for children to have the best fun. are fans of football can set up teams and take part. on offer in Brussels. Another activity was #Yoaparco: a very popular initiative designed to Running group to encourage participation in sport and engage create a more flexible working environment and fulfil employees' needs employees and their families. everis pays half their subscription and by allocating everis parking spaces. each employee can take two people along. Work continues to reinforce the Flexible Working culture by helping Employee Support Programme: totally confidential programme to teams work in dynamic environments. The following action was taken support employees and the people in their care in different areas of as part of this: their private and professional lives. The Employee Support Programme has a team of highly qualified collaborators including psychologists, FW pilots: We help teams adapt to dynamic environments. social workers, lawyers and financial specialists who can help employees in a variety of circumstances. GxO training: We provide tools to more efficiently manage flexible environments. TT training campaign 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.8 Occupational Occupational Occupational Security Country accidents Female accidents Male accidents Total Spain 2 8 10 everis is committed to ensuring the highest possible level of safety, health and well-being for its employees, regardless of their business area, geographical Europe location or activity. Accordingly, each everis Group company meets the legal Andorra 0 0 0 requirements of its country in respect of health and safety. Belgium 1 0 1 everis promotes an environment of health and safety at work with training actions aimed at raising awareness and sensitivity, encouraging a culture of prevention France 0 0 0 in all the activities carried out by the Company. Moreover, it has formal policies Netherlands 0 0 0 governing all these initiatives in the following countries; Spain, UK, Portugal, Benelux, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Argentina, Colombia, Italy, and the USA. Luxembourg 0 0 0 The Group has health and safety officers when the country’s regulation requires Italy 0 6 6 it, as health and safety systems are defined and overseen at the level of each company and 100% of the employees are covered by an occupational risk Portugal 0 4 4 prevention system. UK 0 1 1 In FY19 there were a total of 38 occupational accidents, most of which were Switzerland 0 0 0 minor and occurred on the way to or from work; this is just four more than the previous year. Since the workforce has grown this financial year, it can be said that this indicator remains stable versus FY18. America Argentina 2 5 7 Indicator 7.1 of annex 3 shows these figures broken down by country and gender, while indicator 7.2 provides a breakdown for companies in Spain. Brazil 1 0 1 The formulas used to calculate the index of severity and frequency are those available at the Spanish Ministry of Employment and Social Security. Chile 2 4 6 Colombia 2 0 2 An objective set for this financial year was to report figures on the types of accident and lost work hours by gender and professional category, and on Mexico 0 0 0 serious accidents and the lost work days rate in Spain. Staff in the companies in Spain suffered 10 workplace accidents during the financial year: two females Peru 0 0 0 and eight males. Eight of these were accidents on the way to or from work. A USA 0 0 0 total of 80 work hours were lost for the women and 1,000 hours for the men. Africa Morocco 0 0 0 Total 10 28 38 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 3. People 3.9 Social dialogue Employees covered by collective bargaining All everis Group companies believe in the importance of employee It is important for everis to create plans for improvement so that negative Country agreement (%) participation in the life of the Company, both through the bodies of legal scores are not repeated. Thanks to the various strategies implemented representation and through other ways and channels of participation with regard to homeworking in Spain in 2018, which aim to offer greater Spain 100% implemented by the Group. flexibility and achieve a better work-life balance, the percentage of negative responses to the Working hours and work-life balance Therefore, in accordance with the value of transparency which question has fallen from 39% in 2017 to 34% in 2019. Also, more Europe characterises everis, group companies inform and consult with workers’ and more countries are bringing in flexible working given the clear Andorra 100% representatives and the workers themselves about questions affecting advantages it brings in terms of work-life balance. them, and about the state of the Company and employment within this, Italy 100% on a regular basis, and exceptionally when circumstances so demand, Percentage of employees and always under the terms and conditions set out in applicable America legislation in each country where everis is present. everis has a tool called One Voice, which is an internal survey regarding covered by collective labour Brazil 100% employees’ perception of the Company and their level of satisfaction and agreements by country Mexico 100% association. It is carried out every two years at the global level within all the companies comprising the NTA DATA group. It measures not only the The table on the right shows the percentage of employees degree of employee association and commitment but also a number of covered by collective bargaining agreements by country in manageable factors essential to defining mid and long-term strategies accordance with the applicable regulations. and plans of action within the Company. The results of this survey are analysed both at the global level and by regions, offices, units and departments, with the aim of enabling those Collective bargaining agreements responsible to create a personalised plan of action depending on the results obtained. (particularly in the ﬁeld of health and safety in the workplace) This survey has been carried out since 2008 and has always had a high level of participation which reached 77% across the whole Group in the We would also point out that in most of the countries where everis last edition of 2019. The aspect given the highest score by employees does business, collective bargaining agreements do not deal overall was Support from team of collaborators (94%). While the lowest specifically with health and safety at work as the activity is not scoring aspect was Total pay, relative to market rate (35%). Both unionised. Some countries, such as Italy, do have national percentages are up slightly on 2017. agreements. The only countries that have trade union representation are Mexico, with its so-called White Union In response to the question about whether employees would recommend or Protection Union (Federación Obrera Sindical), and the everis as a place to work, 79% of respondents said yes, and the same United Kingdom with the trade union, Prospect. percentage said they were proud to work for the company. Eighty percent of staff were satisfied with their job. A further 88% said they were involved in implementing everis' values. 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4 Impact on society 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society Impact on society The Company has included in its strategic plan a work stream designed to contribute to a better society, working towards the following Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda. 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society 4.1 Guarantee inclusive and equitable, quality SDG 4 education and promote Quality education. lifelong learning opportunities. Education initiatives. As a company founded on talent, our key focus when contributing to society is education. As well as having the previously mentioned corporate university to train staff, we have developed several proposals related with the digitalisation of learning, virtual platforms and e-learning content, and collaborative learning through virtual environments. Collaboration Digital platforms with universities for families Since its beginnings, everis has collaborated with the leading universities In this way, the value that the University contributes to society by Social initiatives like #girlsgonna are created with the aim of contributing as in the majority of the countries where it does business with the purpose developing talent is continued and the transition towards sustainable a company to the important work of reducing the gender gap in the digital of helping and supporting the generation of talent. Accordingly, everis quality employment is made easier. In addition to signing scholarship sector. It is aimed at families and the teaching community as these are the employees take an active role in a host of initiatives including: agreements to incorporate graduates, everis employees take an active groups that most influence the decisions taken by boys and girls when it role in university life, carrying out training and dissemination activities comes to choosing their studies and careers. The girlsgonna.com website Open days in the offices of everis. in various faculties, maintaining the following channels of dialogue contains educational material, designed using the Made-with-CLOQQ with the universities: method, so any parent or teacher can facilitate Maker and STEM learning Transversal workshops. experiences that eliminate gender stereotypes associated with technology. Sessions and actions aimed at capturing talent Sponsorship of the best students. With the backing of CLOQQ (Creo lo que quieras) – everis' open platform – initiatives are developed to prepare young talent and the new generations Collaboration with students’ associations. Job fairs in universities for the STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics) field. Practical digital creation workshops are run for children and their Participation in job fairs. families that encourage their interest in scientific-technological careers. Hackathons Final year project in everis. everis Open Days everis offers various scholarship programmes for university talent as a way of incorporating young people into the world of work. These programmes are carried out by working hand in hand with the main Participation in forums with discussions and presentations universities in the localities in which the Company operates. Talent prizes and prize for academic merit 65 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society 4.2 Reduce inequality in and between countries. SDG 10 Reduced inequalities. Social commitment. Another area of corporate responsibility is everis' pledge to support more disadvantaged people through its staff in the countries where it operates. Country Project Partnership with NGO Num. volunteers Beneficiaries Description Brazil Transform empathy into attitude | Maria Helena Drexel 235 78 This charity event took place on 7 December 2019. Children and Solidarity Action Association teenagers in the state of São Paulo, Río de Janeiro and Uberlândia received personalised boxes of clothing, footwear and toys. In addition, 64 boxes of essential items were collected with the slogan #everfootball2019, at the São Paulo football championship. Chile Christmas charity campaign Casa Caridad Don 7 55 The primary aim of this Christmas campaign was to collect food for the Orione Foundation Casa Caridad Don Orione Foundation, which runs a centre for children and young people with learning difficulties. Collaborators from all everis Chile's offices handed in donations in December. Seven volunteers visited the centre to deliver the donations and meet the children. Mentorias Laboratoria Laboratory 35 35 We once again participated in mentoring women enrolled on the Laboratoria programme. In total, 35 of everis' volunteers acted as mentors over a month and a half. Children in ITCs Day fair 8 700 We took part in a fair as part of International Girls in ICT Day promoted by the International Communication Union (ICU) for over 700 girls aged 16 to 18 and hosted by INCAP. 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society | 4.2. SDG 10. Reduced inequalities. Social commitment Country Project Partnership with NGO Num. volunteers Beneficiaries Description Chile International Girls Technovation 5 500 We once again took part in the event hosted by the NGO Technovation in ICT Day with five speakers from everis giving specialist talks on cutting edge information technologies. Global Goals Jam 6 20 We hosted a new edition of Global Goals Jam; this year we counted on the involvement of the University of Chile. Micro and Small Enterprise 2 25 We ran a workshop for 25 micro and small enterprises on strategies Development Centre Workshop to boost sales using Instagram. Spain USAL Strategic University of everis' collaboration in the University of Salamanca's Strategic Plan. Plan 2020/2023 Salamanca We bring our experience as a business and insight into the current market. The aim is to optimise the USAL's resources, setting out a Strategic Plan that will result in it being a major force and achieve its goals as a university. Fun treasure hunt Salamanca Anti-Bullying 4 300 Treasure hunt run in partnership with ASCBYC around the city against school bullying and Cyberbullying School pupils of Salamanca. Doing our bit by donating a start-up boot for Association ASCBYC programming to the winning school to introduce children to programming from a young age. Showcasing the huge potential this sector offers and the current and changing diversity we have today. Three Wise Men of Truth Three Wise Men of Truth 140 110 Alicante Robotics workshop for everis Foundation and the 10 40 children in Valencia Association of Parents of Children with Cancer (ASPANION) everis Valencia is working Three Wise Men of Truth 72 72 A volunteering initiative at Christmas so that no young, elderly or with the Three Wise of disabled people, i.e. at-risk groups, go without a present at Christmas. Truth Association everis' volunteers nominate someone to receive a card from the Three Wise Men, they buy a gift and we make sure it is delivered to the care homes where the beneficiaries live. On Three Kings Day (Epiphany) the presents are handed out to them. 67 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society | 4.2. SDG 10. Reduced inequalities. Social commitment Country Project Partnership with NGO Num. volunteers Beneficiaries Description Spain Technovation in 4 +120 girls Five volunteers from the Valencia office judge 120 girls to evaluate and Valencia reward them for their technology projects in a worldwide event that aims to encourage females into technological careers. Hackathons at 42 +500 Volunteers from everis altruistically act as mentors in the hackathons everis' offices organised at everis' offices in Spain, providing help with the projects presented in the global technology competitions, such as: Google's Hash Code, Nasa's Space Apps and other hosted by everis. Donation of children's toy Red Cross 0 Patients in this area of everis Murcia funded the purchase of these electric toy ambulances ambulances for the maternity the hospital – all children for the largest hospital complex in Murcia's state healthcare system. and children's ward at La Arrixaca The project was a partnership with Red Cross Murcia, which is Hospital in Murcia reflected in the design, with the toy ambulances carrying the everis logo and a large red cross. Charity toy donation Red Cross 90 100 children from the We carry out this campaign as Christmas approaches and our staff region of Murcia who love taking part. are socially excluded Technovation Challenge Technovation 19 Over 80 girls between Every year, Technovation invites girls and young females from around seven and 18 the world to learn and use the skills needed to solve real-world problems using technology. More specifically, over the 12 weeks, the girls work in a team supported by a mentor to learn how to code and create a mobile phone app to solve a problem they face. Project Coach Exit Foundation 11 Young people Project Coach aims to enhance the employability of young people between 16 and 19 who are at risk, through coaching and mentoring. This year, 11 everis volunteers in Spain dedicated around 250 hours to help them. The last edition of this development project was run during the crisis caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, forcing volunteers and the young beneficiaries to completely change the programme and run it online. UK Robotics workshop 7 16 children an To inspire and encourage the next generation to discover science 20 adults and technology early in life. 68 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society | 4.2. SDG 10. Reduced inequalities. Social commitment Country Project Partnership with NGO Num. volunteers Beneficiaries Description Italy Runcorporate Differenza Donna This was a project in which our staff ran a marathon in Rome, thereby supporting the associated NGO through their entrance fee. Milanomarathon La mano del Bambino This was a project in which our staff ran a marathon in Rome, thereby supporting the associated NGO through their entrance fee. Children’s Christmas Gifts WWF 200 sacks of gifts were purchased for WWF. STEM in the city everis was involved in the STEM in the city project to increase the number of women in STEM careers. Giving Tuesday ADMO, Onlus Prometeo, Opera Support for social causes as part of the global movement known as San Francesco and Teatroterapia Giving Tuesday, in answer to Black Friday. #everisgoesgreen Reusable water bottles were bought for employees to avoid the use of plastic bottles and cups. The policy was reviewed to buy disposable items for in house and external events that are recyclable, sustainable or made using green energy. Breast Cancer Day The organisation took part in International Breast Cancer Day. Genechron gave a speech about the risks and prevention of breast cancer. Peru Recycle your jeans and make a difference Caritas Perú 200 150 everis workers contributed their unwanted jeans. Telethon 2019 Telethon Donations were raised for the Telethon to help children at the Hogar Clínica San Juan de Dios care home. My four-legged friend Albergue 37 200 animals The My four-legged friend campaign was run to help over 200 pets. Mi amigo de 4 patas Visit to animal sanctuary Albergue 32 200 animals The My four-legged friend campaign was run to help over 200 pets. Mi amigo de 4 patas Christmas chocolate party 35 200 children from The party took place at the San Gabriel Alto Villa María del Triunfo 1 to 10 years old settlement. 69 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society | 4.2. SDG 10. Reduced inequalities. Social commitment Crowdfunding social platform The Teaming Foundation, with the backing of everis, has created an online platform to raise funds for social causes through micro-donations of €1 a month. everis’ commitment to this platform has led the foundation to create a specific landing page to give visibility to and collaborate with employees’ causes. everis Foundation Púlsar programme: everis has a foundation that is fully funded by the Company. Its goal mentoring of gifted girls everis Entrepreneurship is to promote entrepreneurship, drive innovation and foster talent, by successful women Awards running a raft of projects with a large number of everis workers acting as volunteers. Personalised mentoring programme to support and empower teenage For 19 years, the everis Foundation has hosted the everis girls with bags of potential to discover their talent. The Púlsar programme Entrepreneurship Awards to foster talent, drive technological innovation Here are some of its most notable projects: stemmed from a global need: to bridge the gender gap. It is run as part and encourage entrepreneurs to think out of the box and find solutions of the efforts to fulfil the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. that have a scalable and sustainable impact and leave a transformation footprint on society. This competition rewards high-impact technology The programme consists of six, one-hour sessions a month in which projects in three categories: Industrial Technologies, New Business leading women in various fields act as professional role models for Models in the Digital Economy, and Biotechnology and Healthcare, teenage girls. The aim is to offer tailor-made help to the girls to empower which contribute to enhancing people's quality of life and or protect the them to continue with higher education. environment and which are generally aligned with the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. This initiative is run across eight cities in Spain, Brazil, Peru and Colombia. The 19th edition of the Awards was held this year. They are split into 10 national competitions in 10 European and Latin American countries As part of this year's programme, the everis Foundation carried out where everis operates: Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the following activities: Spain, Netherlands, Italy, Peru and Portugal. As well as winning their local award, national winners go through to compete for the global grand prize Backing for the mentor network through Púlsar Women Summit: of €60,000 + specialist mentoring from i-deals (an everis Group company a space to encourage networking among Púlsar Programme specialising in technological entrepreneurship). mentors and invitees related with the initiative, with online and classroom sessions on topics of interest in different fields. The everis Awards in Spain attracted 700 projects, 348 of which fully met the terms and conditions. A free online course on all the methodology of the programme for anyone, anywhere in the world who works or lives with teenagers, so they can run the programme too. 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society | 4.2. SDG 10. Reduced inequalities. Social commitment Awards for social Tech4change intrapreneurship programme These awards recognise the enterprise of employees from everis and The everis foundation together with United Way, has created a specific, NTT DATA globally who head innovative technology projects with a technology-based project, Tech4change, for secondary school students strong social component and which positively impact people’s quality with learning difficulties and at risk of dropping out of school. This project of life and the local environments. is run by everis Madrid volunteers. This year attracted 20 projects that met the terms and conditions in 9 countries: Belgium, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Spain, Luxembourg, Mexico, Peru and the United Kingdom. Programme that encourages children to use their digital skills in a fun way through online and classroom workshops run by volunteers from the Foundation around the world. The Foundation's aim is to contribute continually through small, one-off actions to narrowing the digital gap due to economic, social and geographical factors. These workshops nurture computational thinking and digital skills and introduces children, young people and their educators, primarily, to programming in a fun manner. In just a few steps, they are also taught to use Scratch: a programming language that can be used to create video games and anything else they conjure up. everis volunteers train in their spare time in order to run these workshops for the children and relatives of their co-workers and for children and young people from under-privileged backgrounds, in collaboration with various learning institutions. We have educated upwards of 3,200 children worldwide along with their families, with a view to bridging the digital gap and encourage them to keep practising with the children at home. We want to bring young people closer to technology, not just as consumers, because it will be an indispensable tool to help them in their lives, irrespective of the profession or career they choose. 71 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society 4.3 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable SDG 8 economic growth, full and Economic growth. productive employment and decent work. Impact of everis' activity on employment and local development. everis tries to promote the development and sustainability of all the communities in which it operates. It co-operates actively with the various agents that comprise society, supporting and promoting initiatives with a favourable impact on the population and the environment, especially through initiatives and projects of enterprise, innovation and social action. As explained beforehand, the Company is working to strengthen the everis an NTT DATA Company brand as a top employer, hiring 9,522 new staff. % Local % Local Country purchases Country purchases By purchasing from local suppliers, everis contributes to the development and growth of the businesses in its communities. In 2019, over 90% of Spain 99% America purchases were made from local suppliers. A supplier is deemed local when the country of origin of the supplier (registered offices) is the same Argentina 99% Europe as the country making the purchase. Brazil 98% Andorra 33% Chile 95% Belgium 89% Colombia 99% France Mexico 86% Netherlands Peru 98% Luxembourg 91% USA Italy 91% Portugal 94% Africa UK 88% Morocco 100% Switzerland 100% Average Total 91% 72 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society | 4.3. SDG 8. Economic growth. Impact of everis' activity on employment and local development Programmes promoting Technology events innovation involving everis in FY19 Various global initiatives are run in this area, some of the most Some of the outstanding projects globally have been: noteworthy of which are as follows: Google Cloud Summit – Milan / Italy: Everis LivingLab: This year everis opened its first LivingLab: a A must-attend event to find out about the latest developments laboratory of innovation and co-creation in Spain for interaction in Google Cloud. between employees, customers, technological partners and the entrepreneurial and academic ecosystem. This open space enables DigitalES Summit – Madrid / Spain: joint work on innovation to tackle the technological challenges Technology event to analyse the future of the digital transformation which are transforming the business and social ecosystem. in Spain. LivingLab is part of everis’ strategy to create its own network of centres of innovation which will unite with the hubs that NTT DATA Conference Agile Spain 2019 – Barcelona / Spain: has at the global level. Event sponsored by everis and bringing together some 1,500 exports in agile methodologies with the slogan “Together, we Open Innovation Contest: an NTT DATA initiative that seeks to find can do so much”. innovative commercial ideas which can be adapted to NTT DATA’s existing services/solutions, and which are attractive to customers Web Summit Lisbon – Lisbon / Portugal: (large corporations). Key event for the technology sector to showcase the potential of leading innovation companies. NTT DATA Hackathon: everis hosted the final stage of NTT DATA’s hackathon, at which employees of various companies developed Dreamforce San Francisco / United States: and presented their ideas to a jury comprised of experts in An experience showcasing the driving forces behind the future innovation and enterprise, belonging to the Group. of technology through inspirers, talks and sessions, all with blue sky thinking. Alliance with KeepCoding: collaboration agreement with the leading training centre for developers in Spain, with the goal of AWS Summit 19 Madrid / Spain: promoting the training of ICT professionals linked to the real needs Brings together the community of the Cloud Computing and of the current market. Amazon Web Services (AWS) platform at the IFEMA-Madrid exhibition centre. The event involved over 40 sessions and everis Next, an innovation incubator: a platform for connecting the workshops on the most talked about topics in the technology global innovation ecosystem, providing access to an ecosystem of sector today. millions of start-ups throughout the world. 73 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society 4.4 Customers everis has a very clear policy with customers, based on proximity and This information is gathered through online surveys and a questionnaire sent innovative, integral and high-quality solutions. Each customer is assigned to 597 contacts about 697 projects (some contacts are the same for several a manager responsible for all the activities affecting them, from the projects) making up of all the projects completed during the year. identification of needs to project execution. The aspects most highly valued by customers are Responsibility and In order to know the degree of customer satisfaction with respect to the commitment , followed by Staff and their Management capability . quality of the service provided by everis, various communications channels have been established with them: The main areas for improvement are Turnover and Ability to surprise . Customer satisfaction report: this report is prepared annually In addition to the above, everis signs contracts with customers that are based on the responses obtained in customer surveys. It is a appropriate in form and content, supplying systems and services in survey aimed at measuring the degree of customer satisfaction accordance with what is offered and stipulated. with the quality of service in each of its phases based on detailed questions. At the time of writing, figures for FY19 are not yet As part of its commitment to confidentiality, everis manages customer available so the final marks (out of 10) for customer satisfaction information in accordance with the contracts and with the corresponding in recent years are shown below (always above 7.7). They reached laws and regulations relating to the protection of personal data, establishing, an all-time high over the last year. in addition to the aforementioned surveys, the following channels of dialogue: 7,9 7,9 8,0 7,9 8,0 8,1 7,7 8,1 8,1 Channels of dialogue with customers Business proposals and their monitoring 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Business development activities Customer Management: as previously mentioned, each customer has a global management structure headed by a Customer Events: congresses and conferences Manager whose tasks include directly addressing any concerns or worries that the customer may have and leading the associated action plan to resolve potential contingencies. Satisfaction surveys Claims management: this process is the responsibility of everis’ Annual sustainability report legal department. In FY19 no legal claim was reported by our customers. On a regular basis, the Brand and Communications department is asked for information about communications received through social media about Quality and the Environment 74 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society 4.5 Suppliers Although these vary by location, everis has established the following over-riding criteria when choosing a supplier: Equality of conditions among them. Three proposals from different companies are always assessed to compare criteria and quotes. Transparency in respect of each proposal received. The internal customer has at their disposal all the information regarding each supplier proposed. Internal assessment process to classify the service provided. Analysis of project management criteria, as well as their design and development. Subcontractor incorporation policy Policies have also been stipulated with suppliers so that subcontracted Finally, everis always acts with integrity and in compliance with the personnel work with the same tools. They state that everis has a Code of corresponding laws and regulations applicable to operations with suppliers Ethics and Professional Conduct whose content also applies to the and respects the contracts signed with these, establishing, in this respect, companies and professionals with whom the company collaborates, who the following channels of dialogue: will be required to respect the fundamental rights of each person; the creation of a suitable working environment for personal, social and business development; the effective application of the principles of equality, Channels of dialogue with suppliers meritocracy and non-discrimination in the hiring of employees; the commitment to quality, innovation, training and transparent information; the Mailbox for delivering bids elimination of occupational risks; the prohibition of soliciting or offering any type of gift to clients and/or suppliers, including Public Administrations, that exceeds mere courtesy to obtain a benefit, favour, subsidy or advantage in Negotiation process favour of everis or in its own favour; as well as the adequate management of resources and respect for the environment. Constant management of the relationship There is also a certification form by which the subcontractor must accept everis’ environmental policy based on regulation ISO 14001 and the energy Certification process policy based on regulation ISO 50001:2011. Regular service assessment 75 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 4. Impact on society | 4.5. Suppliers Purchasing policy Supplier oversight everis’ purchasing policy includes the regulations, responsibilities and everis approves suppliers through an exhaustive review of information basic conditions for corporate acquisitions. It includes the Company's code in key areas, which also ensures suppliers are aware of everis' policies of ethics, which should be followed by any everis employee who comes regarding safety, occupational risk prevention, the environment and energy, into contact with suppliers. In addition, there are internal policies that GDPR, etc., and the general terms and conditions of contract. stipulate the processes for the awarding of services and supplies to suppliers, which are based on principles of impartiality, transparency and everis has an internal assessment process carried out by the Procurement sustainability. teams, in collaboration with the relevant areas in each case, following the guidelines established in the global coordination and governance structure. everis’ purchasing function comprises all the teams that intervene directly This ensures that the supplier meets expectations in respect of execution or indirectly in purchasing processes and is headed by the Procurement and delivery deadlines and the quality of the products and services team, with a Global Co-ordination and Governance Structure (GCGS) contracted. headed by the Global Head of Procurement. In addition, everis’ policy states that the supplier must carry out The Procurement team comprises a group of professionals deployed independent quality control tests on a regular basis. If the category of geographically according to each country’s business requirements. In this services which are the object of the contract involve relations with everis way, these professionals can provide support for local, regional and global customers, these tests shall consist, without prejudice to others, of surveys purchasing projects. of customers on the quality, effectiveness, treatment and other characteristics of the services provided by the supplier. As an objective for this financial year, everis has included environmental questions in its procurement policy, and is working to include social and One of everis' objectives this financial year has been to include gender equality questions too in the near term. environmental scores when evaluating suppliers. It is also working to boost performance vis-à-vis environmental policies; an important aspect when approving suppliers is to consider the environmental aspect. The goal is to include social and gender equality questions in the near term. 76 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 5 Awards and accolades received by everis 77 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 5. Awards and accolades received by everis Awards and accolades received by everis The awards and accolades received by everis both at the global level and by country in FY19 are shown below: Country Awards received Spain Top Employer 2020 AUTELSI 2020 Award to the project: #girlsgonna International awards: Constantinus 2019, “International Silver medal” and “National Champion Spain categories, everis and BBVA Seguros. Linkedin Talent Awards 2019, Best Employer Brand: Above 500 employees. DHL Green&Digital Innovation Awards, Innovation for Supply Chain Digitalisation category, everis Initiatives. OutSystems Partner of the Year – Rising Star María Jesús Jiménez Hernández, Top 100 2019 category Directors, Top 100 Female Leaders. Project to Inter-institutional Register of Delegated Acts in the Sapiens 2019 Awards, Spanish Institute of IT Engineers. Digital Experience Solution Partner of the Year for Southern Europe, Adobe 2020. Brazil Top Employer Brazil certification for the best practices in human resources – Top Employers Institute. Finalist. Businesses with recognised practices for attracting and retaining talent in the 22nd edition of the awards. Top of Mind. UK Finalist. UK Employee Experience Awards 2020 78 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 6 Measures taken to tackle COVID19 79 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 6. Measures taken to tackle COVID19 Measures taken to tackle COVID19 Due to the exceptional situation around the world caused by the Smart Working coronavirus pandemic, everis established a global Covid-19 crisis committee, along with local committees in each country to work in Over the long term, tools, training, advice and tips needed to ensure a coordinated fashion and provide daily updates. This enabled the everyone's well-being and achieve the greatest efficiency will be provided: organisation to adopt the best measures to protect its workers and ensure business continuity. Phase 1 (4 weeks): launch of essential tools in the current circumstances: Following the recommendations of the World Health Organisation and Spain's Ministry of Health, this committee promoted the use 1. Two weekly impacts with online training, tips, best practices, of homeworking and flexitime for a decent work-life balance, aligned webinars, etc. with everis' culture and values, even before Spain declared a state of emergency. 2. Covid-19 Community: Specific space in Knowler to share resources. As part of its commitment to health and safety, everis has established a Special Coronavirus Service for employees to receive medical help 3. Parties involved: People, Susi, Agile, everis University, Brand and advice about Covid-19. & Communication Several initiatives such as Smart Working have also been rolled out Phase 2 (preliminary estimate: 4 weeks): support and connection, to support the organisation and staff deal with the changes needed providing a space to share and monitor staff's general well-being to work during lockdown and the widespread use of homeworking and offer help in the Company's core processes (annual appraisals, due to Covid-19. reviews, mentoring). One weekly impact planned. Phase 3: support and help returning to normality. 80 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 6. Measures taken to tackle COVID19 Social action during the COVID19 crisis As part of its social responsibility pledge, everis has contributed to society during the Covid-19 crisis in three ways: Pro bono projects Share and extend the assets/platforms available at everis to help third parties For customers or other entities needing help, provided by staff not on projects. These services have a social impact in the crisis and are all technology related. They include: in partnership with other organisations. ecHOS Remote Health: everis has developed an end-to-end technology solution that includes self-triage, teleconsultation and data analysis The teaching resources of everis and the everis Foundation have been management. The main aim is to take the pressure of healthcare staff during all phases of the pandemic and is being rolled out in Argentina shared with various organisations. and Chile. Training for SMEs using Red.es: through Red.es – a state-run organisation operating under the auspices of Spain's Ministry of Economy and Digitalisation – everis provides training to SMEs on a portal with content to help them continue operating in the current situation. Raise awareness of initiatives being run by third parties with the involvement Big Data on medical suppliers: everis Belgium is working with the European Commission to create a list of approved suppliers of medical supplies (such as face masks, gloves, respirators and disinfectants) needed during the Covid-19 pandemic to negotiate better prices. of everis' staff. Elderly care home portal: everis is working with the Galician regional government to collate and present data to analyse where care homes In this regard, projects have been promoted leading to more people are and monitor them closely. signing up to them. Sifacil: everis inicitiatives offers a free online management platform for SMEs and the self-employed. Design and 3D printing of medical suppliers through the community of makers. COVID-19 help app: everis is working with Telefonica to improve the interface of this application. Production of visors for healthcare staff, also using 3D printing. Parent support teaching portal: everis is working on a portal with Microsoft to provide parents with training on how to teach their children. Teaming donations to collaborate with UNICEF in the provision Computer set-up: staff at everis' Valladolid office have set up 234 computers for the Valladolid Health Department. of medical supplies. Cybersecurity training: the Cybersecurity team has prepared a short course on safe homeworking, which includes best practices Fund-raising for medical supplies. and information on the most common threats. Arranging and distributing letters to people in hospital and care CLOQQ at the Ministry of Education: The everis CLOQQ open platform (Crea lo que quieras) has been included on the Ministry home residents. of Education's teaching resources website. Reliable information on Covid-19: on the Google Data Studio platform. 81 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7 Enviroment 82 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment Environment At everis we are working on improving our environmental performance and transparency, widening the dissemination of our environmental policies to all work centres in each of the countries where we operate. This year we expanded the capture of environmental information to different sites in Europe and Latin America, while working on compiling the rest of the data in the countries where we do business for the coming years. 83 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment 7.1 Certifications implemented in everis and management systems everis certiﬁcations Management systems and certifications currently implemented in everis relating to the environment, quality, energy efficiency and sustainability. Offices where implemented: ISO 14001 Spain Madrid (Novus, Manoteras 52), Sevilla-Torre Pelli, Segovia, Ciudad Real. everis' certifications are aligned with its processes, businesses and ISO 50001 Spain everis Spain S.L.U: Camino de la Fuente de la Mora nº 1, Planta 1, 28050, Madrid. strategic lines and have a consistent scope throughout the entire Company. everis Ingeniería S.L.U: Camino de la Fuente de la Mora nº 1, Planta 4, 28050, Madrid. ISO 9001:2015 Spain Sevilla (Cartuja y Torre Sevilla); Madrid: Boadilla del Monte, Manoteras 52; Bilbao; Valencia; Zaragoza; Las Palmas de Gran Canaria; Barcelona (Diagonal 605); A Coruña; Murcia; Valladolid; Alicante; Hontoria-Segovia. BREEAM Commercial Spain Headquarters at Manoteras 52 (Madrid Spain) 9001:2015 14001 50001 BREEAM in use Spain Edificio Novus, Fuente de la Mora, 1 (Madrid Spain). 13 countries 3 countries 1 country 1 country Europe ISO 9001:2015 Portugal Lisbon Always striving for continuous improvement, everis holds the following UK London W1W 8HS, Glasgow G3 8JU certifications for some of its workplaces: Benelux Brussels Italy Milan, Rome ISO 14001 UK London Portugal Lisbon America ISO 9001:2015 Brazil Sao Paulo, Uberlândia Chile Temuco, Santiago de Chile Colombia Bogotá, Medellín USA Arlington VA, Boston MA Mexico Mexico City Peru Lima, Trujillo Argentina Buenos Aires, Tucumán Africa ISO 9001:2015 Morocco Tetuán 84 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment 7.2 Environmental and energy policy everis’ Environmental and Energy Policy establishes a commitment Accordingly, the Environmental and Energy Policy defines the following to improve its environmental performance, in line with the philosophy objectives related to the effects of the Company’s activities: that the Company has had since its creation of being a responsible business. This is also aligned with its ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 Work in a way that is respectful of the environment and encourage certification that provides a reference framework to achieve balance environmental responsibility among our employees, customers, between socio-economic needs, environmental protection and suppliers and other stakeholders. responsible and efficient use of energy resources. Comply with legislation prevailing at the international, national, everis’ commitment to ensuring the highest possible level of safety, regional and local levels related to the environment and energy, health and welfare of its professionals, regardless of their business area, enhancing them where possible, and with the other requirements geographical location or activity, is included in its Occupational Health adopted by everis in relation to its environmental aspects, and and Safety Policy, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and without our energy practices and consumption. Professional Code of Ethics and Conduct. Identify the environmental impacts caused by the Company’s The Group has health and safety officers, when required by a country’s activities, products and services and establish plans to eliminate regulations, since health and safety systems are defined and supervised them, integrating environmental factors into our processes. at the individual company level. In everis, 100% of employees are covered by an occupational health and safety system. Prevent pollution by minimising our consumption of natural resources, eliminating our waste in a responsible way and recycling The scope of the Company’s activities relating to the environment, the materials that we use. health and safety is therefore exhaustively controlled and continuously improved. Foster the acquisition of products and services that respect the environment and are energy efficient, and promote design activities Furthermore, the Environmental and Energy Policy is approved, that take energy savings into consideration to improve energy promoted and supported by the management, which takes and environmental performance. responsibility for it and demonstrates its commitment. Establish and review our environmental and energy objectives to ensure they are appropriate and feasible, and ensure the availability of the information and resources needed to achieve the proposed goals. Orient environmental and energy performance, and the environmental and energy management systems that are implemented, toward savings, optimising resources and consumption, effectiveness and continuous improvement. 85 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment 7.3 Resources, provisions and Environmental guarantees used to prevent Management System environmental risk At everis, both the senior management of the Company and its employees are firmly committed to environmental issues. Environmental evaluation 14001 and certiﬁcation procedures As part of the environmental management system, everis produces an inventory of risks related to factors that could generate variations in the processes of the Environmental Management System. Environmental everis has implemented and maintains an Environmental Management The objectives are set for each year. Listed below are some of the EMS risks are identified, analysed qualitatively, the strategy to mitigate or System (EMS) based on the international ISO 14001 standard and the objectives during FY 2019 for the offices where the system is in place: accept them is then planned, and they are monitored, ensuring that following environmental commitments: a precautionary approach is applied. Include Ciudad Real in the ISO 14001:2015 certification. The identification of these risks is exhaustive, and the main processes Environmental commitments Optimise the separation of waste in the Ciudad Real office and that are affected by these risks are divided into threats and Exeleria/ADS, thanks to the communication plan for the new opportunities, as well as identifying the priority for treating these risks. implementation of the EMS in that office, poster campaigns Comply with applicable environmental legislation. and basic environmental training for staff. With regards to guarantees, everis does not have a policy to cover environmental risks due to the nature of the services offered by the Conduct an energy review of the 4th floor of the Novus building, Company. Prevent pollution by embracing good practices. based on the study of energy demand and consumption. Given everis’ activities, the risk of producing serious or irreversible Optimise the separation of waste in the Novus building by damage to the environment is highly unlikely; however, as previously implementing a plan of action, poster campaigns and conducting stated, the risk identification process is exhaustive and the necessary Control environmental issues and associated impacts more frequent inspections of the different floors. measures are implemented to prevent environmental damage. arising from its activities and services. Cut down the amount of plastic used in the cafeteria at the Seville everis has a team of professionals that specialise in environmental office, replacing plastic cups with vessels made out of recycled management and the ISO 14001 standard. Global production is the area Develop an Environmental Management System. responsible for maintaining the EMS and adapting it to the Company’s materials. activities. everis Engineering specialises in the design, implementation Cut electricity consumption per employee by 2% with respect and management of integral technology solutions in the field of energy Environmental awareness and sensitivity training to FY18 in the UKH office. efficiency, as well as protecting the environment and sustainability. for all employees. Reduce the use of plastic cups per employee by 5% from FY18 Cleaning and maintenance works are outsourced to subcontractors who in the UKH offices, replacing those vessels with ones that are are also responsible for reporting the quantity of the waste it collects. As part of the EMS, everis has developed procedures to comply with more environmentally respectful, such as paper cups. Our Company has modern facilities, with the latest technologies and each requirement of the standard, identified its environmental issues, excellent public transport communications and services. Given that the risks and opportunities having regard to both the internal and external Reduce the installed lighting capacity in the new Aunav building Company’s primary activity is consultancy, the products and services context, and the needs and expectations of its stakeholders. by 50%. it offers tend to use few resources and produce little waste. 86 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment | 7.3. Environmental Management System Good environmental practices: Prevention, recycling and reuse measures. To comply with Company policy, the EMS carries out numerous awareness campaigns and training and communication actions to promote care for our surroundings and protection of the environment. During FY19 those campaigns focused on the following points: Energy Water Ofﬁce materials Waste Responsible consumption A scarce resource Make rational use Reduce, reuse and recycle Shut down your computer when it will not be in use Do not leave taps running longer than necessary. Use them up entirely. Reduce the waste you generate by avoiding for more than one hour. the use of disposable products and choosing Close the tap while brushing your teeth or washing Avoid printing unnecessary documents. products with minimal packaging. Use the sleep or hibernate modes: maintains the meal containers. current system status and saves energy. Before printing, check for possible errors and Use documents in digital format. Do not use the toilet as a paper bin. Do not flush improvements in the document and use the print Put off lights that you are not going to use. paper towels, cotton balls, tissues, etc. preview. Reuse paper that has been printed on one side only to print drafts, make notepads, etc. Avoid using lifts for going up or down one or two If you spot a leak in a tap or WC report it to the Whenever possible, use both sides of sheets floors. facilities department. when photocopying and printing documents. You can bring your reusable cup or bottle. Use public transport or carpools as much as Print documents in draft quality to avoid wasting Cooperate in separating waste by depositing possible. Unit-e is a corporate carpooling app. ink whenever possible. it into the right containers. Use OneNote as digital notepad instead of a paper notebook: the information is easier to find, more manageable and allows for backup copies. Use Captio to report expenses digitally: quicker and simpler. Indicator 8 of Annex 3 shows the list of the wastes generated at everis offices in FY19. 87 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment 7.4 Climate Change Strategy Important elements of greenhouse gas emissions To demonstrate our environmental commitment with hard data and In relation to FY19 emissions the following have been recorded objective facts, every year our carbon footprint is calculated in an and taken into account by scope: initiative that allows an organisation’s total greenhouse gas emissions to be measured that it produces directly or indirectly. The Company’s Scope 1 emissions are therefore reported to its stakeholders in a transparent way. Direct emissions from leaks of refrigeration gases The calculation of everis’ carbon footprint for 2019 financial year (FY19) comprises the period between 01/04/201 and 31/03/2020. Direct emissions from use of furnaces Scope 2 Indirect emissions from consumption of electricity CO2 Scope 3 missions from business travel by employees using land transport 16.945 tCO2 0,65 tCO2/employee missions from business travel by employees using air transport missions from business travel by employees using rail transport 88 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment | 7.4. Climate Change Strategy Everis’ global footprint Given everis' global presence and as part of the fight against climate change according to Sustainable Given the nature of the organisation’s activities, the bulk of the emissions fall within Scope 3, in other words Development Goal 13: Climate Action, everis calculates its carbon footprint for the following European related to business travel, and within this category, the majority of the emissions come from air travel. and LATAM countries: tCO2e FY19 by scope tCO2e FY19 by activity Country CO2 footprint tCO2e Num. employees tCO2e/employee Spain 62,01% 10.508 t 14.483 0,73 Portugal 5,53% 937 t 967 0,97 UK 2,39% 405 t 327 1,24 Italy 7,72% 1.308 t 880 1,49 Mexico 2,12% 359 t 858 0,42 Colombia 3,16% 536 t 981 0,55 Scope 1 6% Business travel by air 59% Brazil 4,49% 761 t 2.525 0,30 Scope 2 16% Business travel by land 17% Scope 3 78% Business travel by rail 2% Peru 6,30% 1.067 t 3.470 0,31 Electricity consumption 16% Chile 6,28% 1.064 t 1.731 0,61 Heating 2% Refrigerant gases 4% Total 16.945 t 26.222 0,65 After air travel, the activities that generate the most emissions are journeys by land. Taking action to reduce the emissions in this scope is complicated as everis’ employees need to travel to the different locations where its tCO e/employee 2 projects are located in order to achieve excellence in these projects. 1,60 1,49 1,40 With the calculation of its global carbon footprint, everis works to develop strategies and plans aimed at 1,24 1,20 reducing its emissions around the world. 1,00 0,97 everis has defined the following indicator to assess the Company’s performance with regards to carbon footprint 0,80 0,73 0,61 reduction targets in both absolute and relative terms: 0,60 0,55 0,42 0,40 0,31 0,30 0,20 0,00 (Carbon footprint FYx) Carbon footprint KPI FYx = (Average num. employees FYx) Spain Portugal UK Italy Mexico Colombia Brazil Peru Chile Indicator 10 in annex 3 shows tCO2e broken down by the scope for each of one of the countries during FY19. 89 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment | 7.4. Climate Change Strategy everis Spain footprint Measures to adapt to climate everis Spain's carbon footprint accounts for 62.01% the Company's total global footprint. The scope of the change consequences carbon footprint calculation covers all companies that are consolidated in everis Spain S.L.U. and operate in Spain. In Spain, everis is putting in place measures to adapt to climate change in the field of energy efficiency. For more information, see the response to It is worth noting that the figures relating to the carbon footprint calculation for FY2019 mentioned below have “Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy consumption been verified by an independent third-party, although as at the date of this report, the administrative process and the use of renewable energy”. of recording the Company’s carbon footprint in the Carbon Footprint Register of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition has still not been completed. The organisation learns about its emissions through this calculation and its subsequent verification, and Established reduction goals the potential measures that it can take to reduce them are therefore proposed and defined in this document, in the case of everis Spain. The following table shows the evolution of the carbon footprint KPI defined by everis for Spain in 2017, 2018 and 2019, as well as comparisons with the target set for 2021. Carbon footprint FY19 Emissions source tCO2e Carbon Footprint Indicator Expected reduction in emissions per employee (tCO2 eq. / employee) Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 359 The organisation’s greenhouse gas emissions, in tonnes of equivalent carbon dioxide per employee, that are proposed in the financial year 2017 and expected to be reduced by the financial year 2021. Scope 2 Electricity consumption 2.221 KPI FY17 KPI FY18 KPI FY19 KPI FY21 0,80 tCO2e/ 0,80 tCO2e/ 0,73 tCO2e/ 0,70 tCO2e/ Scope 3 Business travel by land 2.020 employee employee employee employee Business travel by air 5.607 7.928 The KPI FY2017 was 0.80 tCO2e/employee, extremely similar to 2018, but it should be noted that there has been a considerable increase in the number of employees, and the figure for 2019 came in at 0.73 tCO2e/employee. Business travel by rail 301 To date, the reduction target to be implemented in the everis Carbon Footprint Reduction Plan is expected to be achieved by financial year 2021. Both absolute and relative targets will be assessed, but everis’ performance in Total terms of reducing its Carbon Footprint will be evaluated based on the performance of the previously defined KPI. 10.508 Taking into account the implementation of the reduction measures and best practices, total greenhouse gas emissions per employee (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) are expected to be reduced by 20% compared to FY2021, in other In FY17, everis had its carbon footprint verified by an independent third-party for the first time, in accordance with words to achieve a KPI of 0.70 tCO2 e per employee, assuming that the number of employees remains unchanged. the requirements of the ISO14064/1 standard, and was included in the Carbon Footprint Register of the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, obtaining the “Calculation” seal. This fact has been reported internally and represents In order to attain the commitment and involvement of the organisation’s employees and achieve the reduction a major achievement in the process of setting reduction goals and commitments. targets proposed in the plan, the information relating to the Company’s Carbon Footprint for its activities of the corresponding financial year will be included in the annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Similarly, the Reduction Plan, the commitments adopted and the proposed measures will be published internally so that the whole Company is aware of the need to reduce the impact of its activities. 90 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment | 7.4. Climate Change Strategy Scope Implemented Short term Medium term Measure (2019) (2020-2021) Replacement of cooling equipment 1 Good practices in controlling electricity bills 2 Energy manager 2 Measures to prevent, reduce Raising awareness of efficient energy use 2 or identify carbon emissions Optimising illumination hours 2 In addition to the numerous energy-saving measures described in the Optimising presence-based lighting control 2 energy efficiency section, everis has planned other reduction measures in Spain to achieve its targets, many of which have already been implemented, which affect the emission of refrigeration gases and travel. This latter aspect Adjustments to programming of air conditioning systems 2 has become a focus for the organisation, as it accounts for the majority of the carbon emissions produced by the Company due to the nature of its Verification of corporate carbon footprint by accredited entity otro consultancy and engineering activities, which makes travel to work sites frequently necessary. Drafting of procedure for calculating carbon footprint otro The measures proposed by everis to reduce its emissions are shown in the Using high-speed rail instead of flights for domestic travel 3 table on the right. Introducing low-carbon purchasing policy suppliers otro In addition to the above, work has been carried out and continues to be carried out on other generic measures: Conducting corporate campaign 3 For financial year 2020, the everis Carbon Footprint will be verified Low-carbon taxi contract 3 again in accordance with the ISO 14.064/1 standard, by an accredited entity. This process underpins the entire credibility of Improving management and maintenance the calculation and the reduction measures for everis’ clients who 1 procedures for refrigeration equipment regularly ask for its emissions report. Contracting electric energy from renewable sources 2 A procedure has been drawn up for calculating the Carbon Footprint so that this calculation occurs automatically in the future. Implementing criteria for evaluating refrigeration systems 1 Introduce low-carbon purchasing criteria into contracts with different suppliers, who will also be asked to calculate their own carbon footprint Implementing ISO 50001 in workplaces 2 as far as possible. This measure is intended to be implemented in the medium-term. Including sustainable energy purchasing policies for suppliers 2 91 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment 7.5 Circular economy The everisGroup encourages efficient resource use (water, paper, energy) and thanks to the operational control process for recycling the waste generated in our offices included in the scope of the EMS, the Company has managed to put in place meticulous control and take measures that help to reduce the amount of waste generated. It has also put in place circular economy measures and sustainability improvements. Water consumption based Consumption of raw materials on local restrictions and measures adopted to Water consumption is not currently deemed to be a material improve the efﬁciency of their use consideration for everis, based on the scale of our impact on these areas and the relative importance that interested parties place on other Another measure included in the environmental policy and part of the Furthermore, everis has an operational control process for recycling issues. Nevertheless, this issue is regularly reviewed and we expect EMS is to raise awareness among all employees about the need to get the waste generated in our offices, included in the scope of the EMS. to be able to report this information in the future. involved in habitually using water, paper and energy in a rational way, as well as best practices for minimising the use of natural resources that Waste is identified and subsequently stored, separated into containers can be extended to all of our daily lives. to be reused, recycled or processed. The separation of this waste is based on the criteria established under current legislation. Toward this end, a mandatory course has been developed for all employees, using the format of the 'Trivia' game, with the following The recycling control process is subject to a system that defines different objectives: levels of responsibility in order to ensure effective management. This system comprises: Be aware of the environmental impact of the daily activities carried on in the office. An environmental manager Grasp the importance of contributing to improving everis' An environmental office manager environmental performance, adopting good practices that help prevent harm to our surroundings and protect the environment. Professionals Identify a set of actions aimed at modifying habits, with the goal everis has specific measures to promote the sustainable use of raw of using energy efficiently, making rational use of resources and materials. For example, internally encouraging people not to print on reusing materials. paper, and using campaigns and posters that encourage employees not to use plastic cups or lids. Know the environmental principles laid down in the ISO14001 and ISO 50001 standards and how everis acts to comply with them. Indicator 11 in Annex 3 shows the figures relating to the consumption of raw materials. 92 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment | 7.5. Circular economy Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy consumption and the use of renewable energy. Since 2016, the Company has implemented and certified an Energy The main objective of the standard is to maintain and improve an energy management system in an Management System (EMS) in accordance with the ISO 50001 standard organisation that seeks to enable continuous improvement in energy efficiency, energy security, energy at its offices in Madrid (Novus building) and continues working to use and energy consumption through a systematic approach. This standard helps the organisation to incorporate new offices in the Group into the project which already continuously improve its efficiency, energy-related costs and greenhouse gas emissions. have energy audits. Speciﬁc energy-saving measures proposed everis Spain S.L.U by everis for electricity consumption: Camino de la Fuente de la Mora nº 1 Planta 1, 28050, Madrid. Gradually introduce electricity supply contracts from renewable energy Work continued on managing awareness of the need for efficient sources. As the current contracts with the distributors expire, the energy use, as well as on improving employee awareness of the everis Ingeniería S.L.U contracting of renewable energies will be studied. existence of an EMS and encouraging their active involvement. Camino de la Fuente de la Mora nº 1 50001 Planta 4, 28050, Madrid. Installation of solar panels to heat sanitary water in the Novus building. Toward this end, during the year a Guide to Good Practices in office energy use has been prepared and made available to employees in common zones. In addition, there is a specific, voluntary course on Include sustainable purchasing criteria when selecting a supplier and energy efficiency for persons interested in broadening their training In implementing this EMS, everis acquires the following commitments: type of electrical power. Thus, in addition to other criteria, the supplier in this area. certification questionnaire will now favour companies that offer Promote efficient management of energy use equipment with an energy rating of B or better. As an objective for FY20, all employees in the organisation will be required to take a course with a Trivia-game format on proper Foster energy savings Implementation of best practices related to the control of electricity environmental and energy management in everis offices. bills in order to accurately understand the data and trends in the Optimise resources Company’s energy consumption, which can help to make beneficial Broaden the scope of the EMS to the entire Novus building for FY20. decisions in relation to everis’ energy consumption. Each quarter Reduce GHG emissions energy performance evaluation reports are sent to the Spain offices Enhance the energy management capacities of the organisation's with an assessment of monthly energy consumption at each site. employees by setting up and conducting training initiatives. During Ensure compliance with energy legislation the year eight employees received this training and further training The role of energy manager has been established in everis and of the energy management team regarding the main changes in ISO Foster use of renewable and alternative energies continues being strengthened. The energy manager’s role is to guide 50001 is foreseen for FY20. the Company in various energy-related processes. In other words, to guide everis through the procedures to be carried out, so that it Optimise lighting hours and the presence control times based on everis’ Carbon Footprint Reduction Plan includes a series of reduction always obtains the best conditions and services. Furthermore, this a detailed study of the presence of personnel in our offices and on commitments in the field of energy efficiency. The global measure generates financial and energy savings for the Company; it takes into projects in progress, in such way as to balance comfort, security and proposed by everis to reduce the carbon footprint in the area of account current legislation; and it uses a tool developed by everis to economy. In the Novus building in Madrid, presence detectors have electricity consumption relates to the widening the scope for the monitor quarterly consumption, thereby reducing the total amount of been installed in the common areas, along with lighting-regulation aforementioned ISO 50001 standard on Energy Management Systems energy consumed. sensors. This measure will be implemented in everis' other sites in to cover more of the Group’s work centres. the near term. 93 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment | 7.5. Circular economy Energy efﬁciency criteria taken into account in Lighting the spatial design of the NOVUS building: Areas with automated lighting control (meeting rooms, warehouses, etc.) should have lights turned off when not in use. Installation of regulated LED lighting Label switches clearly to avoid people turning lights off/on mistakenly Organisation of independent rooms to optimise use of natural lighting and putting out the lights in occupied areas. Installation of window shades to boost thermal insulation Use natural lighting as much as possible. and avoid glare Measures proposed by everis to save Adaptation of the electrical installation to allow installation Air conditioning energy related to air conditioning: of individual meters per floor and quadrant In rooms where users can control the air conditioning manually, Installation of solar panels for ACS temperatures should be modified gradually and extreme temperatures Savings of 2% of energy consumption are targeted for FY20 for the avoided. Shut off the system when the room is no longer being used. NOVUS building in Madrid, by applying the following measures: Furthermore, energy audits are planned for the coming years that will Avoid air drafts and close doors and windows properly, to avoid losses Reducing air-conditioning temperature setpoints examine 85% of energy consumption in everis' buildings in Spain at the in the air conditioning system and reduce energy consumption. sites shown on the accompanying map. Modifying air-conditioning hours Use the appropriate for the season and weather. Revising and updating EMS-EMP-11 Operational Control procedures Office equipment Monitoring and measuring indicators Turn off the computer screen for short work pauses (10 minutes or 3 Valladolid more) and the computer when it will not be in use for several hours. 32 Barcelona 3 Salamanca High-efficiency filters have been installed in the rooftop air conditioning Adjust the screen to medium brightness. units of the NOVUS building. 2 Madrid Use images with dark backgrounds for screen wallpaper. Centralised air-conditioning control software has been set up in Novus. This measure will be extended to the rest of the sites in the near term. 3 Ciudad Real The colour black is the screensaver that consumes the least. 4 Alicante Activate monitor turn-off for 10 minutes of inactivity. Temperatures at Novus are managed by zones by the maintenance 3 Sevilla 3 Murcia team. Combine print jobs and do them together as much as possible. Make sure that the equipment is turned off properly at the end of the workday. Pursuant to its commitment to combat climate change, promote energy Unplug laptop computers and work with the batter whenever possible. efficiency and raise employee awareness, everis has a guide to good practices for the three fundamental types of energy use that influence energy consumption in its offices: Indicator 11 of Annex 3 shows the figures relating to energy. 94 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment 7.6 Atmospheric pollution, including noise and light Noise and light pollution are not currently deemed to be a material consideration for everis, based on the scale of its impact on these areas and the relative importance that interested parties place on such issues. Therefore, apart from the information given below, data collection on these impacts has not been systematised. Nevertheless, as previously mentioned, everis has implemented and has held a Building Sustainability Certificate since 2016 based on the BREEAM Commercial and BREEAM In-Use methodologies. This sustainability certification, which has already been implemented at the Manoteras 52 headquarters (BREEAM Commercial) and the NOVUS building located at Fuente de la Mora 1 (BREEAM In-Use), ensure significantly better quality levels for air, lighting and noise compared to Spanish law, for example. The inclusion of everis buildings in this classification promotes: Concentration of outdoor lighting in the appropriate areas . Minimise any up-lighting that is not strictly necessary to reduce light pollution, energy consumption and nuisance for neighbouring properties. Another objective is to reduce the possibility that noise from the installations of new buildings affect neighbouring buildings that may be noise-sensitive. 95 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 7. Environment 7.7 Biodiversity This is not a material issue for the Company. The everis Group does not have land that is home to habitats of interest or that is subject to any degree of protection or conservation requirement due to the existence of endangered species. No impacts on biodiversity resulting from operational facilities that are owned, leased, managed, adjoining or derived from the Company’s activities or products were recorded in FY19. None of the subsections (304-1) of the GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY standard therefore apply to the activities of the everis Group. 96 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annexes Annex 1. Materiality analysis Annex 2. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Annex 4. Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators Annex 5. MITECO Carbon Footprint Registry for everis FY19 Annex 6. Independent Veriﬁcation Report 97 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 1 Materiality analysis 98 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 1. Materiality analysis Materiality analysis The report has been prepared using the results of the materiality Phase 1 analysis performed in 2019. The materiality analysis comprised the following phases to identify these matters: Identify stakeholders Phase 1: Identify stakeholders Phase 2 The following stakeholders were identified from this analysis: Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Employees Identification of Validation Weighting relevant issues through surveys through surveys Board of Directors, senior management and investors NTT DATA and NTT Partners (alliances) Customers and Suppliers Phase 3 Compiling conclusions for the materiality analysis Government agencies Academic institutions (universities) and Talent without experience) Trade and sector associations Trade unions Society (local community, entrepreneurs, sources of talent with experience, including from other companies, etc). Not-for-profit associations, NGOs and Foundation. 99 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 1. Materiality analysis Fase 2: Relevant issues Once the stakeholders were defined, the priority issues for everis and the different groups were identified, validated and weighted following these steps: Identification of the most relevant issues that affect the Validation of these material issues: Once identified, the Company’s Weighting and identification of material issues: Finally, those technological consulting sector: Based on the study of the best leaders from the areas of people management, business, purchase responsible for these areas were asked to weigh these issues to practices of companies in the sector and on the global context, some department and customer relations were asked to validate these determine their importance in accordance with the Company’s aspects were identified that could have positive or negative impacts aspects considered of special relevance and determine their mission and strategy, and with stakeholders’ knowledge. for stakeholders, and for the Company, in carrying out its activity, from importance for everis, the impact that the Company’s activity has an economic, social, environmental or good governance point of view. on each one and the stakeholders that are affected by each one. Thirteen surveys were conducted of everis personnel in July 2019. The results obtained are shown below: Employment Economic Good governance Social Environmental Not Very Not Very Not Very Not Very Not Very important important important important important important important important important important 1 3,92 11 16 3,73 24 28 3,96 3,77 3,00 2 3,86 17 3,56 3 3,68 12 25 29 3,69 18 3,43 3,13 2,92 4 3,58 5 3,31 19 3,38 13 3,65 26 2,89 30 2,81 6 3,31 20 3,31 7 3,31 21 14 3,27 27 8 3,23 3,58 2,88 9 3,15 22 3,19 10 2,62 15 3,48 23 3,08 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 1,0 1,5 2,0 2,5 3,0 3,5 4,0 1. Equality 11. Job creation 16. Information transparency 24. Customer satisfaction 28. Environmental policy 2. Talent management. Training plan. 12. Economic sustainability 17. Regulatory compliance. 25. Suppliers (local). Procurement Policy Environmental certifications Career development. 13. Remuneration policy Prevention of corruption and bribery. Payments. 29. Prevention, recycling and reuse measures 3. Organisation of work. Work-life 14. Fiscal responsibility Code of ethics. 26. Volunteering and entrepreneurship. Sustainable resource consumption balance measures. Parental leave. 15. Innovation, R&D&i 18. Information security and data protection Social initiatives. Sponsorship, 30. Climate change strategy 4. Prevention of harassment 19. Reputation and image collaborations and social activities. Carbon footprint 5. Health and safety 20. Whistleblowing channels 27. Knowledge transfer Contamination prevention measures 6. Collective Bargaining Agreement 21. Crisis management 7. Compensation and social benefits 22. Risk management 8. Accessibility and disability 23. Engagement with stakeholders 9. Social dialogue 10. Welfare 100 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 1. Materiality analysis Fase 3: Compiling conclusions The analysis of surveys as regards the relative importance of the different spheres developed the following classification. Based on the matrix developed in this way, shown below are the 16 material issues of each area with the average score obtained for their relative importance. 1. Employment 2. Economic 3. Good governance 4. Social 5. Environmental 1. Equality 3.92 11. Job creation 3.96 16. Reporting transparency 3.73 24. Customer satisfaction 3.77 28. Environmental policy. Environmental certificates. 3.00 2. Talent management. 12. Economic sustainability 3.69 17. Regulatory compliance 25. Suppliers (local). Training plan. Corruption and bribery Purchasing policy. Career development. 3.86 13. Pay policy 3.65 prevention. Payments. 3.13 29. Waste prevention, recycling Code of ethics. 3.56 and reuse measures. 3. Organisation of work. 26. Volunteer and Sustainable use of resources. 2.92 Work-life balance measures. 18. Information security entrepreneurship programmes. Parental leave. 3.68 and data protection 3.43 Social initiatives. 30. Climate change strategy. Sponsorships, partnerships Carbon footprint. 19. Reputation and image 3.38 and social activities. 2.89 Pollution prevention measures. 2.81 101 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 1. Materiality analysis The most notable material aspects according to type of stakeholder they have an impact on are: Direct/indirect Identification of material issues Sphere Stakeholders affected impact Information transparency Good governance Employees, board, customers, gov. agencies. Direct Regulatory compliance. Prevention of Good governance All Direct corruption and bribery. Code of ethics. Information security and data protection Good governance Employees, board, customers, shareholders. Direct Reputation and image Good governance Employees, board, customers. Direct Job creation Economic Employees, board, customers, society. Direct Economic sustainability Economic Employees, board, customers, shareholders. Direct Remuneration policy Economic Employees, board, shareholders. Direct Equality Employment Employees, society, gov. agencies. Direct Talent management. Training plan. Employment Employees, all in general Direct Career development. Organisation of work. Work-life balance measures. Employment Employees, unions. Direct Parental leave. Customer satisfaction Social Board, customers, shareholders, gov. agencies, Direct suppliers. Suppliers (local). Procurement Policy Social Board, customers, shareholders, suppliers. Direct Payments to suppliers. Volunteering and entrepreneurship. Social Employees, society, NGOs. Direct Social initiatives. Sponsorship, collaboration and social activities. Environmental policy. Environmental certifications. Environmental Employees, board, customers, society. Direct Prevention, recycling and reuse measures. Environmental Employees, board, society, gov. agencies. Direct Sustainable resource consumption. Climate change strategy. Carbon footprint. Environmental Society, gov. agencies. Direct Contamination prevention measures. 102 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 2 Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 103 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 2. Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) There is growing social interest in knowing the extent to which the private sector contributes toward Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These are 17 objectives established by the United Nations in 2015 to achieve a sustainable planet from an environmental, social and economic point of view. Together with them, 169 goals that countries should achieve by 2030 were specified. The United Nations called for action from the private sector to work with the governments of the different countries to achieve these objectives. Everis has conducted an exercise to determine the SDGs with which the Company contributes in the different economic, social and environmental areas. In this connection, the following table also shows the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) indicators that allow everis to measure its level of impact. These indicators have been appropriately standardised at the international level. 104 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 2. Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Material issues GRI indicator Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) How everis contributes with this SDG Training plan and 404-1, 404-2 SDG 4 Investment in the development of staff and other groups (school career development Guarantee inclusive and equitable, quality communities, university students, etc.), to ensure their continuous education and promote lifelong learning professional training and their current and future employability in opportunities. STEM skills. Equality 103-2 SDG 5 The equality plan with specific measures and objectives is aimed at Equality and Diversity Plan. ending any type of discrimination against women. The Company’s diversity criteria are also taken into account so that the different professional profiles and diversity in selection are reflected in the Company’s actions. It is aimed at ensuring equal access to jobs for everyone, irrespective of their age, gender, level of disability, race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, etc. Job creation 102-8 SDG 8 In this financial year, everis increased its workforce from 25,119 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable employees in 2018 to 27,291, with 9,522 new hires during the year. economic growth, full and productive This pledge to create jobs boosts economic growth in the communities Economic sustainability 102-35, 102-36 employment and decent work. in which the Company operates. Developing projects aimed at improving and professionalising the Remuneration policy 201-1 service sector by providing professional services in in government bodies and undertaking pro-bono projects that contribute to increasing the impact of the activity. Volunteering and 102-13 SDG 10 Promoting corporate volunteering and support for entrepreneurship. entrepreneurship Reduce inequality in and This contributes to creating decent jobs and entrepreneurship, between countries. creativity and innovation and promoting the creation of micro-companies. SDG 17 Forging of alliances with various organisations. Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. 105 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 2. Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Material issues GRI indicator Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) How everis contributes with this SDG Work-life balance SDG 10 measures and teleworking Reduce inequality in and between countries. Environmental policies ISO9001 SDG 13 everis is committed to preserving the environment through an and certifications ISO14001 Adopt measures to combat environmental policy that serves as a frame of reference to minimise, ISO50001 climate change and its effects. reverse or eliminate any possible damage to nature. BREEAM Climate change. 305-3 SDG 13 In order to test our environmental commitment to our surroundings Carbon footprint. 305-5 Adopt measures to combat with data and facts, the everis carbon footprint (CF) is calculated H.C. climate change and its effects. each year. Customer satisfaction 102-43 Suppliers 103-3, 102-9, 308-1, 308-2, 407-1, 409-1, 414-2 Information transparency Regulatory compliance. 102-16, 103-2 Prevention of corruption and bribery. Information security 102-15 and data protection Reputation and image. 102-15, 102-16 Risk control. 106 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3 Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators 107 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 1 Belgium Distribution of Category Age group Female Male Total workforce by country Director 41-50 1 3 4 Total Director 1 3 4 Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, age, country Manager 31-40 2 2 4 and professional category. 41-50 2 9 11 51-60 0 2 2 Total Manager 4 13 17 Andorra Leader 21-30 2 1 3 31-40 7 9 16 Category Age group Female Male Total 41-50 1 5 6 Manager 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 0 2 2 Total Manager 0 1 1 +60 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 1 1 2 Total Leader 10 18 28 41-50 1 0 1 Staff 21-30 13 14 27 Total Leader 2 1 3 31-40 21 22 43 Staff 21-30 0 4 4 41-50 5 16 21 31-40 0 4 4 51-60 1 5 6 41-50 1 1 2 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 1 9 10 Total Staff 40 59 99 Total Andorra 3 11 14 Total Belgium 55 93 148 108 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Spain Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 31-40 3 8 11 Leader 21-30 62 155 217 41-50 11 98 109 31-40 491 1.255 1.746 51-60 5 43 48 41-50 307 634 941 +60 0 1 1 51-60 39 93 132 Total Partner 19 150 169 +60 3 3 6 Total Leader 902 2.140 3.042 Executive Director 41-50 5 29 34 51-60 2 12 14 Staff -20 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 7 41 48 21-30 1.180 4.076 5.253 31-40 1.093 2.463 3.552 Director 31-40 5 53 58 41-50 451 816 1.265 41-50 36 143 179 51-60 86 165 251 51-60 4 27 31 +60 7 15 22 +60 0 4 4 Total Staff 2.808 7.536 10.344 Total Director 45 227 272 Manager 21-30 1 2 3 Total Spain 3.939 10.544 14.483 31-40 62 231 293 41-50 83 181 264 51-60 11 33 44 +60 1 3 4 Total Manager 158 450 608 109 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country France Netherlands Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 51-60 1 0 1 Director 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 1 0 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Leader 21-30 0 1 1 Manager 41-50 0 2 2 31-40 1 2 3 51-60 0 3 3 41-50 0 1 1 Total Manager 0 5 5 51-60 0 2 2 Leader 21-30 0 2 2 Total Leader 1 6 7 31-40 0 2 2 Staff 21-30 0 3 3 41-50 4 2 6 31-40 0 5 5 51-60 0 2 2 41-50 0 2 2 Total Leader 4 8 12 Total Staff 0 10 10 Staff 21-30 4 5 9 31-40 3 6 9 Total France 2 16 18 41-50 0 2 2 Switzerland Total Staff 7 13 20 Total Netherlands 11 27 38 Category Age group Female Male Total Executive Director 51-60 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 0 1 1 Total Leader 0 1 1 Staff 31-40 0 3 3 Total Staff 0 3 3 Total Switzerland 0 5 5 110 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Luxembourg Italy Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Executive Director 50-60 0 1 1 Partner 41-50 0 3 3 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 3 3 Director 31-40 0 1 1 Executive Director 51-60 1 0 1 41-50 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 1 0 1 Total Director 0 2 2 Director 31-40 1 7 8 Leader 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 2 7 9 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 0 5 5 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 3 19 22 Total Leader 0 3 3 Manager 31-40 0 18 18 Staff 21-30 1 7 8 41-50 4 15 19 31-40 3 20 23 51-60 0 1 1 41-50 2 18 20 Total Manager 4 34 38 51-60 0 5 5 Leader 21-30 5 23 28 +60 0 2 2 31-40 44 119 163 Total Staff 6 52 58 41-50 15 50 65 51-60 2 8 10 Total Luxembourg 6 58 64 Total Leader 66 200 266 Staff 21-30 103 227 330 31-40 69 118 187 41-50 9 17 26 51-60 3 4 7 Total Staff 184 366 550 Total Italy 258 622 880 111 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Portugal UK Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 1 6 7 Partner 41-50 0 6 6 +60 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 6 6 Total Partner 1 7 8 Director 31-40 0 3 3 Director 31-40 0 5 5 41-50 1 13 14 41-50 3 9 12 51-60 1 0 1 51-60 1 1 2 Total Director 2 16 18 Total Director 4 15 19 Manager 31-40 2 14 16 Manager 31-40 7 16 23 41-50 0 5 5 41-50 4 8 12 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 2 20 22 Total Manager 11 25 36 Leader 21-30 6 9 15 Leader 21-30 19 16 35 31-40 21 44 65 31-40 40 98 138 41-50 8 24 32 41-50 14 35 49 51-60 0 8 8 51-60 3 4 7 +60 1 3 4 Total Leader 76 153 229 Total Leader 36 88 124 Staff -20 0 1 1 Staff 21-30 22 39 61 21-30 192 252 444 31-40 20 34 54 31-40 57 128 185 41-50 9 16 25 41-50 17 23 40 51-60 4 10 14 51-60 2 3 5 +60 1 2 3 Total Staff 268 407 675 Total Staff 56 101 157 Total Portugal 360 607 967 Total UK 96 231 327 112 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Argentina Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 1 1 2 Staff -20 0 1 1 51-60 0 2 2 21-30 39 138 177 Total Partner 1 3 4 31-40 44 97 141 41-50 16 24 40 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 2 4 6 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 +60 0 3 3 Director 31-40 0 2 2 Total Staff 101 267 368 41-50 2 4 6 Total Director 2 6 8 Total Argentina 144 357 501 Manager 31-40 0 7 7 41-50 5 7 12 51-60 1 3 4 Total Manager 6 17 23 Leader 21-30 4 3 7 31-40 21 34 55 41-50 9 19 28 51-60 0 5 5 +60 0 2 2 Total Leader 34 63 97 113 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Brazil Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 31-40 0 1 1 Staff -20 5 3 8 41-50 0 5 5 21-30 253 823 1.076 Total Partner 0 6 6 31-40 206 535 741 41-50 74 164 238 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 20 49 69 51-60 1 1 2 +60 6 18 24 Total Executive Director 1 2 3 Total Staff 564 1.592 2.156 Director 31-40 1 12 13 41-50 2 15 17 Total Brazil 680 1.845 2.525 51-60 4 5 9 Total Director 7 32 39 Manager 21-30 0 2 2 31-40 12 34 46 41-50 11 17 28 51-60 3 4 7 Total Manager 26 57 83 Leader 21-30 8 13 21 31-40 32 90 122 41-50 30 37 67 51-60 10 14 24 +60 2 2 4 Total Leader 82 156 238 114 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Chile Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 0 3 3 Staff 21-30 127 480 607 51-60 1 1 2 31-40 116 429 545 Total Partner 1 4 5 41-50 41 94 135 51-60 8 29 37 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 +60 3 10 13 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Total Staff 295 1.042 1.337 Director 31-40 1 5 6 41-50 2 16 18 Total Chile 388 1.343 1.731 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 3 22 25 Manager 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 7 10 17 41-50 8 17 25 51-60 0 2 2 Total Manager 15 30 45 Leader 21-30 5 13 18 31-40 42 143 185 41-50 22 71 93 51-60 5 14 19 +60 0 3 3 Total Leader 74 244 318 115 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Colombia Mexico Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 31-40 0 2 2 Partner 41-50 1 2 3 Total Partner 0 2 2 Total Partner 1 2 3 Director 31-40 0 6 6 Director 31-40 0 6 6 41-50 1 4 5 41-50 4 13 17 51-60 1 1 2 51-60 0 2 2 Total Director 2 11 13 Total Director 4 21 25 Manager 21-30 0 1 1 Manager 31-40 12 19 31 31-40 3 16 19 41-50 2 4 6 41-50 6 5 11 51-60 0 2 2 51-60 1 0 1 Total Manager 14 25 39 Total Manager 10 22 32 Leader 21-30 11 30 41 Leader 21-30 6 6 12 31-40 50 103 153 31-40 40 54 94 41-50 17 38 55 41-50 10 24 34 51-60 2 6 8 51-60 1 7 8 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 57 91 148 Total Leader 80 178 258 Staff -20 0 2 2 Staff 21-30 114 233 347 21-30 172 235 407 31-40 73 72 145 31-40 113 196 309 41-50 12 15 27 41-50 22 34 56 51-60 4 9 13 51-60 4 8 12 +60 0 1 1 Total Staff 311 475 786 Total Staff 203 330 533 Total Colombia 380 601 981 Total Mexico 302 556 858 116 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country Peru Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 51-60 0 1 1 Staff -20 1 0 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 21-30 505 1.277 1.782 31-40 278 809 1.087 Director 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 45 150 195 41-50 1 4 5 51-60 4 19 23 51-60 2 6 8 +60 0 7 7 Total Director 4 13 17 Total Staff 833 2.262 3.095 Manager 31-40 6 20 26 41-50 6 20 26 Total Peru 945 2.525 3.470 51-60 0 5 5 +60 0 1 1 Total Manager 12 46 58 Leader 21-30 6 13 19 31-40 61 122 183 41-50 27 62 89 51-60 2 5 7 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 96 203 299 117 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 1. Distribution of workforce by country USA Morocco Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 1 1 2 Director 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Total Partner 1 2 3 Leader 31-40 0 4 4 Director 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 1 3 4 41-50 0 2 2 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Leader 1 8 9 Total Director 0 4 4 Staff 21-30 50 36 86 Manager 31-40 0 2 2 31-40 11 28 39 41-50 1 2 3 41-50 1 3 4 51-60 0 1 1 Total Staff 62 67 129 Total Manager 1 5 6 Total Morocco 63 76 139 Leader 21-30 0 2 2 31-40 1 11 12 41-50 2 8 10 Overall total +60 0 1 1 Female Male Total Total Leader 3 22 25 Overall total 7.666 19.625 27.291 Staff 21-30 10 20 30 31-40 10 28 38 41-50 6 15 21 51-60 3 10 13 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 29 75 104 Total USA 34 108 142 118 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 2 Belgium Type of contract by Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total gender, age and Permanent Director 41-50 1 3 4 professional category Total Director 1 3 4 Manager 31-40 2 2 4 41-50 2 9 11 Total number and distribution by type of contract; annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts and part-time contracts 51-60 0 2 2 by gender, age and professional category. Total Manager 4 13 17 Leader 21-30 2 1 3 31-40 7 9 16 Andorra 41-50 1 5 6 51-60 0 2 2 Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total +60 0 1 1 Permanent Manager 41-50 0 1 1 Total Leader 10 18 28 Total Manager 0 1 1 Staff 21-30 12 14 26 Leader 31-40 1 1 2 31-40 21 22 43 41-50 1 0 1 41-50 5 16 21 Total Leader 2 1 3 51-60 1 5 6 Staff 21-30 0 4 4 +60 0 2 2 31-40 0 4 4 Total Staff 39 59 98 41-50 1 1 2 Total Permanent 54 93 147 Total Staff 1 9 10 Temporary Staff 21-30 1 0 1 Total Permanent 3 11 14 Total Staff 1 0 1 Total Andorra 3 11 14 Total Temporary 1 0 1 Total Belgium 55 93 148 119 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Spain Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 31-40 3 8 11 Permanent Staff -20 0 1 1 41-50 11 98 109 21-30 1.056 3.186 4.242 51-60 5 42 47 31-40 1.057 2.340 3.397 +60 0 1 1 41-50 434 794 1.228 Total Partner 19 149 168 51-60 83 161 244 +60 4 13 17 Executive Director 41-50 5 30 35 Total Staff 2.634 6.495 9.129 51-60 2 12 14 Total Executive Director 7 41 49 Total Permanent 3.762 9.501 13.263 Director 31-40 5 53 58 Part-time Partner 51-60 0 1 1 41-50 36 143 179 Total Partner 0 1 1 51-60 4 27 31 Leader 41-50 1 2 3 +60 0 4 4 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 45 227 272 +60 1 0 1 Manager 21-30 1 2 3 Total Leader 2 3 5 31-40 62 231 293 Staff 21-30 18 68 86 41-50 83 181 264 31-40 10 8 18 51-60 11 33 44 41-50 17 4 21 +60 1 3 4 51-60 4 2 6 Total Manager 158 450 608 +60 3 1 4 Leader 21-30 62 155 217 Total Staff 52 83 135 31-40 491 1.255 1.746 Total Part-time 54 87 141 41-50 305 633 938 51-60 39 92 131 +60 2 3 5 Total Leader 899 2.138 3.037 120 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Spain France Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Temporary Staff 21-30 103 821 924 Permanent Director 51-60 1 0 1 31-40 19 115 134 Total Director 1 0 1 41-50 1 17 18 Leader 21-30 0 1 1 51-60 0 2 2 31-40 1 2 3 +60 0 1 1 41-50 0 1 1 Total Staff 123 956 1.079 51-60 0 2 2 Total Temporary 123 956 1.079 Total Leader 1 6 7 Total Spain 3.939 10.544 14.483 Staff 21-30 0 3 3 31-40 0 5 5 41-50 0 2 2 Total Staff 0 10 10 Total Permanent 2 16 18 Total France 2 16 18 121 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Netherlands Luxembourg Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Director 51-60 0 1 1 Permanent Executive Director 50-60 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Manager 41-50 0 2 2 Director 31-40 0 1 1 51-60 0 3 3 41-50 0 1 1 Total Manager 0 5 5 Total Director 0 2 2 Leader 21-30 0 2 2 Leader 31-40 0 1 1 31-40 0 2 2 41-50 0 1 1 41-50 4 2 6 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 0 2 2 Total Leader 0 3 3 Total Leader 4 8 12 Staff 21-30 1 7 8 Staff 21-30 4 5 9 31-40 3 20 23 31-40 3 6 9 41-50 2 18 20 41-50 0 2 2 51-60 0 5 5 Total Staff 7 13 20 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 6 52 58 Total Permanent 11 27 38 Total Permanent 6 58 64 Total Netherlands 11 27 38 Total Luxembourg 6 58 64 122 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Switzerland UK Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Executive Director 51-60 0 1 1 Permanent Partner 41-50 0 6 6 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 6 6 Leader 31-40 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 3 3 Total Leader 0 1 1 41-50 1 13 14 51-60 1 0 1 Staff 31-40 0 3 3 Total Director 2 16 18 Total Staff 0 3 3 Manager 31-40 2 14 16 Total Permanent 0 5 5 41-50 0 5 5 Total Switzerland 0 5 5 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 2 20 22 Leader 21-30 6 9 15 31-40 21 44 65 41-50 8 24 32 51-60 0 8 8 +60 1 3 4 Total Leader 36 88 124 Staff 21-30 22 39 61 31-40 20 34 54 41-50 9 16 25 51-60 4 10 14 +60 1 2 3 Total Staff 56 101 157 Total Permanent 96 231 327 Total UK 96 231 327 123 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Italy Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 41-50 0 3 3 Temporary Staff 31-40 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 3 3 Total Staff 0 1 1 Executive Director 51-60 1 0 1 Total Temporary 0 1 1 Total Executive Director 1 0 1 Total Italy 258 622 880 Director 31-40 1 7 8 41-50 2 7 9 51-60 0 5 5 Total Director 3 19 22 Manager 31-40 0 18 18 41-50 4 15 19 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 4 34 38 Leader 21-30 5 23 28 31-40 44 119 163 41-50 15 50 65 51-60 2 8 10 Total Leader 66 200 266 Staff 21-30 103 227 330 31-40 69 117 187 41-50 9 17 26 51-60 3 4 7 Total Staff 184 365 549 Total Permanent 258 621 879 124 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Portugal Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 41-50 1 6 7 Part-time Leader 41-50 1 0 1 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 1 0 1 Total Partner 1 7 8 Total Part-time 1 0 1 Director 31-40 0 5 5 Total Portugal 360 607 967 41-50 3 9 12 51-60 1 1 2 Total Director 4 15 19 Manager 31-40 7 16 23 41-50 4 8 12 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 11 25 36 Leader 21-30 19 16 35 31-40 40 98 138 41-50 13 35 48 51-60 3 4 7 Total Leader 75 153 228 Staff -20 0 1 1 21-30 192 252 444 31-40 57 128 185 41-50 17 23 40 51-60 2 3 5 Total Staff 268 407 675 Total Permanent 359 607 966 125 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Argentina Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 41-50 1 1 2 Permanent Staff -20 0 1 1 51-60 0 2 2 21-30 39 138 177 Total Partner 1 3 4 31-40 44 97 141 41-50 16 24 40 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 2 4 6 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 +60 0 3 3 Director 31-40 0 2 2 Total Staff 101 267 368 41-50 2 4 6 Total Permanent 144 357 501 Total Director 2 6 8 Total Argentina 144 357 501 31-40 0 7 7 41-50 5 7 12 51-60 1 3 4 Total Manager 6 17 23 Leader 21-30 4 3 7 31-40 21 34 55 41-50 9 19 28 51-60 0 5 5 +60 0 2 2 Total Leader 34 63 97 126 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Brazil Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 31-40 0 1 1 Permanent Staff -20 5 3 8 41-50 0 5 5 21-30 250 818 1.068 Total Partner 0 6 6 31-40 206 534 740 41-50 74 164 238 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 20 49 69 51-60 1 1 2 +60 6 18 24 Total Executive Director 1 2 3 Total Staff 561 1.586 2.147 Director 31-40 1 12 13 Temporary Staff 21-30 3 5 8 41-50 2 15 17 31-40 0 1 1 51-60 4 5 9 Total Staff 3 6 9 Total Director 7 32 39 Total Temporary 3 6 9 Manager 21-30 0 2 2 31-40 12 34 46 Total Brazil 680 1.845 2.525 41-50 11 17 28 51-60 3 4 7 Total Manager 26 57 83 Leader 21-30 8 13 21 31-40 32 90 122 41-50 30 37 67 51-60 10 14 24 +60 2 2 4 Total Leader 82 156 238 127 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Chile Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 41-50 0 3 3 Permanent Staff 21-30 127 480 607 51-60 1 1 2 31-40 116 429 545 Total Partner 1 4 5 41-50 41 94 135 51-60 8 29 37 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 +60 3 10 13 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Total Staff 295 1.042 1.337 Director 31-40 1 5 6 Total Permanent 388 1.339 1.727 41-50 2 16 18 51-60 0 1 1 Temporary Manager 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 3 22 25 Total Manager 0 1 1 Manager 21-30 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 0 1 1 31-40 7 10 17 +60 0 2 2 41-50 8 17 25 Total Leader 0 3 3 51-60 0 1 1 Total Temporary 0 4 4 Total Manager 15 29 44 Total Chile 688 1.343 1.731 Leader 21-30 5 13 18 31-40 42 142 184 41-50 22 71 93 51-60 5 14 19 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 74 241 315 128 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Colombia Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 31-40 0 2 2 Temporary Staff 21-30 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 2 2 Total Staff 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 6 6 Total Temporary 0 1 1 41-50 1 4 5 Total Colombia 380 601 981 51-60 1 1 2 Total Director 2 11 13 Manager 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 3 16 19 41-50 6 5 11 51-60 1 0 1 Total Manager 10 22 32 Leader 21-30 6 6 12 31-40 40 54 94 41-50 10 24 34 51-60 1 7 8 Total Leader 57 91 148 Staff -20 0 2 2 21-30 172 234 406 31-40 113 196 309 41-50 22 34 56 51-60 4 8 12 Total Staff 311 474 785 Total Permanent 380 600 980 129 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Mexico Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 41-50 1 2 3 Temporary Director 31-40 0 1 1 Total Partner 1 2 3 41-50 0 1 1 Total Director 0 2 2 Director 31-40 0 5 5 41-50 4 12 16 Manager 31-40 1 2 3 51-60 0 2 2 41-50 1 1 2 Total Director 4 19 23 Total Manager 2 3 5 Manager 31-40 11 17 28 Leader 21-30 1 6 7 41-50 1 3 4 31-40 10 26 36 51-60 0 2 2 41-50 6 14 20 Total Manager 12 22 34 51-60 2 5 7 +60 0 1 1 Leader 21-30 10 24 34 Total Leader 19 51 71 31-40 40 77 117 41-50 11 24 35 Staff 21-30 55 92 147 51-60 0 1 1 31-40 33 34 67 Total Leader 61 126 187 41-50 10 6 16 51-60 1 6 7 Staff 21-30 59 141 200 +60 0 1 1 31-40 40 38 78 Total Staff 99 139 238 41-50 2 9 11 51-60 3 3 6 Total Temporary 120 196 316 Total Staff 104 191 295 Total Mexico 302 556 858 Total Permanent 182 360 542 130 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract Peru Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 51-60 0 1 1 Permanent Staff -20 1 0 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 21-30 501 1.275 1.776 31-40 278 807 1.085 Director 31-40 1 3 4 41-50 45 149 194 41-50 1 4 5 51-60 4 19 23 51-60 2 6 8 +60 0 7 7 Total Director 4 13 17 Total Staff 829 2.257 3.086 Manager 31-40 6 20 26 Total Permanent 941 2.520 3.461 41-50 6 20 26 51-60 0 5 5 Part-time Staff 21-30 4 2 6 +60 0 1 1 31-40 0 2 2 Total Manager 12 46 58 Total Staff 4 4 8 Leader 21-30 6 13 19 Total Part-time 4 4 8 31-40 61 122 183 Temporary Staff 41-50 0 1 1 41-50 27 62 89 Total Staff 0 1 1 51-60 2 5 7 Total Temporary 0 1 1 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 96 203 299 Total Peru 945 2.525 3.470 131 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 2. Type of contract USA Morocco Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Type of contract Category Age group Female Male Total Permanent Partner 41-50 1 1 2 Permenent Director 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Total Partner 1 2 3 Leader 31-40 0 4 4 Director 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 1 3 4 41-50 0 2 2 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Total Leader 1 8 9 Total Director 0 4 4 Staff 21-30 50 36 86 Manager 31-40 0 2 2 31-40 11 28 39 41-50 1 2 3 41-50 1 3 4 51-60 0 1 1 Total Staff 62 67 129 Total Manager 1 5 6 Total Permanent 63 76 139 Leader 21-30 0 2 2 Total Morocco 63 76 139 31-40 1 11 12 41-50 2 8 10 Overall total +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 3 22 25 Female Male Total Staff 21-30 10 20 30 Overall total 7.666 19.625 27.291 31-40 10 28 38 41-50 6 15 21 51-60 3 10 13 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 29 75 104 Total Permanent 34 108 142 Total USA 34 108 142 132 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 3 Belgium Number of hires Category Age group Female Male Total Director 41-50 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Total number and distribution of hires by gender, age, country and professional category. Manager 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 France Total Manager 0 3 3 Leader 21-30 0 1 1 Category Age group Female Male Total 31-40 2 3 5 Director 51-60 1 0 1 41-50 1 0 1 Total Director 1 0 1 +60 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 1 2 3 Total Leader 3 5 8 41-50 0 1 1 Staff 21-30 6 6 12 51-60 0 1 1 31-40 3 6 9 Total Leader 1 4 57 41-50 0 9 9 Staff 21-30 0 3 3 51-60 0 1 1 31-40 0 4 4 +60 0 1 1 41-50 0 1 1 Total Staff 9 23 32 Total Staff 0 8 8 Total Belgium 12 32 44 Total France 2 12 14 133 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 3. Number of hires Spain Netherlands Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 31-40 0 4 4 Manager 41-50 0 1 1 41-50 1 10 11 51-60 0 2 2 51-60 0 5 5 Total Manager 0 3 3 Total Director 1 19 20 Leader 21-30 1 1 2 Manager 21-30 0 2 2 31-40 0 1 1 31-40 3 16 19 41-50 1 0 1 41-50 5 17 22 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 0 9 9 Total Leader 2 3 5 Total Manager 8 44 52 Staff 21-30 2 0 2 Leader 21-30 8 19 27 31-40 1 3 4 31-40 40 106 146 41-50 0 2 2 41-50 34 90 124 Total Staff 3 5 8 51-60 6 15 21 Total Netherlands 5 11 16 Total Leader 88 230 318 Staff -20 0 1 1 21-30 482 1.749 2.231 31-40 277 607 884 Andorra 41-50 93 199 292 51-60 20 27 47 Category Age group Female Male Total +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 872 2.585 3.457 Total Andorra 0 0 0 Total Spain 969 2.878 3.847 134 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 3. Number of hires Luxembourg Italy Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 41-50 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 41-50 0 2 2 51-60 0 1 1 Staff 21-30 1 5 6 Total Director 0 4 4 31-40 0 6 6 51-60 0 3 3 Manager 31-40 0 2 2 +60 0 1 1 41-50 0 2 2 Total Staff 1 15 16 Total Manager 0 4 4 Leader 21-30 1 3 4 Total Luxembourg 1 16 17 31-40 4 19 23 41-50 1 10 11 51-60 0 2 2 Switzerland Total Leader 6 34 40 Staff 21-30 11 56 67 Category Age group Female Male Total 31-40 13 31 44 Leader 31-40 0 2 2 41-50 3 5 8 Total Leader 0 2 2 51-60 2 1 37 Staff 31-40 0 2 2 Total Staff 29 93 122 Total Staff 0 2 2 Total Italy 35 135 170 Total Switzerland 0 4 4 135 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 3. Number of hires Portugal UK Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 Director 41-50 0 2 2 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Total Director 0 2 2 Director 41-50 1 0 1 Leader 31-40 3 7 10 51-60 1 0 1 41-50 3 10 13 Total Director 2 0 2 51-60 1 4 5 +60 1 1 2 Manager 31-40 1 4 5 Total Leader 8 22 30 41-50 0 2 2 Total Manager 1 6 7 Staff 21-30 7 13 20 31-40 7 14 21 Leader 21-30 4 2 6 41-50 4 8 12 31-40 10 18 28 51-60 2 2 4 41-50 6 6 12 Total Staff 20 37 57 51-60 1 1 2 Total Leader 21 27 48 Total UK 28 61 89 Staff -20 0 1 1 21-30 87 109 196 31-40 24 52 76 41-50 9 12 21 51-60 1 1 2 Total Staff 121 175 296 Total Portugal 145 209 354 136 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 3. Number of hires Argentina Brazil Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 41-50 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 2 2 Total Director 0 1 1 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 1 0 1 Manager 31-40 0 1 7 Total Director 2 4 6 41-50 1 1 12 Total Manager 1 2 3 Manager 31-40 2 3 5 41-50 4 7 11 Leader 21-30 1 0 1 51-60 1 1 2 31-40 4 10 14 Total Manager 7 11 18 41-50 1 5 6 51-60 0 1 1 Leader 21-30 3 3 6 Total Leader 6 16 22 31-40 5 24 29 41-50 6 12 18 Staff -20 0 1 1 51-60 0 5 9 21-30 24 89 113 Total Leader 18 44 62 31-40 17 39 56 41-50 2 6 8 Staff -20 6 4 10 51-60 0 1 1 21-30 149 519 668 +60 0 1 1 31-40 82 319 401 Total Staff 43 137 180 41-50 31 90 121 51-60 8 29 37 Total Argentina 50 156 206 +60 1 17 18 Total Staff 277 978 1.255 Total Brazil 304 1.037 1.341 137 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 3. Number of hires Chile Colombia Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 41-50 1 5 6 Director 31-40 0 1 1 Total Director 1 5 6 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 0 2 2 Manager 31-40 2 2 4 41-50 1 3 4 Manager 31-40 1 3 4 Total Manager 3 5 8 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 0 1 1 Leader 21-30 1 4 5 Total Manager 1 5 6 31-40 5 31 36 41-50 4 11 15 Leader 21-30 2 1 3 51-60 1 6 7 31-40 6 12 18 Total Leader 11 52 63 41-50 2 11 13 51-60 0 2 2 Staff 21-30 52 271 323 Total Leader 10 26 36 31-40 44 164 208 41-50 10 32 42 Staff -20 0 2 2 51-60 2 12 14 21-30 99 136 235 +60 1 2 3 31-40 50 90 140 Total Staff 109 481 590 41-50 9 16 25 51-60 2 6 8 Total Chile 124 543 667 Total Staff 160 250 410 Total Colombia 171 283 454 138 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 3. Number of hires Mexico Peru Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 31-40 0 2 2 Director 31-40 1 0 1 41-50 1 2 3 41-50 0 1 1 Total Director 1 4 5 51-60 1 1 2 Total Director 2 2 4 Manager 31-40 3 3 6 51-60 1 1 2 Manager 31-40 3 5 8 Total Manager 4 4 8 41-50 1 2 3 51-60 0 1 1 Leader 21-30 4 9 13 Total Manager 4 8 12 31-40 11 34 45 41-50 5 16 21 Leader 21-30 2 3 5 51-60 0 4 4 31-40 13 27 40 +60 0 1 1 41-50 7 8 15 Total Leader 20 64 84 Total Leader 22 38 60 Staff 21-30 60 138 198 Staff -20 1 1 2 31-40 32 32 64 21-30 303 829 1.132 41-50 9 4 13 31-40 122 389 511 51-60 1 0 1 41-50 21 55 76 +60 0 1 1 51-60 2 4 6 Total Staff 102 175 277 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 449 1.280 1.729 Total Mexico 127 247 374 Total Peru 477 1.328 1.805 139 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 3. Number of hires USA Morocco Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Leader 31-40 1 11 12 Leader 31-40 0 4 4 41-50 2 8 10 51-60 0 1 1 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 1 8 9 Total Leader 3 22 25 Staff 21-30 50 36 86 Staff 21-30 10 20 30 31-40 11 28 39 31-40 10 28 38 41-50 1 3 4 41-50 6 15 21 Total Staff 62 67 129 51-60 3 10 13 Total Morocco 63 76 139 +60 0 2 2 Total Staff 29 75 104 Total USA 34 108 142 Overall total Female Male Total Overall total 2.487 7.035 9.522 140 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 4.1 Belgium Number of dismissals Category Age group Female Male Total Director 51-60 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Total number and distribution of dismissals by gender, age, country and professional category. Manager 51-60 0 1 1 +60 0 1 1 Total Manager 0 2 2 Leader 41-50 0 1 1 Total Leader 0 1 1 Andorra Staff 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 0 2 2 41-50 0 3 3 Category Age group Female Male Total Total Staff 0 6 6 Total Andorra 0 0 0 Total Belgium 0 10 10 141 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals Spain Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 0 4 4 Staff -20 0 1 1 51-60 1 6 7 21-30 26 95 121 Total Partner 1 10 11 31-40 30 79 109 41-50 24 38 62 Executive Director 41-50 0 1 1 51-60 6 16 22 Total Executive Director 0 1 1 Total Staff 86 229 315 Director 31-40 1 0 1 41-50 1 7 8 Total Spain 104 326 430 51-60 0 5 5 Total Director 2 12 14 Manager 31-40 0 5 5 41-50 1 5 6 +60 0 1 1 Total Manager 1 11 12 Leader 21-30 0 1 1 31-40 4 26 30 41-50 10 26 36 51-60 0 9 9 +60 0 1 1 Total Leader 14 63 77 142 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals France Luxembourg Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Staff 41-50 0 2 2 51-60 0 1 1 Total Luxembourg 0 0 0 Total Staff 0 3 3 Total France 0 3 3 Netherlands Switzerland Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Total Netherlands 0 0 0 Total Switzerland 0 0 0 Italy Category Age group Female Male Total Total Italy 0 0 0 143 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals Portugal UK Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 41-50 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Total Director 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 0 2 2 Leader 31-40 0 1 1 41-50 0 4 4 41-50 0 2 2 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 1 1 2 Total Leader 0 7 7 Total Leader 1 4 5 Staff 21-30 11 15 26 Staff 21-30 3 3 6 31-40 5 12 17 31-40 0 5 5 41-50 0 2 2 41-50 0 1 1 Total Staff 16 29 45 51-60 0 2 2 Total Staff 3 11 14 Total Portugal 16 37 53 Total UK 4 16 20 144 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals Argentina Brazil Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Manager 41-50 0 1 1 Director 51-60 0 2 2 Total Manager 0 1 1 Total Director 0 2 2 Leader 31-40 1 0 1 Manager 31-40 0 4 4 51-60 0 1 1 41-50 1 4 5 Total Leader 1 1 2 51-60 0 1 1 Total Manager 1 9 10 Staff 21-30 7 10 17 31-40 1 5 6 Leader 31-40 4 9 13 41-50 1 5 6 41-50 2 8 10 Total Staff 9 20 29 51-60 0 2 2 +60 0 1 1 Total Argentina 10 22 32 Total Leader 6 20 26 Staff -20 1 0 1 21-30 22 75 97 31-40 35 80 115 41-50 16 44 60 51-60 5 24 29 +60 3 10 13 Total Staff 82 233 315 Total Brazil 89 264 353 145 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals Chile Colombia Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 31-40 0 1 1 Director 41-50 0 1 1 41-50 0 3 3 Total Director 0 1 1 Total Director 0 4 4 Manager 31-40 0 3 3 Manager 31-40 0 2 2 41-50 1 0 1 41-50 0 5 5 51-60 1 1 2 Total Manager 0 7 7 Total Manager 2 4 6 Leader -20 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 6 6 12 21-30 0 2 2 41-50 2 6 8 31-40 2 5 7 51-60 0 3 3 41-50 1 7 8 Total Leader 8 15 23 51-60 0 3 3 Staff 21-30 96 53 149 Total Leader 3 18 21 31-40 58 27 85 Staff 21-30 6 33 39 41-50 19 6 25 31-40 6 38 44 51-60 1 5 6 41-50 6 10 16 +60 0 1 1 51-60 1 4 5 Total Staff 174 92 266 +60 0 5 5 Total Colombia 184 112 296 Total Staff 19 90 109 Total Chile 22 119 141 146 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals Mexico Peru Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner +60 0 1 1 Manager 31-40 0 1 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 41-50 1 3 4 51-60 0 1 1 Director 31-40 0 1 1 Total Manager 1 5 6 41-50 0 3 3 51-60 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 2 11 13 Total Director 0 5 5 41-50 1 4 5 51-60 0 1 1 Manager 31-40 0 1 1 Total Leader 3 16 19 Total Manager 0 1 1 Staff -20 0 1 1 Leader 21-30 0 1 1 21-30 28 68 96 31-40 4 4 8 31-40 16 40 56 41-50 1 0 1 41-50 2 13 15 51-60 0 1 1 51-60 1 2 3 Total Leader 5 6 11 +60 1 2 3 Staff 21-30 4 4 8 Total Staff 48 126 174 31-40 3 4 7 41-50 4 0 4 Total Peru 52 147 199 Total Staff 11 8 19 Total Mexico 16 21 37 147 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.1. Number of dismissals USA Morocco Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 0 1 1 Leader 31-40 1 0 1 Total Partner 0 1 1 Total Leader 1 0 1 Staff 21-30 0 2 2 Staff 21-30 3 1 4 31-40 0 1 1 31-40 1 1 2 Total Staff 0 3 3 41-50 0 1 1 Total Staff 4 3 7 Total USA 0 4 4 Total Morocco 5 3 8 Overall total Female Male Total Overall total 502 1.084 1.586 148 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 4.2 Country 18-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 Total Employee Spain 8,93 9,23 4,32 4,33 15,01 turnover rate 21,90 19,90 15,63 12,50 Europe Andorra 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 Employee turnover by age group and region. Belgium 0,00 35,29 21,54 20,51 3,88 24,74 0,00 0,00 17,57 France 0,00 0,00 0,00 24,49 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 6,15 Netherlands 0,00 10,53 16,44 33,33 27,27 24,00 0,00 0,00 16,94 Luxembourg 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 Italy 25,88 21,36 21,94 22,25 10,34 24,29 5,83 0,00 20,55 Portugal 20,20 19,46 17,02 12,72 11,11 14,74 22,93 52,17 17,16 UK 16,90 35,66 20,07 12,48 7,66 8,85 12,31 12,37 17,82 Switzerland 0,00 0,00 0,00 38,71 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 29,27 America Argentina 67,76 52,88 50,51 24,37 33,86 37,02 38,01 0,00 42,88 Brazil 37,51 38,47 37,57 25,45 23,83 15,50 25,31 7,70 32,04 Chile 16,19 30,58 31,86 24,69 19,89 18,15 10,53 9,20 26,06 Colombia 53,60 38,72 25,68 13,95 20,19 9,27 12,44 0,00 29,63 Mexico 22,11 19,25 21,71 20,13 14,77 21,43 7,79 8,76 19,74 Peru 35,37 27,22 25,11 18,86 13,18 13,58 6,58 12,97 24,99 USA 34,62 26,57 17,29 14,37 3,91 7,55 0,00 13,95 14,37 Africa Morocco 43,01 43,01 34,99 23,84 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 27,78 Global 28,55 23,53 22,03 15,98 12,20 12,00 8,96 6,34 20,22 149 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 4.2. Employee turnover rate Employee turnover by gender and region. Country Female Male Spain 12,96 15,77 Europe Andorra 0,00 0,00 Belgium 18,05 17,27 France 0,00 6,74 Netherlands 28,57 12,04 Luxembourg 0,00 0,00 Italy 15,93 22,27 Portugal 16,24 17,69 UK 20,82 16,59 Switzerland 0,00 29,27 America Argentina 44,33 42,26 Brazil 25,10 34,52 Chile 20,66 27,21 Colombia 25,11 32,96 Mexico 17,09 21,14 Peru 25,46 24,81 USA 18,14 13,26 Africa Morocco 17,39 36,07 General 17,95 21,09 150 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicador 5 Belgium Wage distribution Category Age group Female Male Total Director 41-50 146.694 135.691 138.442 Total Director 146.694 135.691 138.442 Average wage and change over time broken down by gender, age and 40.000 professional category or similar. (€) Manager 31-40 85.767 94.017 89.892 41-50 74.995 92.004 88.912 51-60 103.203 103.203 Total Manager 80.381 94.037 90.824 Andorra Leader 21-30 48.248 45.714 47.403 31-40 58.507 67.166 63.378 Category Age group Female Male Total 41-50 67.738 73.957 72.921 Manager 41-50 * * 51-60 73.768 73.768 Total Manager 57.430 57.430 +60 * * Leader 31-40 40.000 42.630 41.315 Total Leader 57.378 70.709 65.948 41-50 * * Staff 21-30 33.966 38.549 36.342 Total Leader 41.030 42.630 41.563 31-40 43.573 48.189 45.934 Staff 21-30 25.000 25.000 41-50 47.482 51.373 50.446 31-40 26.400 26.400 51-60 65.938 48.970 51.798 41-50 24.000 36.000 30.000 +60 49.955 49.955 Total Staff 24.000 26.844 26.560 Total Staff 41.498 46.891 44.712 Total Andorra 35.353 31.060 31.980 Total Belgium 49.126 60.956 56.560 151 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Spain Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 31-40 116.667 117.500 117.273 Leader 21-30 36.123 37.042 36.780 41-50 141.818 132.347 133.303 31-40 40.234 41.226 40.944 51-60 122.596 148.140 145.479 41-50 43.642 44.649 44.360 +60 * * 51-60 44.045 47.464 46.454 Total Partner 132.788 135.620 135.302 +60 44.202 56.653 50.428 Total Leader 41.323 42.233 41.966 Executive Director 41-50 96.500 95.703 95.820 51-60 96.500 97.208 97.107 Staff -20 * * Total Executive Director 96.500 96.144 96.196 21-30 22.402 21.037 21.355 31-40 24.127 25.496 25.102 Director 31-40 78.800 79.904 79.809 41-50 24.456 28.837 27.340 41-50 85.089 83.998 84.218 51-60 25.112 33.375 30.544 51-60 93.875 92.698 92.850 +60 32.435 33.232 32.979 +60 84.555 84.555 Total Staff 23.505 23.637 23.617 Total Director 85.171 84.087 84.266 Manager 21-30 58.650 65.500 63.217 Total Spain 30.435 32.116 31.659 31-40 57.904 58.655 58.496 41-50 63.456 63.496 63.483 51-60 68.718 67.739 67.983 +60 73.000 77.352 76.264 Total Manager 61.674 61.423 61.485 152 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution France Netherlands Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Director 51-60 * * Director 51-60 * * Total Director * * Total Director * * Leader 21-30 * * Manager 41-50 105.250 105.250 31-40 63.000 69.500 67.333 51-60 103.333 103.333 41-50 * * Total Manager 104.100 104.100 51-60 65.000 65.000 Leader 21-30 74.851 74.851 Total Leader 63.000 66.667 66.143 31-40 63.231 63.231 Staff 21-30 38.667 38.667 41-50 76.547 79.206 77.433 31-40 47.830 47.830 51-60 81.774 81.774 41-50 55.750 55.750 Total Leader 76.547 74.766 75.359 Total Staff 46.665 46.665 Staff 21-30 39.743 41.774 40.871 31-40 56.173 39.491 45.052 Total France 106.500 54.166 59.980 41-50 43.000 43.000 Switzerland Total Staff 46.784 40.909 42.966 Total Netherlands 57.607 67.350 64.530 Category Age group Female Male Total Executive Director 51-60 * * Total Executive Director * * Leader 31-40 * * Total Leader * * Staff 31-40 109.786 109.786 Total Staff 109.786 109.786 Total Switzerland 140.350 140.350 153 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Luxembourg Italy Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Executive Director 50-60 * * Partner 41-50 123.333 123.333 Total Executive Director 158.644 158.644 Total Partner 123.333 123.333 Director 31-40 * * Executive Director 51-60 * * 41-50 * * Total Executive Director 96.500 96.500 Total Director 123.512 123.512 Director 31-40 85.000 80.708 81.245 Leader 31-40 * * 41-50 87.811 87.485 87.557 41-50 * * 51-60 130.000 130.000 51-60 * * Total Director 86.874 96.176 94.908 Total Leader 82.342 82.342 Manager 31-40 57.783 57.783 Staff 21-30 33.210 50.865 48.658 41-50 61.225 62.892 62.541 31-40 55.267 55.131 55.149 51-60 * * 41-50 57.087 63.139 62.534 Total Manager 61.225 60.308 60.405 51-60 53.363 53.363 Leader 21-30 37.400 36.609 36.750 +60 49.815 49.815 31-40 39.549 40.384 40.159 Total Staff 52.198 56.954 56.462 41-50 39.777 44.878 43.701 51-60 44.555 288 45.141 Total Luxembourg 52.198 62.316 61.367 Total Leader 39.590 41.270 40.853 Staff 21-30 26.233 26.310 26.286 31-40 27.730 29.151 28.627 41-50 32.158 32.565 32.424 51-60 27.845 32.710 30.625 Total Staff 27.110 27.586 27.427 Total Italy 31.796 36.332 35.002 154 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Portugal UK Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 105.000 115.667 114.143 Partner 41-50 223.095 223.095 +60 * * Total Partner 223.095 223.095 Total Partner 105.000 117.934 116.317 Director 31-40 151.251 151.251 Director 31-40 73.700 73.700 41-50 141.798 164.773 163.132 41-50 74.333 83.361 81.104 51-60 * * 51-60 79.000 90.000 84.500 Total Director 153.141 162.238 161.227 Total Director 75.500 80.583 79.513 Manager 31-40 113.438 110.813 111.141 Manager 31-40 52.379 56.406 55.180 41-50 112.576 112.576 41-50 56.402 56.281 56.322 51-60 * * 51-60 * * Total Manager 113.438 112.065 112.190 Total Manager 53.842 56.710 55.834 Leader 21-30 63.379 69.357 66.966 Leader 21-30 28.584 31.125 29.746 31-40 73.682 79.117 77.361 31-40 33.982 37.016 36.136 41-50 89.162 88.779 88.875 41-50 41.584 44.209 43.459 51-60 71.540 71.540 51-60 44.333 38.156 40.804 +60 48.778 82.952 74.409 Total Leader 34.441 38.075 36.869 Total Leader 74.713 80.196 78.604 Staff -20 * * Staff 21-30 41.490 45.771 44.227 21-30 18.819 18.636 18.715 31-40 45.279 52.884 50.067 31-40 18.826 23.300 21.921 41-50 39.941 61.809 53.937 41-50 19.270 22.506 21.131 51-60 42.193 63.944 57.729 51-60 21.353 27.386 24.973 +60 50.564 61.651 57.955 Total Staff 18.868 20.366 19.771 Total Staff 42.807 52.820 49.248 Total Portugal 24.093 28.940 27.135 Total UK 58.542 80.380 73.969 155 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Argentina Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 55.299 68.848 62.074 Staff -20 * * 51-60 75.710 75.710 21-30 9.276 8.858 8.950 Total Partner 55.299 73.423 68.892 31-40 11.087 12.752 12.232 41-50 11.204 12.020 11.693 Executive Director 41-50 * * 51-60 13.405 13.384 13.391 Total Executive Director 38.870 38.870 +60 12.886 12.886 Director 31-40 32.527 32.527 Total Staff 10.452 10.660 10.603 41-50 33.867 50.296 44.820 Total Director 33.867 44.373 41.747 Total Argentina 12.767 13.672 13.412 Manager 31-40 24.466 24.466 41-50 23.935 24.508 24.269 51-60 25.670 24.506 24.797 Total Manager 24.224 24.490 24.421 Leader 21-30 15.204 15.662 15.401 31-40 15.295 17.936 16.928 41-50 14.710 17.344 16.497 51-60 14.920 14.920 +60 15.890 15.890 Total Leader 15.130 17.345 16.568 156 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Brazil Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 31-40 * * Staff -20 3.623 4.894 4.100 41-50 116.883 116.883 21-30 9.445 10.878 10.541 Total Partner 114.491 114.491 31-40 12.874 16.537 15.518 41-50 14.233 19.629 17.952 Executive Director 41-50 * * 51-60 15.201 20.023 18.625 51-60 92.351 80.661 86.506 +60 9.789 19.586 17.137 Total Executive Director 92.351 78.822 83.332 Total Staff 11.482 14.050 13.378 Director 31-40 66.001 74.657 73.991 41-50 76.557 73.045 73.458 Total Brazil 15.483 17.844 17.208 51-60 76.288 88.826 83.254 Total Director 74.895 76.115 75.896 Manager 21-30 39.361 39.361 31-40 46.295 45.449 45.670 41-50 43.849 45.887 45.087 51-60 47.659 42.801 44.883 Total Manager 45.417 45.181 45.255 Leader 21-30 24.806 25.309 25.118 31-40 27.438 29.556 29.001 41-50 28.432 32.277 30.555 51-60 27.398 30.909 29.446 +60 25.958 41.919 33.938 Total Leader 27.504 30.128 29.224 157 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Chile Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 152.744 152.744 Staff 21-30 15.176 13.979 14.229 51-60 152.744 195.944 174.344 31-40 18.317 19.912 19.572 Total Partner 152.744 163.544 161.384 41-50 19.390 25.070 23.345 51-60 10.359 25.212 22.000 Executive Director 41-50 * * +60 5.194 26.532 21.608 Total Executive Director 125.744 125.744 Total Staff 16.765 17.855 17.615 Director 31-40 67.409 116.086 107.973 41-50 77.833 91.483 89.966 Total Chile 22.153 23.950 23.547 51-60 * * Total Director 74.358 98.154 95.298 Manager 21-30 * * 31-40 53.957 56.515 55.462 41-50 54.442 62.909 60.200 51-60 45.041 45.041 Total Manager 54.216 58.846 57.303 Leader 21-30 30.772 33.898 33.030 31-40 32.458 35.282 34.641 41-50 35.145 38.208 37.484 51-60 34.096 38.001 36.973 +60 41.357 41.357 Total Leader 33.253 36.291 35.584 158 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Colombia Mexico Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 31-40 122.400 122.400 Partner 41-50 101.390 134.607 123.534 Total Partner 122.400 122.400 Total Partner 101.390 134.607 123.534 Director 31-40 72.420 72.420 Director 31-40 79.986 79.986 41-50 59.616 69.264 67.334 41-50 80.742 89.006 87.061 51-60 63.360 86.400 74.880 51-60 94.609 94.609 Total Director 61.488 72.543 70.842 Total Director 80.742 86.962 85.967 Manager 21-30 * * Manager 31-40 47.241 45.134 45.949 31-40 44.858 44.323 44.408 41-50 47.166 45.965 46.365 41-50 43.839 48.800 46.094 51-60 42.829 42.829 51-60 38.750 38.750 Total Manager 47.230 45.082 45.853 Total Manager 43.636 45.421 44.863 Leader 21-30 22.528 24.729 24.138 Leader 21-30 18.245 18.704 18.475 31-40 24.584 27.286 26.403 31-40 23.538 27.765 25.966 41-50 30.267 30.083 30.140 41-50 25.293 30.783 29.168 51-60 20.363 30.063 27.638 51-60 13.260 30.246 28.122 +60 * * Total Leader 23.109 28.154 26.211 Total Leader 25.403 27.516 26.861 Staff -20 4.524 4.524 Staff 21-30 11.088 10.847 10.926 21-30 6.132 8.372 7.426 31-40 13.432 16.239 14.826 31-40 8.083 13.238 11.353 41-50 12.880 12.650 12.752 41-50 12.860 14.011 13.559 51-60 12.645 12.739 12.710 51-60 4.101 16.928 12.652 +60 * * Total Staff 7.291 10.912 9.479 Total Staff 12.067 12.174 12.134 Total Colombia 10.905 16.285 14.201 Total Mexico 18.436 21.831 20.636 159 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution Peru Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 51-60 * * Staff -20 * * Total Partner 207.752 207.752 21-30 8.895 10.861 10.304 31-40 13.305 17.527 16.448 Director 31-40 97.384 112.569 108.772 41-50 13.488 19.471 18.090 41-50 90.840 111.586 107.437 51-60 17.563 19.220 18.931 51-60 98.033 114.020 110.024 +60 20.392 20.392 Total Director 96.072 112.936 108.968 Total Staff 17.563 13.916 13.037 Manager 31-40 67.422 68.492 68.245 41-50 67.847 67.582 67.644 Total Peru 14.254 17.524 16.634 51-60 65.104 65.104 +60 * * Total Manager 67.635 68.058 67.970 Leader 21-30 31.329 31.964 31.763 31-40 35.436 38.832 37.700 41-50 36.189 41.351 39.785 51-60 37.343 41.679 40.440 +60 * * Total Leader 35.431 39.238 38.015 160 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 5. Wage distribution USA Morocco Category Age group Female Male Total Category Age group Female Male Total Partner 41-50 271.269 271.269 271.269 Director 51-60 * * 51-60 * * Total Director 87.258 87.258 Total Partner 271.269 293.875 286.340 Leader 31-40 30.759 30.759 Director 31-40 * * 41-50 34.557 30.864 31.787 41-50 226.058 226.058 51-60 * * 51-60 * * Total Leader 34.557 30.485 30.937 Total Director 218.145 218.145 Staff 21-30 7.203 7.277 7.234 Manager 31-40 158.014 158.014 31-40 17.985 18.732 18.522 41-50 126.592 156.522 146.546 41-50 13.873 18.573 17.398 51-60 * * Total Staff 9.223 12.570 10.962 Total Manager 126.592 160.808 155.106 Total Morocco 9.626 15.439 12.804 Leader 21-30 103.534 103.534 31-40 113.029 115.593 115.380 41-50 111.145 119.303 117.671 Overall total +60 * * Female Male Total Total Leader 111.773 115.175 114.766 Overall total 25.340 28.482 27.600 Staff 21-30 64.924 52.400 56.575 31-40 79.063 79.165 79.138 41-50 78.801 86.203 84.088 51-60 75.051 105.451 98.436 +60 111.908 111.908 Total Staff 73.718 77.813 76.671 Total USA 84.441 98.465 95.107 161 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 6 Training hours by professional category Total training hours by professional category and gender. Executive Total Total Country Gender Partner Director Director Manager Leader Staff Country/gender Country Spain M 1.181 587 2.851 11.066 80.463 206.697 302.845 409.894 F 274 215 754 3.958 32.588 69.260 107.049 Europe Andorra M 9 59 15 18 101 163 F 59 3 62 France M 47 28 75 90 F 1 14 15 Luxembourg M 2 48 2 30 82 82 F Netherlands M 24 125 58 60 267 375 F 76 32 108 Italy M 24 162 809 4.070 5.574 10.639 15.487 F 8 54 86 1.289 3.411 4.848 Portugal M 59 441 757 4.021 8.116 13.394 22.299 F 6 71 535 1.886 6.407 8.905 UK M 23 283 285 518 757 1.866 3.134 F 9 52 543 664 1.268 Switzerland M 2 2 2 F 162 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 6. Training hours by professional category Total training hours by professional category and gender. Executive Total Total Country Gender Partner Director Director Manager Leader Staff Country/gender Country America Argentina M 9 30 23 146 1.695 3.282 5.185 7.523 F 3 18 44 872 1.401 2.338 Brazil M 24 14 486 1.196 4.395 38.011 44.126 62.574 F 8 112 485 2.357 15.486 18.448 Chile M 4 2 56 182 1.237 7.747 9.228 11.172 F 3 12 71 439 1.419 1.944 Colombia M 8 131 367 2.091 6.180 8.777 15.307 F 72 238 1.383 4.837 6.530 Mexico M 15 182 398 2.138 4.746 7.479 11.986 F 3 77 181 1.562 2.684 4.507 Peru M 17 295 1.160 3.081 14.122 18.675 26.700 F 91 397 1.938 5.599 8.025 USA M 8 3 6 11 75 77 180 229 F 2 11 3 33 49 Africa Morocco M 8 4 99 111 269 F 56 102 158 Overall total 587.124 163 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 7.1 Occupational accidents Accidents FI SI Occupational illness País F M Total F M F M F M Total and occupational illnesses by country Simumak 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 SCR 0 1 1 0 0,03 0 0,09 0 0 0 Europe Industrial accidents, especially their frequency and seriousness, as Andorra 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 well as occupational illnesses. Belgium 1 0 1 18,18 0 0 0 0 0 0 Scope of occupational accidents and occupational illnesses does not include Andorra and Morocco. The formulae for calculating the France 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 frequency and severity indexes are those published by Spain’s Ministry of Employment and Social Security. Netherlands 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Luxembourg 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 The frequency index (FI) shows a ratio of accidents to the average number of workers exposed to risk. FI = (Number of accidents/Number Italy 0 6 6 0 8,65 0 0,46 0 0 0 of workers) * 1000 workers . Portugal 0 4 4 0 6,49 0 0,09 0 0 0 The severity index (SI) shows a ratio of time not worked due to an occupational accident to the time worked by workers exposed to risk. UK 0 1 1 0 4,33 0 0 0 0 0 SI = (Number of workdays lost/Number of hours worked) * 1000 hours Switzerland 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 worked. For Spain, accidents while commuting to and from work have not been America included. The severity index only includes those countries availing of Argentina 2 5 7 11,10 12,50 0,11 0,07 0 0 0 information on the length of absences. Brazil 1 0 1 1,44 0 0,06 0 0 0 0 Chile 2 4 6 0,57 0,37 0,03 0,04 0 0 0 Colombia 2 0 2 5,26 0 0,01 0 0 0 0 Mexico 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Peru 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 USA 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Africa Morocco 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 164 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 7.2 Occupational accidents and occupational illnesses in companies in Spain Spain Occupational Frequency Severity Occupational Hours Commuting accidents index index illnesses lost accident Company Mutual Soc. reports F M F M F M F M F M F M Job category everis Spain Fraternidad Muprespa 1 4 0,22 0,37 0 0,01 0 0 64 584 1 4 Electrical, electronics and (8 days leave) telecommunications engineers. Computer programmers and one IT operating and support technician. everis soluciones tecnológicas Fraternidad Muprespa 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis infrastructures engineering Fraternidad Muprespa 0 1 0 0,08 0 0 0 0 0 48 0 1 Computer programmers (6 days leave) everis BPO Mutua Universal 1 0 0,40 0 0 0 0 0 16 0 1 0 Accounting and finance staff (2 days leave) arilion Mutua Universal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis i-deals Mutua Universal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis infrastructures operations Fremap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis centers Fremap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis centers group Fremap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ute 8 BCN Fremap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis initiatives Fremap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis aeroespacial y defensa Fremap 0 1 0 1,94 0 0,07 0 0 0 296 0 1 Electrical, electronics and (37 days leave) telecommunications engineers everis ingeniería Fremap 0 1 0 5,22 0 0,04 0 0 0 72 0 1 Computer programmers (9 days leave) everis sistemas de seguridad Fremap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 everis nettit Fremap 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 165 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 8 Indicator 9 Waste generated GHG emissions by the organisation by type Emissions of greenhouse gases by the organisation in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent verified as per the standard UNE-EN-ISO 14064-3. Data on confirmed emissions source factors has been used for the calculation. Waste generated by the organisation by type (t). Offices GRI Type of waste Total Spain Spain* 103-2, 301-1,2,3, Total Non-hazardous waste 69,20 GHG emissions 303-3, 306-1,2,3 Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Total Hazardous waste 0,57 Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 359 Portugal 103-2, 301-1,2,3, Total Non-hazardous waste 3,65 Total Scope 1 359 303-3, 306-1,2,3 Total Hazardous waste 0,01 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 2.221 Total Scope 2 2.221 UK 103-2, 301-1,2,3, Total Non-hazardous waste 0,13 303-3, 306-1,2,3 Scope 3 Business travel by land 2.020 Total Hazardous waste 0,02 Business travel by air 5.607 Colombia 103-2, 301-1,2,3, Total Non-hazardous waste 1,72 Business travel by rail 301 303-3, 306-1,2,3 Total Hazardous waste 1,77 Total Scope 3 7.928 Peru 103-2, 301-1,2,3, Total Non-hazardous waste 6,69 Total Spain 10.508 303-3, 306-1,2,3 Total Hazardous waste 0,08 * Includes offices in Madrid (NOVUS), Sevilla Torre Pelli, Ciudad Real, AUNAV. 166 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 9. GHG emissions Italia Portugal GHG emissions GHG emissions Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 0 Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 0 Heating 203 Heating 166 Total Scope 1 203 Total Scope 1 166 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 87 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 47 Total Scope 2 87 Total Scope 2 47 Scope 3 Business travel by land 36 Scope 3 Business travel by land 81 Business travel by air 912 Business travel by air 641 Business travel by rail 70 Business travel by rail 1 Total Scope 3 1.018 Total Scope 3 723 Total Italy 1.308 Total Portugal 937 UK Brazil GHG emissions GHG emissions Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 5 Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 65 Total Scope 1 5 Total Scope 1 65 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 30 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 77 Total Scope 2 30 Total Scope 2 77 Scope 3 Business travel by land 12 Scope 3 Business travel by land 321 Business travel by air 355 Business travel by air 298 Business travel by rail 3 Business travel by rail 0 Total Scope 3 370 Total Scope 3 619 Total UK 405 Total Brazil 761 167 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 9. GHG emissions Chile Colombia GHG emissions GHG emissions Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 0 Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 77 Total Scope 1 0 Total Scope 1 77 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 139 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 31 Total Scope 2 139 Total Scope 2 31 Scope 3 Business travel by land 239 Scope 3 Business travel by land 26 Business travel by air 686 Business travel by air 402 Business travel by rail 0 Business travel by rail 0 Total Scope 3 925 Total Scope 3 428 Total Chile 1.064 Total Colombia 536 Mexico Peru GHG emissions GHG emissions Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope Global (t CO2 eq) Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 0 Scope 1 Refrigeration gases 91 Total Scope 1 0 Total Scope 1 91 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 30 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 110 Total Scope 2 30 Total Scope 2 110 Scope 3 Business travel by land 41 Scope 3 Business travel by land 148 Business travel by air 287 Business travel by air 717 Business travel by rail 0 Business travel by rail 0 Total Scope 3 329 Total Scope 3 886 Total Mexico 359 Total Peru 1.067 168 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators Indicator 10 Indicator 11 Raw materials Non-renewable consumption energy consumption and intensity Raw materials consumption (Tn) Consumption of most important raw materials for the Company and measures to improve efficient use thereof. Non-renewable energy consumption (kWh) Office GRI Paper consumption (t) Spain GRI 301-1, 2, 3 11,84 Electricity consumption at different everis facilities as obtained from utility company. Italy GRI 301-1, 2, 3 2,20 Portugal GRI 301-1, 2, 3 0,65 Office GRI Energy consumption UK GRI 301-1, 2, 3 0,29 Spain GRI 302-1 9.385.199 Argentina GRI 301-1, 2, 3 1,20 Italy GRI 302-1 265.085 Brazil GRI 301-1, 2, 3 7,62 Portugal GRI 302-1 154.203 Chile GRI 301-1, 2, 3 1,79 UK GRI 302-1 117.159 Colombia GRI 301-1, 2, 3 0,80 Brazil GRI 302-1 826.840 Chile GRI 302-1 331.324 Colombia GRI 302-1 237.575 Mexico GRI 302-1 64.133 Peru GRI 302-1 419.764 169 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 3. Breakdown of non-ﬁnancial indicators | Indicator 11. Non-renewable energy consumption and intensity Energy intensity (kWh/m2) Consumption of electricity from non-renewable sources per square metre of office space. The ratio is for energy consumed within the organisation (no other fossil fuels are consumed). Office GRI Energy intensity Spain GRI 302-1 83,91 Italy GRI 302-1 151,76 Portugal GRI 302-1 40,43 Brazil GRI 302-1 86,29 Chile GRI 302-1 68,47 Colombia GRI 302-1 65,45 Mexico GRI 302-1 24,74 Peru GRI 302-1 39,40 170 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 4 Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators 171 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 4. Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators Content of Act 11/2018 GRI Standard Section Business model Description of the Short description of the Group’s business model, which will include its 102-2 0. Introduction Group’s business model business environment, its organisation and structure, the markets in 102-4 1.1. Description of the Company which it operates, its objectives and strategies, and the main factors 102-6 1.3. Business and trends that may affect its future performance. 102-7 1.4. Business strategy and trends 102-10 2.4. Risk management 102-15 6.1. Environmental policy Policies Policies applied Policies that the group applies, which will include: the due diligence 103-3 2.3. Anti-money laundering by the Group procedures applied for the identification, assessment, prevention and 102-29 mitigation of risks and significant impacts and of verification and 102-30 control, including the measures in which they have been adopted. 102-31 Key risks The main risks related to Main risks related to these matters associated with the group’s 102-11 2.4. Risk management these matters associated activities, including, where appropriate and pertinent, business 102-15 with the group’s activities relationships, products or services that may have a negative effect in 418-1 these areas, and how the group manages these risks, explaining the procedures used to detect and assess them in accordance with national, European or international frameworks of reference for each matter. The report should include information about any impacts that may have been detected, providing a breakdown of the impacts, and in particular about the main risks over the short, medium and longer term. Information relating General Current and foreseeable effects of the activities of the Company on the 102-15 7.2. Environmental and energy policy to the environment environment and, where appropriate, health and safety. 102-29 102-31 Environmental evaluation and certification procedures. 102-11 7.1. Certification everis 102-29 102-30 Resources dedicated to the prevention of environmental risks. 102-29 7.3. Environmental Management System Application of the precautionary principle. 102-11 7.3. Environmental Management System Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks. 307-1 7.3. Environmental Management System 172 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 4. Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators Content of Act 11/2018 GRI Standard Section Information relating Contamination Measures to prevent, reduce or repair CO2 emissions that seriously 103-2, 302-4 7.4. Climate change strategy to the environment affect the environment. 302-5, 305-5 7.6. Atmospheric pollution, including 305-7 noise and light Measures to prevent, reduce or make good any type of air pollution 416-1 7.6. Atmospheric pollution, including (including noise and light pollution). noise and light Circular economy and waste Waste prevention measures, waste recycling measures, waste reuse 103-2, 301-1 7.3. Environmental Management System prevention and management measures, and other forms of waste recovery and reuse. 301-2, 301-3 303-3, 306-1 306-2, 306-3 Actions against food waste. Food suppliers handle management of this waste Sustainable use of resources Use and supply of water according to local limitations. 303-1, 303-2 7.5. Circular economy 303-3 Consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve 301-1, 301-2 7.5. Circular economy the efficiency of its use. 301-3 Direct and indirect consumption; measures taken to improve energy 302-1, 302-2 7.5. Circular economy efficiency, use of renewable energies. 302-3, 302-4 302-5 Climate change Important elements of greenhouse gas emissions generated 305-3 7.4. Climate change strategy as a business activity (including goods and services produced). Measures taken to adapt to the consequences 102-15, 103-2 7.4. Climate change strategy of climate change. 201-2, 305-5 Reduction targets voluntarily established in the medium and 103-2 7.4. Climate change strategy long term to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and means implemented for this purpose. 173 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 4. Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators Content of Act 11/2018 GRI Standard Section Information relating Protection of biodiversity Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity. 304-1 7.7. Biodiversity to the environment Impacts caused by the activities or operations of protected areas. 304-1 7.7. Biodiversity Disclosures Employment Total headcount and distribution of employees by gender, age, 102-7, 102-8 3.1. Employment on personnel country and professional category. 405-1 Total number and distribution of contracts types. 102-8 3.1. Employment Annual average of permanent contracts, temporary contracts, and 102-8 3.1. Employment part-time contracts by gender, age and professional category. Number of dismissals by gender, age and professional category. 401-1 3.1. Employment Average remuneration and its progression broken down by gender, 405-2 3.1. Employment age and professional category. Wage gap. 405-2 3.1. Employment Remuneration of equal or average jobs in society. 202-1 3.1. Employment Average remuneration of directors and executives, including variable 102-35 3.1. Employment remuneration, allowances, compensation, payment to long-term savings 102-36 forecast systems and any other payment broken down by gender. 201-3 Implementation of work disconnection policies. 402-1, 402-2 3.6. Work-life balance Employees with disabilities. 405-1 3.3. Diversity 3.4. Accessibility and disability 174 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 4. Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators Content of Act 11/2018 GRI Standard Section People Organisation of work Organisation of work time. 102-8 3.5. Organisation of work information Number of absent hours. 403-2 3.5. Organisation of work Measures designed to facilitate work-life balance and encourage 401-3 3.6. Work-life balance a jointly responsible use of said measures by parents. 6. Actions against Covid-19 Safety Conditions of health and safety in the workplace. 103-2 3.8. Safety 6. Actions against Covid-19 Occupational accidents, in particular their frequency and severity, 403-2 3.8. Safety as well as occupational illnesses. broken down by gender. 403-3 Social relations Organisation of social dialogue (including procedures to inform 403-1 3.9. Social dialogue and consult staff and negotiate with them) . Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 102-41 3.9. Social dialogue agreements by country. Balance of the collective bargaining agreements (particularly in the field 403-1 3.9. Social dialogue of health and safety in the workplace). 403-4 Training Policies implemented in the field of training. 404-2 3.2. Talent management Total number of hours of training by professional category. 404-1 3.2. Talent management Accessibility Universal accessibility of people. 103-2 3.4. Accessibility and disability Equality Measures taken to promote equal treatment and opportunities 103-2 3.3. Diversity between women and men. Equality plans (Chapter III of Organic Law 3/2007, of 22 March, 103-2 3.3. Diversity for the effective equality of women and men). 175 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 4. Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators Content of Act 11/2018 GRI Standard Section Disclosures Equality Measures taken to promote employment. 103-2 3.1. Employment on personnel 404-2 3.2. Talent management 3.3. Diversity Protocols against sexual and gender-based harassment. 103-2 2.6. Prevention of harassment Policies against all types of discrimination and, where appropriate, 103-2 3.3. Diversity integration of protocols against sexual and gender-based harassment. 2.6. Prevention of harassment Disclosures on Application of due diligence procedures in the field 414-2 2.5. Human rights human rights of Human Rights. Prevention of the risks of Human Rights violations and, where 412-1 2.5. Human rights appropriate, measures to mitigate, manage and repair any possible abuses committed. Complaints about cases of human rights violations. 102-17, 419-1 2.5. Human rights 411-1 Promotion and compliance with the provisions of the fundamental 103-2 2.5. Human rights conventions of the International Labour Organisation regarding respect for 3. People freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; elimination of forced or obligatory labour; and effective abolition of child labour. Disclosures on fight Measures taken to prevent corruption and bribery. 103-2 2.3 Anti-money laundering against corruption and bribery Measures to combat money laundering. 103-2 2.3 Anti-money laundering Contributions to non-profit foundations and entities. 103-2 2.3 Anti-money laundering 176 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 4. Content of Non-ﬁnancial Information Report Act 11/2018 / GRI Indicators Content of Act 11/2018 GRI Standard Section Disclosures Relations maintained with Impact of the Company’s activity on employment and local 203-1 4.1. SDG 4 on society representatives of local development, local towns and villages and in the country. 204-1 4.2. SDG 10 communities and the 4.3. SDG 8 modalities of dialogue 6. Actions against Covid-19 with them Relations maintained with the representatives of local 102-43 4.1. SDG 4 communities and the modalities of dialogue with them. 4.2. SDG 10 4.3. SDG 8 6. Actions against Covid-19 Association or sponsorship actions. 102-13 4.1. SDG 4 203-1 4.2. SDG 10 4.3. SDG 8 Outsourcing and suppliers Inclusion of social, gender equality and environmental issues 103-3 4.5. Suppliers in the procurement policy. Consideration in relations with suppliers and subcontractors 102-9, 308-1 4.5. Suppliers of their responsibility. 308-2, 407-1 409-1, 414-2 Supervision and audit systems and their resolution. 308-1, 308-2 4.5. Suppliers Consumers Measures for the health and safety of consumers. 416-1 4.5. Suppliers Systems for complaints received and resolution thereof. 418-1 4.4 Customers Tax information Profits obtained country by country. 2.7. Responsible taxpayer Taxes on profits paid. 2.7. Responsible taxpayer Public grants received. 2.7. Responsible taxpayer 177 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 5 MITECO Carbon Footprint Registry Certiﬁcate for everis FY19 178 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 5. MITECO Carbon Footprint Registry Certiﬁcate for everis FY19 179 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 6 Independent Veriﬁcation Report 180 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 6. Independent Veriﬁcation Report everis Spain, S.L.U.  181 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 Annex 6. Independent Veriﬁcation Report           182
