Sustainability Report 2019 Every day, we help billions of people to experience a more open world with innovative solutions that enable safe, secure and convenient access to physical and digital places Contents Highlights 2019 1 2 About the report CEO statement The UN SDGs 3 This report, along with additional information available online, describes our sustainability Business context 4 initiatives and performance in 2019, and addresses issues that ASSA ABLOY has identified as Business model 5 the most important to our stakeholders. Strategy 6 As signatory to the UN Global Compact, ASSA ABLOY will submit this report to the UN Performance in 2019 and targets for 2020 8 Global Compact as its Communication on Progress Report 2019. This report has been preCustomer value and sustainable innovation 9 pared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option (see pages 34–35 for GRI c­ ontent Supply chain 12 index). Manufacturing 15 The data presented in this report has been collected over the calendar year and includes all ASSA ABLOY operations. People 22 For further information regarding the Sustainability Report and its reporting principles, Governance 26 see page 36. GRI content index 34 Reporting principles 36 Auditor’s report 37 Glossary 37 External recognition Contacts 37 and memberships ASSA ABLOY is included in FTSE4Good, the OMX GES Sustainability Sweden PI Index, and in the Kempen SNS SRI Universe. We have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) since 2007. For 2019, the Group received a score of C in the CDP Climate Change Program, and a score of C in the CDP Water Program. In 2017, ASSA ABLOY became an official regional partner in the World Green Building Council’s Europe Regional Network. The Network represents a confederation of 20 Green Building Councils, eight Regional Partners and over 4,600 company members. Other important main memberships include: The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise (Svenskt Näringsliv), The Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA), Physical Security Interoperability Alliance (PSIA), The Zigbee Alliance and The Z-Wave Alliance. ASSA ABLOY in brief Solutions Service The ASSA ABLOY Group is the global leader in access soluOpenings tions. The offering covers products and services related to Master key systems Identities openings, such as locks, doors, gates and entrance autoAccess control mation solutions. The Group also has expertise in trusted Authentications Entrance automation identities, with keys, cards, tags, mobile and biometric Data and analytics identity verification systems as parts of the offering. The Group has leading positions in most of Europe, North and South America, Asia and Oceania. Highlights 2019 • The Group had a positive development across a majority of the reporting areas. • Our continued focus on Health and Safety is working, keeping employees and stakeholders safer. The Injury rate was reduced by 16%. • The Water intensity has decreased by 8% during the year. • The Energy intensity has decreased by 10% during the year. • The Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 16%, as a result of increased energy efficiency and productivity, as well as new technology upgrades. • By the end of 2019 the Group had 325 Environmental Product Declarations verified and published. • The Group carried out 1,175 sustainability audits of direct material suppliers in low-cost countries. Environmental Energy intensity CO2 intensity1 Water intensity KPI’s –10% –55% 1 Industrial processes –8% Social Injury rate Injury lost day rate Gender equality: Portion of females in ­management positions KPI’s –16% –8% 25% Supply Chain Portion of spend in low-cost Number of sustainability audits of Portion of spend in all countries represented by ­countries ­represented by ­direct material suppliers in lowdirect material suppliers who have signed the KPI’s ­sustainability audited direct cost countries Business Partner Code of Conduct material suppliers 97% 1,175 93% ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT AND CEO Together we are committed to sustainability Sustainable solutions will be vital to economic and We are working towards an injury-free workplace and our ­industrial development in the next decade. For me health & safety performance has improved with an injury ­personally it is essential that we do not simply pass the rate reduction of 16% during 2019. I’m also pleased to note challenge of climate change along to the next generation. that the number of sustainability audits of direct material At ASSA ABLOY we aim to act as a responsible global suppliers increased during the year, and over 93% of our citizen – improving in line with our sustainability direct material suppliers have signed our Business Partner program, which addresses the environment, our people, Code of Conduct. our products and solutions, and our customers’ and business partners’ needs. Future strategy We have started the process to review our long-term susDemand for sustainable solutions tainability targets. This year we will develop our sustainaWe are seeing increasing demand for sustainable solutions, bility strategy beyond 2020. Today we report extensively to with strong growth in investments in green buildings. Our the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We are looking at the customers’ requirements include energy savings, reduced Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) embodied carbon and the use of renewable or recycled mateto find out how its recommendations can be implemented rials. The health aspects for the inhabitants of a building are in an efficient way, and to understand the financial materialso becoming increasingly important. We offer a broad range ality and wider impact that climate-related challenges of products and solutions to meet these changing needs. present to ASSA ABLOY. Sustainability is integral to our product innovation. Sustainable products, with relevant transparency documents, Internal commitment enable our customers to reduce their footprint during a In 2019 we’ve seen a sharp increase in internal commitment building’s lifecycle. We have Environmental Product Declarato sustainability across the Group. Our Green Team Playbook tions (EPD) for all major product groups, representing about helps sites to measure the efficiency and sustainability of a third of the Group’s total sales. We are supporting a sustheir operations – and to develop clear action plans to tainable future by designing products that have less impact reduce energy, water, waste and material use while tracking on the environment or with attributes that contribute posicost savings. Our aim is to continue to promote a sustainatively to the environment. bility culture within ASSA ABLOY. ASSA ABLOY remains committed to the principles of the Performance in 2019 UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the Our current five year sustainability program is making good environment and anti-corruption. This report contains our progress and we’re working hard to end our 2020 program in annual communication on our progress. We are committed a positive way. We are committed to reducing our environto contributing to our identified six most relevant UN mental footprint to help mitigate our impact on climate ­Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), demonstrating our change. About 12.3% of our total energy consumption is genprogress along the way. erated by renewable resources, a figure we continue to focus Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our on increasing. In 2019 we reduced our water and energy employees for the effort they have invested in ASSA ABLOY intensity by 8% and 10% respectively. in 2019. Together we are making ASSA ABLOY a more Furthermore, our efficiency programs, such as the manu­sustainable company. facturing footprint and VA/VE (value analysis/value engiStockholm, 5 February 2020 neering) also made a significant contribution to our overall improvements in sustainability, in terms of reduced conNico Delvaux sumption of energy and materials. President and CEO “ASSA ABLOY remains ­committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. This report contains our annual com­ munication on progress.” 2 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The UN Sustainable THE UN SDGs Development Goals (SDGs) The UN SDGs provide the global community with a roadmap for how to combat global challenges related to economic, social and environmental sustainability. As the global leader in access solutions, ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability work is aligned with the objectives of the SDGs – with a focus on six SDGs in particular. SDG ASSA ABLOY’s contribution and progress In order to reach ASSA ABLOY’s overall goal of reducing its environmental impact, implementing water reuse and recycling systems, with a more efficient use and management of water is a critical step. During 2019 ASSA ABLOY decreased water intensity by 8% and water withdrawal by 1%. While 21% of total water consumption was recycled. Progress indicator: CDP W1.2 & CDP W1.2b, CDP W5.1 & CDP W5.1a, CDP W8.1a & CDP W8.1b. Progress indicator GRI: See GRI Index on page 35 for GRI progress indicator. Also, see Material KPI table on page 8. ASSA ABLOY promotes inclusive and sustainable economic growth by integrating sustainability into the sourcing processes. Labour rights, decent work with equal pay, health and safety and gender balance are key priorities at all levels throughout the Group and the supply chain. During 2019 ASSA ABLOY reduced energy and water intensity by 10% and 8% respectively. Women constituted 29% of all employees. ASSA ABLOY ­conducted 1,175 supplier sustainability audits, while 93% of all direct material suppliers signed the Business Partner Code of Conduct. Progress indicator GRI: See GRI Index on page 35 for GRI progress indicator. Also, see Material KPI table on page 8. ASSA ABLOY supports the intention of SDG 9 on resilient infrastructure, inclusive and sustainable industrialization and innovation by systematically exploring ways to reduce production materials, optimizing product components and streamline production as well as transport methods. The Sustainability Compass is integrated into ASSA ABLOY’s product innovation process, organically embedding sustainable design into the development of new products. During 2019 the overall energy consumption decreased with 4% and the ­proportion of energy sourced from renewable resources increased from 11.9% to 12.3%. The Group has ­Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) from all major product groups, representing about a third of the Group’s total sales. 88% of the Group’s product managers have received training regarding the use of the Compass. During 2019 we invested SEK 3.6 BSEK in R&D and we have some 2800 R&D engineers. Progress indicator: Sustainability Compass. As the global leader in access solutions, ASSA ABLOY is contributing to SDG 11 on making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient by offering sustainable products and services related to openings and entrance automation solutions. At the end of 2019, ASSA ABLOY had EPDs from all major product groups, which contribute points towards higher ratings in global green building certifications such as LEED and BREEAM. All new products are required to be developed using the Sustainability Compass, which focuses on optimising the environmental footprint during the whole product lifecycle. Progress indicator: Sustainability Compass and Product Specific EPDs. ASSA ABLOY has committed to adopt sustainable practices into its operations with a strong focus on resource efficiency and waste reduction through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. 93% of all direct material supplier sites were covered by ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. In 2019, ASSA ABLOY ­conducted 1,175 (1,067) sustainability audits. At least 8% of the hazardous waste was recycled in 2019. Progress indicator GRI: See GRI Index on page 35 for GRI progress indicator. Also, see Material KPI table on page 8. Continuous efficiency improvements in production processes reduces ASSA ABLOY’s climate impact and is linked to SDG 13 on urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts by considering lifecycle environmental impacts of a product through more efficient resource use, and by applying the reduce reuse recycle principle. During 2019 the Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 16% and the related intensity improved by 21%, driven by reduced energy consumption and re-design of CO2 intensive production processes. The energy intensity has decreased by 10% during the year. The water intensity decreased by 8% during the year. Progress indicator: CDP CC 2019. Progress indicator GRI: See GRI Index on page 35 for GRI progress indicator. Also, see Material KPI table on page 8. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 Business context ASSA ABLOY’s business context ASSA ABLOY is the global leader in access solutions. With provide great opportunities. With good cost control and the a global presence comes global responsibility, and part of ongoing streamlining of its processes, we are promoting earning our stakeholders’ trust is to manage the material resource efficiency to further enhance profitability while aspects of sustainability throughout our value chain. reducing our environmental footprint. Globalization, urbanization, digitization and Engaging with stakeholders sustainability Stakeholder engagement is vital to understand society’s As the global economy grows, more and more people are needs and expectations of ASSA ABLOY and how they can be better off financially and have a greater need for safety and met. Our main stakeholder groups are those with a high level security to protect their homes and families. An increasing of influence, and with whom we interact directly and actively number of people are moving to cities to find work. United in our day-to-day business – including customers, investors Nations project that population living in urban areas could and shareholders, employees, suppliers, non-governmental add another 2.5 billion people by 2050. These trends of organizations and local communities. rising prosperity and urbanization are leading to greater As stakeholder relationships differ greatly, so too does our investments in advanced doors and access solutions in engagement approach for particular stakeholder groups. homes, workplaces, and shopping centers. For example, our customers are involved in the product At the same time, growing environmental concerns and development process through the ‘Voice of the ­Customer’ resource consumption are placing a focus on energy savings. customer assessment tools; direct material suppliers are Locks, doors, and door-opening solutions have a key role to engaged through our sustainability audit program; play in climate-smart buildings. Digitization also provides employees through day-to-day operations, training, the enormous potential for smarter security, connected access employee survey, and the work council; and the investment solutions, and management and control of access and community through open and transparent dialogue on susenergy consumption. tainability together with traditional investor relations activThese trends provide ASSA ABLOY with the conditions for ities. Read more about stakeholder engagement on page 30. good underlying, long-term growth. With the Group’s four main strategic objectives of growth through customer releCustomer relevance vance, product leadership, cost efficiency and evolution ASSA ABLOY offers solutions that meet customer requirethrough people, we have demonstrated our ability to ments for safety, security, convenience and sustainability. identify focus areas for long-term profitable growth. Our solutions need to meet local requirements, rules and Emerging markets, innovation, and product development standards, as well as the need for integration into new or with a focus on electronics, as well as increasing sustainaexisting security systems. bility performance of ASSA ABLOY products and solutions, ASSA ABLOY’s value creation strategy Purpose Financial targets Strategic objectives To every day help people feel safe, secure and experience a more open world Growth through Growth customer relevance Vision 5% To be the global leader in providing organic ­innovative access solutions that help Product leadership ­people feel safe and secure so that they can 5% through innovation experience a more open world acquired = Mission 10% Cost-efficiency in • Building sustainable s­ hareholder value total everything we do • Providing added value to our ­customers, partners and end-users • Being a world leading organization EBIT where people succeed • Conducting business in an ethical, Evolution ­compliant and s­ ustainable way 16–17% through people Core values Empowerment Innovation Integrity & beliefs We have trust We have the We stand up for in people courage to change what’s right 4 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Value creation business model Business model Our vision is to be the global leader in providing innovative access solutions that help people feel safe, secure and experience a more open world. By responsibly using human capital, natural resources and capital, we continuously create sustainable value not only for our shareholders, but also for other stakeholders. Resources Our most important What we create Value for activities stakeholders • Financial capital Developing, producing and Customers • 49,000 employees delivering access solutions • Security, safety and 31% in over 70 countries and trusted identities to commercial and residential ­convenience • Strong common customers. • Technology and product ­processes in a of sales are from leadership ­decentralized customer-­ Activities include: ­electromechanical focused organization • Sustainable products • Innovation and product products with environmental • Sustainability as an development ­product ­declaration ­integrated part in all • Sourcing, manufacturing, ­business processes and streamlining Suppliers within the Group of processes • Efficient production and partners 27% • Integration of and assembly facilities all • Technological acquisitions over the world ­development • Services, advisory and • Strategic and cost-­ of sales are from • Stable partner support effective suppliers entrance automation • Earnings and ­ • Marketing and sales • Strong patents, brands employment and well-diversified ­product ­portfolio that Shareholders meets local regulations and standards and investors • Dividends and capital 25% • Customers all over the world with a large appreciation installed product base of sales are from Employees mechanical locks • Safe workplace • Professional development and income • Ethically, stable and long-term business 17% Society of sales are from • Growth ­security doors and • Employment hardware • Sustainability • Increased safety External factors and security • Growing security needs 27% • Urbanization • Digitization • Automation of sales are from • Sustainability ­products launched in the past three years ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 Strategy Our strategic direction Our strategic objectives guide the ASSA ABLOY Group Sustainability risk management towards market growth, product leadership, cost-­ ASSA ABLOY’s long-term risk-management strategy covers efficiency in everything we do and evolution through sustainability aspects throughout our value chain. Our direct people. Our strategic objectives and the mission to material supplier audit program helps to manage risks conduct business in an ethical, compliant and sustainable related to suppliers, with a particular focus on high-risk way form the basis of our sustainability work. ­suppliers. When incorporating new acquisitions, we have established an efficient process that comprehensively As the global leader in access solutions, sustainability is reviews sustainability-related issues in order to mitigate the becoming increasingly important in identifying and risks associated with incorporating new companies and their ­managing business opportunities and fully exploiting supply chains. ASSA ABLOY’s brand portfolio across diverse segments. Risk mitigation in our own operations includes work to Our expansion is facilitated by a strong brand and good ensure that all factories with significant environmental ­reputation, which are supported by acting responsibly. impact are ISO 14001 certified. Ongoing activities are also in We can reduce production costs by considering the place to optimize resource use, including energy, water and ­lifecycle environmental impacts of a product through more waste. In 2017, a new Group-wide Health and Safety efficient resource use, and by applying the ‘reduce-­reuse­Management System was launched to mitigate operational recycle’ principle. We can reduce our environmental impact risks by implementing a set of standardized metrics and and increase cost-efficiency by systematically exploring ways tools. to reduce production materials, optimize product compoThe use of the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass is also nents, and streamline production as well as transport crucial to mitigate product-related risks through sustainable methods. Relevant sustainability aspects are considered in innovation and embedding sustainability into product our business plans, decision-making processes, and business development. The Compass is ensuring that our next generprinciples. ation of products is more sustainable than the previous generation, which mitigates risks for both ASSA ABLOY and our customers. Sustainability in the value chain me rs Inn ov sto a C u n Sustainability is a driver throughout our value chain. It is an important tio element in innovation, sourcing, production, employee development, applying ASSA ABLOY’s products and solutions, and in maintaining Employees M ark et prese good relations with external stakeholders. Code of Conduct and Governance in g urc n ce So M anu fa c t u ri n g Innovation New products are evaluated from a life Manufacturing The manufacture of our products Customers Our ambition is to supply high-quality cycle perspective. Many recently developed products should be carried out safely and with the lowest products that fulfil customer requirements, have a save energy as a result of improved insulation and ­possible environmental impact. long life, are manufactured with minimal use of intelligent control of various door-opening solutions. resources, and have a minimal environmental impact Innovation is carried out either locally, divisionally, or Market presence ASSA ABLOY is present in more than throughout their life cycle. Our customers are large shared between the divisions depending on the 70 countries, more than two-thirds of which are in institutional and commercial customers (within content and scope. North America and Europe. Wherever we do business, health care, education, retail, hospitality, office we follow the Code of Conduct, respect the laws and buildings, and industry), small and medium-sized cusSourcing Every year, the Group purchases a considregulations governing business ethics in the countries tomers (offices, stores), and the residential market erable amount of material, components, and products in which we operate, and we requires all of our (apartments, houses). Examples of our distribution from about 8,000 direct material suppliers around the partners to do the same. channels are: security systems integrators, locksmiths, world at a value of more than SEK 28 billion. Around security installers, building and lock wholesalers, 51% of this value is sourced in low-cost countries. retailers, DIY, hardware and security stores, original Direct material suppliers in risk areas are evaluated equipment manufacturers, and door and window from a sustainability perspective. China is by far the manufacturers. dominant low-cost country. 6 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Strategy Actions to improve performance Materiality analysis and sustainability priorities Each division has identified its greatest sustainability In 2019, ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Council reviewed our impacts, and developed an action plan to mitigate these materiality analysis in accordance with GRI Standards. As the impacts as part of Group-wide 2020 targets. ASSA ABLOY’s latest materiality analysis was carried out in 2018, the review sustainability management has set the following priorities: concluded that the materiality analysis is still valid and • Targets for all sustainability KPIs, covering all entities and ­relevant and did not require updating. the Group. The outcome of the materiality analysis is a list with • Coordinated implementation of environmental ­significant sustainability topics, which also shape the manage­ment systems and systematic follow-up. content of this report. The significant sustainability topics • Conduct 80–100 workshops for value analysis and value are connected to KPIs reported on a quarterly basis. ­ engineering (VA/VE) to develop a product optimization model that reduces environmental impact. • Increased capabilities for data analysis and benchmarking. Significant sustainability topics: • Continued focus on sustainable products. • Reduce emissions with global warming potential • Health and safety – implementation of Group approach  Read more on page 16–17 and start monitoring additional KPIs. • Resource efficiency • Improved system support to automatically calculate  Read more on page 9–10, 15–20 audited spend in low-cost countries. • Sustainable and circular products  Read more on page 9–10 • Sales of the portfolio of sustainable products. • Creating a culture of diversity  Read more on page 22–24 Every quarter, we report on, follow up, and evaluate our • Safety, security and convenience for customers defined Sustainability KPIs, and a progress update is pro Read more on page 11 vided to management at different levels in the organization. • Human capital development This process has resulted in regularly updated and more  Read more on page 22–25, 32 ambitious targets for the majority of the follow-up areas – • Improve health and safety performance including some KPIs that are now followed up on a monthly  Read more on page 24–25 basis. • Business compliance  Read more on page 28–29, 32 Strategic partnerships • Sustainable supply chains ASSA ABLOY is a member of various national Green Building  Read more on page 12–14 Councils around the world, and became a member of the • Responsible acquisitions World Green Building Council’s Europe regional network in  Read more on page 33 2017. Green Building Council partnerships around the world • Strengthen anti-corruption measures allow us to further promote the sustainability agenda in the  Read more on page 22, 32 built environment. Working together with industry-leading companies, the EU commission and the World Green See page 30 for more information about the Building Council, we aim to help all stakeholders to reduce ­materiality analysis process. the environmental footprint of all building types globally. The Sustainability Compass in action: enhancing product performance A product development team used the Sustainability SOLUTION: The new design included lowering energy Compass to improve the Securitron EcoMag Series. requirements and reducing our environmental footThe M380E Magnalock offers the same unsurpassed print with regard to packaging, while maintaining intelligence and style as the previous M380, but with an aesthetically appealing exterior and ease of an 80% reduction in energy consumption. installation. CHALLENGE: Customers were looking for a RESULT: The new Securitron M380E with EcoMag sustain­able product that was aesthetically pleasing, technology from ASSA ABLOY Electronic Security and low profile for high-design architectural Hardware features door prop sensing that allows the openings. The legacy product was sleeker looking magnet to de-energize the coil when the door is held than other Magnalocks, but had no way to self-adjust open for extended periods, dropping power draw as power consumption depending on door position. low as 20mA at 12V. The packaging insert is now made of biodegradable corn starch, further reducing the environmental impact. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 Performance in 2019 Performance in 2019 and targets for 2020 During the year, we saw a positive trend across the it is important to ensure good awareness of the Group’s majority of the reporting areas – including strong ­sustainability priorities throughout the organization and to improvements in the injury rate and the injury lost day share information and best practice between entities. The rate, and for water and energy efficiency. ASSA ABLOY sustainability reporting system, sustainability database and analysis tool are key elements for tracking The current Group 5-year targets will continue until the end ­performance, identifying improvement areas and enabling of 2020, and we report our sustainability performance the smooth integration of new units. (certain KPIs) every quarter. With 371 (361) reporting units, Material KPI Target Change Area 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191 2015–2020 2015–2019 Linked SDGs Environmental KPI Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and other ­certifiable management systems 111 121 124 134 121 112 120 ● –92 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions related to energy ­consumption (tons/SEK M) 9.2 9.0 8.0 8.2 8.1 7.0 –20% ● –22% Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions related to chemicals in ­industrial processes (tons/SEK M) 8.7 6.1 3.0 2.1 2.1 1.0 –85% ● –84% Energy intensity (MWh/SEK M) 26.4 25.8 23.3 22.3 21.5 19.4 –20% ● –25% Water intensity (m3/SEK M) 99.1 92.4 71.7 61.6 57.0 52.7 –20% ● –43% Hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 104.5 118.6 115.9 115.8 114.2 112.3 –20% ● –5% Non-hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 823 880 817 779 720 694 –20% ● –21% Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents (PER and TRI) (tons) 1.7 19.0 16.8 19.5 27.1 24.3 –85% ● +28% Consumption of other types of organic solvents (tons) 1,033 1,255 1,160 945 812 765 –50% ● –39% Portion of renewable energy 7.8% 9.1% 11.7% 11.6% 11.9% 12.3% 20% ● +3.2 p.p. Social KPI Injury rate (number of injuries per million hours worked) 6.4 6.7 5.1 4.1 3.6 3.0 –55% ● –55% Injury lost day rate (number of lost days related to injuries per million hours worked) 135.7 136.0 89.2 74.6 65.6 60.5 –64% ● –55% Portion of spend in low-cost countries represented by sustainability ­audited direct material suppliers 90% 90% 93% 93% 96% 97% 90% ● +7 p.p. Number of sustainability audits of direct material suppliers in lowcost countries 812 890 865 919 1,067 1,175 +285 Gender equality3 Level 2: 27% 27% 27% 27% 20% 9% –18 p.p. Portion of females in management positions Level 3: 16% 17% 18% 17% 17% 21% + 4 p.p. Level 4: 20% 16% 16% 16% 20% 21% +5 p.p. Level 5: 23% 25% 24% 25% 25% 26% +1 p.p. Level 2–5: 22% 23% 22% 23% 24% 25% 30% ● +2 p.p. 1 For comparable units in 2019. 2 The development is a combination of an increased number of ­certified entities, recently acquired companies with ISO 14001 certification, consolidation of entities with ISO 14001 and restructuring activities. The 2020 target has been updated to reflect the changes in the Group. 3 The definition of management positions have been revised d ­ uring 2014. ● KPI is on track to being met by the end of 2020 ● Additional work is required to achieve KPI ● KPI is off track and risks not being met 8 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainable innovation CUSTOMER VALUE AND SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION The demand for sustainable access solutions is continuHealth Product Declarations (HPDs) and Declare Labels, to ously growing among our customers, driven by the need add a level of accountability. for energy savings and the health aspects for the inhabitants of a building. Sustainable innovation is essential to Internal sustainability awareness meet those customer needs – therefore we use sustain­ The Very Green Book explains our policies and goals within able innovation practices to promote sustainabilityour sustainability journey. The Green Team Playbook help related design criteria in our product development. sites to measure efficiency and sustainability of current operations and develop action plans to reduce energy, water, Sustainable solutions will be an important driver for ecowaste and material use while tracking cost savings. The roll nomic and industrial development in the coming decade. out of The Very Green Book and the Green Team Playbook ASSA ABLOY is committed to make sustainability an integral are ongoing throughout the organization. The ambition is to part of our product innovation, designing new products that develop a standardized sustainable assessment process are sustainable and with relevant transparency documents. throughout the Group. Our aim is to guide and further promote the sustainable culture within ASSA ABLOY. Progress in 2019 Sustainable innovation Growing market for sustainable and resilient products Sustainable innovation is about creating a sustainable future The demand for more sustainable and resilient ASSA ABLOY by designing products that have less impact on the enviproducts, including environmental and material transronment or have green attributes that will contribute posiparency, is fueled by the strong growth in green buildings tively to the environment. With this in mind, a task force was and more sustainable urban environments around the created to support and develop sustainable innovation ideas world. This trend is manifested by the growing use of and initiatives. building sustainability certification schemes, such as LEED, BREEAM and the Living Building Challenge. The market for Sustainability Compass green certified buildings is expected to grow significantly Our Sustainability Compass is used to assess a variety of envifaster than the market in general. ronmental attributes of new products. The roll out of the Market studies show that almost 70% of consumers across compass is high on the agenda and followed up in global 60 countries are searching for green products and 55% of KPIs. The Sustainability Compass is an important part of the those are willing to pay more for products and services mandatory product management training. At the end of ­provided by companies committed to a positive social and 2019, 88% of the Group’s product managers have been environmental impact. trained. Each division is responsible to train employees involved in the innovation process. We implement methodSustainable building solutions – a key differentiator ologies and ways of working on a continuous basis – a good Markets where LEED and BREEAM are used continue to be opportunity to establish a lasting change in culture. One of where sustainable innovation is a key differentiator. the Product Innovation KPIs in all divisions is that 90% of new According to the 2018 Dodge Data & Analytics World Green development projects have to include a Sustainability Building Trends report, client demand is the main factor to Compass, therefore securing sustainability by design. encourage green building activity. Environmental regulations and requirements for healthier buildings also play a part. Material lists Respondents in the report also stated that perceived higher An important element to consider is the materials used. To cost of a product is the largest obstacle to green building. simplify the material selection process, ASSA ABLOY is Innovative solutions designed with sustainability in mind are working with two lists: one list with materials that should be offered at little to no additional cost to the customer. As the avoided and another list that provides guidance in the best industry continues to grow more competitive, EPDs make our choice from a sustainability perspective. products more attractive as they help our customers to Our restricted materials list for new products was updated achieve higher ratings in their green building certification. by ensuring alignment with the latest global standards, such as the European Union Standards REACH and RoHS, as well ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Compass the American standards Prop 65 and Conflict Minerals. Our Sustainability Compass is integrated into our product The ASSA ABLOY Materials Reference Sheet works in development process and provides an understanding of susharmony with the Sustainability Compass and helps tainability-related design criteria during the development designers to make better environmental choices when of new products. The goal is to improve the sustainable developing new products. Implemented in 2018, and conattributes in the product portfolio. The compass includes tinued to be rolled out during 2019, the Materials Reference eight dimensions: raw materials, water, virgin material, endSheet is a live document with new materials added or of-life reusability, recyclability, in-life energy consumption, removed regularly, much like global standards are managed. carbon footprint, and financial cost. Each dimension is evaluated from a life cycle perspective and the goal is to have a Third-party verification lower impact than the previous product. These areas are ASSA ABLOY is committed to reducing our environmental tracked and communicated among internal stakeholders impact through smarter products and advanced production involved in product innovation and development. methods. The results of these efforts are third-party verified, The Sustainability Compass is generated from input from for example, Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs), our sustainability products scorecard. The compass has also ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 CUSTOMER VALUE AND SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION been integrated into our product design process, which Future possibilities includes the material reference list. The Internet of Things (IoT) will play a key role in developing A key challenge for sustainable product innovation is more sustainable solutions. Devices and systems that are ­identifying the best overall solution. For example, a solution able to talk to each other and report their status will provide might have excellent green attributes from one perspective, opportunities to dramatically reduce energy consumption but may be less suitable from another perspective. through smarter door solutions. Connected devices supply data about how doors in Environmental and Health Product Declarations various applications are opened and closed. These data Customers are increasingly assessing the environmental ­patterns can be used to change user behavior to maintain a impact of building materials, and ASSA ABLOY continuously consistent indoor temperature. This will help reduce energy works to declare products with both EPDs and HPDs where usage and make buildings more efficient. applicable. In many cases the purchasing decision and path Connected and smart devices have the potential to offer to achieve LEEDv4 and other certifications are based on ‘predictive maintenance,’ where a product automatically information from EPDs. By the end of 2019, the Group had notifies when maintenance is needed, preventing product EPDs from all major product groups, representing about a malfunction and minimizing downtime. This can reduce a third of the Group’s total sales. service organization’s energy consumption by preventing The information most often requested by customers unnecessary journeys to check doors. It will also help to involved is: level of recycled content, origin of materials, level reduce energy loss in a building by minimizing downtime of chemical off-gassing, specific transparency documents and it can help to extend the lifespan of an installed product. and product ingredients. For example, ASSA ABLOY door sensors that enable lowASSA ABLOY is leading the industry in establishing Product power standby modes, and can signal to switch off air condiCategory Rules (PCRs) which have resulted in the credible tioning and lighting when rooms are not in use, can be a key and uniform comparison of similar products. Through Life feature in smart homes and buildings of the future. Another Cycle Assessments (LCAs), product environmental impact is example is ASSA ABLOY Mobile Access, which allows keyless mapped from raw material extraction to disposal or recyentry to hotel rooms, reducing the number of plastic key cling – to make it easier for our customers to compare cards required. products that fulfil the same function. Focus will continue to shift to the health and wellness of a Building Information Modeling advances sustainability building’s occupants, with programs such as WELL, Fitwel, efforts and the Living Building Challenge. The building’s footprint Building Information Modeling (BIM) allows hardware and will continue to be considered, especially with the push for architectural consultants to produce complete opening Zero Net Energy. Building resiliency will also come into view, models with door, frame and hardware specifications. Envigiven natural disaster and climate change conditions. ronmental data about buildings is shared with customers Our focus on EPDs is relevant to a progressive buildingthrough BIM, EPDs and the use of digital collaboration tools. materials industry. EPDs help to attain certifications such as The digitalization of the built environment continues to LEED, but the data within an EPD can be applied even further. accelerate, and so do the opportunities to create innovative Embodied carbon reduction has become a major considersolutions for customers. Specification is a focused area, ation for building project teams. Global construction group where BIM-enabled software tools open the door for cloudSkanska has recently designed a tool to specifically calculate based communication. We use this to drive the sales of the embodied carbon of construction materials. We can use sustain­able products, in key markets in an effort to reduce the calculator along with EPDs for product optimization. overall environmental footprint. FARGO printer for ID cards is first to achieve GreenCircle certification CHALLENGE: Producing ID cards, particularly in large volumes, can be costly in terms of both energy use and materials, including waste by-products. SOLUTION: The FARGO HDP6600 from HID Global is ideal for organizations that need retransfer printing technology to routinely issue secure and durable high-definition ID cards. As a cost-effective, eco-friendly and reliable solution, the HDP6600 provides high resolution printing for superior text and image quality. RESULT: The HDP6600 features HID Global’s iON technology which allows the unit to reach its optimal operating temperature in less than 60 seconds. With a built-in intelligent temperature control, the HDP6600 is the first and only retransfer printing solution for ID card personalization that has GreenCircle certification for its unmatched energy efficiency, which translates to significant energy savings for larger projects. Sustainability is further improved through an optional wasteless lamination module that dramatically reduces the waste by-products that other printers generate. The module cuts consumables costs by up to 40% for printed and laminated cards. 10 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Creating customer value CUSTOMER VALUE AND SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION through product innovation We are committed to promoting sustainable design ensures that new product concepts are fully evaluated ­criteria in the development of our new products, thereby against customer needs and sustainability requirements reducing life-cycle costs and creating customer value. before moving on to the engineering design phase. The ASSA ABLOY Innovation system and the Global ­Sustainability Product Council are key components of The Global Sustainable Product Council the company’s product innovation work. ASSA ABLOY’s Global Sustainable Product Council brings together representatives from all divisions. Together, this Product innovation group shares best practices and technology, and provides Based on Lean innovation principles, the ASSA ABLOY second opinions and reviews on tools and methods of ­Innovation system consists of several modules such as working. Each member leads and coordinates divisional product management, customer insight, long-term trends, ­activities to promote more sustainable product development generation planning, and project optimization. The system and drive culture change throughout the organization. Sustainability is the key driver of innovation These are the five stages companies go through on their path to become sustainable. 1. Viewing 2. Making 3. Designing 4. Developing 5. Creating compliance as value chains sustainable new business next practice­­ ­ opportunity ­sustainable products models platforms Stage 1: Viewing compliance as opportunity Stage 4: Developing new business models Compliance becomes a springboard to innovation, forcing A deep understanding of what customers really want allows creativity and outside the box thinking with materials, companies to find new, more sustainable ways to serve ­processes and technologies. them. Stage 2: Making value chains sustainable Stage 5: Creating next practice platforms The entire value chain needs to be looked at, not only the By questioning the status quo and going beyond the raw materials but also the energy and water for the obvious, it becomes possible to create the next practice ­processes, and innovative uses for returned products. platforms. Stage 3: Designing sustainable products Introspection is necessary to determine which products need to be worked on. Packaging must not be neglected. Sustainability Compass points to hurricane door improvements Sustainability compass CHALLENGE: The US market required a high-­ directional sensors, plus hurricane-impact rated Recy cle performance hurricane-impact rated door to increase ­insulated glazing options, all reduce outdoor air d content se Recycle protection levels while maintaining an aesthetically ­infiltration and heat loss from the building. Reu Re cy pleasing building entrance that is energy efficient and Re se cl ty u ili sustainable. The legacy product had limited options, RESULT: The new ASSA ABLOY SL500 Resilience R104 ab heavy weight, and a large amount of packaging achieved the goals of being the highest rated product materials. on the market, while reducing its in-life energy confootprint Carbon sumption by 31%. The decreased weight of the door Cost SOLUTION: Using our Sustainability Compass as a and its packaging reduces use of materials and energy guide, the North American Product Development required for transportation. The solution allows custeam identified several areas for improvement. tomers to experience the highest level of hurricane By using patent pending lightweight integrated protection while having an attractive and more En er ial er reinforce­ment they reduced the weight of the energy-efficient entrance. at in gy m us w e Ra product by 31% while redesigning the packaging Pack agin g reduced its weight drastically by 96%. Improvements to the door’s design, including EcoDoor Seals and R ed u ce ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 Supply chain Supply chain management The long-term objective of our supply chain management related to human rights and the environment. Our pace of is to reduce business risk by further enhancing sustainaacquisitions and expansion into emerging markets is bility performance throughout the value chain. During another significant supply chain management challenge the year, we continued to roll out our Code of Conduct and risk area. specifically for Business Partners and increased the proAdditional challenges and risk management work include portion of Group spend reported through our business ongoing efforts to examine supplier environmental manage­ intelligence system. ment systems and encouraging suppliers to develop EPDs, which are increasingly requested by customers. Progress in 2019 • Continued Business Partner Code of Conduct roll out Supply chain risk management A total of 96% of direct material supplier sites from low-cost We manage supply chain risks and challenges by continuing countries and 93% of all direct material supplier sites were to roll out our Business Partner Code of Conduct to improve covered by ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct for Business the monitoring of supplier compliance. The Code ensures a Partners at the end of 2019 – with the objective to cover over consistent approach to supply chain management and helps 95% of all direct material supplier sites by 2020. The code to bring new suppliers – particularly in low-cost countries – applies to all partners that provide products or services to up to our standards. the company, such as suppliers, consultants, distributors, During the year, the processes to improve supplier perforagents and other representatives, and provides a structured mance and phase out non-compliant ‘new-business hold’ approach to integrating new acquisitions. suppliers were enhanced – to support the risk management of low-cost country suppliers. Furthermore, as we continue • Increased Business Intelligence System coverage to phase out hazardous substances, we also audit the Data collection is becoming increasingly important as ASSA ­supplier use of such chemicals. ABLOY continues to grow. Consequently, we have intensified our efforts in this area and 94% (91% in 2018) of Group spend Supplier sustainability audit program is now reported through ASSA ABLOY’s Business Intelligence The supplier sustainability audit program focuses on direct System. material suppliers in low-cost countries in South and Central America, Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, as these are perSupply chain risks and challenges ceived as the greatest risk regions for not complying with Ensuring that suppliers fulfill our requirements involves ASSA ABLOY’s Business Partner Code of Conduct. The ongoing risks and challenges. Our low-cost country suppliers Business Partner Code of Conduct communicates our continue to pose the greatest supply chain risks – particularly ­policies and principles on business ethics, human rights Sustainability audits of direct material suppliers in low-cost Share of purchases in low-cost countries countries Number % 1,200 60 1,000 50 800 40 600 30 400 20 The share of the Group’s total pur­ chases of raw materials, components 200 10 In 2019, ASSA ABLOY conducted and finished goods from low-cost 0 1,175 (1,067) sustainability audits. 0 countries was 51% 2019. 14 15 16 17 18 19 14 15 16 17 18 19 Distribution of direct material supplier spend Number of direct material suppliers Number 12,000 Asia, 45.2% (44.3) Europe, 21.4% (30.8) 10,000 North America, 31.7% (23.3)* 8,000 South America, 1.0% (0.9)* Oceania, 0.4% (0.5) 6,000 Reducing the number of direct Africa, 0.3% (0.3) material suppliers is important for 4,000 reducing costs and improving quality. * Mexico is part of North ­America Active efforts have reduced the total 2,000 from 2018, previously South number of ­direct material suppliers by ­America. 0 24% over the past five years. 14 15 16 17 18 19 12 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Supply chain Plants in low-cost countries Poland Czech Republic Hungary Romania Croatia Bulgaria China Mexico India Colombia Malaysia Chile Brazil South Africa and labor standards, health and safety, and the environment, • One supplier in low-cost countries was blacklisted and to suppliers. We conduct our own supplier audits and due prevented from doing business with us, and 13 put on diligence processes to verify compliance. ‘new-business hold’ by the Group, meaning they were not The Business Partner Code of Conduct clearly states that eligible for new business from any ASSA ABLOY entity. ASSA ABLOY does not accept child labor in its own operations nor at a business partner. Should however a child According to our Business Intelligence audit data, the most be found working in its supply chain, we require that the common reasons for blacklisting suppliers are health and ­supplier acts in the overall best interest of the child. The safety, and environmental issues. Examples of health and Business Partner Code of Conduct does not accept any form safety issues are unsatisfactory risk documentation, evacuof forced or bonded labor, prisoners or illegal workers. In ation drills or information about how to act in emergency addition, the Code reinforces our support for the right to situations. Inadequate accident statistics, security objectives freedom of association and collective bargaining, as well as or machine safety instructions are also common defiother working conditions, such as contracts, hours and ciencies. Blacklisted suppliers with environmental issues compensation. may have missing environmental permits, inadequate documentation on hazardous waste, or no environmental risk Key audit findings in 2019 assessments and improvement action plans. • ASSA ABLOY has around 8,000 direct external material suppliers – including 3,400 in low-cost countries and Supply chain management governance regarded as high risk. Our supply chain management is led by the Sustainability • By the end of 2019, 1,623 of the 1,794 low-cost country Supply Council, which includes representatives from each suppliers audited had satisfied our minimum sustainadivision. The council sets supplier sustainability targets, bility requirements – equivalent to 97% of our total spend coordinates activities and follows up on progress. Each in low-cost countries. During 2019 the Group got 1,670 division is responsible for ensuring its suppliers meet our new suppliers in highand lowcost-countries. During the requirements. year, 1.9% of those new suppliers were audited, the share of new audits in low-cost countries was 35%. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 Supply chain Supply chain auditing ASSA ABLOY rates the performance of our direct material Business Intelligence Supply Management System suppliers and how they conform to our Business Partner Divisions submit their supplier audit reports to our Business Code of Conduct. Intelligence Supply Management System, which allows us to assess and analyze the performance of our suppliers. The Direct material supplier audits system is used as basis for procurement decisions to identify Our audits are designed to assess if suppliers comply with preferred suppliers and enables us to monitor several supply our Business Partner Code of Conduct in terms of business chain KPIs. ethics, human rights and labor standards, health and safety, and environmental criteria. Some criteria in the audit checklist are of such significance that they are known as ‘stoppers,’ for example child labor. If a supplier fails to The ASSA ABLOY Business Partner comply with these important standards, they are automatiCode of Conduct cally rated as ‘red’ and put on ‘new-business hold.’ If the supAll suppliers are required to comply with the ASSA ABLOY plier fails to improve within an agreed time frame, they are Business Partner Code of Conduct, which is based on the blacklisted and their relationship with ASSA ABLOY is termi­following international standards: nated. There are many reasons why suppliers are blacklisted, • UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and connected UN Conventions but the main reason is an unwillingness to improve and meet • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning our demands for improvements. ­Multi­national Enterprises and Social Policy The same ASSA ABLOY audit process is always followed, • OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy and regardless of supplier or auditor, and includes self-assessments, ­Transborder Flows of Personal Data on-site initial audits and on-site follow up audits to verify • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises that the supplier has implemented the agreed action plan. • UN Global Compact • ISO 14001 The ASSA ABLOY Business Partners Code of Conduct is available in 21 languages. Audit process and Traffic-light system Long term Direct material supplier development and consolidation Mid term Targets and measurements Supplier risk assessment Supplier On-site audits Supplier development self-assessment Scoring principles Grow Traffic-light system Ongoing Sustainability Fix Supplier quality Follow-up audits Exit The traffic-light system We use a traffic-light system to rate individual direct material suppliers on how Red – the supplier is not approved. The supplier is put on ‘new-business hold,’ and they conform to our Business Partner Code of Conduct. Suppliers are rated on the a follow-up audit will be conducted within six months. following five color-coded system: Green – the supplier is approved. A re-audit is done after three years to verify Red, yellow, orange and purple statuses can be revised based on evidence of a compliance. ­corrective action plan, well-documented progress, and firm commitment from Yellow, orange, and purple – the supplier is approved on the condition that it the supplier. Contracts with suppliers may be terminated in the case of a non-­ resolves the issues identified in a recent audit within an agreed time frame. Yellow compliance that is not remedied within an agreed time frame. The contract is signifies the fewest number of non-conformities and purple the most. A follow-up ­automatically terminated if a supplier is rated ‘red’ for longer than six months. audit is typically done after one year. 14 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Enhancing environmental Manufacturing performance in operations Improving the environmental performance in our Supply chain ­operations is important to ASSA ABLOY. We have a clear Environmental performance within the supply chain is ambition to continuously reduce the environmental essential to our overall risk management. We have a compreimpact and enhance our performance while expanding hensive platform to monitor individual supplier risks and the Group. Good progress was made during the year, performance, in particular through audits of low-cost ­particularly with ongoing projects to further enhance country suppliers. A total of 1,175 such audits were operational efficiency. ­conducted in 2019. Additionally, 15 EMEA Division manu­ facturing sites have been certified as zero-waste to landfill Progress in 2019 by the organization Carbon Trust, and similar initiatives are • Operational efficiency projects being implemented in other parts of the Group. Progress was made with various ongoing projects throughout the Group to optimize energy, CO2, water and Products organic solvents. Risks associated with product impact and resource consumption throughout the life-cycle of a product are also • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions important to us. When developing new products, we use a Our total greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 16.1% and tool – the ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass – to measure the related intensity improved by 21.4%, driven by reduced several sustainability aspects. Read more about how the energy consumption and re-design of CO2 intensive ASSA ABLOY Sustainability Compass is used to mitigate ­production processes. impacts on page 11. Recyclability is one of eight life-cycle • Continued reduction of organic solvents focus areas measured by the Sustainability Compass, which Our organic solvent consumption decreased by 5.8%, as ensures that the end-of-life impacts and risks are managed in a result of optimized process design and switching to a structured manner. For example, ASSA ABLOY Americas ­water-based paint where possible. offer customers the possibility to return used products for reuse or recycling in order to avoid products being sent to Environmental risks and challenges landfill. ASSA ABLOY’s continued growth presents us with significant opportunities. At the same time, growth in regions with Environmental priorities greater fossil fuel-intensive energy mixes, as well as water Our environmental priorities are to: scarcity, pose potential risks and challenges that must be • coordinate the implementation of environmental managed. Energy consumption, carbon emissions and water ­management systems consumption are our most significant environmental • enhance data analysis and benchmarking impacts. Geographic expansion also requires that environ• improve water and waste management mental risks and challenges associated with transportation • reduce energy consumption and increase the proportion must be managed. of renewable energy We are currently in the process of reviewing the recom• phase out organic solvents mendations for Task Force on Climate-related Financial ­Disclosures (TCFD). This will enable us to determine the These priorities are all interlinked and closely related to climate-related financial risks and opportunities, while we ­production and resource efficiency. also further analyze our risk to the environment and climate Our sustainability reporting system collects high quality change; a double materiality perspective. data to track and analyze the performance of individual entities and divisions. As a decentralized Group – with straEnvironmental risk management tegic and operational responsibility at divisional level – this ISO 14001 systematic approach and the ability to allocate and oversee ASSA ABLOY mitigates environmental risks by certifying all the performance of individual entities is essential. Our belief factories with significant environmental impact to the ISO is that benchmarking and best practice sharing within ASSA 14001 environmental management system. In 2018, all our ABLOY drives progress. entities were analyzed to establish which need to be ISO 14001 certified, and most of the relevant remaining entities Environmental compliance will be certified by the end of 2022. A variety of ongoing Ensuring environmental compliance is essential to maintain ­programs also work to optimize the use of resources, and our reputation and the company’s license to operate. Nonmitigate the associated risks. We have also further compliance could result in issues with our stakeholders – developed our restricted materials list that contains including employees, customers, shareholders and the ­materials and substances that should be avoided in authorities. No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions ­manufacturing processes and products. for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations occurred during 2019. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Manufacturing Energy consumption and carbon emissions Reducing energy consumption is important to us in order capacity, while supporting efficient working practices and to become more sustainable, reduce emissions, be costhigh standards. When old machines and processes are effective, and ensure compliance with local regulations. replaced due to age, the new machines typically not only For ASSA ABLOY, carbon emissions are related to energy require less space but also use energy more efficiently. consumption and materials used in our manufacturing processes. Efficiency projects We continued to use the energy Kaizen concept in our EMEA Performance in 2019 division to promote continuous improvements in energy Operational efficiency activities during the year have: efficiency. In general the Kaizen workshops generate annual • reduced total energy consumption by 3.5% (2.5%) for energy savings of 5–8% of the total energy consumption. comparable units. Another efficiency initiative is the ongoing manufacturing • reduced energy consumption by 25,728 MWh for footprint program. The program consolidates operations – ­com­parable units. to ultimately provide economies of scale and decrease our • reduced energy intensity by 9.7% (5.5%) for comparable footprint. units. • increased the proportion of energy sourced from Phasing out substances with global warming impact renewable resources – primarily from hydropower, wind The total calculated CO2-emissions amounted to 289,166 tons and solar – from 11.9% in 2018 to 12.3% in 2019. The target in 2019 of which emissions related to direct and indirect is to increase the ratio to 20% by the end of 2020. energy consumption in our factories and sales companies correspond to 88% of the total emissions. The remaining part Energy efficiency at production units of the calculated CO2 emissions is related to different types As much as 50% of energy consumption in large manufacof chemicals. More than 98% of these emissions are related turing units is related to factors independent of production to the use of blowing agents in three factories when provolume. We have reduced our total energy consumption by ducing doors with foam insulation. These production lines implementing various efficiency projects including control will phase out its use fully in 2020. ASSA ABLOY complies systems or technologies for heating, ventilation and pressure with the Montreal Protocol and with country-specific systems. For example, modern LED lighting with occupancy ­legislation on ozone-depleting substances. sensors has also been introduced in a large number of ­factories and sales companies. Some initiatives can realize Intelligent logistics significant savings with minimal investment, such as We have been able to reduce the environmental impact of ­encouraging employees to switch off machines, equipment transportation as the Group has expanded. Locating and PCs when they are not in use. assembly facilities close to the customer, for example, has ASSA ABLOY takes steps to streamline and specialize the enabled a more flexible and efficient supply of goods. production of certain products with the purpose of We use a database to assess and identify smart transport increasing efficiency in terms of utilization of machines, solutions with the lowest environmental impact. The data­ equipment and floor space, as well as allocation of compebase includes suppliers as well as our factories and sales com­ tence. This allows our production facilities to work at full panies, and is connected to our central purchasing database. Pre-treatment change yields major benefits CHALLENGE: Our manufacturing facilities continuRESULT: Natural gas reduction of 3,100 MWh has been ously examine production processes to find ways to achieved with savings of USD 52,400 (SEK 511,000) reduce environmental impact and generate cost per year and reduced carbon footprint of 630 tons, savings. US-based hollow metal door and frame manthe equivalent of enough energy to power 100 homes ufacturer Curries analyzed its pre-treatment process for one year. Water reduction of over 16 million liters to find a better method. The production was using a has been achieved with cost savings of USD 28,000 five-stage iron phosphate process to pre-treat hollow (SEK 273,000) a year. Chemical costs have been metal door frames prior to painting. reduced by USD 86,400 (SEK 842,000) per year. Additional savings have been realized due to reduced work SOLUTION: After examining various options, Curries required to maintain tank cleanliness. converted to a zirconium pre-treatment process in 2018. The various stages of the process were reconfigured to accommodate the new chemical. The existing washer was modified – the previous iron phosphatizing stage was converted to a rinse stage and a counter-flow rinse process was implemented to reduce water use. The zirconium does not require heating, so Curries was able to shut down its gas heater. 16 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Manufacturing Geographical split of energy and water consumption North South Africa Asia Europe ­America ­America Pacific Energy consumption (%) 0.5 21.6 27.8 43.2 4.8 2.0 Water withdrawal (%) 0.8 56.0 12.8 23.4 5.8 1.3 Ozone-depleting substances 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20192 Ozone-depleting substances in tons of R11 equivalent1 (tons) 30.3 20.8 8.1 4.8 8.0 2.7 1 R11 equivalence measures ozone-depleting potential. The calculation is based on the consumption of HCFC-141b. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of ozone depleting substances in tons of R11 equivalent amounted to 2.7 tons, including units acquired during the year. Energy consumption and related CO2 emissions 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019¹ Direct energy – Scope 1 – oil (MWh) 29,231 23,177 23,911 25,965 21,697 15,054 – gas (MWh) 244,785 251,997 251,402 258,857 268,609 286,189 – coal (MWh) 77,695 88,226 48,884 30,711 11,694 10,093 – biofuel/biomass (MWh) 2,201 1,958 3,119 3,706 8,975 9,737 Total 353,912 365,358 327,316 319,239 310,975 321,074 Indirect energy – Scope 2 – electricity (MWh) 347,306 358,983 360,618 375,982 380,470 341,161 – district heat (MWh) 30,877 30,981 28,069 34,567 35,507 38,990 Total 378,183 389,964 388,687 410,549 415,977 380,150 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION2 732,095 755,322 716,003 729,788 726,952 701,224 KPI, Energy intensity3 (MWh/SEK M) 26.4 25.8 23.3 22.3 21.5 19.44 CO2 emissions related to direct energy consumption – Scope 1 (tons) 84,711 87,994 75,033 71,101 67,009 68,396 CO2 emissions related to indirect energy consumption – Scope 2 (tons) 170,460 174,847 171,067 196,697 205,309 185,910 Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption CO2 (tons) 255,171 262,841 246,101 267,798 272,318 254,3065 KPI, Greenhouse gas emissions intensity6 (tons/SEK M) 9.2 9.0 8.0 8.2 8.1 7.07 Greenhouse gas emission related to substances in industrial processes – Calculated CO2 emissions8 (tons) – Scope 1 241,783 179,395 92,385 68,106 72,206 34,8609 – Total CO2 emissions – Scope 1 and 2 496,954 442,236 338,486 335,904 344,524 289,166 KPI, Portion of renewable energy (%) 7.8 9.1 11.7 11.6 11.9 12.3 1 For comparable units. Total energy consumption amounted to 709,253 MWh, including units acquired d ­ uring the year. 2 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. 3 Total energy use/value added. 4 For comparable units. Total energy use/value added amounted to 19.3 MWh/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 5 For comparable units. Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption amounted to 256,850 tons, including units acquired during the year. 6 Greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption CO2/value added. 7 For comparable units. Total greenhouse gas emission related to energy consumption/valued added amounted to 7.0 tons/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 8 Emission factors are based on data published by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on C ­ limate Change (IPCC, 2007). 9 For comparable units. Total calculated CO2-emissions related to ­substances in industrial processes amounted to 34,860 tons, including units acquired during the year. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Manufacturing Water and waste management Efforts to reduce water consumption and improve waste In factories producing doors, the water is typically used for management are key parts of reducing our environmental cleaning and removal of protective paper. An increasing impact, increasing efficiency and making financial portion of the used water is being recirculated and used savings. We have improved the tracking and management again after different water purification methods have been of both water and waste in recent years. applied. A wide range of technologies are being used across the Group: such as filtration, sedimentation, flocculation, ion Water management exchange and reverse osmosis. Water shortage is an increasing concern in many parts of the Water discharges are being measured, calculated or world, and ASSA ABLOY’s ambition is to minimize our water ­estimated depending on available sources of information footprint. We are implementing water recycling systems, and requirements. Out of the total reported volume, 76% and even closed loop systems, to promote water efficiency. is measured based on sensor readings, another 7% of the During 2019, water withdrawal decreased by 1.2% and volume is calculated for the full reporting period based on a water intensity by 7.5% as a result of improvement activities smaller number of readings at certain points in time. Around and changed production mix. Water is primarily consumed 17% of the total volume is estimated due to lack of sensors through painting, plating and cleaning processes. Twenty for measurement. such entities, located mainly in the United States and China, account for more than 70% of our total water Accidental discharges consumption. There were no major spill incidents in 2019, and four minor In 2019, our total water withdrawal amounted to spill incidents were reported. The cases did not cause us to 1,903,024m³, of which 83% was sent to municipal treatment exceed permitted levels and were managed in accordance plants after use. Water recirculation in waste­water with national legislation. We have improved our relevant treatment plants improves efficiency, and in 2019 the total internal processes to avoid future incidents. amount of recycled water equated to 21% of the total water consumption. All discharges are monitored in accordance CDP Water with local regulations, and all units that manage chemicals We achieved the C level on the CDP Water security evaluare properly licensed and registered with the local ation for 2019 authorities. Water withdrawal and discharges are being managed in Waste management accordance with local rules and regulations. In factories with Waste represents a substantial cost both in terms of the electroplating facilities, the water is used in the different resources needed to generate the waste and the cost to process baths as well as for cleaning. handle the waste in a proper way. Water performance 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Purchased water (1,000 m³) 1,600 1,565 1,508 1,391 1,588 1,684 Water from on-site wells (1,000 m³) 1,144 1,127 684 616 335 210 Rainwater (1,000 m³) 1 7 9 5 4 9 Surface water (1,000 m³) 6 3 2 0 0 0 Total water withdrawal (1,000 m³)3 2,752 2,702 2,203 2,012 1,927 1,9031 KPI, Water intensity (m³/SEK M)3 99 92 72 62 57 532 ¹ For comparable units. Total water withdrawal (1,000 m³) was 1,911, including units acquired during the year. ² For comparable units. Total water intensity amounted to 52 m³/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. 3 The historical numbers have been adjusted with proforma data. { { Water Water withdrawal Water usage Water discharge balance Sanitary and drinking (37.5%) Municipal pretreated (50.2%) Water purchased (88.5%) Total amount Industrial processes (51.6%) Total amount of water of water Cooling (5.1%) Municipal untreated (33.3%) ­withdrawal: ­discharge: 1,903,000 m3 1,903,000 m3 Other (5.8%) Other recipients pretreated (4.4%) Water from local wells (11.0%) Recirculated (21%) Other recipients untreated (12.1%) Rain and surface water (0.5%) 18 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Manufacturing We work to minimize waste from our manufacturing proSeveral companies have reduced their use of packaging cesses and packaging materials. Several companies within materials, switched to less harmful packaging materials and the Group generate revenue from selling paper, cardboard introduced reusable or recyclable containers. Increasing the and plastic for recycling rather than paying for the disposal use of electronic orders and integrating information flows of these materials. across systems has reduced the use of printed documents. In 2019, our total waste generated amounted to 81,026 Various metals are sorted by type to promote recycling, (84,010) tons. The amount of hazardous waste increased for and our ambition is to further reduce the amount of metal comparable units 4,054 (3,861) tons . During 2019 more waste by optimizing the dimensions of raw materials used. waste is categorized as hazardous waste due to implemenWe also focus on increasing the portion of non-hazardous tation of stricter national rules; for example, in China. Cutting waste being sent for either recycling or energy recovery oil is extensively filtered and cleaned, to allow it to be reused through incineration. Hazardous waste is being sent to in manufacturing, and hazardous waste that cannot be authorized companies for proper processing, recycling and reused is properly disposed of. The intensity value for disposal. Available data indicates that at least 8.1% of the ­hazardous waste decreased by 1.7% for comparable units. ­hazardous waste was recycled in 2019. Recycled metal 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20191 Waste metal for recycling (tons) 54,025 57,632 56,338 58,316 55,795 51,892 1 For comparable units. Total amount of waste metal for recycling amounted to 52,258 tons, including units acquired during the year. Hazardous waste 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Metal sludge (tons) 563 805 873 838 915 914 Oil for recycling (tons) 370 360 421 433 361 330 Electrical and electronic waste (tons) 88 Other types of toxic waste (tons) 1,971 2,304 2,266 2,513 2,585 2,722 Total hazardous waste (tons) 2,904 3,469 3,560 3,785 3,861 4,0541 KPI, Hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 105 119 116 116 114 1122 1 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste was 4,058 tons, including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of hazardous waste/value added amounted to 111 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. Non-hazardous waste 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Household incinerated/recycled (tons) 1,955 1,766 1,838 1,960 3,200 2,744 Household deposited (tons) 9,531 11,208 11,355 11,104 9,889 10,248 Paper and cardboard for recycling (tons) 4,329 4,803 4,447 4,748 4,465 4,471 Plastic waste for recycling (tons) 1,051 879 768 797 863 867 Wood waste for recycling (tons) 4,224 4,277 4,426 4,854 4,470 5,009 Glass for recycling (tons) NA NA NA 185 174 236 Other types of waste (tons) 1,774 2,787 2,270 1,823 1,293 1,505 Total (tons) 22,864 25,720 25,105 25,471 24,354 25,0801 KPI, Non-hazardous waste intensity (kg/SEK M) 823 880 817 779 720 6942 1 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste was 25,310 tons, including units acquired during the year. 2 For comparable units. Total amount of non-hazardous waste/value added amounted to 690 kg/SEK M, including units acquired during the year. Non-hazardous waste – disposal method Hazardous waste – disposal method Recycling/incineration, 54% Recycling, 9% Landfill, 46% Waste to be processed and disposed by authorized companies, 91% Recycling, 8% Waste to be processed and Recycling/incineration, 53% ­disposed by authorized Landfill, 47% ­companies, 92% ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 Manufacturing Organic solvents and surface treatment We have reduced the consumption of chlorinated organic Consumption of chlorinated organic solvents solvents through investments in new cleaning technologies, as part of a gradual phase out of such chemicals. Tons 30 We use chlorinated organic solvents such as perchloro­ 25 ethylene (PER) and trichloroethylene (TRI) for the surface treatment of metals, including degreasing, cleaning and 20 ­pre-treatment before plating. Surface treatment is needed 15 to meet high standards of durability, corrosion resistance, quality and finishing. We are working systematically to elim10 inate the use of PER and TRI, and most entities have already 5 replaced PER and TRI with less harmful alternatives, such as 0 ultrasonic cleaning and water or steam-based processes. 14 15 16 17 18 19 The total consumption of chlorinated organic solvents decreased by 10.3% for comparable units during 2019. The majority of the use of chlorinated organic solvents is related to acquisitions in recent years. The target is to reduce the consumption of chlorinated organic solvents by 85% of organic solvents for comparable units decreased by 5.8% between 2015 and 2020. We have focused projects in place to 765 tons in 2019. Compared to 2015 the consumption to try and achieve this target. has been reduced by 39%. The target is to reduce conThe Group also uses other types of organic solvents, sumption by 50% between 2015 and 2020, primarily by ­primarily for painting. The total consumption of other types switching to water or powder-based paint applications. Phasing out organic solvents in door products in the Middle East CHALLENGE: ASSA ABLOY is constantly searching for SOLUTION: Our specifications teams are on a journey RESULT: The phase out of organic solvents will signifiprocesses that deliver high quality products with the of educating the market of the benefits that watercantly reduce the quantity of hazardous chemicals lowest possible impact. ASSA ABLOY Opening based paints can provide for both the customer and used. Thanks to advances in paint technology, it is ­Solutions Middle East, based in Dubai UAE, is a door the environment. Realizing this transition will take ­possible to get water-based paints that match or and frame manufacturer that has been investigating time, though the operations team at ASSA ABLOY surpass the performance of solvent paints, while still alternative methods for organic solvents based paints. Opening Solutions Middle East has taken the decision providing the same hardness and durability. Working During the application and drying of these paints, to redesign the paint shop and focus entirely on together with the customers will allow the door and ­volatile chemicals evaporate. water-based paints to become a more sustainable frame industry to reduce its impact on the manufacturer. environment. 20 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Environmental management systems Manufacturing Our objective is for all units with significant environcovered by ISO 14001 environmental management systems mental impact to have an ISO 14001 certified environdecreased by to 101, primarily as a result of ongoing restrucmental m ­ anagement system. As new companies are turing activities and consolidation of a number of reporting acquired, such systems are gradually introduced if they entities with ISO 14001. Our target is to certify 7 more are not already in place. ­factories by the end of 2020. A total of 115 units had environmental management systems at the end of the year, covering 75% of employees in our factories. For comparable units the number of entities Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and other certifiable environmental management systems 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ISO 14001 85 98 110 116 104 101 Certifiable systems 26 23 14 18 17 11 Total 111 121 124 134 121 1121 Factory employees covered by environmental management systems, % N/A 73 77 79 77 75 1 The total number of entities covered by ISO 14001 and other certifiable management systems amounted to 115, including units acquired during the year. Sustainable and effective key management for Stockholm’s schools CHALLENGE: Owned by the City of Stockholm, SISAB SOLUTION: Thanks to expertise from across the ASSA RESULT: Since implementing SKOL, approximately manages 600 school properties, including 3,000 ABLOY Group, SISAB was able to implement a tailored 54,000 key extractions have successfully taken place buildings. Subcontractors needed to visit SISAB headdigital key management system, SKOL, built around on-site without visiting SISAB headquarters. This has quarters to receive keys to access a particular site to the Traka intelligent key management system and CLIQ resulted in SISAB eliminating 40 tons in CO2 emissions perform routine maintenance or repairs. With an Remote digitally-encrypted keys. Keys are obtained within the first two years of implementing SKOL. As a average of 25 to 30 keys being handed out per day, the from a cabinet located within the perimeter of each completely digitalized platform, SKOL also reduces subcontractors were spending significant time and property and can only be used in combination with the use of paper documentation. fuel making trips to collect and return keys, contribdigital accreditation and registration in the system. uting to an unnecessarily high carbon footprint. The solution eliminates the time and fuel wasted visiting SISAB headquarters to collect keys, or even arriving at a property with the wrong key. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 People Together ahead In 2019, the Group identity, ‘Together we,’ was launched. Core values: Our ambition is to, in our decentralized structure, work • Empowerment more closely together cross-divisionally to create – We trust our people. ­synergies and work as one Group, heading in the same • Innovation direction. We aim to create a modern and empowering – We have the courage to change. environment, where we all can work autonomously, • Integrity with easy access to systems and information. – We stand up for what’s right. Our culture Our vision ASSA ABLOY is a diverse Group, with a shared purpose and ASSA ABLOY’s vision and strategy for our employees is to vision that unites us across geographies, divisions, brands encourage and support a business culture that enables our and companies. This is underpinned by our three core values: people to build a world-leading organization. With a global empowerment, innovation and integrity. These values are presence, and a strong culture of local ownership and decencentral to us as an organization, with the ambition to be tralized decision-making, we share the same purpose, values always growing, never boring and leading right. A strong and beliefs. Our vision, strategy and framework provide our identity and inclusive culture help us to align and to create a employees with a space where it is possible to make a sense of belonging. ­difference. We believe that having the right people in the Our ethical and social responsibility practices are based right place is the driving force for growth, and that the right on visibility and transparency. We have an ambitious sustainstructure and processes add value to our business. ability agenda, including initiatives to decrease our environOur aim is to continuously improve the employee expemental impact. We promote acceptance, respect and collabrience, and enable a personalized development journey. The oration regardless of differences in race, age, gender, experience is tailored to everyone’s individual needs and language, political beliefs, religion, ability, sexual orientation choices, from recruitment and onboarding to development or communication styles. and growth. We strive to support agile working methods by Alana Leite, Sinara Valadares and Daniele Santos at the Papaiz facility, ASSA ABLOY Brazil, during the Group’s 25th anniversary celebrations in November 2019. 22 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 People providing collaboration tools and equipment to enable 2012 with an average retention rate of 81%. In 2019, people to work flexibly. Simplicity and agility are valued, 15 people took part in the program. and we believe in an inclusive working environment, clear Attracting and retaining people with the right compefeedback and a workplace that encourages engagement, tence and attitude is vital to the company’s continued experimentation and efficiency in everything that we do. success. We believe in creating an environment that enables employees to make a difference, and work on all levels to Talent management strengthen internal mobility and cross-level development To be a competitive employer, we aim to give people the opportunities. Our aim is to develop competence internally opportunity to grow and develop their career within the by giving people the opportunity to learn from experience organization. We focus on strengthening internal mobility, through challenging roles and responsibilities. A key part of making it easier to move between roles, functions, busiASSA ABLOY’s strategy is local accountability, and the Group nesses, divisions and countries. A continuous dialogue has nurtured a culture of local ownership and decentralized between managers and employees, focusing on develdecision-making. In this way, our employees are given opment and growth, is also encouraged. We strive to offer unique opportunities. interesting roles, in which employees can make a meaningful contribution to the business, relevant to the employees’ Leadership development experience, capabilities and interests. Our organization is constantly developing. This requires Talent management also involves attracting the right driven and motivated leaders, who inspire others to share people to our organization. We have established trainee our business vision and goals. Good leaders can lead without ­programs, internships and strong relations with universities formal authority, and have the ability to activate collaboworldwide with the aim to develop our own talent. ASSA ration within teams and across the Group. ABLOY has several graduate programs, with the EMEA ASSA ABLOY has long-established leadership programs for program being the most developed and longest running. managers both at Group and divisional level. The develThe EMEA Graduate Program has had 117 graduates since opment agenda is built on a leadership framework that Average number of employees Number of employees by employment contract, ­employment Women at different levels of the organization type and gender Percentage of women Number Number % of total Female, % Level 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 50,000 Permanent 44,443 92 29 2 – reports to CEO 27 27 27 27 20 9 40,000 Temporary 3,806 8 31 3 – reports to level 2 16 17 18 17 17 21 Total 48,248 100 29 4 – reports to level 3 20 16 16 16 20 21 30,000 5 – reports to level 4 23 25 24 25 25 26 At the end of 2019, 35 percent of ASSA ABLOY employees Level 2–5 22 23 22 23 24 25 20,000 were covered by collective bargaining. During 2019 the total All employees 31 31 31 30 30 29 10,000 employee turnover among permanent employees amounted to 18.9 percent. The labor turnover is influenced 0 14 15 16 17 18 19 by the ongoing manufacturing footprint restructuring ­activities. Consolidated information regarding employment Women Men type is not available, however information covering Sweden, Germany and the UK, indicate that an average of 94 percent of the employees work full time. Average number of employees by region Nationalities – ASSA ABLOY’s management teams Europe, 17,893, 37.0% women Europe excl. Sweden, 38% Europe excl. Sweden, 36% North America, 12,813, 26.5% women Sweden, 17% Pacific Europe, 18,242, 37.2% women South America, 1,940, 4.0% women Sweden, 17% North America, 20% North Africa, 787,America, 1.6% women13,476, 27.5% women North Asia, 17% America, 26% South America South Asia, America, 13,952, 1,983, 4.0% women 28.9% women Asia, Africa and12% Middle East, 2% Africa ME Africa, Pacific, 967,830, 2.0% 1.7% womenwomen Africa South and Middle America, 5% East, 2% Asia Asia, 13,151, 26.8% women Pacific, South 1% America, 4% Pacific, 1,309, 2.7% women Pacific Pacific, 2% North America Sweden Asia Europe Africa South America ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 North America People guides our shared approach. The foundation consists of two During 2019, much work has been done to make sure Group development programs for senior managers: ASSA ABLOY level gender objectives are met, but gender balance objecMMT (Management training) and ASSA ABLOY IMD. The tives remain a challenge. One of the reasons is that women latter is a customized program, developed in collaboration represented a minority in several of the companies acquired with the Swiss management school, the International by ASSA ABLOY in recent years. The Group target is to have Institute for Management Development (IMD) in Lausanne, 30% of management positions held by women and the prowith 30 participants per intake. Its aim is to support the gress is continuously measured. In 2019 the share of senior implementation of the Group’s strategy, focusing on management positions held by women at ASSA ABLOY was problem solving and topics that are relevant to us as an 25% (24%). organization. About 655 of the Group’s senior managers from 35 countries have participated in the IMD training Health and safety program. The MMT program promotes best practice sharing We are committed to providing a safe work environment for and facilitates the integration of new employees following our people. We do not tolerate harassment, bullying or disacquisitions. In 2019, 70 ASSA ABLOY managers participated crimination in the workplace, and we believe in a healthy in one of these two programs. work-life balance. The Group-wide safety agenda promotes safe behavior, reduces workplace hazards and risk taking, and Diversity and inclusion supports the development of a workplace free of injuries As an ethical and socially responsible employer, ASSA ABLOY across all operations. Safety training and audits are routine, promotes diversity and inclusion, and we strive to bring and new Group policies focusing on safe driving and travel people together to harness their diverse perspectives. We safety were launched during 2019. act ethically and with integrity, and always comply with laws In 2019, we continued our progress on key performance and regulations. indicators of injury rate 3.0 and lost days per injury 20.1. A Our Code of Conduct states that any form of discrimiGroup-wide implementation of a Safety Dialogue Workshop nation or harassment in the workplace, such as in terms of focusing on safe behavior in the workplace and our approach race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender, religion, age, disato risk taking resulted in almost 30,000 employees particibility, political opinion, and nationality, is not tolerated. We pating. A behavior-based safety culture initiative called believe that promoting gender equality and diversity ‘Together we are safe’ is under development and expected to strengthens our competitiveness and performance. launch in the beginning of 2020. ASSA ABLOY is constantly working to increase the diversity of employees participating in leadership and development Managing health and safety programs. A diverse workforce with a good understanding of Our health and safety management system covers all local markets is vital to our success. During 2019, 27 nationbusiness entities with at least 10 employees, and all program alities were represented at the highest management levels. components at all sites. Since its implementation in 2017, ASSA ABLOY has seen a steady decrease in the injury rate, as Gender balance well as in lost days per injury. The system involves a GroupOur Code of Conduct and gender diversity initiatives provide wide structured process for reporting, documentation and the foundation for our ambition to increase gender balance indicators that provide the basis for analysis of safety risks at all levels throughout the Group. ASSA ABLOY has set and injuries. It includes indicators to identify hazards and gender diversity objectives, and the action taken to achieve follow-up training to prevent injuries, as well as safety them is managed and implemented at divisional level. ­communications and incident investigation. Injuries Lost days per injury1 150 8 1 Injury lost day rate in lost days per 25 1 Lost days per injury calculated as million hours worked. total number of lost days in relation 125 7 2 Injury rate in injuries per million to total number of injuries. 20 hours worked. 2 For comparable units. The total lost 100 6 3 For comparable units. The total days per injury was 19.8 including 15 units acquired during the year. injury lost day rate was 60, 75 5 including units acquired during the year. From 2012, the reporting of 10 50 4 injuries and days lost due to injuries includes data from ASSA ABLOY 5 25 3 entities performing service or installation. Total injury rate was 0 2 3.03 including units acquired 0 14 15 16 17 18 193 14 15 16 17 18 192 ­during the year. Injury lost day rate¹ Lost days per injury¹ Injury rate² 24 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 People Individual responsibility is the foundation of our approach Risk management to health and safety, and each manager has the responsibility Risk management is central to improving the working envito identify risks, take proactive action and encourage the ronment and strengthening the Group’s safety culture. The right behavior. Each unit reports on metrics to identify areas Group’s Safety Manual builds on our belief that safety is a top for improvement and preventive action. Our risk manpriority, that injuries are preventable and that safety inciagement system places a strong emphasis on prevention, dents are opportunities to learn from and improve on. The and showed positive results during 2019. A Group-wide manual provides an extensive framework for implementing, focus on the leading indicators of safety improvements has reviewing and promoting a coherent approach to the Health been developed, and we are tracking both identified and and Safety system throughout the Group. It is based on the implemented improvements. Group’s experience of what is considered best practice, and Our goal is to offer our employees a safe place to work and assists in identifying and reducing workplace hazards. It is a safe physical working conditions. All units at ASSA ABLOY part of the everyday health and safety work at all units. A key have a site safety representative, and all units with more than component is the identification and risk assessment model, 50 employees have their own Health and Safety committee. which can be used in Group-wide operations on all levels. This year, a factory-oriented hazard assessment tool called the Operational Safety Assessment was deployed to increase our efforts to reduce workplace hazards. Energy-harvesting access system steps up ­ sustainability performance Imagine an access control system that is completely access control, non-renewable resources remain powered by the insertion of a digital key. No cabling, embodied in the battery itself — particularly if a user no mains electricity and no batteries. We’ve turned fails to recycle properly. Energy harvesting removes that into reality with ASSA ABLOY PULSE – a leap the need for external power altogether, including any forward for sustainable security solutions. battery. This marks a significant sustainability PULSE relies on our new innovative energy harimprovement. vesting technology. Encrypted electronics inside a Reuse is also built into every PULSE system. The keys PULSE locking cylinder or padlock are powered by the are easily reprogrammed using our companion insertion and turning of a PULSE key. A small generator software. Security managers can simply delete and harnesses the kinetic energy. reprogram permissions stored in each key. Likewise, The lock’s electronics check the validity of a key’s with PULSE cylinders and padlocks, if you wish to credentials to quickly accept or deny its unlock relocate them to a new door or building, this is easily request. To the user, operation looks and feels familiar done without having to start from scratch with new – just like a traditional mechanical key or our batterylocks. powered electro­mechanical solution, CLIQ. PULSE’s We believe that the wider launch of ASSA ABLOY intelligent, self-powered security backbone works out PULSE, set to continue through 2020, will make a of sight. major contribution to sustainable security. Our While battery-powered locking devices are genmessage: the right access control can reduce your erally more energy efficient than mains-powered building’s environmental footprint. Establishing a strong workplace safety culture in Korea CHALLENGE: ASSA ABLOY’s door closer plant in South In addition, two major safety programs have been Korea, is a manufacturer door closers and floor springs introduced since 2017. A ‘near-miss’ program has with approximately 200 shop floor workers. A focus been expanded to identify unsafe conditions and on productivity, with new machinery, had resulted in 670 potential hazards have been recognized and an unacceptable level of safety-related incidents. addressed. A safety assessment for all facilities in the plant has been implemented and 327 identified SOLUTION: The South Korean team decided to hazards have been resolved. establish a strong workplace safety culture to change the mindset and attitude of our employees. Every RESULT: Through these continuous safety morning before work begins, a routine sees enhancement activities, the time lost through injuries employees remind themselves that safety is our has fallen by more than 90% compared with 2015. number one priority and everyone’s responsibility. ­Everyone has changed their attitude towards safety, taking responsibility to create a safer workplace. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 Governance Sustainability governance ASSA ABLOY AB is listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm stock The Code of Conduct is based on the following: exchange, Large Cap. The Swedish Code of Corporate Gov• United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights ernance, together with the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct and associated UN conventions form the basis of the Group’s actions, behavior and • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning external communications. ­Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy • United Nations Global Compact Frameworks and responsibilities • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ASSA ABLOY has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact • ISO 14001 environmental management standard since 2008. Our affiliation with the UN Global Compact means that we support and commit to actively promoting The full version of the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct is and respecting the 10 principles on human rights, labor available in English, French, German, Spanish, and Chinese, standards, the environment, and anti-corruption in our while a short version is available in 30 languages at: www. operations and in dealings with external stakeholders. assaabloy.com/code-of-conduct. The full version is given to As a signatory, ASSA ABLOY is obligated to issue a Com­ all managers, relevant employees, and union representamunication on Progress report annually to the UN Global tives. The short version is communicated and made available Compact. This obligation is fulfilled by issuing this Sustainato all employees. New employees are required to read the bility Report to the UN Global Compact. Code of Conduct and agree to abide by it and any related The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for policies within three months of joining the Group. identifying and managing existing and emerging risks. ASSA ABLOY respects the laws and regulations of the The Executive Team is responsible for sustainability risk countries in which we operate. The Code of Conduct does ­management relating to the Group’s strategy, the Code of not replace legislation and if the two differ, legislation takes Conduct, and other sustainability policies. The divisions have precedence. Although if the Code of Conduct sets a higher the operational responsibility as well as the responsibility to standard than the existing legislation, the reverse applies. integrate the sustainability principles into their daily A new version of the ASSA ABLOY Code of Conduct was operations. launched during 2019. Code of Conduct Business Partner Code of Conduct The Group-wide Code of Conduct covers business ethics, Our Business Partner Code of Conduct is based on the pillars communication, human rights and labor standards, the enviand frameworks of the Code of Conduct, but is adapted to ronment, and Health and Safety. It provides the framework external partners. The Code includes principles that apply for our daily operations and dealings with external globally to suppliers, business partners and other stakestakeholders. holders such as third parties acting on behalf of ASSA ABLOY and they are all required to comply with it. The Business Partner Code of Conduct is available in 21 languages. Etiske retningsl injer tta di Condo Codice Kort versjon Kodeks Po ralları ประมวล Code de Cond stępowani nış Ku จรรยาบรร uite a Davra ณ viata e abbre Version ฉบบ ั ย่อ Wersja skr Version abré ócona ‫م‬ ‫دونة قواعد الس لوك‬ gée rüm Kısa sü ‫اإلصدار املوجز‬ Etický ko Ver dex Co ‫ص ول‬ hal dul ‫چلند ا‬ ten Zkrácen de Gedragscode ‫د‬ Kur sko á verze Ve rs Co z fas sun dex iun ea ndu Tatak ‫سخه‬ ‫لن ډه ن‬ g s c ur tă ită elaku Korte versie Ve an rsi rin gkas বি বি 行動規 আ চ রণ 範 Eett সংবষি প্ত সংস্করণ iset Etisk rege sään lsæt 1 Lyh y t ve rsio nöt Kort ve 1 1 rsion document1343242 дение 976268971995.in :33 PM dd 1 019 12:53 Кодекс поведения 4/4/2 за пове PM 1:00:55 Кодекс ‫קוד ההתנהגות‬ 4/4/2019 4/4/2019 12:56:07 PM CoC Shor 1 1 d 1 t 2018 document670 6253002.ind THAI.indd 1 731225669612 3075292829 3962.indd document79 1 document2454637 Kратка я редакция 1 версия 907954269326.in dd 1 Кратка ‫גרסה מקוצרת‬ d 1 1855.ind 34300871 Kód 1 t9054839 4/4/2019 Code of Conduct Uppförandekod 4/4/2019 12:52:35 documen PM 12:56:20 PM ex s 2019-04-0 4 11:16 docu prá men CoC t619 11:12 Short docu 2019-04-04 1536 van 201 men 1505 8 PA SHTO t41 9082 0367 Krá tka ia .indd 6861 5055 1 CoC Short 2018 ARAB.indd 1 8016 3758 .indd verz आचार 1 Short version Kort version 7.ind d 1 document38 1464158717 ia 1 संहित 2546413.ind d 1 1 ा Code uta लघु सं of Con Cond Pravil स्करण duct 4/4/2019 o de a pon 201 12:50:10 1 9-04-0 1 PM 강령 docume document8607912355183935693.indd 1 4 11: Códig ašanja nt641030 216 15 4/4/2019 12:54:33 PM Versió 200462 n 행동 84730.i corta ndd 1 Skraće 4/4/ id a 1 4/4/ 2019 na verzija 2019 sum 12:57 12:50 ão re 范 :50 4 11:12 :21 PM 行为规 2019-04-0 Vers PM 판 축약 docum CoC 4/4/ Shor 201 ent760 t 2018 9 12:4 5:32 JP.in PM dd 1 1 472 942 1 924 583 BEN.indd 版 659 7.in 简化 t 2018 CoC Shor dd 1 document35 5117757396 1 6661910.ind 2019-04-0 d 1 4 11:15 1 1 4/4/2019 12:51:07 PM 4/4/20 PM 19 12:46:29 12:152: 1 4/4/2019 24 PM document2091282567241328448.i ndd 1 d 1 13612 0323923.ind CoC Short 2018 HB.indd 1 docu 4/4/2019 12:58:25 PM ent3306650 ment5 2019-04-04 11:13 docum 4294 1027 9028 8166 37.in dd 1 1 CoC Short 2018 1 1 HIND I.indd PM 1 19 12:57:40 4/4/20 PM 4/4 4:23 /20 1 9 12:5 documen 19 1:00:4 4/4/201 t6614325 4 PM docume 85100772 1 8737.ind nt19193 d 1 394252 1 741868 1 1 80.indd 8:06 PM 1 9 12:4 dd 1 4/4/201 1 839 8433.in 2019 1 -04 775 200221 4.indd -04 ent146 101407 11:14 4/4/2019 docum 481 591681 12:51:22 ument57 PM doc document5381808358647240621.indd 1 4/4/2019 document2134833336897403968.indd 3:19:30 PM 1 4/4/2019 12:58:36 PM 4/4/201 9 12:5 1 3:14 PM 25.indd 844420 588263 nt46459 docume 26 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Governance New Code of Conduct e-learning Reporting Code of Conduct concerns Together with the launch of the new version of the Code of Conducting business in an ethical manner is vital to our longConduct In 2019, a new web-based training program was term success. Employees are therefore expected to report developed. It includes information and checkpoints to Code of Conduct concerns and there are several communipromote dialogue and raise awareness of the Code of cation channels available; for example, a central communiConduct among our employees. The training program also cation channel. The objective is for cases to be resolved on a clarifies what is expected of our employees. The Code of local level; however in 2019, 31 (31) cases were reported Conduct is being rolled-out throughout the Group. through the central communication channel and dealt with on a Group level. The range of cases demonstrates that the The Code of Conduct Committee mechanism is used throughout the organization. ASSA ABLOY has a Code of Conduct Committee, which is The process for handling of Code of Conduct concerns has chaired by the Executive Vice President & CHRO. Its been set up to ensure that reported concerns are handled In members include the Director of Sustainability, Group Head a professional manner and that it is possible for a reporter to of Compliance and two employee representatives, who are (as far as it is legally possible) remain anonymous. Further, also members of the ASSA ABLOY Board of Directors. Among since most cases are resolved at local level, the process is the other things, the members of the committee receive inforsame for all divisions and the requirements for closing an mation from whistle-blowers and the committee ensures investigation are the same in all divisions. that such matters are dealt with appropriately and followed through. The committee meets three times per year. Compliance reviews To maintain ASSA ABLOY’s standards throughout the organiGrowing with care zation, internal Code of Conduct compliance reviews are As we grow organically and through acquisitions, the complemented with third-party audits. These audits focus ­relocation of production is part of creating a more efficient on working conditions, such as human rights, labor rights, manufacturing structure. Expanding the business in new health and safety, and compliance. We carry out one to three regions, often in emerging markets, will remain an important audits every year with a focus on our manufacturing sites in part of our strategy for the foreseeable future. It is important Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and South to understand the business context when moving into America. The units are given specific improvement actions new regions and integrating new units. At the same time, to fulfil, based on the audit results. In 2019, three external we work to ensure that the business is run in line with audits were performed on ASSA ABLOY’s operations in the ASSA ABLOY’s Code of Conduct and beliefs. The ability United Arab Emirates, Hungary and Brazil. to grow responsibly promotes our performance. Transparency documentation vital to LBC certification CHALLENGE: The Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design is a new facility at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, US. The design and construction team set the ambitious goal of building the largest Living Building ­Challenge 3.1 certified facility in the Southeast United States. The Living Building Challenge (LBC) is a rigorous green building certification program which aims at net zero or net-positive energy, water, and waste. Attaining LBC certification requires building components – including door openings – that are backed by transparency documentation that lists material ingredients used in the product. SOLUTION: ASSA ABLOY works directly with customers to meet LBC standards, ­providing clear and concise documentation illustrating the contributions offered by various products. Many products from ASSA ABLOY Group brands have attained transparency documentation, including Health Product Declarations, Environmental Product Declarations, and Declare labels that determine where a product came from, how it was made, and the materials used in its construction. RESULT: The ASSA ABLOY Group brand products installed throughout the building with transparency documentation enabled the design and construction team to use the building’s door openings as a sustainability asset to help achieve LBC certification. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 Governance Organizational responsibility Our divisions have operational responsibility for their bility managers and includes tools, best practices, and access ­sustainability work. The work is overseen by the Executive to the sustainability reporting database. Statistical reports Team and ultimately by the Board of Directors. Our and scorecards enable all ASSA ABLOY companies to strategy, sustainability objectives and the Code of monitor their performance and to benchmark themselves Conduct form the foundation for the sustainability work. against the Group. Managing the sustainability agenda Responsibilities Our sustainability issues are managed in a systematic and Each division is responsible for managing our sustainability consistent way, mostly at divisional level. Managers for enviagenda, identifying and addressing risks and opportunities in ronmental sustainability, supply, and innovation at the the context of their business, as well as governing the Code Group and divisional levels ensure that the necessary polof Conduct and related policies. icies, processes and tools for managing environmental issues Divisional work and progress is overseen by the Executive exist and are implemented. The Human Resources (HR) Team, and each factory or business unit has the operational functions at the Group and divisional levels have the responsibility within each division. Each division is also ­corresponding responsibility for managing social and responsible for ensuring that current and new suppliers ethical matters. understand and comply with our requirements. To drive the agenda, five functional sustainability councils At Group level, performance is monitored via the sustainahave been defined. The Group intranet includes two sections bility reporting process, which includes each company’s that focus on sustainability – one offering general inforreporting of material environmental risks and actions to mation for all employees, while the other supports sustaina­mitigate them. Divisional board meetings address risks, Organizational responsibility Board of Directors ASSA ABLOY Group Management Divisional Boards Opening Solutions Opening Solutions Opening Solutions Global Technologies Entrance Systems EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Sustainability councils reporting process Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sales Unit Sustainable innovation Supply chain integrity Environmental Social and ethical Health and safety 28 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Governance c­ ompliance, performance and other sustainability matters. ASSA ABLOY’s councils The delegation of responsibility, implementation and follow Our Sustainability Council comprises of representatives up is clearly communicated and the accountability of each from Operations, Research and Development and Human person and function with a particular responsibility is defined. Resources, including the person responsible for sustainability in each division. The council meets eight to ten times Monitoring progress each year, mostly through virtual meetings to cut down on We have a Group-wide database for sustainability indicator carbon intensive travel; to discuss various sustainability reporting, which enables data analysis. The database matters related to innovation and production, to define includes best practices and tools as well as details of action plans and set targets. Each participant in the council is measures taken by the various companies to achieve our responsible for reporting back to their organization and for ­sustainability targets. All companies and divisions in the driving implementation. Group can access information from the database to compare In addition to the Sustainability Council, there are progress and trends. In 2019, 371 (361) factories, sales units councils for Innovation, Sourcing, Operations, Human and offices reported their data in the database. Resources, Health and Safety, and Legal whose members The review process is managed by the divisions on a quarinclude representatives from the Group and all divisions, terly basis – typically with detailed follow-up discussions which manage sustainability issues related to their business. with the relevant sub-divisions. Overall Group performance is monitored by our Sustainability Council, which tracks the performance of individual KPIs, and the results are presented at Group Management meetings. Councils and workstreams related to ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability work Sustainable Innovation Supply chain integrity Environmental Social and ethical Health and safety Legal ASSA ABLOY Zeljka Svensson, Stefan Calner, Charles Robinson, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Maria Romberg Ewerth, Johan Ahlgren, Group Director Global Innovation Director Supply Director of Sustainability1 Chief Human Resources Chief Human Resources Group General Counsel Management Management Officer Officer Opening ­Solutions David Moser, Lee Philp, Leandro Peraro, Allan Cooper Leandro Peraro, Hemma Patel, EMEA VP Product Innovation VP Operations Sustainability Manager VP Human Resources Sustainability Manager General Counsel Opening ­Solutions Amy Musanti, Jody Paviglionite, Vinny Yakoobian, Jack Dwyer, Kimberly Cummins, Page Heslin, Americas Director of Sustainable VP Supply Management Director Operational VP Human Resources and Human Resources Manager General Counsel Building Solutions Excellence Administration ASSA ABLOY Berlin Opening ­Solutions Jamie Tawhai, Michael Deng, Michael Deng, Sally Georgas Sally Georgas, Ivan Lu, Asia Pacific VP Innovation Sustainability Manager Sustainability Manager Global Director Human Global Director Human General Counsel Resources Resources HID Global Ted Hoffman, Joshua Freeman, Jeff Sasse, Lisa Woodson, Jeff Sasse, Karen Higgins, Director Engineering VP Quality and Process Director Global VP Human Resources Director Global General Counsel Excellence Sustainability Sustainability Global Solutions Louise Wolfshagen Julie Zhu, Louise Wolfshagen Christophe Sut, Julie Zhu, Ann-Charlotte Högberg, Global Quality Assurance VP Operations Global Quality Assurance Executive Vice President VP Operations General Counsel Manager Manager and Head of ASSA ABLOY Global solutions Entrance Systems Mats Nordén, Dan Gren, Tobias Svensson, Jessica Jonasson, Tobias Svensson, Jakob Hedén, CTO Entrance Systems VP Operations Head of Process Excellence VP Human Resources Head of Process Excellence General Counsel Policies Innovation Policy Business Partner Code of Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Policy for Intellectual Conduct Environmental HR Policies and Guidelines Health and Safety Policy Anti-bribery Policy Property Supply Management Policy Sustainability Policy Manual Tax policy* * The Group’s Tax policy is ­coordinated by Group Tax. 1 A dedicated Director of Sustainability, Charles Robinson, was appointed during the year with the responsibility to coordinate all sustainability initiatives in the ASSA ABLOY Group through close collaboration with the different ­stakeholders and functions across the organization. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 Governance Stakeholder engagement and materiality analysis Engagement with a wide variety of stakeholders helps us Supplier and business partner issues are managed through to be aware of societal expectations on the company. our supply chain audits and Business Partner Code of Stakeholder engagement also provides the basis for our Conduct compliance. materiality analysis, which provides a clear understanding of which sustainability topics that are the most Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and local significant to ASSA ABLOY and our stakeholders. ­communities are engaged through local dialogue when relevant. Stakeholder engagement Our main stakeholder groups are those with a high level of Materiality analysis influence and interaction, and with whom we interact In 2013 we conducted our first materiality analysis. The directly and actively in our day-to-day business: analysis was reviewed in 2015, and again in 2017. During 2018, we performed a materiality analysis based on requireCustomers are becoming increasingly interested in transments in the GRI Standards. Together with selected sustainaparency and products with improved sustainability perforbility experts ASSA ABLOY’s Sustainability Council identified mance. Environmental and social supply chain transparency and analyzed the significant impact of sustainability topics typically relates to where and how our products are manuon the outside world. In addition, over 250 stakeholders in factured, along with details of the materials contained in the form of customers, suppliers and employees assessed products, and is addressed by the company’s work with our which sustainability topics they perceive have a substantive supply chain. Customer interest in sustainable products has influence on their assessments and decisions in relation to emerged from a growing importance of sustainable cities, our business. buildings and communities. One major focus area is energy The materiality analysis highlights the following sustainaefficiency and how our products can make a contribution. bility topics as the most significant ones: We respond to this interest by engaging and collaborating with customers in product innovation and at relevant Most significant sustainability topics for ­conferences and events, as well as through our membership ASSA ABLOY and our stakeholders: of green building organizations and initiatives. • Human capital development • Improve health and safety performance Investors and shareholders have become increasingly inter• Sustainable and circular products ested in sustainability issues in recent years. We engage with • Responsible acquisitions investors and shareholders in both one-to-one meetings and • Sustainable supply chains roundtable discussions on a variety of issues. These include • Resource efficiency supply chain management, Code of Conduct compliance, mergers & acquisitions due diligence, phase out of hazardous Most significant topic for ASSA ABLOY: materials, energy consumption and CO2 emissions, health • Reduce emissions with global warming potential and safety, market demand and profitability for sustainable products, and solutions and type of whistle blowing cases. Significant topics for ASSA ABLOY and our stakeholders: • Safety, security and convenience for customers Employees are engaged through annual appraisals, training • Strengthen anti-corruption measures and development initiatives, staff meetings, the internal • Business compliance magazine in 17 languages, and the intranet. We work to improve employee satisfaction across a broad range of areas, The materiality analysis forms the basis of defining the and progress is measured in the employee survey. ­Sustainability Report content. 30 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Investor statements Governance “ASSA ABLOY is one of the few companies in the industry conducting supplier audits. This is positive.” ASSA ABLOY’s core values sets the tone and direction of how to net zero emissions of greenhouse gas by 2050 within our the business is developed. Integration of sustainability investments. The approach is to emphasize greenhouse gas aspects into the products is a strategic focus with great emissions reduction in the real economy. We expect the potential. ASSA ABLOY has improved how suppliers’ audits companies we invest in to set up and deliver on their own are conducted in relation to the Code of Conduct. Important greenhouse gas emission targets. ASSA ABLOY is doing their aspects are environmental and human rights compliance as part of the job, but all companies must drive for continuous well as third-party verification. ASSA ABLOY is one of the few improvement. companies in the industry conducting supplier audits. This Gender balance is a key challenge for ASSA ABLOY, with is positive. women accounting for around 20% of top managers. ASSA Nina Bönnelyche Folksam was one of the founders of the UN Convened ABLOY needs to focus on how to attract, develop and keep Business Analyst, Responsible Investment, Folksam Net Zero Asset Owner Alliance which was launched in women. A competitive strategy is needed if 30% of mana­September 2019. Through this Alliance we have committed gerial positions are to be held by women by 2020. “I appreciate that ASSA ABLOY has evaluated its impact on a sustainable development and analyzed which of the UN’s Sustainable Development goals that are in line with the business model.” ASSA ABLOY is constantly moving forward with a high degree bility activities. ASSA ABLOY’s five-year sustainability of innovation and is at the forefront in relation to many other ­programs are well considered. companies when it comes to integrating sustainability ASSA ABLOY’s greatest asset is the people behind the within business operation. ASSA ABLOY has a great opportechnology – implementing a corporate culture within the tunity to make a positive difference with its products. By business and throughout the supply chain is therefore continuous progress in areas such as digitalization and AI, central. ASSA ABLOY has shown that they take the employee there are no limitations on how products can be further matters seriously through a clear focus on health and safety Peter Lundkvist developed. ASSA ABLOY’s products are a vital component in in recent years. It is important that ASSA ABLOY acknowlSenior Strategist and Head of creating sustainable cities today and in the future. edges the inherent risks of operating in low-cost countries. Corporate Governance, Third I appreciate that ASSA ABLOY has evaluated its impact on Transparency and constant work with social aspects Swedish National Pension Fund a sustainable development and analyzed which of the UN’s throughout the supply chain are key for future success. Sustainable Development goals that are in line with the As an investor, I expect a stronger link between ASSA business model. ASSA ABLOY uses quantitative and qualiABLOY’s sustainability and financial performance. ASSA tative targets with a clear ambition to reduce its climate ABLOY would also benefit from risk scenario analyzes in impact. There are benefits with longer time cycles when accordance with Task Force on Climate-related Financial setting sustainability targets and when evaluating sustaina­Disclosures framework. “ASSA ABLOY has taken initiative towards a more equal organization but gender balance remains a key challenge.” ASSA ABLOY helps its customers become more sustainable ASSA ABLOY’s ambition to increase the opportunities within through energy-saving solutions and product innovation. the company. Gender balance remains a key challenge. In its own production there is active work to reduce the use It is important for ASSA ABLOY to ensure that the of energy, use fewer and smaller quantities of dangerous ­company’s suppliers meet the requirements in the Code chemicals and to reduce water consumption. ASSA ABLOY is of Conduct. It is extensive work to ensure that suppliers in actively working to develop more sustainable products and ­low-cost countries comply with the ASSA ABLOY Code of services. For example, methods to avoid the use of conflict Conduct. This is one of ASSA ABLOY’s largest challenges minerals, and solutions to generate energy from the moving forward. movement when the key is inserted in the key lock are As an investor, it is desirable to see measurable perforAnette Dahlberg very interesting. mance and examples of how improvements are made. Portfolio Manager, Länsförsäkringar ASSA ABLOY has taken initiative towards a more equal In the future, I want ASSA ABLOY to strive to give concrete organization. ASSA ABLOY encourages women to apply for examples of how ASSA ABLOY’s products help their internally advertised managerial positions, and I appreciate ­customers reduce their energy use. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 Governance Anti-corruption and other compliance programs We have specific global compliance programs and polprocess for internal control in all operating companies icies within the areas of anti-corruption, antitrust, export and internal audits. control and data protection, which supplement and build We also have a mergers and acquisitions compliance on our Code of Conduct. In 2019, we continued with the process as part of the acquisition process. The aim of this implementation of our Data Protection Compliance process is to put any potential issues on the agenda from the Program. The process for handling of Code of Conduct outset of the acquisition to be able to determine the level of cases was further streamlined throughout the Group and risk at an early stage, as well as to mitigate specific areas of the divisional due diligence processes was further concern. Read more in the Acquisitions section on page 33. strengthened. The implementation and further development of the compliance programs are ongoing, and we are working conProgress in 2019 tinuously to evaluate and further develop their effectiveness. • Data Protection Compliance Program update and implementation Anti-Corruption Compliance Program The global program is based on both the EU General Data Corruption increases inequality, the cost of doing business ­Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the principles set out in and reduces efficiency. We work actively to prevent corthe OECD Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy and Transruption in our business. Our Anti-Corruption Compliance border Flows of Personal Data. During 2019, we have updated Program (the anti-bribery policy) adheres to the strictest the Data Protection Compliance Program to further clarify its international standards to prevent, detect and respond to global scope and local law application and added and potential corruption – and it is constantly evaluated. Risk updated appendices for further guidance. Implementation assessments, employee training, third-party compliance, of the program continues throughout the Group through and reporting are its essential components. The program is dialogue with internal stakeholders to ensure understanding available on the external Group website, together with the and commitment by every employee concerned. Code of Conduct and the Business Partner Code of Conduct. All relevant ASSA ABLOY employees have received infor• Anti-Corruption Compliance Program mation on the Anti-Corruption Compliance Program and The Anti-Corruption Compliance Program was updated to the Code of Conduct. further stress that it covers a broader scope than only We conduct business worldwide and consequently anti-bribery. operate in some countries where corruption risks are per• Handling of Code of Conduct cases streamlined ceived to be high, according to the Corruption Perceptions The frequency of the Code of Conduct Committee meetings Index published by Transparency International. A large part has increased in order to speed up the investigation process. of our sales are handled through third parties, such as disInvestigation guidelines have also been introduced to ensure tributors, and the majority of our anti-corruption efforts are that Code of Conduct cases are handled professionally and in used to ensure that such third parties acting on behalf of us the same way within the divisions. comply with ASSA ABLOY’s standards. This is particularly the case in markets that are perceived to have a higher level of • Anti-corruption reviews corruption risk exposure, such as emerging markets or counDuring the year, anti-corruption reviews have been conducted tries with a low score on Transparency International’s latest in Asia, South America and Europe. Corruption Perceptions Index. • Introduction of Compliance Dashboard The implementation of the Anti-Corruption Compliance Compliance training Program is regularly reviewed at the divisions’ board Our training guidelines stipulate that all new employees meetings. Implementation is presented in a dashboard should receive training on the relevant compliance proformat. grams within three months, and receive further training every three years thereafter. Training is conducted either Compliance overview through e-learning programs (available for antitrust and All compliance-related programs, policies and requirements anti-corruption), webinars or face-to-face. are set by the Group, which also provides supporting tools. The anti-corruption e-learning program is global and Each division is responsible for implementing the programs. available in 22 languages. The target group for the anti-­ Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Compliance corruption training includes managers as well as sales, Program is regularly reviewed at the divisions’ board ­purchasing and sourcing personnel. meetings. Employees are expected to report any concerns to At the end of 2019, 84% (83) of relevant employees either their nearest manager, the divisional compliance had participated in anti-corruption training. officer, Group Legal, or through the Code of Conduct whistle­ blowing function. Continued work in 2020 In 2019 employees in regions where the risk of corruption The refined model for risk assessment will be further applied is perceived to be higher, such as emerging markets or counat divisional level allowing for actions to be prioritized and tries with a low score on Transparency International’s latest compliance risks to be identified and mitigated. The anti-­ Corruption Perception Index have continued to be in focus. corruption reviews will continue in regions where the corDuring the year anti-corruption reviews have been conruption risk exposure is perceived to be high and the process ducted in Asia, South America and Europe. The implemenfor follow-up of implementation of the Anti-Corruption Comtation of the programs is reviewed through our established pliance Program at divisional level will be further developed. 32 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Acquisitions Governance Acquisitions are important to our growth strategy. They and critical components. This mapping involves Group strengthen our offerings, accelerate innovation, and take Supply Management and aims to identify risks and potential ASSA ABLOY into new geographic markets – enabling us synergies. Post-acquisition, associated suppliers are added to meet customer demands more rapidly. to our supplier database, which is continuously assessed and audited. Progress in 2019 As part of the acquisition process, we are obliged in • New acquisitions certain cases to file for antitrust approval. During 2019, the 12 acquisitions were consolidated during the year. 8% of the company did this in a number of cases when it was required. acquisitions were in emerging markets. The successful integration of an acquired company normally takes between 6 and 12 months – depending on the • Acquisition post-closing follow up type of acquisition and its specific circumstances. A new process for formally following up on all acquisitions after some 15–18 months was implemented during 2018. Risk management The follow up focuses both on financial performance and We have identified the main areas of potential risks related synergies but also on the status of the integration process. to acquisitions, all of which are covered by Legal and This process has continued during 2019 and has become an ­Operational due diligence. Our Group-wide sustainability integral part of the acquisition process. management program – including targets, semi-annual • Integration manager reporting, supply chain management, and Group-wide The process for appointing a dedicated integration manager ­policies – manages risk in the following areas: in all acquisitions that was formalized during 2018 has con• Significant environmental pollution (soil, ground water, tinued. The integration manager is appointed already during and air) the acquisition process and is the lead person post-closing • Manufacturing processes that use hazardous substances for managing all integration aspects of the acquired • Supplier base in low-cost countries company. • Poor business ethics, including possible Code of Conduct breaches (labor rights, human rights, corruption, etc.) With more than 200 acquisitions during the last 15 years, we • Proper permissions have established an efficient process for bringing new com• Safety panies into the Group. This includes reviewing sustainabilityrelated issues, sharing the company’s Code of Conduct and In addition, dedicated action plans are set up when required. way of doing business with prospective companies, and taking steps to help newly acquired companies raise their Compliance process standards where necessary. Our mergers and acquisitions (M&A) compliance process Due to the decentralized nature of the ASSA ABLOY aims to ensure that companies – particularly in emerging Group, divisions are responsible for the entire merger and markets – comply with the company’s standards. The M&A acquisition process, and are resourced accordingly. We process includes a practical toolkit that provides our provide an overview of company-wide activities, and employees involved in the acquisition process with support divisions with common compliance guidelines. guidance. It covers the following areas: We prefer to acquire sound companies that share our • Anti-corruption values and business practices, and the successful integration • Antitrust of acquired companies is an essential part of mitigating risks. • Export control • Data protection The acquisition process • Environmental, health and safety Our Group-wide acquisition process is divided into four • Tax phases: strategy, assessment, implementation, and inte• Human resources gration. Each phase has its own predefined activities, decision processes and documentation requirements. The M&A process aims to put all potential issues on the Within these phases there are three main due diligence proagenda from the outset of the acquisition to enable an cesses that help us decide whether to pursue the acquisition, accurate risk appreciation at an early stage. This allows the and what action would need to be taken if the acquisition is due diligence process to be tailored to specific areas of completed: concern. During 2018 the two areas of Data protection and • Financial and tax Human resources were added to the areas specifically • Legal – including employment contracts, payment covered in the process. ­processes, wages and insurance Post-completion, a thorough program for addressing any • Operational – including the use of chemicals and identified compliance issues, as well as any Code of Conduct compliance related aspects, such as human rights, are to be put in place and implemented. The post-completion review is particuAn excessive number of red flags in the Legal and Operalarly important if insufficient information has been obtained tional due diligence processes related to sustainability may during the acquisition phase. The M&A compliance guidemean that the acquisition process is abandoned indefinitely. lines also offer guidance on this process. The supplier base of the potential company is also investigated – including two supplier categories: large suppliers ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 GRI content index GRI content index General Disclosures Page GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102 1 Name of the organization 26 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 4–6, 11 102-3 Location of headquarters Backcover 102-4 Location of operations 6, AR 83 102-5 Ownership and legal form 26, AR 102–103 102-6 Markets served 6, AR 6–7, 75 102-7 Scale of the organization 23, AR 59–61, 63, 87–88 102-8 Information on employees and other workers1 23, 36, AR 87–88 102-9 Supply chain 6, 12–14 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain AR 40–41, 87 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 15 102-12 External initiatives Cover inside, 3, 26 102-13 Membership of associations 7 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 6, 12–14, 26–27 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 26–29 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 30 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 23 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 30 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 4, 30 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 30–31 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 36, AR 81 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 30, 36 102-47 List of material topics 31 102-48 Restatements of information 36 102-49 Changes in reporting 36 102-50 Reporting period 36 102-51 Date of most recent report 36 102-52 Reporting cycle 36 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 37 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 36 102-55 GRI content index 34–35 102-56 External assurance 37 1 Data for employee contract by region and employee type by gender is not available. 34 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI content index Topic-specific Disclosures Topic in ASSA ABLOY’s GRI Standard Disclosure Page Linked SDGs ­Materiality Analysis Economic Anti-corruption 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–7, 12–13, 26–29, 30, 32–33 Anti-corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 32, 33 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 26–27, 32 policies and procedures Environmental Energy 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 15–17, 21, 29–26, 30 Energy GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 16–17, 36 302-3 Energy intensity 17 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 17, 36 Water 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 15, 18, 26–30 Water GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 18 303-3 Water recycled and reused 18 Emissions 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 15–17, 20, 26–29, 30 Emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 17, 36 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 17, 36 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 17 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 17, 36 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 17 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 20 significant air emissions1 Effluents and Waste 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 15, 18–19, 26–30 Water GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 18 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 19 306-3 Significant spills 19 Environmental Compliance 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 15, 26–30 Environmental GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and 15 ­compliance 2016 regulations Supplier Environmental 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 12–15, 21, 26–30 Procurement Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental 12–14 practices GRI 308: Supplier Environmental criteria Assessment 2016 Environmental management 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 15, 21, 26–30 Environmental systems Number of entities covered by ISO 14001 certificates and 21 management other certifiable environmental management systems systems Social Occupational Health and Safety 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 22–25, 26–30 Occupational health GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– 24 and safety Safety 2016 worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 24 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities2 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 21–25, 26, 30 Diversity GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees3 23 Opportunity 2016 Human Rights Assessment 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 12–14, 26–30, 33 Acquisitions GRI: 412 Human Rights Assessment 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that 33 2016 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Supplier Social Assessment 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–8, 12–14, 26–30 Procurement GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 12–14 practices 2016 Marketing and Labeling 103-1/2/3 Management Approach* 6–7, 9–10, 26–30 Sustainable GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and 9–10 innovation/ 2016 labeling sustainable products * GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 1 Data includes the use of chlorinated organic solvents. Data by nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions is not available. 2 Data by gender and region not available. Absenteeism and occupational diseases not available on Group level. 3 Data by age groups not available. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 Reporting principles Reporting principles We work continuously to improve reporting transparency, Energy Agency (IEA) and the International Panel on Climate scope, quality and the frequency of information. This is Change (IPCC), and are expressed in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). the Group’s fourteenth Sustainability Report. ASSA ABLOY For Brazil, Canada, United Kingdom and the United States the reports in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core emission factors are based on data published by national option. agencies. We currently only report location-based Scope 2 emisReporting units sions due to the unavailability of market based data. The number of entities (factories, sales companies and District heating emission factors are calculated as a offices) reporting on sustainability in 2019 has increased weighted average of energy sources for heat production per from 361 to 371. The data in the Sustainability Report reprecountry, based on data from 2009 as published by the Intersents entities where 90% of the Group’s employees work. In national Energy Agency (IEA, 2013). terms of manufacturing activities the report is estimated to Emission factors for oil, coal and gas are based on data cover entities that represent 95% of the Group’s total manupublished by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel facturing activities. The parts of the Group that are not on Climate Change (IPCC, 2006). covered are either related to recently acquired entities or entities with less than 10 employees. Joint ventures are Changes in reporting management included if ASSA ABLOY holds the majority ownership. ASSA ABLOY’s sustainability reporting system facilitates the collection of data that is aligned with the Group’s financial Calculation principles reporting. It also supports sustainability management in all The reported number of employees represents the number areas of operations. of employed persons at the end of 2019. We have improved our internal sustainability reporting Reported normalized KPIs are based on currency-neutral and analysis capabilities in recent years, which has resulted monetary values and value added rather than sales – to minin restatements of previously reported data for water conimize the effect of currency fluctuations and the ongoing sumption, energy consumption and carbon emissions. restructuring of the Group. By using value added as a All units report sustainability performance every quarter measure, the normalized values are also not affected by the (internal reporting). outsourcing of manufacturing. We believe this provides a more accurate picture of what is going on in the Group. GRI Standards ASSA ABLOY uses the CDP’s principle for calculating The Sustainability Report covers the 2019 reporting year and carbon emissions. The selected method gives a more relhas been developed with guidance from a number of evant calculation on the actual carbon emissions as it takes standards and with substantial input from investors and into account how electricity is generated in different available rating schemes, in particular the GRI Standards. countries. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Electricity emission factors are based on data on electricity Standards: Core option. Accordingly, the GRI indicators have production for 2010, as published by the International Energy been chosen to match the material issues disclosed on page Agency (IEA, 2012). These emission factors are used for calcu30. Omissions or incomplete data are commented on lation of emissions until end of 2016. In 2017 ASSA ABLOY directly in the GRI index on pages 34–35. updated the emission factors used to calculate greenhouse We report our sustainability performance annually, and gases from electricity consumption. The emission factors are the most recent Sustainability Report, for 2019, was issued based on the most recent data published by the International in March 2020. External assurance ASSA ABLOY has not sought external assurance for the Sustainability Report of 2019. PwC Sweden has performed a GRI check and confirms that we report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Communication Number of reporting units Internally, the Group intranet and sustainability reporting database are important tools for communication. Externally, Number the Group website www.assaabloy.com and the annual 400 ­Sustainability Report communicate to a wider audience. 350 We also present our sustainability approach to external 300 ­audiences, such as analysts and investors. 250 200 150 100 The number of reporting 50 units in the Group has 0 increased to 371 (361). 14 15 16 17 18 19 36 ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Auditor’s report on the statutory AUDITOR’S REPORT/ GLOSSARY/CONTACTS Sustainability Report To the general meeting of the shareholders in ASSA ABLOY AB (publ) AB, accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted ­corporate identity number 556059-3575. auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory Sustainability Opinion Report for the year 2019 and that it has been prepared in accordance with A statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm, 6 February 2020 The scope of the audit PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 – the auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory SustainaBo Karlsson Linda Corneliusson bility Report. This means that our examination of the statutory Sustainability Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in Auditor-in-charge Glossary Contacts Building Information Modeling (BIM): A Global-warming potential (GWP): A relative Sustainable innovation: method of drawing data-rich 3D objects that measure of how much heat a greenhouse gas Zeljka Svensson, ASSA ABLOY AB provide a wealth of information on product traps in the atmosphere. Director, Global Innovation options and how the equipment integrates into a zeljka.svensson@assaabloy.com Greenhouse gas emissions: Gases from the building. Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 atmosphere that contribute to the greenhouse BREEAM: A sustainability assessment method effect, for example CO2 and methane. Supply-chain integrity: and rating system for buildings, measuring a Indirect energy: Electricity and heating. Stefan Calner, ASSA ABLOY AB building’s environmental performance during Injury lost day rate: Measure of days lost due to Director, Supply Management building design, construction and operation. injuries per million hours worked. stefan.calner@assaabloy.com Carbon footprint: CO2 measurement of the Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 impact of human activities on the environment, Injury rate: Measure of injuries per million hours in terms of the amount of greenhouse gases worked. Environmental sustainability: produced. ISO 14001: Global certifiable standard for enviCharles Robinson, ASSA ABLOY AB CDP: Formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure ronmental management systems created by the Director of Sustainability Project, CDP is an independent non-profit organiInternational Organization for Standardization. charles.robinson@assaabloy.com zation compiling the world’s largest database of Tel: +353 (0) 8 770 985 83 KPI: Key Performance Indicator. corporate climate change information. CDP harmonizes climate change data from local organizaLean: Lean production philosophy is about using Social and ethical matters: tions from around the world to assist in the develas few resources as possible. The focus is on justMaria Romberg Ewerth, ASSA ABLOY AB opment of international carbon reporting in-time production, which means that materials, Executive Vice President and Chief Human standards. parts and products are in the right place at the Resources Officer right time. Striving for continuous improvement maria.ewerth@assaabloy.com CO2: Carbon dioxide. is an integral part of the Lean philosophy. Tel: +46 (0) 8 506 485 00 Direct energy: Energy generated and utilized on LEED: Leadership in Energy and Environmental site from oil, gas, etc. Design. EBIT: Earnings before interest and tax. NGO: Non-governmental organization. Environmental Product Declaration (EPD): A Organic solvents: Perchloroethylene and verified and registered document that communitrichloroethylene. cates transparent and comparable information PER: Perchloroethylene. about the life-cycle environmental impact of products. SRI: Socially Responsible Investment. Global Compact: UN initiative that encourages TRI: Trichloroethylene. companies to apply sustainable and socially Value added: EBIT plus total cost for personnel. responsible principles. Production: ASSA ABLOY, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Global guidePhoto: ASSA ABLOY’s own photographic library, among ­others. lines for ­sustainability reporting. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet 2020. ASSA ABLOY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 The ASSA ABLOY Group is the global leader in access solutions. Every day we help people feel safe, secure and experience a more open world. Heroes don’t always wear capes CHALLENGE: What can we do to improve our safetySOLUTION: As of 2018, 1,900 ASSA ABLOY Entrance RESULT: The safety workshops and campaign improved related behavior? Encouraging change is a challenge Systems field service technicians participated in an annual safety awareness, and educated employees on the imporbecause entrenched negative safety behaviors need to safety workshop. Its aim is to increase safety awareness tance of clear communications when it comes to safety be identified and overcome. Change begins with clear and understanding of why accidents happen; what makes behaviours. By understanding safety risks, communicommunication, and support and guidance for employees a safe workplace and what the individual can do to cating effectively, and living by our values, employees to improve safety awareness and achieve our goal of an achieve it. In 2019, Entrance Systems also introduced a improved our safety culture. ASSA ABLOY has set a target injury-free workplace. health and safety campaign called ‘Heroes don’t always to reduce the injury rate by 55% between 2015 and 2020. wear capes.’ The campaign celebrates the service techniIn 2019 the Injury Rate was 3.0, which represents a cians as heroes who wear protective clothing and focus on reduction of 55% compared with the 2015 level and working safely. realises the 2020 target. ASSA ABLOY AB Box 70340 SE-107 23 Stockholm Sweden Visiting address: Klarabergsviadukten 90 Tel +46 (0)8 506 485 00 Fax +46 (0)8 506 485 85 Reg. No. 556059-3575 assaabloy.com
