LE34 afdelingsnavn Energivej 34 2750 Ballerup Project: S20-1969 Document: D20-570280 DECEMBER 11 04-12-2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2020 Period covered by our Communication on Progress (COP) From: December 17th 2019 To: December 13th 2020 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December 13th 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that LE34 reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Vi henviser til vores politik vedrørende behandling af personoplysninger, som findes her eller via www.le34.dk/GDPR Dokumentfooter Side 1 af 3 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights • LE34 is presently contributing to a project in Ghana with the Danish Foreign Ministry. The project concerns the shocking consequences of poor and unsafe sewers in the city of Tema: Every year, children are lost because they fall into open sewers and drown. The project aim is to map the sewer system, create a wastewater plan and ensure proper drainage in the city. LE34 has donated an app developed for the registration and mapping of the sewer system based on GIS data. Along with this, we supply man-hours for consulting and teaching, data hosting until the data can be transferred to the city and GIS viewer software. • LE34 has contributed to a FAO project in Armenia, where about 1/3 of the arable agricultural land is uncultivated due to poor zoning with small scattered lots on the individual small farms, which means that the establishment of the necessary irrigation systems is not profitable. In collaboration with the UN Food and Agriculture Organization FAO, LE34 provides advice in connection with a land reform, which will ensure that you can handle the rent, purchase and sale of plots of land in the country. • LE34 has contributed pro bono to a World Bank project in Nepal aimed at securing rights to land and natural resources. • LE34 has contributed to the Danish COVID-19 emergency response by making our 3D-printers available without charge to the production of face shields. • LE34 has made a small 2020 donation of USD 1630 to the Danish Red Cross to aid refugee children • LE34 has taken measures to promote health and safety for all employees by initiating a safety campaign under the heading Take care of my colleague . The campaign is headed by the managing director and signals that the top management would never want an employee to expose others or himor herself to danger in order to deliver results. We have published a safety handbook dedicated to on-site employees to increase their safety. Throughout 2019, we have had monthly safety meetings hosted by our Managing Director in order to raise awareness of on-site safety issues. Labour • LE34 complies with minimum wage standards and is actively involved in collective agreements with labour market stakeholders and employee unions • In Q4 2020, LE34 has developed a whistleblower solution, which is being implemented internally and externally to give all employees, stakeholders or members of the public access to report suspicion of misconduct, fraud or unethical behavior anonymously and safely. The solution also targets working environment to offer a safe way to report issues related to employment. • LE34 collaborates with local public schools to promote public-private collaborations on education. • LE34 ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. • LE34 has initiated LE34 Academy to further education for our employees. • LE34 Academy has included management training of all management level employees who affect the working environment of their teams • LE34 reports all occupational diseases and injuries to the national Labour Market lnsurance to promote transparency and to track outcomes. • LE34 does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour Side 2 af 3 Environment • It is our goal that our role in the project in Ghana with the Danish foreign ministry can also help address the environmental issues related to the lack of wastewater planning and proper drainage. • LE34 has contributed to a project in Kenya, where a towering energy loss in the tea industry has significant effects on the environment. We have educated local technicians on how to laser scan the piping in factories in the Kenyan tea industry. Subsequently, we have quality-assured data, calculated and constructed 3D models of piping. • LE34 has taken the first step towards a fossil fuel free vehicle park. We have invested in electric vehicles and are phasing out our petrol engine cars as well as hybrids. Our detailed plan makes us 100 percent electric in 5 years. • LE34 takes measures to ensure that our services affect the environment as little as possible. • All LE34 offices comply with waste separation procedures and we have taken steps towards reducing waste by removing individual waste baskets and replacing them with central separation baskets Anti-Corruption • In Q4 2020, LE34 has developed a whistleblower solution, which is being implemented internally and externally to give all employees, stakeholders or members of the public access to report suspicion of misconduct, fraud or unethical behavior anonymously and safely. • LE34 has included the Ten Principles in our contracts with new business partners • LE34 ensures that internal procedures support our anti-corruption and transparency commitment 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • LE34 has achieved significant shareholder and leadership buy-in and has included the Ten Principles and the SDGs in our 2025 strategy work, which involves the management across the company and requires the reporting of goals on this area from each of our 7 business areas. • Our focus on the SDG’s and our expertise in land management has resulted in a dialogue with the Danish NGO aid agency Danish Church Aid about potential collaborations on projects concerning land tenure rights in developing countries. We consider this the first step towards actively engaging in international aid projects. • Our contributions to international development projects have made a difference, albeit on a small scale, but it is our goal to help fuel progress by sharing our man-hours and through knowledge empower local communities to drive the change their countries need. Side 3 af 3
