2020 UNGC Communication on Progress Company: ​Netguru S.A. Time period covered by CoD: ​June 2019 June 2020 A statement by the chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the participant's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. I am pleased to confirm our continued support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. It was the first year of our membership in UNGC and a unique year for the world's economy. Thanks to our team effort, culture, clients, and business model, we managed not only to come through it relatively unscathed, ensuring the safety of our people and continuity of our business, but also to become the first Poland-based IT industry B Corp. Our first Communication on Progress lists key initiatives undertaken in the four areas. We have also undertaken more cross-business achievements in order to make the world a better place: ● We incorporated sustainability into our business vision, which is now “a sustainable, digital world where everyone can realize their full potential”. ● We carried out a thorough B Impact self-assessment in five areas audited by a third party that led us to gaining a B Corporation certification. ● We placed four SDGs (9,10,11,13) at the heart of our Sustainability Strategy. To many companies, the COVID-19 outbreak was the ultimate test of being able to adapt to the unexpected. I’m proud that Netguru has passed this test so far. Not only did we manage to provide safety to our people, but also to help other companies in the difficulties they experienced by supporting diverse initiatives, e.g. Tech For Good. We remain committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of our culture. Sincerely yours, Marek Talarczyk Chief Executive Officer, Netguru A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption). Note: In cases where a COP does not address one or more of the four issue areas, it must provide an explanation ( report or explain ). Human rights ● We offer training to our leaders on diversity, equity, and inclusion. ● We included a diversity and inclusion statement in all our job postings, and we have upgraded our recruitment process to cater to candidates who need disability-related adaptations. ● We have continued our support to Diversity through carrying out ​Live Books of Netguru project to foster an inclusive workplace culture, boost social participation and advocate it outside of Netguru. ● We have joined two partnerships to benefit society: ​Inicjatywy Otwarte​ (initiatives addressing COVID-19 pandemic outcomes) and ​TechToTheRescue​ (creating systemic IT support for social innovators, in partnership with other IT companies and Ashoka). ● We have delivered a pro-bono platform for underrepresented communities to help them inspire others to take action and raise the awareness of pollution with the Pure Earth NGO. ● We have created a voluntary employee resource group on digital accessibility. ● We have implemented additional ethical check requests that can be triggered by any of our employees in relation to any potential client as part of ensuring we live our values, one of which is “Act in a way that makes all of us proud.” Labour ● We went through a thorough self-assessment related to labour practices (among others) and an audit as part of our B Corp certification. ● We have introduced mandatory anti-mobing and anti-discrimination training for all team leaders. ● We have created an internal Employee Consulting Group to ask for feedback and opinion. ● We have ensured employment throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. ● We have opened our Talent Marketplace platform to more countries, specialities, and occupations in order to help everyone whose employment status was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. ● We have supported other companies in transferring to remote work through direct consultations, webinars and discussion panels. We shared practical advice and our 12 years’ worth of experience. ● We have spearheaded #workfromhome solutions and ways of working remotely. Environment ● We have supported digital environmental protection solutions through pro-bono and low-bono activities: ○ We helped Pure Earth fight pollution. Pure Earth is an NGO that, for the past 20 years, has been solving pollution problems in lowand middle-income countries. Our role was to help them create Report Pollution, an app designed to document and report polluted sites that users come in direct contact with. Report Pollution aims to become a platform for underrepresented communities to help them inspire others to take action and raise awareness. ○ Netguru x Coalition for Rainforest Nations. In December 2019, Netguru partnered with Coalition for Rainforest Nations. Together with The Coalition, we launched REDD.plus, the first platform to provide a central registry and exchange for RRU credits. This is a milestone achievement in scaling up the fight to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, and we’re proud that our team has been instrumental in this initiative. ○ Climate Leadership in Poland. We have helped the United Nations Environmental Program in Poland (UNEP/GRID) in adopting a communication platform that enables businesses in Poland to consult their climate commitments with experts and undertake measurable actions against climate change. ● Not only do we get involved in environmental actions on the company level but also many of our employees care for the environment on a daily basis. Find out more ​here Anti-corruption ● We have drafted a Client Ethical Compliance process to ensure we operate in ways that meet the fundamental responsibilities in this area. ● We have commenced an ethical compliance clause to include in contracts with business partners ● We have set up a process to include ethical assessment into client decision making. ● We have set up a process to support Tech For Good submissions from NGOs that need our support, ● We have been revamping our internal policies to include anti-corruption statements and relevant tools. A measurement of outcomes (i.e., degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). As a B Certified company we use B Impact Assessment to measure our impact. Our overall score is 81,9 – the detailed scores in each of the five areas: Governance, Workers, Community, Clients, Environment are available ​here​. Other indicators ● Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, age, seniority) ● Number of digital solutions addressing climate change ● Number of purpose-driven clients ● Financial contributions to local communities ● Pro and low-bono contributions to digital solutions for SDGs ● Employee Happiness index (under development)
