2020 Sustainability Report Top Message “Let not short-term gains tempt your mind, seek only enduring In May 2020, Mitsui & Co. announced the Medium-term Management prosperity by embracing grand aspirations.” These words from the first Plan 2023 with the main theme “Transform and Grow.” We identified president of the former Mitsui & Co.*, Takashi Masuda, represents our sustainability management and evolution of ESG as the foundations to foundation. His words urge us to avoid becoming overly focused on support sustainable growth under our “Transform and Grow” strategies. near-term profit. Rather, we must realize growth by creating businesses We also revised our sustainability-related policy structure in order to that contribute to society’s long-term development. provide further clarity on our basic philosophy and policies, and ensure In May 2020, Mitsui released a revised version of its Mission, Vision, the effective implementation. In addition, we identified “climate Values, our corporate management philosophy to coincide with the change,” “business and human rights,” and “circular economy” as our announcement of the Medium-term Management Plan 2023‒ priority issues. Transform and Grow. Revised for the first time in 16 years, the new In relation to the climate change, Mitsui has become the first sogo Masami Iijima philosophy puts Takashi Masuda’s message front and center and Tatsuo Yasunaga shosha (general trading company) to adopt the goal of achieving netRepresentative Director, includes a vision whereby “As challengers and innovators, we create Representative Director, zero emissions, as its vision for 2050. As a part of the roadmap toward Chairman of the Board of Directors and grow business while addressing material issues for sustainable President & Chief Executive Officer achieving that goal, we aim to halve our GHG impact compared with development.” the 2020 level under our vision for the year 2030. We have also When preparing the new plan, we set goals for respective frontline introduced an internal carbon pricing system to enhance the mediumoperations by keeping firmly in mind the Materiality that we had to long-term resilience of business that has high GHG emissions. previously revised in 2019 and which is the base of our business We have always identified the respect for human rights as our activities. More specifically, we discussed the aspects of our Materiality fundamental value in the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines. on which each type of day-to-day work and activity should focus. Furthermore, to provide greater clarification, we formulated a Human In 2015, the United Nations identified priority tasks and set out a Rights Policy, which we announced in August 2020, together with concrete plan of action for humanity, the earth, and global prosperity other reforms. with the adoption of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 With regard to the circular economy, we are considering and related targets. The SDGs are embedded in Mitsui’s Materiality. I believe implementing a variety of initiatives on top of the traditional 3Rs that by placing Materiality at the core of a broad range of businesses and (reduce, reuse, recycle) approach. The initiatives include the activities we can help address the issues listed in the SDGs. introduction of designs and raw materials that reduce resource inputs, Efforts to realize a sustainable society are becoming ever more the promotion of sharing as a way to improve utilization rates for important due to the unprecedented speed of social change being products and services, the extension of product life spans through driven by the emergence of COVID-19. In adapting to this dramatic maintenance, repurposing, and other methods, and the creation of change, Mitsui will leverage the wide-ranging network that it has mechanisms that enable uses of items previously classified as waste. developed over a long history as a general trading company. Moreover, In the uncertain times generated by the COVID-19 pandemic, it is we will reform the mindset of each employee and achieve growth by especially important to renew our awareness towards our mission, drawing on its “Challenge and Innovation” DNA to create businesses values, and visions, and to go back to our roots as we start to move that help address social issues. forward toward transformation and growth. * Legally speaking, there has been no continuation between the former Mitsui & Co. and the current As in the past, we will continue to use the Sustainability Report and Mitsui & Co. various other media and opportunities to provide reliable and highly transparent information about our thoughts and future direction to our stakeholders including our customers, business partners, and shareholders, as the basis for further dialogue. 1 Contents Top Message 1 Respect for Human Rights 61 Environment Supply Chain Management 65 Editorial Policy 3 Executive Summary 33 Creating New Value 69 Message From the Chairperson of the Sustainability Committee 4 Environmental Management 34 Human Resources Management 70 Corporate Mission, Vision, Values 5 Climate Change 40 Social Contribution Activities 99 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework 6 Water Resources 45 Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders 9 Circular Economy 46 Governance Participation in Initiatives 12 Environmental Pollution 47 Executive Summary 105 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality 15 Biodiversity 48 Integrity and Compliance 106 Identification and Review of Materiality 16 Environmental Performance Data 49 Corporate Governance and Internal Control 111 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach 18 Risk Management 113 Secure sustainable supply of essential products 18 Social Enhance quality of life 21 Executive Summary 54 Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) 116 Create an eco-friendly society 24 Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, Materials, Food and Products 55 Material Issues of Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality in Association 117 Develop talent leading to value creation 27 Supplying Food and Products with Ensured Safety and Security 56 with Initiative Themes and the GRI Standards Build an organization with integrity 30 Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure 57 Evaluation by Society 118 Healthcare and Aging Society 59 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 120 Increasingly Diverse Consumer Demand 60 Link buttons Cover Photo: Mitsui & Co. has identified Mitsui’s material issues (“Materiality”) with the aim of meeting 2020 Sustainability Report Link to website the expectations of a variety of stakeholders and realizing a better tomorrow for the earth and people around the world. The images shown on the cover are mainly from the Report’s “Our Stories” pages, introducing Mitsui’s initiatives for each Materiality. Link to related information 2 Editorial Policy We publish our Sustainability Report with the aim of delivering an explicit message to our stakeholders Scope of Coverage Mitsui and major consolidated subsidiaries and associated companies. The scope that Mitsui & Co. commits to creating new values through a wide range of business activities, and in the Sustainability Report of coverage for numerical data is provided individually in appended notes. contributes to societal and corporate sustainability. As an annual report that complements the Integrated Report, our Sustainability Report 2020 emphasizes comprehensiveness and continuity, and provides Covered Period The Sustainability Report 2020 mainly covers our initiatives carried out in the detailed environmental, social, and governance (ESG) information. period from April 2019 to March 2020 (the fiscal year ended March 2020, “FY2020”), In accordance with Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality, which was revised in April 2019, the Sustainability Report as well as part of our policy and initiatives for the fiscal year ending March 2021. 2020 reports on our activities in line with the ESG factors, and introduces our actual cases of value creation toward finding solutions to societal issues, as “Our Stories.” We set “Sustainability Management; Evolution Independent Practitioner’s The star (“★”) indicates that the sustainability information concerned has been of ESG” as one of the six corporate strategies for achieving the Medium-term Management Plan 2023— Assurance given limited assurance, for the purpose of increasing its reliability, by Deloitte Transform and Grow, which we announced in May 2020. From the perspective of potential impact on Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. in its independent practitioner’s assurance report. our business and growing demand from society, we have identified climate change, circular economy, and business and human rights as three key issues which we prioritize in promoting initiatives. The Publication Date August 2020 (Previous publication date: August 2019; next publication scheduled Sustainability Report 2020 also provides our current initiatives on these three key issues. for August 2021) Sustainability Guidelines • GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Standards Media Our Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the Core option Reports Contents of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. Booklet PDF HTML Sustainability The Sustainability Report is prepared to cover detailed non-financial In addition to presenting the material issues of Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality in Report ESG-related information of Mitsui. The report is aimed at our multi-stakeholders association with initiative themes and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and is published annually. in this Sustainability Report, we have also released on our website ESG-related Integrated Report Mitsui issues the Integrated Report in order for every stakeholder to gain an policies and data, and the GRI Standards Comparison Chart. understanding of Mitsui’s management strategies, business overview, and initiatives for sustainable value creation. P.117 Material Issues of Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality in Association with Initiative Themes and the GRI Standards Annual Securities The Annual Securities Report is prepared pursuant to Article 24, Section 1 of Report the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and is required to be submitted to the Kanto Finance Bureau. Please refer to this report for more detailed financial GRI Standards Comparison Chart information. It is issued in late June of each year. • ISO26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) Corporate In accordance with Japan’s Corporate Governance Code, Mitsui publishes a Governance Report Corporate Governance Report that provides details on Mitsui’s basic corporate governance approach and structure. Mitsui is also required to submit this report to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Please refer to the PDF link for more Published by Sustainability Committee, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. detailed information related to Mitsui’s organizational design, operational status, and evaluation of Board of Director effectiveness. Corporate Profile About Us A Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements: This material contains statements (including figures) regarding Mitsui’s corporate strategies, objectives, and views of future developments that are forwardlooking in nature and are not simply reiterations of historical facts. These statements are presented to inform stakeholders of the views of Mitsui’s management Contact Corporate Sustainability Division, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. but should not be relied on solely in making investment and other decisions. You should be aware that a number of known or unknown risks, uncertainties and 2-1, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan other factors could lead to outcomes that differ materially from those presented in such forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors referred to above include, but are not limited to, those contained in Mitsui’s latest Annual Securities Report and Quarterly Securities Report, and Mitsui : +81(3)3285-1111 undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. : +81(3)3285-9030 : www.mitsui.com/jp/en/sustainability/ 3 Message From the Chairperson of the Sustainability Committee With “Build brighter futures, everywhere” as our corporate mission, we will create and grow businesses while addressing material issues for sustainable development Shinichiro Omachi Senior Executive Managing Officer, Chief Strategy Officer (CSO), Chairperson of the Sustainability Committee Today, in a world that is continually changing with varied elements entangled in a complex manner, we themes for our sustainability management, and accelerated initiatives that contribute to solving societal are witnessing rapid shifts in megatrends that potentially affect the business activities of Mitsui & Co. With problems through our business. As for climate change, we have set a new goal, which is to achieve net-zero the future becoming increasingly unpredictable, such as economic and social impacts attributable to emissions by 2050, and as a milestone for this goal, to reduce GHG impact by 2030 to half of what it is in 2020. trade friction, COVID-19 pandemic and intensification of natural disasters, it is more vital than ever before, As one of the measures to realize this goal, we established the Energy Solutions Business Unit in April 2020 to as a company engaged in business on a global scale, to enable ourselves to adapt flexibly to external accelerate our efforts to tackle climate change through our business operations, especially in the areas of change, and to strive toward achieving social and corporate sustainability. next-generation electric power, new energy (hydrogen, biofuels, etc.), and next-generation mobility In consideration of such change in environment, Mitsui & Co. has revised its Mission, Vision, Values infrastructure. In relation to business and human rights, we formulated our Human Rights Policy in August (“MVV”). While retaining the core spirit of our existing corporate philosophy adopted in 2004, the new 2020 in order to clearly stipulate our group’s stance and approaches. We will step up our efforts to have the MVV provides new definitions of the corporate mission and vision that Mitsui & Co. needs to fulfill through policy take root in the frontlines of business and to implement it throughout our business activities. Under its global group management in this new environment. With “Build brighter futures, everywhere” as our the theme of a circular economy, we will enhance related measures in our existing business and our corporate mission, we will create and grow businesses with our shared value, “Challenge and Innovation,” approach toward new opportunities, while closely monitoring external environments. while addressing material issues for sustainable development, in order to realize a better tomorrow for the People are the foundation of Mitsui & Co.’s sustainability management. The entire Mitsui & Co. global earth and people around the world. group has a shared awareness of the importance of integrity. As stated in the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct We identified Materiality (material management issues) that reflect international frameworks, such as the Guidelines—With Integrity, going beyond simply following the established rules, we must act with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations for the year 2030, and the perspectives conscience and dignity as business people, and we must think about our own words and actions from the of a broad spectrum of stakeholders, as well as the impact on business corporations. The identified Materiality perspective of integrity. is namely, “Secure sustainable supply of essential products”, “Enhance quality of life”, “Create an eco-friendly The first president of the former Mitsui & Co.*, Takashi Masuda, said, “Let not short-term gains tempt society”, “Develop talent leading to value creation” and “Build an organization with integrity”. These constitute your mind, seek only enduring prosperity by embracing grand aspirations.” We will continue to value this the basis for conducting all of our business activities and we will strengthen our sustainability management approach to business and our fundamental philosophy that form the unchanging basis of Mitsui & Co.’s which aims to achieve sustainable development of both society and the company. values in relation to social and corporate sustainability. We will respond with integrity to the trust and The main theme for our Medium-term Management Plan 2023, which begins in the fiscal year ending expectations of our stakeholders and will work through our diverse business activities to contribute both March 2021, is “Transform and Grow.” The three-year plan is dedicated to the achievement of further growth to sustainable economic and social development on a global scale, and to the solving of global issues, through transformation of some of our structures and systems, and of our traditional behavior patterns and such as climate change. mindsets. We have identified climate change, business and human rights, and circular economy as key * Legally speaking, there has been no continuation between the former Mitsui & Co. and the current Mitsui & Co. 4 Corporate Mission, Vision, Values Mitsui & Co. revised its Mission, Vision, Values (“MVV”) in May 2020, as outlined below. The environment has changed in various ways since the former MVV was adopted in 2004, and Mitsui & Co.’s Core Values we expect the pace of change to accelerate even further. While retaining the core spirit of our The former Mitsui & Co.* which was established in 1876, was disbanded as part of the dissolution of former corporate philosophy, the new MVV provides new definitions of the corporate mission and Japan’s zaibatsu (industrial conglomerates) shortly after the end of World War II. The current Mitsui vision that Mitsui & Co. needs to fulfill through global group management in this new environment. was founded by employees of the former Mitsui that shared the values of the original company: We have also sought to express in clear and straightforward language the ways in which we will “Challenge and Innovation,” “Open-Mindedness,” and “Focus on Human Resources.” The Mitsui of continue pursuing the spirit of “Challenge and Innovation” while responding to the expectations and today continues to contribute to the creation of new value for society. needs of our stakeholders and society, so that our diverse employees throughout the world can The way we work and the way we think are still very much based on the values espoused by understand and share this philosophy and reflect it in their day-to-day activities. Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui, and are reflected in our stance toward our Mitsui & Co. will move forward as one united group under the new MVV, in order to achieve the work. The principles of Mitsui’s approach to sustainability as social responsibility have always goals articulated in the theme of Medium-term Management Plan 2023 —Transform and Grow. reflected its founder’s values, a way of thinking unchanged to this day. * Legally speaking, there has been no continuation between the former Mitsui & Co. and the current Mitsui & Co. “Let not short term gains tempt your mind, seek only enduring prosperity by embracing grand aspirations.” “I started Mitsui with the goal of realizing trade on a large scale, not in pursuit of money, but from the desire to work.” “Mitsui has a pool of very talented individuals. This is Mitsui’s most important asset.” Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui 5 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework Our Approach towards Sustainability Relationship of Corporate Policies “Challenge and Innovation” 360°business innovation. Sustainability has always been an integral part of Mitsui & Co.’s basic philosophy and today, it is clearly ［ Corporate slogan to represent all corporate activities ］ ［ DNA, Corporate culture ］ defined in our Mission, Vision, Values (“MVV”), adopted in May 2020. Our corporate mission is to “build brighter futures, everywhere”. Toward the realization of a brighter tomorrow for earth and for people Mission Vision Values (MVV) Strategy around the world, we, as challengers and innovators, aim to be a corporate group that creates and grows Group management Long-term Medium-term Short-term philosophy of Mitsui & Co. business while addressing material issues for sustainable development. To attain this goal, we have adopted clearly defined values to be shared across the entire Mitsui & Co. Mission • Secure sustainable supply of Build brighter futures, everywhere Materiality group. To help individual group employees put these values into practice, we have formulated the Mitsui essential products Vision • Enhance quality of life & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity, which define not only integrity and compliance but also Material issues for • Create an eco-friendly society 360°business innovators sustainable development of • Develop talent leading to value our basic stance on key sustainability themes, including respect for human rights, environmental the society and the company Values creation preservation, social contribution, and the development of trust with stakeholders. In addition, we also Core values as challengers and innovators • Build an organization with integrity define our specific stance as a company in individual policies on the environment, human rights, and Seize the initiative supply chains. Thrive on diversity Embrace growth Long-term MediumToward the achievement of our corporate mission to “build brighter futures, everywhere”, we have Annual Act with integrity term Mgmt Vision 2030 Mgmt Plan identified five material issues in Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality. In addition to their importance to our Mgmt Plan stakeholders, these material issues also have major potential impact on Mitsui’s business management. For Sustainability-related policies Mitsui to realize sustainable growth together with society, each of these material issues has the potential Mitsui & Co. Group to be a significant source of both risks and opportunities in the mediumto long-term perspective. By Conduct Guidelines Environmental Policy regarding them as fundamental elements, we formulate business strategies, including the medium-term -With Integrity［ Guidelines embodying Values ］ Human Rights Policy management plans and business plans. • Acting as members of the international In the Medium-term Management Plan 2023, we have identified “sustainability management and community Sustainable Supply Chain Policy evolution of ESG” as one of six corporate strategies, in order to bring forward “transform and grow”. We • An open-minded organization • Fair business practices have further strengthened our commitment to sustainability management by identifying climate change, • Facing up to global challenges circular economy, and business and human rights as priority issues. We will also continue our efforts to • Speaking up strengthen corporate governance. In accordance with our management philosophy and these policies and guidelines, we will continue to respond seriously and sincerely to the trust and expectations of our stakeholders, and to contribute through our wide-ranging business activities both to sustainable global economic and social Medium-term Management Plan 2023 –Transform and Grow: Six Corporate Strategies development, and to the solution of global-scale issues. 1. Strengthen business management capabilities 2. Evolve financial strategy and portfolio management 3. Personnel strategy 4. Strategic focus 5. Strengthen profitability of core businesses and take on challenges in new businesses 6. Sustainability management; Evolution of ESG 6 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework Sustainability Management Framework In the fiscal year ended March 2005, Mitsui & Co. established the CSR Promotion Committee (currently the Sustainability management and promotion, President & CEO Corporate Sustainability Div. Sustainability Committee) under the Corporate Management Committee to develop Mitsui’s internal secretariat of sustainability committee framework with respect to sustainability, and to work to raise sustainability awareness among employees. Corporate strategy, corporate governance, In May 2017, we established the Sustainability Committee in order to further clarify our unchanging stance Corporate Management Committee Corporate Planning & Strategy Div. Internal controls toward creating new value for society through business activities and to pursue further mutual Labor environment, Health and safety, sustainability between society and the company. With the Sustainability Committee playing a central role, Sustainability Committee Human Resources & General Affairs Div. diversity management, human resources development Mitsui promotes sustainability-related activities based on cross-organizational collaboration to meet the Cross-Organizational Collaboration needs and expectations of society in relation to companies’ social values and initiatives. Environmental & Societal Legal Div. Integrity, compliance Advisory Committee In April 2019, we established the Corporate Sustainability Division, whose role is to promote and drive company-wide sustainability management and to accelerate various initiatives on a global group basis. Internal decisions, administration of subsidiaries Investment Administrative Div. and affiliated companies, The Corporate Sustainability Division strives to raise sustainability awareness and share values at the Mitsui specially designated business management system & Co. global group level, with the aim of contributing to the achievement of sustainable social and economic development in various countries and regions around the world, while also contributing to Corporate Communications Div. Corporate communications solving global environmental problems such as climate change. We appoint Sustainability Promotion Officers in corporate staff divisions and business units in the Finance Div. Efforts related to financial institutions Head Office, overseas regional business units, regional blocs, and offices in Japan, developing our internal network to facilitate planning and promotion of sustainability activities together with the frontline staff, Investor Relations Div. Efforts related to shareholders and analysts including provision of support for implementing sustainability management and awareness-raising activities at each unit. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, we held a Sustainability Promotion Officers meeting on a quarterly basis, where we explained new policies relating to our sustainability initiatives and Business Units Regional Business Units and Regional Blocs Offices in Japan Corporate Staff Divisions other important information discussed and formulated by the Sustainability Committee, held lectures on ESG information disclosure, and conducted training programs on business and human rights. Sustainability Promotion Officers Sustainability Promotion Officers Sustainability Promotion Officers Moreover, the Sustainability Promotion Officers have taken the initiative in organizing various sustainability awareness-raising programs, such as in-house sustainability seminars and lectures by speakers from partner companies and external experts, as well as workshops regarding sustainability within the actual business. 7 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework Sustainability Committee The details of discussions held at meetings of the Sustainability Committee are reported regularly to As an organization under the Corporate Management Committee, the Sustainability Committee aims to the Corporate Management Committee and the Board of Directors. These reports are used to help to promote management with a greater awareness of sustainability by developing basic policies on our determine our management policy. The Board of Directors oversees the Sustainability Committee to sustainability management and related plans, and by making proposals on our management policies and ensure that its activities are conducted in an appropriate manner (The number of cases related to business activities from a sustainability standpoint. management strategy, sustainability, and governance that were discussed by or presented to the Board of The Sustainability Committee consists of the CSO (the Committee Chair), CHRO and CFO (the Vice Directors in the fiscal year ended March 2020 was 25 out of a total of 70.) Chairs), Deputy CSO, and the GMs of the Corporate Staff Divisions including the Corporate Sustainability Division, Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Human Resources & General Affairs Division, Legal Integrated Report 2020 (P.103 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance) Division, Investment Administrative Division, Corporate Communication Division, Finance Division, and Investor Relations Division. The committee has the following duties: Main Discussions at Sustainability Committee Meetings in FY 2020 1. Develop basic policies on the company’s sustainability management and fundamental plans for activities to promote sustainability and CSR. 1st Meeting (June 7, 2019) • Deliberations on climate change-related matters (scenario analysis) 2. Review and make proposals on the company’s management policies, as well as policies and • Report on the Sustainability Report 2019 editorial policy and progress strategies of the business units and corporate divisions from the perspective of sustainability. • Report on global social contribution activities in the fiscal year ended March 2019 3. Present proposals on company-wide environmental policies. • Deliberations on the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund activity policy for the fiscal year ending March 2020 4. Make proposals on sustainability-focused business activities (understanding risks and opportunities involved in business). 2nd Meeting (September 2, 2019) 5. Deliberate and establish the basic policy of the effective disclosure of information to stakeholders. • Deliberations on the statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act • Progress report on climate change-related matters (scenario analysis) 6. Consider and present proposals relating to progress reviews and monitoring required for • Deliberations on the Corporate Strategy under the Medium-term Management Plan: Setting management. Sustainability-related Targets and Priorities (1) 7. Configure and establish the internal structure for promoting sustainability management of the company. 8. Identify the material issues to focus on each year for promoting sustainability and CSR activities of 3rd Meeting (October 15, 2019) the company and ensure progress on these. • Deliberations on climate change-related matters (scenario analysis) • Report on circular economy initiatives and policy 9. Respond to issues related to sustainability and CSR, both internal and external to the company. • Deliberations on the Corporate Strategy under the Medium-term Management Plan: Setting 10. Decide and report whether to support individual proposals which qualify under the matters of Sustainability-related Targets and Priorities (2) Specially Designated Business, and indicate the necessary cautions for projects that will be supported. 11. Approve important matters (basic policies, business plans, etc.) relating to the Mitsui & Co. 4th Meeting (December 19, 2019) Environment Fund. • Report on business and human rights, and review of supply chain management 12. Select proposals from applicants for the Environment Fund grants. • Deliberations on the policy for responding to ESG surveys • Deliberations on climate change-related matters (introduction of an internal carbon pricing system) 13. Decide and report whether to support an exceptional acquisition of forests or the disposal of company owned forests, which is out of the scope of the Rules on the Management of Company Owned Forests. 5th Meeting (February 27, 2020) • Deliberations on the review of sustainability-related policies Furthermore, the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee has been established as the advisory • Deliberations on the Corporate Strategy under the Medium-term Management Plan: climate changebody to the Sustainability Committee. The committee members are selected mainly from among external related matters (GHG emissions reduction target) experts who are familiar with a broad range of fields, including climate change, environmental policy with • Report on the Sustainability Report 2020 editorial policy • Report on sustainability management promotion activities in the fiscal year ending March 2020, as well respect to water and energy, etc., technology trends, human rights and other matters. as action plans for the fiscal year ending March 2021 P.113 Specially Designated Business Management System and Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee 8 Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. and the Management Framework Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Raising Awareness on Sustainability Management Mitsui & Co. places emphasis on interacting with and having dialogue with society. For this reason, we Mitsui has designated June as our Sustainability Month and holds lectures aimed at raising awareness on closely assess the effects of our diverse and global business activities on society and identify and sustainability management. acknowledge stakeholders of particular interest. Furthermore, even in other months, we conduct lectures on Mitsui’s sustainability management in the In particular, we are committed to the development of relationships based on mutual trust with a New Hire Induction Training, and more than 50 briefings for corporate staff units and business units, diverse range of stakeholders, including local communities, business associates & consumers, NPOs & which had over 1,000 participants in all. Through the aforementioned activities and also through other NGOs, employees, shareholders & investors, and government bodies, through proactive information means and initiatives, we encourage our employees to consider sustainability perspectives in their disclosures and continual communication with our stakeholders. everyday work. Through interactive communication with stakeholders, each of Mitsui’s employees and officers is endeavoring to acquire a firm understanding of what society expects from and requires of Mitsui. Based on this understanding, we strive to respond to changes in market environments, and constantly evolve to Sustainability Month Program create new value through our business activities by exercising our unique capabilities, and thereby In June 2019, approximately 140 Mitsui officers and employees attended a lecture by Hiroko Kuniya contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. titled “Changing Society with SDGs—Expectations toward Business Corporations.” Ms. Kuniya is a newscaster, project professor at Keio University, and National Goodwill Ambassador for Japan of the Business Associates & Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). In the lecture, Ms. Kuniya shared Local Communities NPOs & NGOs Consumers many passionate and inspiring messages as she spoke about the awareness of the SDGs and trends in society, the background of the creation of the SDGs and their importance, trends in the financial sector, the need for new business models, and expectations toward business corporations. In Coexistence with local Collaboration to resolve Meeting social needs response to a question from a participant on how to balance the achievement of the SDGs and communities social issues business profit targets, Ms. Kuniya pointed out that the focus had already shifted away from “balance,” and that we are in a transformational era in which we need to make efforts to increase Mitsui & Co. positive impacts while decreasing the negative ones. Some of the comments from the participants after the lecture included that the Strengthening of Timely and accurate Contribution to each individual disclosure of information nation building lecture had been helpful to deepen knowledge about the SDGs, and that Ms. Kuniya’s strong message inspired to think about incorporating SDG perspectives into business activities going Employees Shareholders & Investors Government Bodies forward. There was also a comment from a participant promising to take action starting with eco-friendly activities at the office. P.37 Environment-Related Training P.66 Heightening Employee Awareness and Providing Training Seminars P.108 Compliance Education and Training 9 Mitsui & Co’s Stakeholders Stakeholders Overview Communication Major Initiatives (FY2020) Local Communities We contribute to the sustainable growth and development of • Direct dialogues with local residents through business P.58 Improving Living Standards and Social Infrastructure through societies and economies through our wide-ranging business • Initiatives to support multicultural symbiosis for the Brazilian community Nation-Building Projects in Mozambique activities and society-centric contribution activities in countries in Japan P47 Environmental Pollution and regions throughout the world. We also aim to achieve • Educational activities to enhance the ability to solve problems through the harmonious coexistence with local communities through Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy (Education for Sustainability), and global P.101 Community Contribution contributions in such areas as local industry development, creation educational and human resource development activities through P.103 Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy of employment opportunities, infrastructure development, programs such as scholarships and Mitsui-endowed lectures. P.104 Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund enhancement of the quality of life of local residents, and the • Contribution to development of local communities through overseas improvement of educational environments. funds and the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund P.104 Disaster Relief Activities • Our relief efforts in disaster affected regions in which we conduct business Business Associates We identify the needs and expectations of our business associates • Mitsui & Co. website P.66 Supplier On-Site Surveys & Consumers and consumers, supply safe and reliable products and services, • Corporate Brochure/Advertisements/Corporate Video Mitsui & Co. website disclose accurate corporate information, and take measures to • Integrated Report address problems in supply chains. • Sustainability Report Library (Corporate Brochure/Advertisements/Corporate Video) • Activities based on the Sustainable Supply Chain Policy Integrated Report 2020 • Supplier questionnaire and on-site surveys Sustainability Report 2020 • Initiatives that align with our policies and rules on the handling of consumer products: “Consumer Product Handling Policy,” “Consumer P.56 Supplying Food and Products with Ensured Safety and Security Product Handling Regulations” • Receipt of feedback and inquiries NPOs & NGOs We pursue solutions for environmental and societal issues through • Discussions and local visits in cooperation with NPOs/NGOs P.45 Support through an NGO for the Development of a Rainwater networking and collaboration with various NPOs and NGOs. • Participation in seminars hosted by NPOs and NGOs Reuse System to Supply Safe Drinking Water Through the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund, we provide support • Stakeholder Dialogue with NPOs/NGOs P.48 Biodiversity Conservation Activities in Cooperation with NGOs for research and initiatives by NPOs and NGOs that are working to • Responses to surveys from NPOs and NGOs solve environmental problems. • Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs through the Mitsui & Co. Environment P.104 Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund Fund P.11 Stakeholder Dialogue with NPOs/NGOs Employees In order to support our diverse group of employees to work • Mitsui Management Review (MMR)/One-on-One meetings P.74 Mitsui Management Review (MMR) energetically and exert their capabilities, we strive to carry out • Work-X initiatives P.74 One-on-One Program diversity management by enhancing workplace environment, • Mitsui Engagement Survey developing various internal rules, providing human resources • Roundtable Meetings, New Active Talk Wednesday (dialogue between P.82 Embodying New Ways of Working at Mitsui & Co. Presented in development programs, and placing the right people in the right management and employees, as well as among employees) the Long-term Management Vision – Work-X positions. We are committed to being an organization with • Discussions with labor unions P.70 Strengthening Employee Engagement on a Global Group Basis integrity on a global group basis with each employee possessing a • Training programs and seminars (Mitsui Engagement Survey) high level of awareness of compliance. • In-house and external whistleblowing channels P.87 Creating Opportunities for Communication • With Integrity Month • Sustainability Month P.87 Diversity Cafe • Intranet/In-house newsletter of Mitsui & Co. P.87 Joint Efforts with Labor Unions P.107 Compliance Program P.9 Raising Awareness on Sustainability Management (Sustainability Month Program) 10 Mitsui & Co’s Stakeholders Stakeholders Overview Communication Major Initiatives (FY2020) Shareholders & We strive for continuous improvement of our corporate value and • General meetings of shareholders IR Meetings Investors appropriate market recognition by realizing transparency and • IR meetings (presentations on financial results, Investor Day, briefings for Securities Reports accountability in management with timely and accurate disclosure individual investors) of information, and by engaging in interactive communication • Separate engagement for IR and SR (departments in charge of exercising Newsletter to Shareholders with shareholders and investors. voting rights and responsible investment) • Securities Report • Integrated Report • Newsletter to Shareholders • Mitsui & Co. website • Responses to surveys from ESG research organizations Government Bodies We are committed to complying with related laws and regulations • Participation in policy councils • We received 10 trainees in the areas of machinery and formulated by government agencies and local governments of • Participation in consultation and advisory meetings with government infrastructure, chemicals, energy, and lifestyle industries. Japan and the countries and regions where we engage in business agencies and offices activities. Furthermore, through cooperation with governmental • Support for human resource development through trainee-receiving agencies and local governments, we propose and promote programs for staff members of local governments business projects that align with their policies and make efforts to • Secondment to the World Bank contribute to the development of nations and industries in a way • Activities through business and industry groups unique to Mitsui. Stakeholder Dialogue with NPOs/NGOs In December 2019, we held a stakeholder dialogue entitled “Mitsui & Co.’s Initiatives for Achieving the expressed his wish for us to see the SDGs as an opportunity, and explained that everyone needs to SDGs.” The dialogue was attended by Konoe Fujimura, a representative of the NPO Japan Association pursue the SDGs to keep the Earth sustainable. For a company active in the resources business, he of Environment and Society for the 21st Century (JAES21), and by Managing Director Yasushi Hibi and explained that it is particularly important for the employees to hold earnest discussions about the Technical Director Aya Uraguchi of Conservation International (CI) Japan, the Japan arm of the sustainable future vision to think about the sustainability of both society and the business. international NGO. As an expectation for Mitsui in achieving the SDGs, Mr. Hibi added the importance for the Ms. Fujimura expressed the view that tackling climate change involves some tough targets, but employees to think from the perspective of a variety of stakeholders, and Mitsui should see it as a that climate change itself is related to all of the SDGs and it is essential to make sincere efforts to strength in having talent capable of considering multiple different viewpoints when executing respond to the issue. With this in mind, she stated that tackling environmental issues requires shared business. He commented that implementing Diversity & Inclusion is an important initiative for this values, and in this sense, it is more important than ever to place a high value on the founding spirit of reason as well. the former Mitsui & Co. as it links to the essence of the SDGs. She also expressed the expectation for The stakeholder dialogue reminded us that, despite the different perspectives, both NGOs/NPOs the Corporate Sustainability Division to make efforts to establish awareness within the company as a and companies are working towards the same goal of realizing a sustainable society, and that one of promoter of sustainability management. the important roles of the Corporate Sustainability Division is to act as a bridge between external Mr. Hibi spoke from the perspective of an NGO working in partnership with companies. He stakeholders and the employees. 11 Participation in Initiatives United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations Global Compact is a set of voluntary action principles for corporations proposed by The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) define global sustainable development former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland in priorities and aspirations for 2030, with 17 goals and 169 targets. The SDGs call for action to end poverty January 1999. He proposed a means to harness the creative powers of the private sector to fulfill and create a life of dignity and equality of opportunity for all, with consideration given to balancing the wishes of underprivileged people and meet the needs of future generations. sustainable growth and the limits of the Earth. It is neither a regulatory means nor a legally binding code of conduct, but rather a strategic policy As a sogo-shosha (general trading company), Mitsui & Co. group conducts a diverse range of business initiative that encourages corporations to come together as global citizens to solve the various problems across nations and regions. We believe that this allows us to make a wide-ranging contribution to that could arise as a result of economic globalization. Participating corporations are asked to support and the achievement of all the 17, goals set out under the SDGs. With the recognition that it is increasingly put into practice ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and important to work together with our business partners, customers, local communities, NPOs and NGOs, anti-corruption. As of July 2020, over 14,600 corporations, labor unions, and civil society organizations and other stakeholders in order to find solutions to the various issues facing society and industry, we are from around the world are participating in the UN Global Compact. promoting initiatives based on Goal 17, “Partnerships for the Goals”. Mitsui & Co. signed and pledged its support for the UN Global Compact To continue promoting our business with a focus on contribution to the achievement of the SDGs, we in October 2004, and has been participating as a corporate director of will further raise awareness of the SDGs and discuss how to reflect them in our business strategies and the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ), complying with the Global plans. On page 15 of this report, we also introduce Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality in association with the SDGs. Compact as part of its own corporate guidelines. At present, as a member company of the GCNJ, Mitsui complies with and practices the Global P.15 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Compact, and pursues SDGs on a global group basis. Support for the UN Global Compact Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Labor 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and internationally proclaimed human rights; and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; abuses. 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Anti-corruption 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 12 Participation in Initiatives TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures) RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) In December 2018, Mitsui declared its support for the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is a non-profit organization established to promote Disclosures) recommendations, which aim to facilitate companies to recognize financial impacts arising the sustainable production and utilization of palm oil through the conservation of tropical rain forests and from the risks and opportunities associated with climate change and to disclose such climate-related biodiversity. Mitsui supports the RSPO’s philosophy of contributing to sustainability through industry, and information. In our Integrated Report, we have disclosed information in accordance with the disclosure has been collaborating on various business-based initiatives as an ordinary member since joining the framework that is based on the TCFD Final Report. organization in 2008. A sustainability-focused procurement code, including specific standards for palm oil, has been formulated for the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo, which have been postponed to P.40 Climate Change 2021. In connection with this, Mitsui representatives as members of an oil and fat industry association verified progress on and promoted initiatives related to the RSPO and activities under the Malaysia Integrated Report 2020 (P.044 Efforts to Address Climate Change through Our Business) Sustainable Palm Oil (MSPO) and Indonesia Sustainable Palm Oil (ISPO) systems. World Economic Forum CLOMA (Japan Clean Ocean Material Alliance) The World Economic Forum is an independent international organization that engages leaders from CLOMA was established in January 2019 to find solutions to the emerging global challenge of marine the worlds of business, politics, academia, and other sectors of society to shape global, regional, and plastic debris through the sustainable use of plastic products, the development and introduction of industry agendas in the spirit of global citizenship, through cooperation between the public and private alternative materials, and the acceleration of innovation. Mitsui is one of the 26 secretary companies. As of sectors, for the improvement of the world situation. April 1, 2020, 325 companies and organizations have joined CLOMA, including a few of Mitsui’s subsidiaries As a partner company, Mitsui attends the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum held in namely, Mitsui & Co. Plastics Ltd., Mitsui Bussan Chemicals Co., Ltd., Mitsui Bussan Packaging Co., Ltd., Davos, Switzerland every January, as well as the regional meetings. and Vendor Service Co., Ltd. Mitsui participates in the Dissemination & Promotion Working Group, which shares technological information to make it easier to select the best alternative materials for each application, the Technology Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) Working Group, which holds technological exchanges and technological seminars on the latest development results, and the International Working Group, which collects information through The Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) is an international non-profit organization that promotes collaboration with international organizations and research institutions and provides information and environmentally appropriate, socially beneficial, and economically viable management of the world’s technological consulting services in developing countries. Mitsui chairs the Indonesia Cooperation forests. Working Group, which was formed under the supervision of the International Working Group, and plans Mitsui has obtained FSC® forest management (FM) certification at all 74 of its forests, which in total contributions with a focus on specific countries. Looking ahead, Mitsui will continue to take the actions approximately 44,000 hectares, while Mitsui Bussan Forest Co., Ltd., a Mitsui subsidiary, has obtained Chain needed to help resolve the problem of marine plastic waste. of Custody (CoC) certification for the processing and distribution of cut lumber (FSC®-C031328). As the biggest supplier of Japanese-grown lumber with FSC® certification, Mitsui is helping to promote FSC® in Japan and to discuss and draft the Japanese version of principles, standards, and risk assessments. Mitsui has obtained FSC® certification for its forest resources business as well, and promotes responsible management of forest resources. 13 Participation in Initiatives CEFLEX (Circular economy for flexible packaging) In addition, we have also participated in the Task Force on Business and Human Rights and engaged in activities directed towards realization of a sustainable society, which Keidanren pursues. CEFLEX is a European NGO that hosts discussions on the recycling of plastic packaging materials. Mitsui is Moreover, since 2012, a Mitsui employee has been seconded to Keidanren’s Committee on Nature one of more than 130 companies participating in the consortium that are involved in the plastic Conservation, which is dedicated to conserving biodiversity and protecting the natural environment, to a) packaging materials value chain. CEFLEX investigates the construction of infrastructure systems to collect, support the nature conservation activities of NGOs, b) promote interchange between corporations and sort, and recycle plastic flexible packaging. Mitsui will continue to contribute to the realization of a circular NGOs, and c) encourage corporations to act towards nature conservation and biodiversity. economy through its participation in CEFLEX. Japan Foreign Trade Council ASI (Aluminium Stewardship Initiative) As a member of the Global Environment Committee of the Japan Foreign Trade Council Inc., Mitsui ASI was established in 2012 with a vision of maximizing the contribution of aluminum to a sustainable monitors energy use for all trading companies and promotes reduce/reuse/recycle (3Rs) activities. We also society. As of May 2020, 122 companies and groups have joined ASI, including a variety of stakeholders gather information about new energy technology through our business activities, and contribute to the such as aluminum producers and users and the International Aluminium Institute. Its purpose is to formulation of the Long-term Vision for Climate Change Measures. increase sustainability in the aluminum supply chain and contribute to ESG engagement by formulating Mitsui also engages in activities as a member of the Japan Foreign Trade Council’s Sustainability/CSR international standards and establishing certification systems. Mitsui supports these initiatives as a Study Committee, which studies Sustainability/CSR-related issues and conducts surveys and research member of ASI. about trends in Japan and overseas. Japan Business Federation (Keidanren) Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership Mitsui is a member of various Keidanren committees, including the following: The Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership was established through a collaborative initiative by Committee on Responsible Business Conduct & SDGs Promotion, which works to make the Charter of Keidanren, the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of Corporate Behavior well known, disseminate and promote “Society 5.0 for SDGs”, and promote Corporate Executives) with the aim of promoting private-sector initiatives on biodiversity. As a member corporate social contribution activities company, Mitsui promotes biodiversity conservation initiatives in partnership with NPOs, NGOs, research Committee on Population Issues, which works to take measures to tackle the issue of Japan’s declining institutions, and other related entities in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, Mitsui contributes to birthrate and promote participation of foreign workers in the workforce conservation of biodiversity in its supply chains by promoting a sound resource-cycle policy in its Committee on Diversity & Inclusion, which works to implement action plans on women’s active business management focusing on the life cycles of products and services. participation in the workforce, pursue promotion of female employees to managerial and executive positions, and realize a society in which diverse people, including LGBT people, can fully exert their capabilities Committee on Overseas Development Cooperation, which aims to coordinate with national governments and international institutions for the purpose of developing infrastructure overseas, in particular, in emerging countries Committee on Energy and Resources, which aims to realize an energy mix that maintains energy diversity and promote policies toward economical and stable energy supply Committee on Environment and Safety, which works on countermeasures to deal with climate change, formation of a circular society, and improvements in environmental regulations and systems 14 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co. prioritizes and focuses on sustainability in its corporate management. We have identified Mitsui’s material issues (“Materiality”) for the sustainable growth of both society and the company, with the aim of meeting the expectations and trust of a variety of stakeholders and pursuing our corporate mission, “Build brighter futures, everywhere.” We link our Materiality with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in promoting our initiatives and activities, in order to work towards the SDGs’ 17 goals. Secure sustainable supply of essential products Ensure the sustainable and stable supply of resources, materials, food and manufactured products that are vital for the development of society. Enhance quality of life Contribute to the betterment of living standards and the development of local industries to realize sustainable societies globally. Create an eco-friendly society Accelerate initiatives towards environmental issues, such as responding to climate change and water resource problems, and contributing to a circular economy. Develop talent leading to value creation Respect diversity and develop human resources with the competence to create innovation and new value. Build an organization with integrity Strengthen our governance and compliance as a corporate group trusted by society. 15 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Identification and Review of Materiality In 2015, Mitsui & Co. identified its Materiality, which consists of five key material issues in areas that are In carrying out the revision, we took into account both the perspectives of various stakeholders in important for our stakeholders and have significant implications for our business management. As the relation to the SDGs, the United Nations Global Compact, ISO26000, GRI Standards, other international importance of sustainability has been growing globally as expressed in the environmental, social, and frameworks, and ESG investment evaluations, as well as the impact on our business activities. In addition, governance (ESG) aspects and the SDGs, and mega-trends with the potential to impact our business we carried out questionnaire surveys of officers and employees on a global group basis, exchanged views activities are changing rapidly, we have reviewed our Materiality and re-identified five new material issues with our external directors and outside experts, through meetings such as the Sustainability Committee, in 2019. We recognize societal issues related to our business activities in each material issue category, and interviews with the Sustainability Promotion Officers. After having such active discussions within and verify significant risks and opportunities for Mitsui in terms of the impact of societal issues, and disclose beyond Mitsui, we obtained approvals from the Corporate Management Committee and the Board of our approach toward each Materiality. Directors, and finalized the new Materiality. The Materiality encompasses material issues that could become risks or opportunities in the context of our mediumto long-term business strategies, and will serve as the ground on which we engage in our High Secure sustainable supply of essential business activities. By positioning the Materiality as a mediumto long-term key management priority, all products Perspective of Society and Stakeholders officers and employees of Mitsui will work together to ensure the Materiality is reflected in our business 5 Material activities. Mitsui will commit itself to sustainability management and strive through its diverse global Issues Enhance quality of life business activities and the solution of global issues including climate change, pursuing both in a wellCreate an eco-friendly society balanced long-term perspective. Toward 2030, with a greater focus on evolution from “connecting” to “creating,” which is called for in our Develop talent leading to value Long-term Management Vision 2030 that we have formulated as our future image, we will identify creation challenges, set targets, and find solutions to achieve the goals. Furthermore, we will create changes, trends, and new value. Build an organization with integrity In order to respond to social challenges, needs, and expectations in line with changes in the times, and also to incorporate the formulation of new medium-term management plans and the resulting changes in impact on the economy, environment, and society into our sustainability management, we will review our Materiality and specific themes to work on every 3-5 years in consideration of environmental changes and other factors. Perspective on Business Impact High P.117 Material Issues of Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality in Association with Initiative Themes and the GRI Standards 16 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Identification and Review of Materiality Flowchart for Identification and Review of Materiality Perspective of Society and Stakeholders Perspective on Business Impact ＜Stakeholders Identified for Communication＞ ＜Verification of Compatibility with Mitsui & Co.’s Management Philosophy and Policies＞ Local Communities, Business Associates/Consumers, NPOs/NGOs, Employees, Mission, Vision, Values (MVV), Shareholders/Investors, Government Bodies, etc. Long-term Management Vision 2030 ＜International Initiatives Taken into Account (Basic Frameworks)＞ ＜Impact on Management＞ Review Materiality in Consideration of Environmental Changes and Other Factors Review Materiality in Consideration of Environmental Changes and Other Factors UN Global Compact, SDGs, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Universal Declaration Medium-term Management Plan, Impact Assessment on Management of Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, Guiding (growth potential, profitability, risks and opportunities), Principles on Business and Human Rights, ISO26000, GRI Standards Specially Designated Business Management System Obtaining Internal and External Opinions Questionnaire surveys of officers and employees on a global group basis, Interviews with the Sustainability Promotion Officers, Exchange views with outside experts and our external directors Internal Discussion and Approval Sustainability Committee (organization under the Corporate Management Committee), Corporate Management Committee, Board of Directors’ Meetings Identification of Materiality Secure sustainable supply of Develop talent leading to Enhance quality of life Create an eco-friendly society Build an organization with integrity essential products value creation Value Creation and Solution to Societal Issues through All of Mitsui & Co.’s Business Activities 17 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Secure sustainable supply of essential products Ensure the sustainable and stable supply of resources, materials, food and manufactured products that are vital for the development of society. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities Major Initiatives • Population growth and expanding Risks Stable Supply of Resources, Energy, Materials, Food and Products P.55 demand for resources, energy, raw • Supply failures of resources, energy, • Stable and efficient supply of resources, raw materials, and manufactured products (such as metals, chemicals, energy, and food) through building materials, food, manufactured raw materials, food, manufactured optimal supply chains from upstream to downstream products, etc. products, etc. caused by climate • Promotion of measures against climate change, abnormal weather events, and other disasters • Improvement of production and change, COVID-19, etc. supply capacity to respond to climate • Reputational damage resulting from Targets change safety and health problems affecting • Improvement of access to nutrition through the stable supply of food • Safety and security of food and the final consumers of food and manufactured products manufactured products Supplying Food and Products with Ensured Safety and Security P.56 Opportunities • Provision of products in accordance with the Consumer Product Handling Policy, Consumer Product Handling Regulations, and detailed rules • Improvement of production and established by relevant business units supply capacity through responding • Traceability management in the food business area, and management of safety and security risks by holding regular food safety seminars to the effects of climate change, • Promotion of responsible pharmaceutical marketing activities COVID-19, etc. • Enhancement of competitiveness through the establishment of traceability, responsible marketing leading to demand expansion 18 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Secure sustainable supply of essential products Contributing towards the Development of High-Productivity, Sustainable Agriculture through Environmentally-Friendly Biopesticides 2.4 Contribute towards the establishment of sustainable agricultural systems that safeguard human health and the environment, through the manufacturing and sale of biopesticides. 3.9 Contribute towards making soil healthier by promoting and expanding the use of biopesticides. Certis USA L.L.C.’s head office Christina Limbourg Third Business Dept., AgriScience Div., Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit * Position as of the time of interview. As a result of population growth and economic development, annual global food demand is expected to rise by 70% between 2010 and 2050 to reach 5,817 million tons*. To increase the world’s food supply to keep pace with rising demand, it will be necessary both to cultivate new land and increase yields on existing farmland. However, increasing the area of land under cultivation on a global scale will be challenging, so it is particularly important to boost yields by developing new agricultural technologies and reducing production loss. During the Green Revolution of the 1960s, increased food production was underpinned by chemical fertilizers, pesticides and new high-yielding crop varieties. However, in today’s world, where environmental pollution and food safety have become important issues, there are concerns about the impact of chemical fertilizers and pesticides on human health and on ecosystems, and, particularly in Europe, stringent controls are being placed on agrochemicals and on recombinant DNA technology, along with demands for the adoption of safer methods. Mitsui & Co. recognized the potential for using biopesticides to address this issue, and established Certis USA L.L.C. (Certis USA) in 2001 after acquiring the biopesticide business of a U.S. agrochemicals manufacturer. Biopesticides utilize the abilities of microorganisms, natural enemies, parasites, etc., to combat insect pests and weeds, transforming them into agents that can be applied easily and effectively. They can be used to create an environment in which it is difficult for insect pests and weeds to thrive, and restrict their growth so that they do not cause economically significant damage. By promoting Integrated Pest Management (IPM) that integrates the biopesticides manufactured by Certis USA with agrochemicals, we are contributing towards the building of highly-productive, sustainable agricultural systems. * Source: Food Security Office, Policy Planning Division, Minister’s Secretariat, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Long-term World Food Supply and Demand Projection for 2050 (September 2019) 19 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Secure sustainable supply of essential products I am hoping for a future in which we are able to Using world-leading technology to help drive biopesticides from agrochemicals manufacturing, the transformation of agriculture Certis USA’s sole focus on biopesticides has given it realize a world free from hunger through We established Certis USA at a time when there was growing concern a strong product line-up, with first-rate about the negative impact of chemical pesticides and fertilizers on technological capabilities in terms of the cultivation the effective use of biopesticides. human health and on the environment, and when a transition towards of the microorganisms that are used in biopesticide more environmentally-friendly agriculture was being promoted. manufacturing, and possession of both solid fermentation and liquid Europe, but the company is also working to increase sales in South Focusing our attention on IPM technology, which controls the growth fermentation technology. My role is to provide support to help grow America, Asia, and the Middle East in order to help foster the spread of pests by combining different preventive techniques, we acquired Certis USA’s corporate value and help the company to expand its of sustainable agriculture. However, price competition in these Thermo Trilogy Corporation (now Certis USA), a leader in the emerging business; I am delighted to have the opportunity to support a firm markets is intense, therefore the method of approach is an issue: biopesticides sector, and began promoting the adoption of IPM in the that is a world leader in the rapidly-growing biopesticides sector. biopesticides tend to be more expensive than agrochemicals, agricultural sector. We were confident that, by combining biopesticides making them hard to win acceptance in countries and regions and agrochemicals appropriately in ways tailored to the environment Using biopesticides to enhance the productivity of the soil where the emphasis is on low-cost, fast-acting products. What Certis and the incidence of agricultural pests in individual countries and Although Certis USA manufactures only biopesticides, this does not USA is currently considering is moving away from the existing model regions, it would be possible to simultaneously address the seemingly mean that we believe agrochemicals cannot be used at all. As whereby products manufactured in the U.S. are sold throughout the contradictory goals of enhancing crop yields and reducing the burden biopesticides have little impact on organisms other than those which world, towards a system under which platforms will be created for on the environment, thereby contributing towards agriculture and they are targeted to protect against, they make it possible to realize local manufacturing and sale, which will help to make the products food production and enhancing the lives of people throughout the pest prevention while also reducing the harm caused to the health of more cost competitive and enable the company to respond more world. Anticipating that calls for this type of change would increase in humans and domestic animals and the negative impact on the effectively to customers’ needs. While technical support for farmers the future, not only from farmers but also from sales companies, environment. However, they do have disadvantages; they are relatively has been carried out through distributors in the past, Certis USA is consumers, etc., we made the decision to invest in this area 19 years slow-acting, and it can be difficult to decide the best time to apply. planning to provide more of such support directly in the U.S. market. ago. Although it took some time to bring our vision to fruition, demand Agrochemicals can compensate for these deficiencies because they are By implementing similar measures in developing nations and for IPM has risen significantly often quick-acting and easier to use. On the other hand, excessive use regions in Asia and Africa, we hope to help people to understand over the past five years. of agrochemicals can reduce the biodiversity of the microorganisms in the advantage for using biopesticides, which in turn should lead to Currently, Certis USA is the soil, creating an environment which is more conducive to the increased sales. a leading biopesticides growth of pathogenic bacteria and insect pests. Biopesticides can play company with a global an important role in improving the soil environment, protecting plants’ We want to use biopesticides to help ensure that people market share of roots and enhancing the productivity of the soil. all over the world have enough to eat approximately 5%. While For this reason, it is important to recognize the different roles The number of people suffering from hunger and malnutrition the know-how possessed that biopesticides and agrochemicals play. Certis USA’s consultants continues to increase, and this problem is especially pronounced in by Certis USA employees and distributors hold presentations to explain ways of combining Asia and Africa. It has been reported that over two billion people lack certainly constitutes one of biopesticides and agrochemicals and how to use biopesticide adequate access to safe, nutritious food. There are many factors the company’s strengths, products effectively, and also offer training so that farmers can learn behind this situation; nevertheless, we believe that realizing other factors behind its how to adopt IPM smoothly. sustainable agriculture can help to bring about a future in which superior performance people throughout the world have access to the food they need. By include the fact that, unlike Working to ensure that the right products can be used in working through Certis USA, which plays a key role in our multinational corporations the regions that need them biopesticides business, we hope to continue supporting the Production equipment at a Certis USA subsidiary (India) that have expanded into Certis USA’s current main markets include North America and adoption and expansion of sustainable agriculture in the future. 20 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Enhance quality of life Contribute to the betterment of living standards and the development of local industries to realize sustainable societies globally. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities Major Initiatives • Infrastructure development in Risks Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure P.57 Supply Chain Management P.65 developing and emerging countries • Reputational damage resulting from • Contribution to the enhancement of local and social infrastructures that • Meeting society’s expectations together with business partners by • Aging infrastructure in developed safety and health problems affecting are essential for sustainable growth and development, particularly complying with laws, respecting human rights, maintaining safe and countries infrastructure users through promotion of projects in relation to renewable energy, water sanitary working conditions, reducing environmental load, and ensuring • Health maintenance, provision of • Decline in competitiveness due to the treatment, water supply and sewerage, logistics, railroads, and consumer safety and confidence in relation to products and services healthcare, nursing, and welfare diversification of information communications • Conducting surveys to monitor the status of sustainability measures in services dissemination methods and fund • Promotion of sustainable development and community investments supply chains (supplier on-site surveys) • Consideration for indigenous peoples procurement means aimed at creating employment at the regional level in developing and in relation to resource development • Decline in service standards and other Targets emerging countries where population growth and economic and other activities issues due to a shortage of healthcare development is significant • Achievement of 100% awareness of our Sustainable Supply Chain Policy • Expanding responsibility and personnel among new suppliers increasing importance of • Reputational damage resulting from consideration for human rights in human rights violations and Health and Aging Society P.59 supply chains (e.g., labor practices and environmental loads in supply chains Social Contribution Activities P.99 impact on local communities) • Contribution to the advancement of healthcare in terms of access, Opportunities quality, and efficiency by responding to diverse medical needs due to • Promotion of initiatives that are aimed at local community revitalization population growth and aging in partnership with local communities • Development of sustainable • Implementation of multifaceted initiatives at 74 locations of Mitsui’s infrastructure for improvement of Forests (approximately 44,000 hectares) throughout Japan living standards in developing and Increasingly Diverse Consumer Needs P.60 • Provision of opportunities to allow young people to broaden their emerging countries • Provision of products and services that meet diverse consumer needs horizons and knowledge as global leaders, and to build various • Changes in disease structure due to networks, through Mitsui-endowed lecture programs at universities and population growth/economic training programs in Japan, as well as through provision of scholarships development and increase in Respect for Human Rights P.61 in countries and regions where Mitsui operates its business healthcare needs due to aging • Operation of the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund to support university • Creation of markets by promoting • Respect human rights in its activities as a group and also aim to research, and NPO/NGO activities targeting solutions for environmental ICT-based business to build urban promote respect for human rights in collaboration with our business problems social infrastructure in response to the partners move toward developing smart cities • Formulation of a human rights policy and implementation of human • Market expansion by meeting rights due diligence diversifying consumer needs • Provision of human rights training programs aimed at raising • Improvement of value and reliability awareness among officers and employees across entire value chains through consideration for the environment, human rights, labor, and local communities in the entire supply chain 21 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Enhance quality of life Contributing towards Enhancement of People’s Lives and Economic Development through Mini-grid Projects in Non-electrified Regions 7.1 Deliver stable and affordable electricity generated by solar power, and promote electrification across non-electrified regions. 9.4 Promote measures to increase efficiency in solar power generation and distribution, and strive to reduce cost. A Power generation plant. In the background is a household that receives power supply from the facility. Thomas Alwin Division. II, Infrastructure Projects Business Unit, seconded to OMC Power Private Limited Demand for energy has been growing throughout the world, especially in Asia and Africa, along with the steady economic growth of these regions. The power sector has seen a pronounced trend towards Decarbonization, Decentralization, and Digitalization (the “3 D’s”), and a rapid shift is underway towards renewable energy, which is more environment-friendly. Mitsui & Co. is responding to the “3 D’s” trend not only through the development of utility scale solar power and wind power projects, but also through the global roll-out of distributed power generation projects that provide service closer to the end-user. Globally, approximately one billion people—mostly in Asia and Africa—have limited access to electricity*, and for India also, this is a major problem. At the same time, mobile phone penetration rates tend to be very high even in the inadequately-electrified regions of India and Africa, making electricity necessary for communication purposes. In 2017, we invested in OMC Power Private Limited (OMC), which is specialized in a business model with a combination of solar power and batteries to implement a distributed electricity generation business in which electricity is produced and consumed locally. With mobile phone base stations being the anchor customers, OMC supplies reliable electricity to local businesses and communities as well. Rather than using conventional fossil fuels, OMC provides stable and affordable electricity mainly through environmentfriendly solar power, with the aim of contributing to the realization of the Indian government’s goal of ensuring a 24-hour electricity supply to all Indian households, as well as enhancing the lives and economic prosperity of rural communities. We will be working with OMC to deliver electricity to other inadequately-electrified regions not only in India, but also in other parts of Asia and Africa. * Source: International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2018. 22 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Enhance quality of life Electricity can change society. We want to provide Expanding the customer base with a unique business model mini-grid operator, the company’s good relationship Currently, OMC operates 197 power generation plants, which supply with mobile phone service providers, and its electricity to as many people as possible. power to 211 mobile phone base stations, 5,000 local businesses, and experience of working with India’s individual state approximately 100,000 residents in 15,000 households. I am working governments in the mini-grid sector. By building a anchor customers. By efficiently using the solar panels, batteries, and with the OMC team to expand the scale of operation and improve distributed electricity generation platform, OMC is able to provide a diesel generators in combination, reliable power can be supplied 24 profitability, with the aim of expanding the number of power plants, stable and reliable electricity supply by managing the platform in hours a day. Running a power plant efficiently and stably is a which stood at 100 in 2017, to 1,000 plants in the near future, and line with customer demand. Furthermore, OMC aims to utilize this challenging task, but OMC has achieved this, thanks to the bring stable power to over one million people living in remote and platform as a foundation for providing new businesses and services know-how it has accumulated over the years. OMC’s generating rural areas with inadequate access to the conventional grid. that enhance the standard of living of the local communities. facilities also make extensive use of information technology. It has In developing countries, due to the rapid increase in mobile Currently, the company is already providing a service that uses developed its own unique power control unit to reduce generating phone usage, it is a common phenomenon that the wireless electricity for water purification, and a diverse range of other new loss within power plants and a remote monitoring system to communication network exceeds the infrastructure provided to services that have the potential to enrich local residents’ lives—such manage multiple power plants efficiently; OMC continues to work supply electric power, and India is no exception. OMC developed a as refrigeration facilities and electric vehicle charging facilities—are tirelessly to realize further optimization and improvements that will unique business model that takes advantage of this situation. also under consideration. enable it to produce electricity at even more competitive cost. Starting out by supplying power to mobile phone base stations, OMC then built transmission and distribution lines in the vicinity of Continuous optimization of business processes to pursue Delivering electricity enriches people’s lives the base station, expanding its customer base to include local higher quality and better cost It is estimated that around one billion people are living in facilities, businesses and residents within a 2–3 kilometer radius of In inadequately-electrified regions of India, people normally rely on inadequately-electrified regions. Having myself grown up in the the base station. This business model makes effective use of the diesel fuel, kerosene, firewood, etc. for the basic needs of energy southern part of India, where the electricity power supply system know-how that OMC has accumulated over the years as a leading such as lighting and cooking. However, these methods place a was also not stable in the past, I understand personally how big a significant burden on the environment, and they are also expensive problem this can be. Living in an environment without access to in terms of cost per kilowatt hour. OMC’s goal is to utilize solar power electricity is more than just an inconvenience; it also causes to provide clean energy to these residents while bringing down the sanitation problems, low levels of economic activity, lack of job cost to an optimum level. While providing environment-friendly opportunities, and even insufficient educational facilities. When OMC clean energy, it has to be affordable as well for the target customers. built its first power plant, there was little economic activity nearby. Solar power offers outstanding cost-performance, as once it is In some locations, with the establishment of OMC plants, installed, it can keep generating electricity every day (as long as the the community has developed significantly, and now there is a sun is shining) without the need for fuel. In recent years, the cost of primary school, a high school, a small hospital, and a large number solar power generation has fallen significantly, and it now constitutes of shops. Witnessing the improvement in living standards, and how a low-cost source of electricity. Utilization of solar enables OMC to the local economy has been invigorated, it really brought home to generate power at low cost; in addition, OMC’s many years of me how important electricity is for society. experience in the sector enable the provision of highly efficient In the future, we will be expanding our business in other power generation. To ensure a stable power supply in response to countries and regions and working to strengthen OMC’s customer demand, OMC uses solar panels to generate electricity organizational capabilities, so that we can deliver stable, affordable, during the day, and stores the excess energy in batteries to supply it sustainable electricity to everyone who needs it—starting from India during the night hours. Diesel generators are used only as back-up and expanding into Africa, other parts of Asia, etc.—as soon as A store able to do business at night to ensure the 99.95% power availability that OMC has committed to possible. 23 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Create an eco-friendly society Accelerate initiatives towards environmental issues, such as responding to climate change and water resource problems, and contributing to a circular economy. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities Major Initiatives • Global warming, climate change Risks Environmental Management P.34 Water Resources P.45 • Water resource shortages • Impact of tighter policies and • Consideration for the environment in our business activities on a global • Work through our water business to conserve water resources and • Circular economy regulations as part of the transition to group basis promote sustainable usage • Environmental pollution a low-carbon society • Implementation of environmental management systems based on • Loss of biodiversity • Impact of new technologies and the ISO14001 and various international guidelines creation of new markets on supply • Active obtainment of environment-related certifications Circular Economy P.46 and demand in existing business areas Targets • Promotion of the 3Rs • Disruption of business operations due • Introduction of designs and materials that minimize resource inputs to the impact of cyclones, hurricanes, • Reduction in energy consumption intensity by 1% or higher on average • Promotion of sharing to improve usage rates for products and services and other physical impacts linked to per year for Mitsui and its subsidiaries in Japan • Extension of product life cycle through maintenance and repurposing climate change • Improvement of the recycling rate in Head Office and corporate • Development of mechanisms that allow the utilization of items once • Impacts on the natural environment, buildings in Osaka and Nagoya to at least 85% by 2020 regarded as waste for other purposes such as the large-scale use of water in • Reduction of the use of resources (paper) in the Head Office and all business operations offices in Japan • Impact of leakage of hazardous • Increase in the ratio of sustainable certified palm oil procurement, Environmental Pollution P.47 chemicals including RSPO-certified, to 100% by 2030 • Increase of environmental costs due • Reduction of the quantity of chemical substances released into the to the destruction/deterioration of atmosphere eco-systems Climate Change P.40 • Initiatives that lead to the reduction of water and soil contamination Opportunities • Improving the asset portfolio of the resource and power generation business and flexible take-up of new business challenges based on Biodiversity P.48 • Accelerating market changes in the long-term perspectives of at least ten years, making the most of our mobility area resulting from rising • Promotion of business that takes biodiversity into account existing wide-range business development activities environmental awareness and the • Designation of 10% of Mitsui’s Forests as “biodiversity conservation • Promotion of business that contributes to the reduction of CO2 tightening of regulations forests,” and maintenance and management of these forests accordingly emissions such as renewable energy and modal shift • Expansion of markets for • Implementation of initiatives that contribute to the improvement of environment-related business areas, energy consumption efficiency such as renewable energy • Demand for high-efficiency power Targets plants • Formulating Mitsui’s goal to achieve net-zero emissions as our Vision for • Creation of new business models 2050, and aiming to reduce GHG impact by 2030 to half of what it is in based on the circular economy 2020 as the path to achieve the above goal • Handling of products and services that • Increase in the percentage of renewable energy (including hydropower) contribute to the creation of a lowin Mitsui’s equity-based electricity generation capacity to 30% by 2030 carbon society by conserving energy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions 24 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Create an eco-friendly society Creating Community-Based Biomass Power Generation Business for the Post-Carbon Society 7.1, 7.2 Contribute towards increasing renewable energy’s share of electric power generation in Japan and enhancing access to renewable energy through the development and operation of wood biomass power generation projects. 8.3 Generate continued, stable job creation in the forestry and logistics sectors through local procurement of the fuel needed for electric power generation. Biomass power plant in Shimokawa 9.4 Contribute towards the reduction of fossil Hiroki Yamashita fuel usage and CO2 emissions by reusing the heat generated during electric power Hokkaido Energy Dept., Local Business Origination & Innovation Div., Energy Business Unit I&II generation within the power plant and also undertaking planning for sharing the heat with the local community and industrial facilities. Throughout the world, global warming has led to increased demand for renewable energy. In Japan, the government has announced its aim to realize an energy mix whereby renewable energy accounts for 22–24% of total electric power generation by 2030, and to actively promote renewable energy as the mainstream source of electric power generation. With this in mind, Mitsui & Co. is working to grow its renewable energy business and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. An example of a project where we have taken a leading role is the development of wood biomass power generation as a distributed local power source in Hokkaido, with new biomass power plants having begun operation in 15.1, 15.2 Tomakomai in 2017 and in Shimokawa in 2019, and construction of a further plant begun in Tobetsu in May 2020. Establishing small-scale, distributed power plant facilities close to Support the proper management of power consumers reduces energy loss during transmission and also reduces GHG emissions. Hokkaido has extensive forest resources, with over 20% of Japan’s total forest area, so degraded forest and restoration of its functions by monetarizing unused forest there will be a stable supply of unused forest materials such as forest thinnings that can be used as fuel for the biomass power plants, and we believe that biomass power materials such as forest thinnings. generation—which, unlike solar power or wind power, can consistently maintain more or less stable power output, regardless of the weather—has the potential to make renewable energy the mainstream form of electric power generation. Whereas most biomass power generation projects undertaken by general trading companies use a business model that involves importing wood fuel from overseas and supplying the generated power to electric power utilities, we have created a unique model in which distributed local power plants are operated using 100% Hokkaido-produced fuel. Forestry is one of Hokkaido’s main industries, and the use of wood biomass power generation facilitates “cascade” type utilization of timber*1. We have Mitsui’s Forests totaling around 44,000 hectares at 74 locations throughout Japan, of which approximately 36,000 hectares are in Hokkaido. We are contributing towards the reinvigoration of the forestry sector not only through our own forests, but also by creating demand for unused forest materials such as forest thinnings, creating new employment opportunities for forestry and logistics sector workers, and enhancing the efficient utilization of forest materials. 25 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Create an eco-friendly society I want to create a power station that is rooted in a Making a difficult experience the springboard for assignment in Germany to research technology that could launching projects in new locations be used to address this problem, I was impressed by the resource-circulating local economy, and in which funds Having overseen new project development in Hokkaido since 2017, I realized technology of Burkhardt GmbH, which generates electricity that efforts to make renewable energy the mainstream form of electricity using a unique type of gasification furnace with wood that previously would have flowed out of the community generation face a number of problems. One issue is constraints on connection pellets*5 as the fuel. As the gasifiers require high-level pellet to the electric power system*2. Traditionally, the electric power companies quality management, even after commencing power plant will be returned to local forests, as in Germany. built transmission lines to connect large-scale power stations with areas where operation, we continued to make steady improvements of there is demand for electric power, so areas with spare electric power system 1% or so in terms of the water content of pellets. We also adopted the PI by power plants to agricultural facilities that have been invited to operate capacity and areas with potential for renewable energy development do not System developed by OSIsoft, LLC., a company that our IT & Communications nearby so that none of wood material is wasted. necessarily coincide. Grid capacity constraints have been a problem, and Business Unit has invested in, to realize real-time data aggregation and within Hokkaido, the establishment of a new upstream grid system can take visualization, thereby facilitating effective management decision-making to Using the integrated capability of a general trading 5–9 years and cost huge amounts of money, so the hurdles that need to be optimize operation and enhance availability, representing a DX*6 initiative company to develop locally-rooted businesses overcome are very high. based linkage that a general trading company like Mitsui excels in. We have committed ourselves to strengthening domestic business System connection has also been a problem with the Tobetsu project In terms of environmental contribution, the gasifier technology has the development within Japan, and in July this year the Energy Business Unit I&II which began construction this year. After a survey that took nearly six months, additional advantage of requiring less wood than conventional steam turbine established the new Local Business Origination & Innovation Division, with the we found out that the new project could not be connected to the electric technology. Additionally, at the Shimokawa Plant the heat generated during aim of expanding businesses that are rooted in local communities. In the case power system at the site we originally thought we would be able to secure in electricity generation with gasifier technology is reused in the drying process of the current project, we are considering beyond horizontal dissemination, another local municipality. Since we had already spent money on a soil boring during pellet manufacturing, realizing an improvement in overall energy and are discussing how we can meet the needs of individual municipalities survey, I was at a loss as to how to explain the situation to other project efficiency. At Ladbergen, a village in Germany that Mitsui visited to examine using the experience acquired in collaborating with local government stakeholders. However, we did not give up, and in the end we were able to the generators in use there, the power plant supplies hot water to an airport authorities, so that we can generate opportunities for cross-business-unit receive support from the town of Tobetsu and the staff of the town office, who located 3 kilometers away and to local factories. This has made it possible to development of local projects. Our good relationship with the town of were hoping to adopt renewable energy, to allocate suitable land to use. After bring down expenditures on heavy oil and kerosene, thereby reducing the Shimokawa has led to another local project, and we have begun industry/ the allocation of a suitable site, as the main project manager, I had a to-do list flow of funds out of the village, and the money that is saved can be used to university/government collaboration to develop new products that make of nearly 500 items including having to confirm over 70 permits and support the health of local forests, creating a “virtuous circle” of fund utilization. effective use of agricultural produce cultivated in Shimokawa, in partnership authorizations from central government ministries and local government We would like to adopt similar business model whereby hot water is supplied with the municipality of Shimokawa, Sapporo Ueshima Coffee Co., Ltd., and authorities, sign nearly 30 contracts with EPC*3 contractors and other external Fuji Women’s University. partners, engage in financing negotiations with regional banks, arrange Hokkaido is blessed with extensive land and diverse natural resources, O&M*4, undertake raw materials procurement, build consensus with the local while also requiring large amounts of energy to cope with its severe winters; as community, and also liaise with joint investor Hokkaido Electric Power Co., Inc. such, it has great potential for renewable energy development. In line with my and complete approval processes within Mitsui. When the groundbreaking initial vision of wanting to create a village like Ladbergen in Japan, I will ceremony was held, there was a real sense that it had all been worth doing. continue working towards the realization of an eco-friendly society. *1 With the “cascade” model, after timber has been used as construction material, the left-over material can be used to manufacture paper pulp, and in the final stage it is used as fuel, so that no material is wasted. Using German gasification technology and U.S. IoT *2 “Electric power system” is used here to refer collectively to the electricity generation, transformer technology to support power plant establishment operation, transmission, and distribution needed to supply electric power to customers’ equipment. *3 Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) agreement is negotiated between the project Both the Shimokawa and Tobetsu power plants were designed as compact company and the contractor. facilities, which offer advantages in terms of system connection. However, *4 Operation & Maintenance (O&M) *5 Wood pellets are a form of solid fuel that is made by crushing round raw timber into small pieces and when conventional steam turbine type generators are built on a small scale then compressing these to form small, rod-like pellets. The Tobetsu power plant, which is currently under construction and scheduled for there can be problems with reduced generating efficiency. While on commencement of operation in or after 2021 (conceptual image) *6 Digital Transformation (DX) represents the transformation to a new model which emphasizes the role of ICT in business infrastructure, through the utilization of AI and IoT. 26 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Develop talent leading to value creation Respect diversity and develop human resources with the competence to create innovation and new value. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities Major Initiatives • Innovation platforms Risks Creating New Value P.69 • Diversity and inclusion • Decline in the quality and • Initiatives through Moon, an innovation lab aimed at new business development and business incubation • Improvement of creativity through competitiveness of human resources • Advancement of business models in the digital economy area through digital transformation (DX), such as use of Mitsui’s own data assets, creation of added value using AI and IoT, etc. work-style innovation and career due to market and environmental development for diverse human changes resources • Outflows of employees due to the Human Resources Management Targets P.70 loss of career development • Action Plan Related to the Promotion of Women’s Empowerment Personnel Management in the Medium-term Management Plan 2023 opportunities for diverse human • Voluntary Action Plan on Promotion of Women to Managerial and Executive Positions resources • Deployment of diverse professional talent to the right positions on a global • Achievement of a 10% ratio of female managers by the fiscal year ending March 2025 group basis as a human resource strategy, one of the six corporate strategies that Opportunities • Work-Style Innovation Action Plan realize “Transform and Grow” under the Medium-term Management Plan 2023 • Reduction in the number of employees working more than 620 hours of overtime • New value creation initiatives Human Resources Development and Allocation per year (statutory calculation) to zero by the fiscal year ending March 2021 by • Improvements in productivity, • Basic policy of fair recruitment, purely based on an individual’s abilities and supporting individual employees’ efforts to improve productivity and efficiency efficiency, and motivation along with aptitude through a priority-focused work style accelerating work-style innovation • Respect for diverse individuals and fostering of personnel who can contribute to • Increase of the percentage of annual leave taken (including leave taken in half-day • Recruitment of competitive talent the management of our global group and create new value and hourly units) to 70% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 by supporting through selection processes centering • Appropriate appointment and allocation of personnel individual employees’ efforts to improve productivity and efficiency through a on abilities and personal qualities, and priority-focused work style fair and diverse recruitment activities Career Development Initiatives for Our Diverse Human Resources • Increase of the percentage of employees giving positive answers to questions on work • Fine-tuned human resources • Promotion of management to realize the concept of “Diversity & Inclusion” so that it styles in in-house surveys, such as whether the workplace environment is suitable for development with an increased embraces true diversity the maximization of productivity, and whether there are no obstacles to work in the emphasis on diversity workplace, to 60-70% of all employees by the fiscal year ending March 2024 Creating an Environment for Taking on Challenges and Driving Creation • Appropriate appointment and • Health Performance Index • Rollout of the “Work-X” initiative, which embodies new work styles at Mitsui to create deployment of personnel on a global • Percentage of employees undergoing health checks: 100% by the fiscal year ending an environment in which employees work energetically so that both employees and consolidated basis March 2021 the company can grow sustainably • Improvement of corporate • Medical questionnaire response rate: 100% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 • Work-style innovation to review existing ways of working and realize flexible and competitiveness by creating • Percentage of employees undergoing stress checks: 90% or higher by the fiscal year priority-focused work styles that are unconstrained by spatial or temporal restrictions innovations through diversity ending March 2021 • Support for “work-life management” so that every employee is able to fully meet management promotion • Smoking rate: Reduction by 0.5% compared to the previous fiscal year life’s responsibilities, while pursuing career development by displaying their potential in the workplace to the full • Mental Health Promotion Plan The following targets have been set to be achieved in the five-year period up to the Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety fiscal year ending March 2021. • Creation of safe and healthy working environments in which employees can • All employees, including managers, shall understand mental health issues, and continue to work with confidence become able to fulfill his or her own role in promoting mental health • Implementation of measures required under laws and regulations in the countries • Fully establish and permeate the stress check system and regions where we have business operations • Achievement of a 100% response rate in the regular medical questionnaire • Establishment of systems to ensure an effective response to emergencies, such as • Workplace Accident Targets (FY 2021) accidents and disasters 27 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Develop talent leading to value creation Work-X—Driving a transformation of employees’ mindsets and behavior 4.4 Inculcate the habit of acting proactively, and provide opportunities and an environment for the creation of new businesses through collaboration between human talent both within and outside the company. 8.2, 8.3 Provide a working environment in which people can work productively and creatively at any time, and in any location. The Camp —A communication space in the new Head Office building Hiroko Takashiro Daisen Suzuki Workplace Experience Dept., General Manager, Workplace Experience Dept., Human Resources & General Affairs Div. Human Resources & General Affairs Div. In our Long-term Management Vision 2030 (LTMV), which outlines our vision for the future, Mitsui & Co. has announced our determination to realize our evolution from “connecting” to “creating.” Through effective collaboration between individuals, we aim to generate cognitive “intellectual chemical reactions” that will make the Mitsui & Co. Group able to create unprecedented new value and new business proactively. In May 2020, we moved into a new Head Office building. Taking this relocation as an opportunity to realize new work-style in our company, in 2018 we launched the Workplace Experience (Work-X) project to make our vision of the new workplace experience a reality throughout the company. It is a cross-organizational project within the company seeking to promote a transformation of each employee’s mindset and behavior, which goes beyond the improvement of the workplace environment in the new Head Office building. So as to continue creating new value by effectively utilizing the diverse individuals that make up Mitsui, we need to transform employees’ working styles to be more flexible and more agile. Prior to the implementation of the Work-X project, we had already been implementing greater diversification in terms of working hours. Now, with Work-X, our main focus is on promoting cross-departmental communication and collaboration through the diversification of work locations. By making it possible for employees to proactively select the work location that is best suited to their current work situation and work content, we aim to realize more productive, more creative work-style. The key aspect of Work-X is not the transformation of physical office environments, but rather the transformation of individual employees’ mindsets and behavior, which in turn will enable us to realize the Medium-term Management Plan 2023—Transform and Grow. By disseminating this transformation of mindsets and behavior throughout the Mitsui global group, we will continue to challenge ourselves and realize further innovation. 28 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Develop talent leading to value creation The relocation of our Head Office was just the catalyst. Work-X has been underpinned by the proactive stance participating, but after repeated, careful explanation of adopted by the Work-X Ambassadors why the change was needed, and once they heard the The fundamental goal of Work-X is the transformation Over the past year, the Workplace Experience Dept. has been taking the positive comments from the departments that had taken LTMV as a foundation for enunciating and realizing our approach to the part in the initial trial, there was a steady increase in the of behavior throughout the global group. adoption of new work-style. Turning the content of the LTMV into concrete number of units that wanted to adopt the new system. implementation strategies was no easy task, but the biggest challenge was The introduction of the free address system has also led to significant project was the relocation of the Head Office, the fundamental goal of the to help Mitsui’s approximately 6,000 employees to understand and accept progress in paperless office implementation. With this initiative, the project is to generate “intellectual chemical reactions” between people the new approach, and to inspire them to take action. In promoting these acceptance and active participation by our employees made it possible for both within and outside the company through spontaneous collaboration, changes, the single biggest role has been played by Ambassadors, who significant results to be achieved. to create new business value regardless of the physical location. By were selected from business and corporate units. Another major transformation realized by Work-X is the proactive adjusting the initiatives and activities best suited to the needs of each Initially, the expected role of the Ambassadors was to promote Work-X utilization of digital technology. As a means of fostering real-time individual business location, we anticipate that this will lead to a major in each unit. However, once the project commenced, there were many communication and making business processes more efficient, we have transformation in the overall performance of the Mitsui Group as a whole. instances where the Ambassadors provided a wide range of advice and promoted a shift away from fixed-line telephony towards utilization of As the physical office environment varies depending on the business suggestions from a frontline perspective, and actively exchanged views with iPhones, and the adoption of digital technology such as Microsoft Teams location, we are hoping that original and innovative Work-X measures will others. Reflecting the Ambassadors’ frontline perspectives and suggestions and DocuSign. With the outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease (COVIDbe generated based on the specific characteristics of each location. in promoting Work-X naturally made the project easier for the employees to 19) pandemic, all employees suddenly found themselves having to work Precisely because we are living in an era of uncertainty and rapid take in, and this has been one of the major reasons why the dissemination of from home, but because of the preparations that had already been made change, in the implementation of the Work-X project we have been the new approach at individual workplaces has proceeded so well. to adopt new working methods, employees were able to adapt smoothly working to raise awareness among our employees of the need to move and promptly. In this sense, the recent challenges have helped to promote beyond conventional wisdom and become used to responding flexibly to Creating new business in a new environment further digitalization. With employees now back in the office, they have changing times. It is thanks to the dissemination of such an approach that Following the Work-X discussions, several new measures have been already become more accepting of new forms of communication, and this we have been able to implement a flexible response to the recent COVIDimplemented at Mitsui’s new Head Office to foster communication and is contributing to a substantial improvement in productivity. 19 pandemic. The term “new normal” has started to be used with the collaboration. One of these measures is the adoption of a free address spread of the pandemic. Having a mindset that can flexibly adjust to a new system (hot desking system within each organizational unit). This system Realizing further evolution on a global group basis environment will contribute to invigorating our growth going forward. has made it possible to implement flexible team formation in line with The mission of the Workplace Experience Dept. is not only the continuous operational and project needs. The second measure is the establishment of improvement of the office environment, but also to contribute towards the Camps (dedicated communication areas). These serve as places where enhancement of our productivity and corporate value by improving the employees can engage in cross-departmental collaboration, in a relaxed company’s internal ethos and atmosphere, promoting an even higher level atmosphere conducive to the free generation of ideas. The third measure is of collaboration, and transforming employees’ mindsets and behavior. “stacking”; through a strategic placement based on Mitsui’s management Given the rapid pace of change in today’s world, and the ongoing trend strategy, departments that are likely to generate business synergy together towards diversification, a company will be unable to take full advantage of are located on the same floor of the building, or on the floors immediately new business opportunities if it continues to rely on a conventional above and below one another, with the potential for changing these organizational structure. In the future, we are aiming to build synergy by arrangements flexibly as needed. These three measures combine with one developing horizontal and diagonal linkages, while maintaining and another to provide maximum effectiveness. When adopting the free continuing the productivity of the existing vertical organization. address system, we firstly implemented a trial to verify the effectiveness The next challenge is to expand the adoption of Work-X to include the and identify problems. Initially, many departments were cautious about entire global group. Although the catalyst for the launching of the Work-X Workplace Experience Dept. staff and Work-X Ambassadors (February 2020) 29 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Build an organization with integrity Strengthen our governance and compliance as a corporate group trusted by society. Recognition of Societal Issues Major Risks and Opportunities Major Initiatives • Raising integrity awareness, including Risks Integrity and Compliance P.106 ensuring compliance among all • Compliance violations, including • Efforts at the global group level to build an organization with integrity to maintain its reputation as a company that is truly trusted by society officers and employees anti-competitive actions, corruption, • Establishment and enhancement of the compliance framework and provision of compliance education/training to further ensure the compliance • Reinforcement of corporate and bribery, resulting from a lack of awareness of our employees governance and internal control integrity awareness on the part of • Facilitating communication and fostering a “speak up” culture officers and employees • Business stagnation, scandals, and other situations resulting from Corporate Governance & Internal Controls P.111 dysfunctional corporate governance • Emphasis on improved transparency and accountability, and clarification of the division of roles between management oversight and execution and internal control, leading to a • Implementation of various systems in accordance with the basic framework of the internal control indicated by the Business Accounting Council, an failure to take appropriate advisory body to the Financial Services Agency of Japan management decisions, and the loss of stakeholder confidence as a consequence of such situations Risk Management P.113 • Information security problems • Loss of customers and damage to our • Cautious execution of business initiatives under the specially designated business management system for business areas exposed to high qualitative corporate reputation resulting from risks relating to the environment, society, governance, and other aspects that are classified as “specially designated businesses” the suspension of important business • Implementation of measures to protect personal information and cyber-security to appropriately manage information, our vital business asset processes in the event of natural • Formulation and periodic review of the business continuity plan (BCP) under the business continuity management (BCM) system disasters, terrorist attacks, epidemics, or other contingencies Opportunities • Organizational revitalization and improvement in reputation through initiatives to raise the integrity awareness of officers and employees, including measures to ensure compliance • Sustainable improvement of corporate value through achievement of highly effective corporate governance and continuous review 30 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Build an organization with integrity Promoting the Concept of Integrity and Sharing Values in the East Asia Bloc 5.5 Respecting the individuality and diversity of each employee, and maintaining and cultivating a corporate culture that is open-minded and accepting of other 10.2, 10.3 Cultivating a corporate culture that fosters the empowerment of every individual employee and promotes equal opportunity 16.5 Discussion at the Compliance Leader Meeting (January 2020) Specifying the need to comply with a bribery legislation and striving to Yu Lingling heighten awareness among our employees Deputy General Manager, Legal Division, Mitsui & Co. (China) Ltd. Mitsui & Co. believes that, in business, trust is most important. In order to maintain and enhance trust, besides compliance with laws, regulations, and rules, it is also vital for employees to be aware of the need for integrity, in terms of one’s own conscience and dignity. To ensure that values relating to integrity and compliance are shared throughout the Mitsui & Co. group, we put together the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity in 2018, in which we revisit our approach to integrity and compliance, and shared it with group companies around the world. In order for the Mitsui & Co. group to continue to be a corporate group that is genuinely trusted by society, we are taking steps on a global group basis to build an organization with integrity, in which individual employees will act with integrity. In promoting the “With Integrity” conduct guidelines globally, translating “With Integrity” into local languages is certainly important, as is taking the initiative to conduct activities at the local level related to the conduct guidelines. Of these activities, in the East Asia Bloc comprising the Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Hong Kong and Taiwan units, the Compliance Leader Meeting, held with the participation of branches, offices, and intrabloc affiliated companies, forms the core of our engagement efforts, and we are making a powerful push to build an organization with integrity. 31 Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Our Stories: Build an organization with integrity I believe that the interaction between companies Integrity is acting with intention in order to earn respect consulting someone they can trust who has a and trust strong sense of integrity, they can be more certain and employees mutually acting with integrity In the East Asia Bloc, we have built a compliance promotion system of their decision. As a start, we in the Legal Division with the Chief Representative of the East Asia Bloc as the want to be those who are trusted and to whom leads to sustained growth for the group. Compliance Supervising Officer, and we conduct various others can turn for advice about anything. compliance-related activities under the responsibility of the Chief employees. We also view the “speak up” concept, in which Compliance Officer (CCO) of the East Asia Bloc. In the Legal Division Promoting our values also at branches, offices, and employees who feel that something is wrong speak up about it, as of Mitsui & Co. (China) Ltd. where I work, we handle putting together affiliated companies through discussion an effective means to discover problems at an early stage. After the aforementioned system, respond when compliance violations One of our most important compliance activities in the East Asia continuous communication encouraging employees to use the and other incidents arise, and promote the concept of integrity and Bloc is the Compliance Leader Meeting held regularly in each internal whistleblowing system, the number of reports and compliance to employees as the organization supporting the CCO. regional unit, with the inclusion of branches, offices, and affiliated consultations is trending higher, and we are in the process of We believe that integrity for companies is established based on companies. The meeting, attended by the Chief Representative of developing a more open internal environment in which employees the integrity demonstrated by individual employees, so in East Asia Bloc, President, and the CCO of East Asia Bloc, is a venue to feel comfortable about using the system. conducting activities to promote integrity we are focusing on having directly communicate the importance of integrity and compliance, A current challenge is promoting activities at affiliated individuals enhance their integrity, which means getting individuals as well as an opportunity where employees from different group companies. Corporations that are joint investors in an affiliated to think about what they should do to be respected by others and entities can discuss and share their views on integrity and company often have different corporate cultures, and I sense the by society and acting accordingly. We often hear from employees compliance. Almost all employees from branches in China and difficulty of promoting our group’s values. Going forward, we will that they are able to understand the main points of “With Integrity,” affiliated companies participate in the meeting. address this to create more effective promotion activities by but they do not know what to do in terms of specific actions in real Having participants acquire a more practical understanding of coordinating with the legal divisions of affiliated companies and life. “With Integrity” is written as conduct guidelines to follow in integrity is an area of focus during the Compliance Leader Meeting, meeting directly with the legal divisions of partner corporations that situations where it is difficult to make decisions, and we further ask and domestic and international examples of incidents involving are joint investors. employees to consult someone they can trust when they do not integrity are used, with participants thinking about and discussing know what to do, instead of worrying about the problem alone. By what course of action should be taken during the meeting. To build Aiming for sustained growth with integrity ingrained in an organization with integrity, however, discussing integrity once or hearts and minds twice a year is not enough; and activities that prompt people to For a corporate group to earn trust, it is becoming imperative that maintain a constant awareness of integrity are required. To achieve the group makes contributions through its business activities that this, we believe that by having people who have a strong sense of benefit the entire world, without making the distinction of the integrity present in the various workplaces, their integrity will countries and/or regions in which it is located. I believe that the organically spread to other employees as well, and we are now values of “With Integrity,” which are a world standard, will definitely exploring ways to maximize their influence. become one of our strengths. The corporate group and its employees make one whole. If we Further challenge as recognition of integrity rises can achieve a state in which the company is proud to have We conduct a compliance awareness survey every other year in the employees who act with integrity, and employees are proud to work East Asia Bloc, and the results of this survey show that recognition of at a company that acts with integrity, integrity within the integrity is rising. I feel that the concept of integrity is becoming organization will be continuously enhanced and the group will be established among employees, and recently I was pleased to learn able to achieve sustained growth. We will accelerate our efforts to that “With Integrity” was mentioned in casual conversations of this end. Workshop held at an affiliated company to promote “With Integrity” (October 2019) 32 Environment ––Executive Summary Environmental Management P.34 Circular Economy P.46 In order to actively respond to environmental and societal issues through the business activities of Mitsui global group, we have Mitsui is working to realize a circular economy by curbing the resources and energy consumption and waste generation through formulated an Environmental Policy, and operate environmental management systems based on ISO14001 and various international circulation of resources and products at various stages in economic activities, while aiming to achieve both economic growth and guidelines. reduction of environmental loads by creating added value through circulation. Our business initiatives include 3Rs, reusable and biodegradable materials, life cycle extension and reuse, waste reduction and recycle, sharing platform and XaaS. Climate Change P.40 Net-zero emissions Medium-term Management Plan 2023 Actions Environmental Pollution P.47 Biodiversity P.48 【Reduction】 Mitsui engages in business initiatives that lead to the We promote business initiatives that lead to conservation of Reduce company emissions by improving portfolio quality reduction of water and soil contamination and the reduction biodiversity through business. In addition, we engage in Emissions Reduction Create a society in of resource and power generation assets of the quantity of chemical substances released into the biodiversity conservation activities at “Mitsui’s Forests,” which harmony with the atmosphere. Mitsui also engages in a research project which we own in 74 locations throughout Japan (approx. 44,000 Halve GHG impact environment 【 Transition】 develops and operates of an HAB (Harmful Algal Bloom) Early hectares) and biodiversity conservation activities in In the medium term, promote fuel conversion through LNG and other business to contribute to reducing the Warning System as joint Project with JICA/researchers. cooperation with NGOs. 2020 2030 2050 environmental burden Reduction Opportunity & Transition＊ 【Opportunity】 contribution Contribute to reducing emissions by expanding business that leverages the opportunities to address climate change GHG impact = Emissions ‒ Reduction contribution in Energy Solutions and other areas Mitsui regards responding to climate change as one of our most important management challenges and has set out a goal of net-zero emissions as our Vision for 2050. In order to achieve this goal, we are promoting the following three measures – “Reduction,” which promotes reduction of emissions by improving the portfolio of resource and power generation assets, “Transition,” which aims for a low-carbon society by promoting fuel conversion to LNG, etc. in the medium term, and “Opportunity” which promotes business that leverages the opportunities to address climate change. In environment-related business, we engage in renewable energy projects, modal shift projects, and the expansion of other business initiatives as well as diffusion of technology that contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions and improvement in energy consumption efficiency. Solar Power Generation Business (Tottori Yonago Solar Park) A sampling operation near the city of Puerto Montt in southern Chile (January 2019) Tropical lowland evergreen forest in Prey Lang ©Jeremy Holden Water Resources P.45 Environmental Performance Data P.49 Reflecting the growing interest from a global perspective in the water-related problems, Mitsui is engaging in water projects, such as Mitsui has carried out GHG emissions surveys since the fiscal year ended March 2006. Reflecting the growing interest towards climate tap water supply, sewage treatment plant, power and water desalination and desalination and conveyance which promote the change issues, we have gradually extended the boundary of our GHG emissions and since the fiscal year ended March 2020, we have conservation and sustainable use of water resources. Furthermore, we support an NGO initiative to provide rainwater storage and added Scope 3, Category 15 (indirect emissions associated with investments) in our boundary to grasp the emissions on a global treatment facilities to provide safe drinking water in mountainous areas and on remote islands in Bohol Province in the Philippines group basis and to carry out initiatives for reduction. Furthermore, we will continue to monitor water risk and explore new initiatives through the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund. to reduce water consumption, and promote reducing waste, reuse, recycling and appropriate waste dispose. 33 Environment Environmental Management Environmental Policy Policy Promoting Environmental Management System Mitsui & Co. maintains an environmental management system based on Guiding Principles ISO14001 and various international guidelines as the basis for an active response to environmental and societal problems through the business Under our Mission, Vision, Values, we at Mitsui & Co. have set our goals to realize a better tomorrow for the earth activities of its global group. We acquired ISO14001 certification in 1999. and its people to “Build brighter futures, everywhere.” In order to realize this mission, we have included initiatives to “create an eco-friendly society” among our material issues (our important management goals). The certification was last renewed on February 23, 2020, and is valid through Mitsui & Co. will make every possible effort towards realizing sustainable development as part of our aim to create February 22, 2023. Since the fiscal year ended March 2017, we have been harmony between the economy and the environment on a global group basis. working to strengthen our compliance with ISO14001: 2015, which includes integration with business processes, initiatives in response to business risks and Action Guidelines opportunities, and an increased emphasis on stakeholder perspectives. Mitsui & Co. will design, periodically evaluate, and continually improve appropriate risk management systems that Standards Covered include our response to climate change, nature conservation in consideration of biological diversity, and pollution ISO14001, ISO26000, the GRI Standards, the Equator Principles, the World Bank Procurement Policies and Guidelines, and the IUCN guidelines prevention. These systems will cover the business activities that we undertake as a global group. At the same time, we will strive to ensure the development and dissemination of technologies with a low impact on the environment, and further reinforce our responsibility with respect to the environment. Accordingly, we have set Environmental Management System out the following Action Guidelines. To steadily promote environmental management, we have established the environmental management system as a global group. We appointed an executive officer (Representative Director, Senior Executive 1. Compliance with relevant environmental laws and regulations Managing Officer) who is responsible for overall environmental management, while the General Manager We will comply with various relevant environmental laws and regulations, as well as all agreements signed by the company for promoting business activities. of the Corporate Sustainability Division supervises the operation of the environmental management 2. Efficient utilization of resources and energy* system, including response to climate change and other climate-related risks. Under the oversight of the We will strive to reduce the burden on the environment in our business activities through the efficient Board of Directors, business units and other organizations have established their own environmental utilization of resources, energy, and water, as well as the thorough reduction, reuse, and recycling of waste, management structures managed by the head of each organization. including harmful substances, and its proper disposal. We set company-wide targets, and are continually improving our environmental and societal risk 3. Environmental care for products and services offered, as well as existing and new businesses management framework by means of periodic reviews, including through Sustainability Committee We will give the utmost consideration to the environment to the extent technologically and economically meetings. feasible by exercising an appropriate degree of influence in enlisting the understanding and support of involved business partners, as well as by evaluating the impact that we have on the environment, not only in the prevention of pollution, but also on such issues as climate change and the conservation of biological diversity. 4. Contribution to providing industrial solutions to environmental issues We will engage in business activities with the goal of providing rational and permanent industrial solutions, and contribute to the realization of sustainable development by exploiting our individual abilities and the collective strengths of our organization in cooperation with our global partners. * This includes improvements in efficiency and reduction of the use of such resources and energy. 34 Environment Environmental Management Management of Environmental and Societal Risks System Environmental Management for New Business System Activity In conducting business, Mitsui has put in place a company-wide system for ensuring the utmost When we embark on new business investment projects, business divisions subject them to environmental, consideration is given to the environment and society in projects at all stages, from business launch to social, and governance (ESG) impact assessments, using ESG due diligence checklists that consider operation as well as the exit stage. environmental and societal risks based on international standards, as well as the Environmental and Social As for environmental and societal risks, such as climate-related risks, we discuss our policies and Risk Heat Map for Business. Aspects covered by these assessments include pollution prevention, climate countermeasures at the Sustainability Committee, and report them to the Corporate Management Committee change, ecosystems, water stress*, and human rights. and the Board of Directors. After receiving approvals, the policies and countermeasures are implemented. Projects that are found to have significant environmental implications then undergo internal screening under the Specially Designated Business Management System. If necessary, a meeting of the Responding to Environmental and Societal Risks (as of April 2020) Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee will be convened. The committee members consist mainly Incorporation of Societal Needs and Various Perspectives of external experts who are familiar with a broad range of fields, including climate change, environmental Shareholders, investors, business partners, consumers, government agencies, policy with respect to water, energy, etc., technology trends, human rights, and labor issues. In addition, a local communities, NGOs/NPOs, experts meeting of the Sustainability Committee will be convened if the project needs to be considered in relation to company-wide policies on the environment. Recommendations about whether or not to proceed with Environmental Policy and Environmental Goals projects and any improvements that may be needed are then submitted to the Representative Directors, where the final decisions are made through a ringi deliberation process. *A condition in which the annual water availability per capita is less than 1,700 tons, causing people to feel inconvenience in their daily lives. Environmental Management P.113 Specially Designated Business Management System and Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee New Business Existing Business Specially Designated Business Management System Environmental Management for Existing Business System Activity (Business that has a material impact on the environment) ・Compliance with environmental regulations Mitsui ensures effective monitoring and management of environmental and societal risks for existing Use the ESG Due Diligence Checklist ・Response to NGOs/NPOs business operations based on the international environmental management standard ISO14001 at the non・Environmental accident prevention consolidated level. We also encourage subsidiaries engaged in activities with the potential to cause According to the Level of Importance significant environmental impacts to establish their own environmental management systems based on ・Environmental education/training Advice from external experts in Environmental & ISO14001 or other international guidelines for environmental and social considerations. In addition, we have ・Collaboration in the global group Societal Advisory Committee meetings established comprehensive systems to ensure prompt reporting of any environmental accidents or violations of laws, regulations, or ordinances. As part of our interactions with stakeholders, we also identify business risks Ringi Process & Follow-up and opportunities through dialogue with NPOs, NGOs, academic organizations, and government agencies and consider appropriate responses. Contribute to fulfilling corporate social responsibilities and resolving environmental Management of Consolidated Subsidiaries and societal issues through business activities We select subsidiaries in Japan and overseas that need environmental priority management based on Address such issues as climate change, ecosystem conservation, water conservation, environmental pollution, comprehensive assessments that take into account such factors as the type of industry and impacts on the human rights, social involvement, information disclosure, and corporate reputation environment and ecosystem. We encourage these companies to introduce environmental management systems based on ISO14001, or on international guidelines, and we help them to build robust management systems. P.40 Climate Change As of the end of March 2020, out of 32 target companies, 10 subsidiaries have acquired ISO14001 Integrated Report 2020 (P.044 Climate Change) certification. Besides the target companies, 19 subsidiaries located in Japan and overseas have also acquired ISO14001 certification. 35 Environment Environmental Management Response to Environmental Accidents Compliance with Environment-Related Laws and Regulations System During the fiscal year ended March 2020, there were no environment-related incidents at Mitsui or our subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. Our efforts to meet our corporate social responsibilities and keep pace with the expansion of those Any accident is promptly reported to the relevant units, and comprehensive steps are taken to prevent responsibilities include the creation of compliance assurance mechanisms based on our environmental recurrence, beginning with the identification of the actual cause of the accident and an assessment to management system. We also use training programs and other methods to ensure that our employees determine appropriate corrective and preventive measures. understand and comply with various environmental laws and regulations in Japan and overseas. At the start of each fiscal year, officers at each department identify environment-related laws and regulations that are relevant to the operations of their units, and conduct a compliance assessment every halfMeasures Based on Life Cycle Assessment year. In addition, an internal environmental audit or environmental self-check process is carried out every year to confirm that environmental management systems are being applied effectively. Mitsui and its subsidiaries Since the relocation to the new Head Office in May 2020, we have been using the life cycle whose activities could have significant environmental impacts, have acquired certification under ISO14001 or assessment to ensure that containers and packaging used at the employee cafeteria and cafe equivalent standards, establishing secure and effective environmental law compliance mechanisms. have a low environmental impact. Paper cups with an original, environmentally conscious design are used for all takeaway drink containers. They have been designed so that even cold beverages Energy Conservation Law can be enjoyed without using a straw. For utensils, we use biodegradable plastic developed in From the viewpoint of compliance and environmental conservation, we abide by the Energy Conservation collaboration with an affiliated company. Products such as disposable chopsticks and chopstick Law (Act on Rationalizing Energy Use), and conduct environment-minded business activities through stands are made using FSC®-certified wood and promotion of energy conservation in offices and energy usage improvement related to transportation. thinned wood materials from our companyowned forests “Mitsui’s Forests.” We have made Waste Disposal Law efforts to reduce our impact on the environment Mitsui operates in compliance with the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law (also referred to as regarding both use and disposal. For example, at the “Waste Disposal Law” or “Waste Law”). In order to properly manage the disposal of industrial waste the cafe corners located within work areas, we generated through logistics operations and general waste from business activities, we have formulated a supply grab-and-go style green tea in cartons with workflow in connection with the handling of industrial waste and general waste from business activities an original design (cylindrical paper containers) and prepared FAQ documents. Such tools and documents are utilized by relevant divisions and made from Japanese wood and thinned wood departments. We also hold periodic internal seminars to increase awareness and understanding of proper materials. In addition, we refrain from using waste disposal practices, covering such matters as the selection of waste management subcontractors disposable containers for the drink delivery service and manifest compilation and management. used to supply meeting rooms, etc. Containers and utensils with environmentally conscious design Other Major Environmental Laws and Regulations In promoting business activities, we comply with various environmental laws and regulations which includes, but not limited to, the following: Act on Special Measures Concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes/Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons/Water Pollution Prevention Act/Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act/Act on the Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging/Act on Promotion of Recycling and Related Activities for Treatment of Cyclical Food Resources/Air Pollution Control Act/Offensive Odor Control Law/Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control Act/Fire Service Act/Industrial Safety and Health Act/REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals) regulations 36 Environment Environmental Management Environment-Related Training System Activity Acquisition of Environment-Related Certifications System Activity As we work to accelerate environmental initiatives across the global group, it is vital that we raise the Mitsui promotes sustainable procurement in partnership with suppliers throughout the world. We work environmental awareness of each of our officers and employees at all levels. Through initiatives such as actively to obtain environment-related certifications in Japan and overseas, recognizing the importance of holding regular seminars and environment law training sessions, and regularly publishing in-house natural capital. We also develop procurement mechanisms that take into account the need to address newsletters related to the environment and society on the intranet, we work to raise awareness of global warming and biodiversity conservation. Furthermore, at properties we own through listed REITs environmental issues among officers and employees of Mitsui, its subsidiaries, and its affiliated companies. operated by asset management companies, we have acquired DBJ Green Building certification and are Furthermore, we also work on initiatives to gain specialized knowledge through ISO14001 Provisional working to reduce our environmental impact by promoting energy savings and more efficient energy use. Auditor Training and other programs. Training Seminars on Environmental Laws and Regulations Acquisition of Environment-Related Certification in Company-Owned Forests “Mitsui’s Forests”, Forest Resources Business, etc. We continually hold seminars regarding environmental laws and Coverage regulations for officers and employees of Mitsui and its Acquired Certifications (Country/Region) Certificate Holder/Outline & Scale (Handling Volume) subsidiaries and affiliated companies. In the fiscal year ended FSC® Forest CompanyMitsui & Co. (License Code FSC®-C057355)/All 74 March 2020, approximately 100 people participated from Mitsui FSC® certification is based on Management Owned Forests locations of Mitsui’s Forests (approximately 44,000 international standards established by (FM) “Mitsui’s Forests” hectares) throughout Japan & Co. group companies. We also conducted a separate training the Forest Stewardship Council®, certification, (Japan) seminar on Japan’s Waste Management and Public Cleansing a non-profit committee-type and Chain of Law, which consists of a lecture session focused on precautions organization that administers Custody (CoC) an international forest certification certification in regard to complying with the law, as well as checkpoints at system. Employees attending a lecture on industrial waste CoC Mitsui Bussan Forest (Mitsui subsidiary, License Code waste disposal facilities and an on-site tour session of such and a tour of a processing facility. certification FSC®-C031328)/approximately 50,000 m3/year (sells facilities. timber and other products produced mostly from Mitsui’s Forests) Forest Resources Forest Resources Marketing Dept., Living & Lecture and Training Sessions Held in FY 2020 Business Environmental Business Div., Performance Materials Business Unit, Mitsui & Co. (License Code FSC®C104107)/ Title Number of Time per Year Target Audience Outline woodchip: 1.226 mil. t/year (FSC 100%: 36,000t, FSC Mix: Environmental Held twice Mainly officers and Basic knowledge on environmental laws and regulations, 642,000t, FSC Controlled Wood: 548,000t) Laws and Attended by approx. employees of Mitsui recent trends, key law amendments, etc. Forest Resources Mitsui Bussan Woodchip Oceania Pty. (Mitsui subsidiary, Regulations 100 participants in total and affiliated companies Business License Code FSC®C107463)/woodchip: 1.407 mil. t /year (Australia) (FSC Mix: 1.041 mil. t, FSC Controlled Wood: 366,000t) Procurement Mitsui Bussan Packaging Co. (Mitsui subsidiary, Lecture on Held twice Officers and Lecture on the responsibilities of Generator (waste-disposing Industrial Waste Attended by approx. employees of Mitsui parties) and precautions related to industrial waste. The tour and sales of pulp, License Code FSC®-C009939)/accreditation obtained for and Tour of a 90 participants in total and affiliated of a processing facility aims to promote understanding of paper, pulp, paper, paperboard, paper packaging materials Processing Facility companies the importance and efficacy of on-site verification. paperboard, and such as corrugated carton box, household paper, and paper products paper stationery. (globally) Biomass Fuel Biomass Fuel Dept., Fuels Div., Energy Business Unit I, Trading Mitsui & Co. (License Code FSC®-C140620)/acquired for wood pellets trading (accredited materials). 37 Environment Environmental Management Coverage Acquired Certifications Coverage (Country) Certificate Holder/Outline & Scale (Handling Volume) Acquired Certifications (Country/Region) Certificate Holder/Outline & Scale (Handling Volume) PEFC/CoC Forest Resources Forest Resources Marketing Dept., Living & MSC An accreditation system by the Toho Bussan Kaisha/imports and sells products in Japan An accreditation program operated by the Business Environmental Business Div., Performance Materials Marine Stewardship Council for accordance with buyers’ requests international NGO PEFC (the Programme for the (Australia) Business Unit, Mitsui & Co./ marine products harvested through sustainable fishing, Mitsui Foods, Inc. (Mitsui subsidiary, MFI)/Imports and sells Endorsement of Forest Certification) for countries’ woodchip: 1.102 mil.t/year with appropriate processing canned tuna. MFI has also obtained MSC Chain of Custody mutual recognition of respective forest accreditation USA Biomass Fuel Biomass Fuel Dept., Fuels Div., Energy Business Unit I, and distribution certification for its thorough management at the distribution systems Trading Mitsui & Co. (Certificate no. SGSJP-PCOC-2026)/ acquired stage for wood pellets trading (accredited materials) BAP An accreditation system by Toho Bussan Kaisha (as an Endorser)/imports and sells Japan SGEC Forest CompanyMitsui & Co. (Certificate no. SGEC/31-21-1101)/All 74 American NGO, Global products in accordance with buyers’ requests SGEC certification system was Management Owned Forests locations of Mitsui’s Forests (approximately 44,000 Aquaculture Alliance (GAA), to certify sustainable aquaculture Salmex/all marine products sold during the fiscal year ended developed by the Sustainable Green (FM) “Mitsui’s Forests” hectares) throughout Japan businesses based on five key March 2020 Ecosystem Council, a general certification (Japan) incorporated foundation, by adapting aspects: environmental FY2019 FY2020 the global sustainable forest CoC Mitsui Bussan Forest (Mitsui subsidiary, Certificate no. conservation, social Handling volume of certification FSC®-C031328)/approximately 50,000 m3/year (sells responsibility, animal welfare, 84,283t 90,163t management philosophy (known as BAP-certified salmon timber and other products produced mostly from food safety, and traceability Chile the “Montreal Process”) to the situation Total handling volume of in Japan. SGEC and PFEC have agreed Mitsui’s Forests) fish and seafood 90,626t 90,163t to the mutual recognition of respective produced/used/ forest accreditation systems since 2016. processed Ratio 93% 100% Shrimp exporting business company, Minh Phu Seafood Vietnam Joint Stock Company (“Minh Phu,” our invested company) SGEC/31-21-1101 Global GAP An accreditation system to Minh Phu certify that a company has met global standards for food safety and sustainable production Vietnam Acquisition of Environment-Related Certification in Food Business management at all stages, Acquired Certifications Coverage (Country) Certificate Holder/Outline & Scale (Handling Volume) including brood stock, farming, feed, and processing Organic Japanese A system for accrediting Feed One Co. (Mitsui affiliated company)/manufactures and Agricultural agricultural produce grown Japan sells organic JAS-certified feed materials RSPO The RSPO (Roundtable on Mitsui and Wangsa Mujur Sdn. Bhd. (our invested company)/ Standard with the lowest possible impact Sustainable Palm Oil) is an Both Mitsui and Wangsa Mujur operate in accordance with its (Organic JAS) on the environment, in accreditation that stipulates the policy, and we aim to increase the ratio of sustainable certified accordance with the Japanese Fujieda Plant and Sutama Plant, Mitsui Norin Co. (Mitsui legal, economic, palm oil (including RSPO-certified) that we procure to 100% Agricultural Standards subsidiary)/sells organic JAS-certified tea leaves to Japan environmental, and social by 2030. Specifically, we will promote procurement based on commercial customers 2-0082-08-100-00 conditions required for the NDPE (No Deforestation, No Peat, No Exploitation) Please check the status sustainable palm oil production principle. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, RSPO-certified of our progress at: (8 principles and 43 criteria) palm oil accounted for 5.0% of palm oil handled. ASC An accreditation system by the Toho Bussan Kaisha (Mitsui subsidiary)/imports and sells Japan https://rspo.org/ Malaysia FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Aquaculture Stewardship products in accordance with buyers’ requests Council for “responsibly members/220/ Handling volume of Chilean salmon farming, processing and sales company, 14,500t 21,500t 20,000t produced aquaculture mitsui-and-co-ltd certified palm oil products” meaning that Salmones Multiexport S. A. (our invested company, Salmex)/ Total handling consideration for local runs four aquaculture sites; preparations are underway to volume of Chile make additional acquisitions (as of the end of Mar. 2020) 520,000t 600,000t 400,000t communities is taken and the produced/used/ environment is not significantly processed palm oil harmed Ratio 2.8% 3.6% 5.0% 38 Environment Environmental Management Acquired Certifications Coverage (Country) Certificate Holder/Outline & Scale (Handling Volume) Japan Logistics Fund, Inc. Rainforest Alliance Certification awarded to farms MA Coffee Trading. (Mitsui subsidiary in Brazil)/supplies Acquired Certifications Rank Property Brazil that follow more sustainable coffee beans to customers DBJ Green Building Certification 2018★★★★ M-6 Funabashi Nishiura Logistics Center farming practices that protect forests, improve their Coffee Dept., Food & Beverage Materials Div., Food Business 2018★★★★ M-12 Yokohama Fukuura Logistics Center livelihoods, promote human Unit, Mitsui & Co./supplies raw coffee beans to customers rights of farm workers, and help Japan Confectionery & Dairy Products Dept., Food & Beverage 2018★★★★ M-13 Yachiyo Logistics Center II them mitigate and adapt to the Materials Div., Mitsui & Co./supplies accredited ingredients to confectioners 2018★★★★ M-19 Souka Logistics Center climate crisis 2018★★★★ M-26 Sagamihara Logistics Center SQF-TSA A system that combines SQF Prifoods Co., LTD. (Mitsui subsidiary)/2,806kg/year (supplies – accreditation standards for major supermarkets with products made at 20 plantations 2018★★★★ M-31 ShinKiba Logistics Center II food safety and quality control and the Hosoya and Hosoda package plants) in the food chain as a whole 2018★★★★ M-32 Yokohama Machida Logistics Center – and the TSA food safety and Japan 2019★★★★ M-11 Yachiyo Logistics Center accreditation standards, which are set out by the Tokyo 2019★★★★ M-24 Shin-Koyasu Logistics Center Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic 2018★★★ M-5 Urayasu Chidori Logistics Center Games 2018★★★ M-22 Musashimurayama Logistics Center 2019★★★ M-28 Chiba kita Logistics Center II Green Buildings 2019★★★ O-4 Kazo Logistics Center Listed REIT Japan Logistics Fund, Inc., which is operated by Mitsui & Co. subsidiary Mitsui & Co., Logistics Partners Ltd., has acquired DBJ Green MIRAI Corporation Building certification* at 13 of its owned properties. Also, MIRAI Acquired Certifications Rank Property Corporation, a listed REIT operated by Mitsui Bussan & Idera Partners Co., DBJ Green Building Certification 2019★★★★ Shinjuku Eastside Square Ltd., which is a Mitsui associated company, has also acquired DBJ Green 2018★★★ Shinagawa Seaside Parktower Building certification at three of its properties. Owning these types of properties helps us to promote measures to reduce our impact on the 2019★★★ Rokko Island DC environment, and contributes to reduced energy usage and CO2 emissions. * DBJ Green Building is a certification system for assessing real estate that takes the environment and society into consideration. In addition to assessing buildings’ environmental performance, it provides an overall assessment of how buildings meet the needs of a variety of stakeholders, including matters such as disaster prevention and consideration for the local community. It provides assessments and certifications for real estate that meet the needs of both society and the economy. 39 Environment Climate Change Policy Responses to Climate Change-Related Matters Policy Strategy and Risk Management for Climate Change Response Policy System In addition to responding to climate change through initiatives such as the Sustainable Development Major risks and opportunities associated with climate change Goals (SDGs) and ratification of the Paris Agreement at the United Nations, the response of companies to Mitsui is engaged in a wide range of business in various countries and regions around the world, and we the recent increase in frequency and severity of natural disasters has also become an urgent challenge for view the diverse risks and opportunities presented by climate change as important factors that we must the sustainability of society. take into account when formulating our business strategies. In each business field, we have identified the Based on our Materiality—“Secure sustainable supply of essential products”, “Enhance quality of life” internal and external business environments and defined the risks and opportunities surrounding each and “Create an eco-friendly society”—Mitsui & Co. contributes to the development of economies and business. societies in many countries and regions around the world, as well as to the provision of solutions to global challenges such as climate change. We believe that pursuing a balanced approach to both of these Integrated Report 2020 (P.044 Principal Climate Change Risks and Opportunities) objectives from a long-term perspective through our global and wide-ranging business activities will P.113 ESG-Related Risk Management indeed constitute a sustainable growth strategy for our company. In December 2018, Mitsui declared its support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We will continue to seek ways of actively disclosing information in accordance with the Business impact assessments and countermeasures associated with transition risks recommendations of the TCFD. We have selected business fields considered to possess significant financial and non-financial impacts in related to transition risks*, used multiple climate change scenarios to carry out impact assessments for each business, and investigated countermeasures based on the results. Governance System for Climate Change Response System Business fields selected for scenario analyses in FY2020 Mitsui regards responding to climate change as one of our most important management challenges. Our We selected the following business fields in consideration of GHG emissions from the perspective of the response is deliberated upon and decided by the Sustainability Committee, an organization under the whole supply chain: control of the Corporate Management Committee. The content of these deliberations is reported regularly • Oil and gas development business, and LNG business to the Corporate Management Committee and the Board of Directors and utilized for promoting • Coal business sustainability management at Mitsui. Particularly important matters are debated and decided by both • Thermal power generation business bodies. Climate change-related discussions were held a total of 28 times in the three-year period from the fiscal year ended March 2018 to the fiscal year ended March 2020. Selected scenarios We have used the following scenarios taken from World Energy Outlook, which is published by the Major Climate Change-Related Topics Discussed/Reported at the Sustainability Committee over the Past Three Years internationally recognized International Energy Agency (IEA): • New Policies Scenario (NPS): scenario under which countries extend the current policies to 2040, based FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 on greenhouse gas reduction plans submitted by each country to the United Nations • Policy deliberations for coal• Deliberations on enhanced • Discussion on climate change • Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS): scenarios needed to uphold the Paris Agreement, which seeks related business initiatives disclosures of non-financial scenario analyses • Report on latest trends in climate information • Discussion on key priorities to keep global warming within 2.0° C of the pre-Industrial Revolution level change issues • Discussion on reviewing the established in relation to • Discussion on information Materiality sustainability * “Transition risks” refer to risks caused by changes in policy/legal regulations, technology development, market trends, market evaluation, etc. disclosure policy for • Report on external environment • Discussion on the introduction of environment-related data in relation to climate change internal carbon pricing system • Deliberations on enhanced • Discussion on declaration of • Discussion on establishment of disclosures of non-financial support for TCFD GHG-related targets information in consideration of the external environment P.7 Sustainability Management Framework 40 Environment Analysis Results Major physical risks and countermeasures • Oil and gas development businesses and LNG businesses Under the NPS scenario, the physical risks* would be relatively higher because the target agreed under Evaluation of the impact on existing businesses Countermeasures the Paris agreement to keep global warming within 2.0° C of the pre-Industrial Revolution level would not be met. Mitsui has carried out a survey of the impact of physical risks over the past five years on important With reference to short-term market levels and the While facing the dual challenges of the need to realize outlooks of multiple third-party organizations, Brent Crude increased volume and improved quality, renewable energy investment assets, as well as an analysis based on the RCP (Representative Concentration Pathway) used is expected to trend between $30 and $80 per barrel in the is expanding steadily. Meanwhile, fossil fuel will remain an by the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). medium to long-term. Even under the SDS, which is a more indispensable energy source for the time being. We will conservative scenario than the NPS, the Company’s highly strengthen the cost-competitiveness of new business * “Physical risks” refer to the risk of physical damage caused by increases in natural disasters and abnormal weather arising from climate change. cost-competitive assets are expected to maintain their projects while considering the carbon costs. At the same advantages to a certain extent. time, we will focus efforts on gas and LNG projects, which have comparatively low environmental burdens. Intense rain Hurricanes Drought Climate change • Coal businesses Evaluation of the impact on existing businesses Countermeasures The SDS is premised on further spread of the electric We will pay close attention to trends in new technologies furnace method and on substitutes for coking coal being and to progress in relation to the Electrical Arc Furnace and realized through innovative steel technologies, which have the policies of respective countries. At the same time, over yet to be established. Ongoing verification of the possibility the medium-to-long term a steady increase in demand for of realizing new steel technologies and of their impact is high-quality coking coal centered on India and Southeast required. Asia is expected. While providing stable supplies to customers, we will strengthen our competitiveness. • Thermal power generation businesses Evaluation of the impact on existing businesses Countermeasures Even based on the SDS, the impact on existing businesses In stages, we intend to lower coal-fired thermal power as a will be limited as businesses contracted under long-term percentage of our equity share of power generation power purchase agreements—in which a consideration is capacity and increase the percentage of renewable energy, paid for generation capacity rather than for generation including hydropower, to 30% by 2030. volume—account for the majority (96% as of March 31, ■ Iron & Steel Products ■ Mineral & Metal Resources ■ Energy 2020) of the Company’s power generation business ■ Machinery & Infrastructure ■ Chemicals ■ Lifestyle portfolio. The major physical risks facing assets owned by Mitsui include the potential for localized storms, particularly strong tropical hurricanes and cyclones arising in the Atlantic and South Pacific, which could cause negative impacts on operations in our mineral and metal resources projects. Furthermore, in cases of severe damage to production plants or facilities or infrastructure, such as the roads, railways, and ports used for shipments, there is a risk that production or shipments could be suspended for long periods until these facilities are restored. On top of Mitsui’s own investments, in cases when Mitsui suppliers suffered significant damage, there is the risk of the overall supply chain failing, including failures to receive supplies of raw materials. Mitsui implements measures such as taking out insurance coverage, establishing crisis management policies, and upgrading facilities as necessary. Furthermore, we are also considering the establishment of a system to assess whether each of these measures is the best possible risk mitigation measure. 41 Environment Climate Change Aiming for Net-zero Emissions in 2050 Policy Activity Enhancing GHG Emissions Disclosures Mitsui has carried out GHG emissions surveys domestically since the fiscal year ended March 2006 and in Mitsui has set out the goal of net-zero emissions as our Vision for 2050. By 2030, we aim to halve our GHG overseas since the fiscal year ended March 2009. Until now we have disclosed Scope 1 and Scope 2 of impact versus 2020 as the path to achieving the Vision. GHG emissions under the GHG Protocol* control standards. Since the fiscal year ended March 2020, we have disclosed Scope 3, Category 15 (indirect emissions associated with investments) that is estimated GHG emissions from i) energy, mineral and metal resources, and thermal power generation projects not Net-zero emissions Medium-term Management Plan 2023 Actions included in Scope 1 and 2, and from ii) other affiliated company businesses. We have enhanced the scope 【Reduction】 of disclosures to promote continuous reviews of our portfolio considering our risk tolerance to climate Reduce company emissions by improving portfolio quality change. This also takes into account Mitsui’s strategy of using our wide range of business activities to take Emissions Reduction Create a society in of resource and power generation assets harmony with the on the challenge of new opportunities in an agile way. Halve GHG impact environment 【 Transition】 In the fiscal year ended March 2020, our GHG emissions at the Head Office, all offices in Japan and In the medium term, promote fuel conversion through LNG and other business to contribute to reducing the subsidiaries were 0.75 million tons, whereas GHG emissions at un-incorporated joint ventures in mineral 2020 2030 2050 environmental burden and metal and energy resources fields totaled 3.07 million tons. In total, our emissions came to 3.82 million Reduction Opportunity & Transition＊ 【Opportunity】 tons. GHG emissions under Scope 3, Category 15 investments came to 32 million tons. contribution Contribute to reducing emissions by expanding business that leverages the opportunities to address climate change * GHG Protocol is a GHG emissions calculation and reporting standard formulated through an initiative led by the WRI (World Resources Institute) and the GHG impact = Emissions ‒ Reduction contribution in Energy Solutions and other areas WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development). * For Transition, we only assume reduction contribution attributable to the company in the future P.49 Environmental Performance Data Medium-Term Management Plan GHG impact is calculated by deducting the Opportunity & Transition reduction contribution from our Making Mitsui’s Electricity Use Carbon Neutral in All of Our Business Locations in Japan GHG emissions. The aim is to halve our GHG impact by 2030 compared to 2020. In order to achieve this goal, we are promoting the following three measures – “Reduction,” As a specific measure aimed to achieve net-zero emissions in our Vision for 2050, since July 2020 “Transition,” and “Opportunity”. Mitsui has made its electricity use carbon neutral at its Head Office and all business locations in Japan. Specifically, the electricity used at the Head Office to which we moved in May satisfied the Introduction of Internal Carbon Pricing System RE 100 requirements* (achieving 100% RE). Most of the electricity is procured from the Fukushima At Mitsui, we introduced the internal carbon pricing system in April 2020 in order to increase the medium Natural Gas Power Plant (Shinchi Town, Soma, Fukushima Prefecture), in which Mitsui has invested. to long-term resilience of businesses emitting large volumes of GHG, and to encourage the development The electricity we use satisfies the RE100 requirements by applying renewable energy-derived of projects that are effective at reducing GHG emissions. Regarding new business projects, in projects credits created at a biomass plant of Mitsui’s affiliated company Konan Utility Co., Ltd. (“Konan with potential risks or opportunities from GHG regulations, etc., we have added analysis of the potential Utility”) to the electricity used in the Head Office building. For the electricity used in other business impact of a 2° C scenario to the project screening factors, as well as the reasonableness of locations in Japan, including all offices and training centers, we have applied credits created at countermeasures in the event these risks are realized. We will also use the internal carbon pricing system Konan Utility and our company-owned forest, “Mitsui’s Forests”, allowing us to switch to practically for assessing risks in existing projects. zero-CO2 electricity. * RE 100 is an international initiative that aims to encourage procurement of 100% renewable energy for the energy consumed in business activities. The RE 100 requirements define the electricity that can be recorded under the initiative as renewable energy, taking into account institutional differences among various countries. 42 Environment Climate Change Environment-Related Business Policy Modal Shift Activity Our Medium-Term Management Plan and environmental policy call for action on climate change. In addition to the railway leasing business that we have been engaging in over many years, we have Our business activities are directed toward both economic development and response to climate also been actively launching and operating various railway projects, thereby developing and change; therefore we engage in renewable energy projects, modal shift projects, and the expansion improving social infrastructure while promoting modal shift to contribute to green logistics. Of the of other business initiatives as well as diffusion of technology that contribute to the reduction of CO2 rail networks in whose operation Mitsui participate as of March 31, 2020, the freight railroad network emissions and improvement in energy consumption efficiency. has a total route length of 10,700 kilometers, and the passenger network has a total route length of 2,810 kilometers. Main business Country/Region Project size Renewable Energy Projects Activity Freight wagon leasing business U.S. Russia We are developing our renewable energy business and expanding our capacity in this area as part of Four global bases (U.S., Brazil, Europe, Russia): Freight wagon rental business Brazil approx. 15,300 Freight wagons, approx. 340 Locomotives our electric power generation business. As of March 31, 2020, renewable energy, including hydroelectric power, accounted for approximately 14% of Mitsui’s total power generating capacity of Locomotive leasing business Europe 11.1GW, and we are aiming to increase the share held by renewable energy to 30% by 2030. Freight wagon transportation business Brazil Operating a railway network of approx. 10,700 km, and port terminals Passenger railway transportation business Rio de Janeiro suburban railway Transportation record: Approx. 590,000 passengers per day (December 2019) Rio de Janeiro Light Rail Train Brazil Transportation record: Approx. 110,000 passengers per day (December 2019) Type Country Generation capacity (gross) Centralized solar power Japan 330MW São Paulo metro line no. 4 Transportation record: Approx. 700,000 passengers per day (December 2019) generation Mexico 104MW East Anglia Transportation record: Approx. 250,000 passengers per day (December 2019) U.K. Jordan 52MW West Midlands Transportation record: Approx. 200,000 passengers per day (December 2019) Thailand 22MW Car sharing business Singapore Fleet of cars: Approx. 230 Distributed solar power UAE 103MW generation India 32MW China 26MW Bii Stinu Wind Project (Oaxaca, Mexico) Reducing Power Consumption in an Office Building through BEMS-Based Power Use Visualization Brazil 36MW U.S. 78MW A building energy management system (BEMS) has been Solar thermal power Spain 51MW generation installed in the Bussan Building, a rental office building Wind power generation Japan 69MW owned by Mitsui’s subsidiary, Mitsui & Co. Real Estate, in Australia 165MW Nishi-Shinbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo. This system visualizes Mexico 324MW energy use and helps to reduce total and peak power Argentina 97MW consumption based on the obtained information, such as Biomass power generation Japan 8MW by preventing unnecessary operation of equipment and Run-of-river hydroelectric Brazil 3,750MW power generation Solar Power Generation Business adjusting operating hours. In the fiscal year ended March Spain 84MW (Tottori Yonago Solar Park) The Bussan Building owned by Mitsui & Co. Real Estate 2020, these measures helped to reduce power Hydropower generation Laos 1,900MW consumption in the building by around 19% compared Indonesia 10MW with the previous fiscal year. Geothermal power generation Japan 7MW 43 Environment Climate Change Other Environment-Related Business Activity vehicle (EV) batteries. Tokai2 will develop a stationary storage system with a total power output of 20 MW by installing containerized Renault EV batteries at multiple sites. Tokai2 will provide frequency containment reserve Reducing Energy Consumption through Optimized Operation and Management of Air services to the German power grid using battery management systems developed by TMH. The company aims to Conditioning Systems in Commercial Buildings increase the number of battery installation sites so as to also provide services to power users and generators. Through Air as a Service., Ltd. (“AaaS”), a company established by Mitsui and Daikin Airtechnology and Engineering Co., Ltd., we are offering a subscription-type service* that provides users with comfortable, Forest Carbon Sinks, Emissions Trading Business air-conditioned spaces for a fixed monthly subscription fee. Mitsui has invested and participated in New Forests Pty AaaS installs and owns air-conditioning equipment instead of the owners of facilities. It provides optimal Limited (“New Forests”) of Australia, which has been management of its equipment in each facility by combining an IoT system capable of remotely monitoring the engaging in the forestry asset management business in operational status of each air conditioner on a 24-hour, 365-day basis with technologies for analyzing data acquired Oceania, Asia, and North America (forestry funds under through this system. The system visualizes the operational status of equipment and reduces energy usage and costs management totaling approximately ¥380 billion and by eliminating unnecessary operation. This results in the reduction of power consumption by around 20% assets covering approximately 760,000 hectares). New compared with levels before the introduction of the system. In addition, AaaS maximizes equipment life by reliably Forests manages forest assets that store the equivalent of monitoring operating hours and loads and undertaking preventive maintenance. Mitsui will continue to work 130 million tons of carbon dioxide (tCO2e) and earned through AaaS to support the improvement of energy efficiency in office buildings and commercial facilities. carbon credits amounting to 2.4 million tCO2e in 2019. * With a subscription-type service, the user acquires the right to use equipment instead of purchasing it outright and pays charges based on the period of use. Mitsui is committed to the supply of sustainable forest resources and will continue to contribute to the A forest plantation managed by New Forests in Australia Creation of comfortable Creationinterior of comfortable interior Creation of comfortable interior inenvironments ininfacilities Life cycle cost reductions reductions costreductions cyclecost Lifecycle Life environments environments facilities facilities prevention of global warming through the forest fund Equipment Equipment Contract Contract related cost Energy cost related cost Energy cost business that creates forest carbon sinks and generates emission rights. Period Period Cold air Cold (13years) Inspectionair Labor cost (13years) and cleaning Labor cost Inspection and cleaning Introduction of energy-Introduction of energysaving systems saving systems Warm air Warm air Maintenance cost Maintenance cost Property taxes Insurance Property taxes Insurance Operational Operational Our Company-Owned Forests, “Mitsui’s Forests,” Absorb and Fixate 160,000 Tons of Carbon Dioxide Annually Interest on finance Interest on finance improvements improvements Installation costs Installation costs It is estimated that the carbon dioxide absorbed and fixated by Mitsui’s Own Use Own Own Use Use Own Use Forests amounts to approximately 160,000 tons per year, and CO2 by Equipment ownedEquipment ownedusing Simply by air Simply Lower using air life cycle costs Lower life cyclewith compared costs comparedbywith ownership by ownership accumulation has reached approximately 10 million tons*1. We AaaS AaaS conditioning utilizing big data relating conditioning functions functions utilizing to bigairdata relating to air conditioning conditioning without being required without to being required to equipment equipment contribute to the mitigation of climate change risk through carry out any troublesome carry out any troublesome maintenance and maintenance other and other sustainable forest management. The public value of Mitsui’s Forests is operations operations estimated to be approximately 200 billion yen*2. Image of service *1 This calculation is based on the Tier 2 approach in Chapter 4, “Forest Land,” in Volume 4 of the “2019 Refinement to the 2006 IPCC Guidelines on Provision of Power Supply Optimization Capabilities Using a Stationary Energy Storage System National Greenhouse Gas Inventories.” The calculation was based on the Tier 1 approach in the 2006 IPCC Guidelines in the past, but we changed Based on Electric Vehicle (EV) Batteries the calculation method from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 in view of accuracy and refinement. *2 This calculation is based on “Comprehensive Assessment of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services” published by the Ministry of Environment. Mitsui, in partnership with Renault S.A.S (“Renault”), Fonds de Modernisation Ecologique des Transports (an infrastructure fund managed by Demeter Partners of France), and The Mobility House AG (“TMH”), has Our Stories: Create an eco-friendly society established a joint project company, Tokai 2 GmbH P.25 Creating Community-Based Biomass Power Generation (“Tokai2”), with the aim of providing power supply Business for the Post-Carbon Society optimization capabilities in Germany using a stationary energy storage system based on electric Containerized Battery Storage 44 Environment Water Resources Reflecting the growing interest from a global perspective in water-related problems, Mitsui & Co. stipulates Support through an NGO for the Development of a Rainwater Reuse System to efficient utilization of water in Mitsui’ s environmental policy and engages in water projects and various Supply Safe Drinking Water Activity initiatives which promotes the conservation and the sustainable use of water resources. In addition, we conduct investigations with experts for new business investment projects that are likely to have a In mountainous areas and on remote islands in Bohol Province in the Philippines, it is difficult to access safe significant impact on the environment. For risk assessments in water-stressed areas, in particular, we use drinking water and water stress is high. Water from wells in coastal areas and on remote islands is the portal site Aqueduct from the World Resource Institute (WRI) to monitor and analyze water risks, not unsuitable for drinking because of seawater contamination. Boat trips to buy water are a part of everyday only for new business but also for our existing business, with the aim of reducing water stress. life for island residents, imposing a heavy burden in terms of both costs and time. The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund has provided a grant to Ikaw Long-term Supply of Water through Power Generation and Desalination Ako, an NGO to fund an initiative to provide Independent Water and Power Producer (IWPP) Project in Qatar Activity rainwater storage and treatment facilities so that residents in this region can have easier access to Mitsui is participating in the Ras Laffan C power and water desalination (IWPP) project in Ras Laffan safe drinking water. To create sustainable water Industrial City, located 80 km north of Qatar’s capital of Doha. The project was initiated in response to supply systems, tanks with the optimal size for each demand increase of electric power and water as a result of Qatar’s rapid economic growth. Qatar uses community will be designed and built by the seawater desalination to produce 99.9% of its water supplies. In this project, energy efficiency will be residents, allowing the facilities to be maintained optimized through the use of a desalination process and managed locally. A rainwater storage tank (November 2019) designed to utilize waste heat from power generation. With a power generation capacity of 2,730 MW and desalination capacity of 290,000 tons per day, this Caring for Water Resources During Shale Gas Extraction Activity project will operate seawater desalination facilities for a period of 25 years starting in 2011. It will supply water Through its investee, Mitsui E&P USA LLC, Mitsui is engaged in the Marcellus shale gas development and and electric power to the Qatar General Electricity and production project and the Eagle Ford shale oil/gas development and production project. The gas and oil Water Corporation (Kahramaa), accounting for around are extracted using hydraulic fracturing (fracking), and Mitsui E&P USA gives consideration water resources 24% of Qatar’s electricity supply and approximately 14% by ensuring that water for hydraulic fracturing (fracking water) is properly used (including the recycling of of its water supply. The Ras Laffan C water desalination plant wastewater), managed, and discharged. Mitsui ’s Business Initiatives Relating to Water Resource Business Country Wet weather capacity Tap Water Supply Thailand 1,000,000t/day Sewage Treatment Plant Mexico 3,600,000t/day Power and Water Desalination Qatar 290,000t/day Desalination and Conveyance Chile Under construction 45 Environment Circular Economy Mitsui & Co. is working to realize a circular economy by curbing the resources and energy consumption Theme Activities /Scale and waste generation through circulation of resources and products at various stages in economic Waste reduction, Our affiliated company Kyoei Recycling Co. uses dust mainly obtained from shredded end-of-life vehicles as activities, while aiming to achieve both economic growth and reduction of environmental loads by recycling feedstock for gasification melting furnaces. Gas produced is used as fuel at the nearby Kyoei Steel Yamaguchi Division facility, while the hot slag produced is sold to refiners. creating added value through circulation. Waste processing capacity: 28,000 tons/year In addition to the traditional “3Rs”, the creation of a circular economy requires efforts on various levels, Our subsidiary Mitsui Bussan Metals Co. collects and sells non-ferrous scrap, such as aluminum, copper, and such as introduction of designs and materials that minimize resource inputs, promotion of sharing to titanium, from various sources, including demolished buildings, disassembled automobiles and electrical goods, and scrapped PCBs. It also handles recycled metals and alloys made from non-ferrous scrap. improve usage rates for products and services, extension of product life cycle through maintenance and Handling volume of non-ferrous scrap and recycled metal: 300,000 tons/year repurposing, and development of mechanisms that allow the utilization of items once regarded as waste Our investee Sims, one of the world’s leading recyclers, engages in recycling of metals and electronic equipment for other purposes. Using robust business infrastructure built through the repetition of “challenge and as well as processing of municipal waste from New York City. Handling volume of metal scraps: 9.8 million tons/year innovation”, Mitsui is contributing to the creation of a circular economy through initiatives in various Beijing Shougang LanzaTech New Energy Science & Technology (SGLT) in China, in which Mitsui has invested, is business fields. a next-generation ethanol manufacturing company. It uses microbial fermentation technology developed by US-based LanzaTech Inc., a company that we invested in to convert waste gas into fuels and chemicals. SGLT is a commercial-scale manufacturer of next-generation ethanol using waste gas from steel works as raw material. By using waste gas that was formerly released into the atmosphere to produce ethanol as an alternative to Business Initiatives Relating to a Circular Economy Activity petroleum-derived gasoline, SGLT contributes to the reduction of GHG emissions. Greenhouse gas emission reduction: 50-70% (compared with gasoline) Our subsidiary Mitsui Norin Co. effectively utilizes waste, including the use of tea leaf residues as a raw material Theme Activities /Scale for fertilizers. 3R design, Our partner Gestamp Automoción S.A. contributes to energy efficiency improvement of vehicles on a global Waste reduction: 920.4 tons/year reduce basis by designing and supplying light weight parts that are 100% recyclable. Our subsidiary Bussan Food Materials Co. produces juice from fruit pulp attached to calyces (sepals) from cut By manufacturing high-performance packaging materials, Prime Evolue Singapore Pte., in which Mitsui has strawberries. invested, is responding to demand for down gauging packaging so as to reduce the amount of raw material in Waste reduction: 13 tons/year packaging while maintaining the quality of the packaging itself. Our affiliated company Konan Utility Co. dries sludge from sewage treatment plants and converts it into boiler Mitsui subsidiary Vendor Service Co. supplies thinner, lighter, and simpler food packaging materials, such as top fuel in a drying and conversion facility. As a company engaged in environment-friendly business activities, it is seals, to convenience stores. registered under the Hyogo Prefectural Government’s Hyogo Biomass Eco Model scheme. Waste reduction: 3,080 tons/year The U.S. company Osisoft, LLC, in which Mitsui has invested, is contributing to reduce defective parts Our subsidiary Prifoods Co. effectively utilizes waste through the commercial use of poultry manure as a percentages in manufacturing by providing IoT data management services and software to various industries. fertilizer, and as a snow melting agent after carbonization. Through its participation in CEFLEX (a circular economy for flexible packaging), an NGO dedicated to Waste reduction: 71,670 tons/year collaboration on plastic packaging recycling in Europe, Mitsui is exploring collection, sorting, and recycling Sugar cane residue (bagasse) from a sugar manufacturing business operated jointly by Mitsui and Mitsui Sugar infrastructure systems for flexible plastic packaging. Co. in Thailand is used as fuel for biomass power generation, and the electric power is used for the operation of Reusable and Mitsui subsidiary Vendor Service Co. uses biomass film, biomass ink, aluminum-free paper packaging, thinned its plants with surplus electric power being sold, contributing to an increase in the use of renewable energy in biodegradable wood, recycled film, and FSC-certified paper in its products. Thailand. materials Waste reduction: 900,000 tons/year Prime Evolue Singapore Pte., in which Mitsui has invested, manufactures high-performance packaging materials and develops more functional and new packaging materials to realize recyclable and sustainable packaging. Our subsidiary Retail System Service Co. recycles animal feed and compost and has developed a practical deodorizing and sterilizing material for cleaning retail outlets by use of recycled coffee grounds. Through its investment in Minima Technology Co. in Taiwan, our subsidiary Mitsui & Co. Plastics is building a Sharing platforms Our subsidiary Car Club Pte operates Singapore’s largest car sharing business. business based on biodegradable plastic compounds and products. Mitsui has conducted two trials of an on-demand taxi-sharing scheme in Arao City, Kumamoto Prefecture. A Life cycle By utilizing comprehensive maintenance technology provided by SHO-BOND & MIT Infrastructure Maintenance full-scale service is planned to commence in the year ending March 2021. extension, reuse Corporation (SB&M), a joint venture with SHO-BOND HOLDINGS CO. Mitsui is exploring to extend the service life of infrastructure in overseas countries. XaaS Mitsui provides battery leasing services (Battery as a Service) through its investee, Forsee Power in France. (X as a Service) Our affiliated company M&B Conversions facilitates the repurposing of passenger aircraft replaced by newer Our affiliated company NOBORI operates a cloud-based medical picture archiving and communication system models by converting them to cargo aircraft. (PACS) in Japan. It has a 70% share of the market of cloud-based PACS services. Our subsidiary +Automation Inc. provides a Robotics-as-a-Service (RaaS) that enables logistics facilities to cope Waste reduction, Our affiliated company MM & KENZAI Corporation collects and sells metal scraps from demolished structures efficiently with increasing cargo volumes in an environment of labor shortages as well as smaller lot and more recycling and from the processing of iron and steel products. It also promotes recycling of non-metallic materials. diversified delivery patterns. Handling volume of metal scraps: 7 million tons/year Through Air as a Service (AaaS), jointly established by Mitsui and Daikin Airtechnology and Engineering Co., we provide subscription services for optimized air conditioning for a fixed monthly fee by means of IoT-based remote management. Power consumption in facilities that use this service is reduced by around 20%. 46 Environment Environmental Pollution Reducing and Preventing Pollution Activity Mitsui, which has invested in the salmon farming business in Chile, was also asked to cooperate in this initiative through the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) following a request for assistance Mitsui & Co. bases its environmental policy on pollution prevention. In particular, we engage in initiatives from the Chilean government. Our role is to consolidate and extend the results of the project in society. In that lead to the reduction of water and soil contamination and the reduction of the quantity of chemical April 2018, we began to collaborate in the project after concluding an agreement with JICA, which was substances released into the atmosphere, with the aim of reducing and preventing pollution. participating on a technical assistance basis. Since then we have supported industry-academia collaboration in Japan and Chile toward the Business Initiatives against Environmental Pollution Activity development of an HAB monitoring system. We believe that this project can contribute to Aim Initiatives the reduction of damage caused by HABs by Prevention of atmospheric As a distributor, Mitsui & Co. Plastics, one of our subsidiaries, is building and expanding a nationwide issuing warnings based on forecasts from this pollution through the network of sales and logistics locations and infrastructure for AdBlue®, which converts the nitrogen system, and by sharing information about detoxification of exhaust gas oxides contained in exhaust gases from trucks and buses into harmless water and nitrogen. preventive measures with people working in the Proper treatment of industrial In addition to monitoring and managing water quality in mining and surrounding areas, we minimize water wastewater through maximization of recycling. fisheries industry. We also believe that it can contribute to the reduction of environmental Reduction of atmospheric We are updating our fleet, including increased orders for vessels with substantially lower SOx and A sampling operation near the city of Puerto Montt in southern Chile pollution from transportation NOx emissions. pollution in local environments, and further (January 2019) vessels regional economic development. Reduction of soil pollution We are stabilizing soil quality and reducing soil pollution by using digital technology to ensure the through the optimization of appropriate application of fertilizers. Examples include the use of satellite images to analyze fertilizer usage quantities vegetation and monitor farmland topography, the use of yield trends and soil analysis results in Initiatives to Reduce and Prevent Pollution digital mapping and fertility analysis, automatic fertilizer application from tractors, and timely systembased monitoring of fertilizer applications. —Actions Relating to Radioactive Substances Activity Reduction of soil Initiatives by Certis USA A wholly owned subsidiary in the United States purchases and sells uranium concentrate. However, the contamination P.19 Our Stories: Secure sustainable supply of essential products scale of business is extremely limited in terms of value and quantities handled when seen in the context of Reduction of marine Participation in CLOMA Mitsui’s overall business operations, and furthermore, the materials are not physically relocated and do not pollution P.13 CLOMA (Japan Clean Ocean Material Alliance) leave the storage facility. The storage contractor to which the materials are entrusted has been licensed by the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to handle radioactive materials and ensures that the employees in its storage facility maintain strict compliance with NRC standards concerning the management of radioactive materials and the risk of exposure. The storage contractor also undergoes Joint Project with JICA/Researchers regular inspections by the NRC. On this basis, we believe that the risk that uranium concentrate owned by —Development and Operation of an HAB (Harmful Algal Bloom) Early Warning System Activity Mitsui’s subsidiary will damage the local environment or cause exposure is extremely limited. All of the uranium concentrate handled is intended solely for peaceful, civilian purposes such as power generation, HABs (harmful algal blooms), including red tides, are caused by abnormal concentrations of phytoplankton and is compliant with all NRC regulation. It should be noted that Mitsui and its subsidiary rigorously ensure in seawater. In recent years, the phenomenon has been attributed to environmental pollution and global compliance with NRC management standards (including those for nuclear waste) in handling the warming. A record HAB outbreak occurred in Chile in 2016, causing major damage to salmon farming and materials, but no nuclear waste is handled whatsoever. fisheries, which are among the country’s main industries. Universities and research institutes in Japan and Chile have established a research project in collaboration with government agencies and other organizations in Chile with the aim of developing and operating an HAB early warning system. 47 Environment Biodiversity Mitsui & Co. bases its environmental policy on nature conservation in consideration of biological diversity. Biodiversity Conservation Activities at Mitsui’s Forests Activity We promotes initiatives that lead to conservation of biodiversity through business. In addition, we have obtained FSC® and SGEC certifications for all of our company-owned forests, “Mitsui’s Forests,” which we Mitsui’s Forests are divided into Forests for Regeneration and Harvest (approximately 40% of the total) and own in 74 locations throughout Japan (approx. 44,000 hectares). Approximately 10% of the forest areas Natural Forests and Naturally Regenerated Forests (approximately 60%). Especially important areas from under our management have been designated as “biodiversity conservation forests,” and we maintain and the viewpoint of biodiversity are designated as Biodiversity Conservation Forests (approximately 10% of all manage these forests accordingly. Mitsui’s Forests). They are further categorized in accordance with their qualities into Special Conservation Forests, Environmental Conservation Forests, Water and Soil Conservation Forests, and Cultural Business Initiatives relating to Biodiversity Activity Conservation Forests. By clarifying the conservation objective, such as conservation of rare species, we conduct forest management that is more strongly oriented toward the preservation of biodiversity. Business Description Hydroelectric Power The Madeira River is a tributary of the Amazon River and forms part of the Amazon Basin, a region that is Plant Business known for its rich biodiversity. Located on the Madeira River in northern Brazil, the Jirau Hydroelectric Power Biodiversity Conservation Activities in Cooperation with NGOs Activity Plant has been closely watched by many parties, including local communities and NGOs, because of its location, and every possible step is being taken to ensure that the plant is operated in an environmentally Conserving the Prey Lang Forest in Cambodia (REDD+*) responsible way. As part of an environmental program, we conducted preliminary surveys to identify every possible impact that could affect the local environment and local communities. We then built hospitals, Prey Lang, located in the northeast of Cambodia along the west bank of the Mekong River, is the largest schools, and new housing to improve the local living environment. Other initiatives include measures to tropical lowland evergreen forest in Indochina. It is inhabited by many wild animals, including endangered protect flora and fauna, such as fish and mammals. species, and is also an important source of water for Cambodia. However, illegal logging, along with Forest Resource Along with business partners, Mitsui is carrying out plantation business in Australia and Chile (the combined reclamation of land for farming by local communities, has resulted in progressive deforestation, loss of Business project area is approximately 20,000 hectares as of March 31, 2020), with the aim of ensuring the stable supply wildlife habitats, and an increase in GHG emissions that would normally be accumulated in the forests. of wood chips, the raw material for paper. The business has acquired international forest certification from In partnership with Conservation International, an international NGO, Mitsui has been using the REDD+ organizations such as FSC®, and manages forest resources responsibly. We also carry out measures in consideration of biodiversity protection. mechanism established under the Paris Agreement in cooperation with the Cambodian Ministry of Environment to Production and Sale Toho Bussan, a subsidiary, supports the production and sale of rice using farming methods that encourage reinforce forest patrols to prevent illegal logging in the Prey Lang of Rice biodiversity, such as the minimum use of agrichemicals and chemical fertilizers. Forest. Moreover, Mitsui has been engaging in dialogue with local Shipping Business To prevent negative effects on the ecosystem by marine creatures in ballast water, we actively promote communities to provide support for activities, such as instruction initiatives including installment of ballast water treatment equipment on vessels. for and promotion of organic farming and rice farming as Production and Sale Shark Bay Salt Pty, a Mitsui subsidiary, owns a solar marine salt field in Shark Bay, Western Australia. It produces alternative sources of livelihood that do not rely on logging, with of Solar Marine Salt and sells some of the world’s purest salt while actively working to improve the local ecosystems of Shark Bay, the aim of contributing to forest and biodiversity conservation. Tropical lowland evergreen forest in Prey Lang an internationally renowned World Heritage site. With a dedication to maintaining harmony with nature, the ©Jeremy Holden company continuously monitors the terrestrial environment and mangrove ecosystem both in the salt field * REDD+ (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation, and the role of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks in developing countries): A scheme which provides economic and across the surrounding maritime environment, to ensure that its business operations have no impact on incentives such as carbon credits through the mitigation of deforestation and degradation of forests in developing countries. the local ecosystem. As a result of these efforts, local wildlife populations continue to prosper. 48 Environment Environmental Performance Data The data marked with “★” (FY2020) are assured by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd., an external assurance provider based on International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISAE3410. P.120 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Energy Consumption Activity Mitsui & Co. has set the goal of “reducing energy consumption intensity by 1% or higher on average per year” for Mitsui and its subsidiaries in Japan. We aim to achieve this goal through a variety of measures, including a group-wide effort to improve energy efficiency. From the fiscal year ended March 2019, the scope of coverage has been expanded to joint control businesses (Un-incorporated Joint Ventures). We will continue to monitor energy consumption and explore new initiatives to reduce energy consumption on a global group basis. Category Scope of Coverage Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 External Remarks Assurance Energy Consumption Non-consolidated Head Office and all offices in Japan 207,259 205,182 202,522 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries 11,157,784 18,700,216 22,671,923 ★ Un-incorporated JVs — 24,533,657 19,901,035 ★ Total 11,365,043 43,439,056 42,775,480 ★ GJ (Breakdown) Fuels 5,617,840 33,551,624 30,823,685 Electricity 4,923,641 8,630,815 10,730,337 Steam, heat, cold water 823,561 1,256,617 1,221,458 Head Office and all offices in Japan Intensity Non-consolidated MWh/m2 0.121 0.120 0.112 ★ (per square meter) 49 Environment Environmental Performance Data Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Activity Mitsui is carrying out initiatives for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on a global group basis. Mitsui has carried out GHG emissions surveys domestically since the fiscal year ended March 2006, and for overseas since the fiscal year ended March 2009, in order to grasp the amount of its emissions year by year. From the fiscal year ended March 2018, the GHG accounting boundary has been extended to joint control businesses (Un-incorporated Joint Ventures), and from the fiscal year ended March 2020, the scope of coverage has been enhanced to Scope 3, Category 15 (indirect emissions associated with investments). Such initiatives are our response towards the growing interest in the issue of climate change, and we will continue to monitor our GHG emissions and explore further initiatives to reduce our GHG emissions on a global group basis. Category Scope of Coverage Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 External Remarks Assurance Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions *1 Scope1 Non-consolidated Head Office and all offices in Japan 1 1 1 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries 358 331 386 ★ Un-incorporated JVs 3,089 2,857 2,848 ★ Total 3,448 3,189 3,235 ★ Scope2 Non-consolidated Head Office and all offices in Japan 10 9 8 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries 295 368 355 ★ Un-incorporated JVs 232 210 222 ★ Total 537 587 585 ★ Scope1+2 Total 3,985 3,776 3,820 ★ Scope3 Investment Emissions related to our investment thousand t-CO2e − − 32,000 *2 Transportation Consigned logistics in Japan with Mitsui as the shipper 27 31 25 ★ Commuting Head Office 1 1 1 Business trips Head Office 10 10 10 Scope1 (breakdown) CO2 Carbon dioxide 1,652 2,278 2,202 CH4 Methane 1,796 908 1,032 N2O Carbon monoxide 0 3 1 HFCs Hydrofluorocarbons 0 0 0 PFCs Perfluorocarbons 0 0 0 SF6 Sulfur hexafluoride 0 0 0 NF3 Nitrogen trifluoride 0 0 0 *1 [Standards/Guidlines for Scope1+2 calculation] GHG Protocol Emission Factors from Cross-Sector Tools (March 2017), International Energy Agency (IEA) Emissions Factors 2019, IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Act on Rationalizing Energy Use *2 [Scope3 Investment] Estimated values of emissions from mineral and metal resources, energy and thermal power generation businesses not included in Scope 1+2 and other affiliated company businesses using LCA databases (IDEA, Ecoinvent), input-output models, etc. 50 Environment Environmental Performance Data Water Consumption Activity Mitsui started surveying water intake and drainage data by water source from the fiscal year ended March 2019. We will continue to monitor water risk and explore new initiatives to reduce water consumption on a global group basis. At the Head Office, we use 100% recycled drainage water for toilet flushing in order to promote reduction in water consumption. Category Scope of Coverage Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 External Remarks Assurance Water Intake Non-consolidated Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings 65 64 61 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries and Un-incorporated JVs − 330,906 377,769 ★ *1 Total 65 330,970 377,830 ★ (Breakdown) Industrial water, water utility − 10,998 7,619 thousand m3 Pumped groundwater − 18,161 12,791 Rivers, lakes − 24,577 21,780 Sea − 273,034 329,907 Rainwater − 3,661 3,379 Others − 539 2,354 Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings Intensity Non-consolidated m3/employee 16.36 16.10 16.24 ★ (per employee) Drainage Water Non-consolidated Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings 65 64 61 ★ Consolidated Subsidiaries and Un-incorporated JVs − 38,769 32,137 ★ *1 Total 65 38,833 32,198 ★ *2 (Breakdown) External disposal facilities − 6,837 6,759 thousand m3 (sewers) Groundwater − 406 390 Rivers, lakes − 6,636 6,274 Sea − 19,509 18,557 Others − 5,445 218 Water recycling thousand m3 − 8,474 7,172 *1 [Boundary] Domestic and overseas consolidated subsidiaries and major Un-incorporated JVs *2 Drainage water is assumed to be equal to intake water quantity in case there is no drainage data 51 Environment Environmental Performance Data Waste and Paper Consumption Activity Mitsui has set the goal of “recycling rate of 85% or higher” for Head Office and corporate buildings in Osaka and Nagoya and promote reducing waste, reuse, recycling, and appropriate waste dispose. We are working to reduce paper consumption at the Head Office and all offices in Japan by introducing various IT tools and promoting paperless meetings. Category Scope of Coverage Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 External Remarks Assurance Waste Waste amount Head Office and all offices in Japan t 1,259 1,220 1,190 ★ Recycling rate ％ 83.4 81.9 82.2 ★ Intensity (per employee) t/employee 0.316 0.309 0.316 ★ Hazardous waste Specially-controlled industrial waste t 1.3 1.1 1.1 * Paper Consumption Thousand sheets Paper consumption Head Office and all offices in Japan (A4 size equivalent) 45,894 38,614 28,778 ★ Thousand sheets/ Intensity (per employee) 11.20 9.51 7.18 ★ employee * Infectious waste discharged from in-house clinic Environmentally-Friendly Logistics Activity In collaboration with our logistics partners, we implement energy-saving measures including promotion of economical driving practices and other fuel-saving techniques, improvement in transportation efficiency by using larger transport vehicles, introducing cargo consolidation arrangements, reviewing transport routes, and modal shift using rail and ship transport. Category Scope of Coverage Unit FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 External Remarks Assurance Environmentally-friendly Logistics Freight volumes handled Domestic logistics handled by Mitsui 705 769 631 ★ by Mitsui (Breakdown) Million Ship ton-kilometers 624 677 558 ★ Truck 81 92 73 ★ Air/Rail 0 0 0 ★ kl/thousand Intensity (fuel per thousand ton-kilo-meters) 0.014 0.015 0.015 ★ ton-kilometers 52 Environment Environmental Performance Data Initiatives toward Environmentally-Friendly Logistics Improvement of Land Transport Efficiency We will use more energy efficient transportation methods. • Using consolidated cargo • Using larger transport vehicles to increase loading rates • Reviewing transport routes and methods Improvement of Sea Transport Efficiency We will continue to provide the following guidance for vessels chartered and/or operated by our affiliated companies. • Increasing ship loading rates • Economic cruise speed operation Environmental Conservation/Economic Effects Activity The environmental conservation and economic effects in the areas of paper consumption and energy consumption during the fiscal year ended March 2020 are shown below. Category Scope of Coverage Environmental Conservation Effects Economic Effects Environmental Conservation/Economic Effects Paper consumption Head Office and all offices in Japan 9,836 thousand sheets 6,884 thousand JPY Electricity consumption Head Office and Mitsui-owned buildings 631 MWh 18,765 thousand JPY Assessment of Environmental Liabilities Activity Currently, corporate management is strongly expected to proactively deal with environmental issues. In addition to complying with legal requirements, we are working to monitor environmental risks of tangible fixed assets through self-driven surveys such as of land and buildings of Mitsui subsidiaries in Japan, especially for asbestos, PCB, and soil pollution, and make prompt decisions on management policies. Environment-Related Fines and Penalties Activity Mitsui did not incur any environment-related fines or penalties in the fiscal year ended March 2020. 53 Social ––Executive Summary Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, Healthcare and Increasingly Diverse Materials, Food and Products P.55 Aging Society P.59 Consumer Demand P.60 Mitsui has built optimal supply chains, spanning all stages from upstream Mitsui will continue to work toward the creation of a society in which people Mitsui believes that one of our important roles is to quickly identify to downstream, including procurement, production and logistics etc., and can lead healthier and richer lives by contributing to the advancement of diversifying consumer needs and continue to provide value and contributes to the sustainable supply of metals, chemicals, energy, food healthcare in terms of access, quality, and efficiency through our business functions. We will continue to contribute to the creation of a society in and other resources, raw materials, and manufactured products. In our activities. We are promoting various initiatives through establishment of a which people can enjoy fulfilling lives by providing new retail business food business, we pursue our goal of enhancing nutritional access healthcare fund to close the supply-demand gap and to improve healthcare that enables monitoring and analysis of vast resources of viewer data and through the stable supply of food. One of such initiatives is our shrimp access through the drag manufacturing, sales and distribution etc. provision of cutting-edge data marketing functions using consumer data. Recording video content (February 2017) farming and processing business in Vietnam. Respect for Human Rights P.61 Supply Chain Management P.65 Supplying Food and Products with In August 2020, we formulated a Human Rights Policy to clarify our We are working to ensure compliance with and Ensured Safety and Security P.56 approach to human rights as the basis for initiatives in this area. In accordance with the Human Rights Policy, the Mitsui & Co. group will implementation based on Sustainable Supply Chain Policy. Mitsui is well aware that consumer safety, confidence and security respect human rights in its activities as a group. We also aim to promote Supplier On-Site Surveys are of major importance in conducting its business. In the foods respect for human rights in collaboration with our business partners. Mitsui Mitsui and a third-party expert jointly conducted on-site area, we developed a food-safety database which includes commenced due diligence with regard to human rights in the supply chains surveys at the suit factory of MAY10 Joint Stock Company information related to overseas production processes, to ensure that of products handled by Mitsui and its overseas trading affiliates, as well as and the sewing factory of Viet Thinh Garment Joint Stock maximum priority is placed on food safety and security. We also the main business operations of its consolidated subsidiaries. We conducted Co. in Vietnam. carry out regular food safety and security education for Mitsui & Co. human rights risk assessments on this basis, compiled an outline of human group Employees. rights risks, and formulated measures to mitigate these risks. Mitsui will work with suppliers to ensure an understanding of respect for human rights and promote human rights practices throughout its supply chains. The inside view of the factory of MAY10 (August 2019) Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure P.57 Creating New Value P.69 Human Resources Management P.70 With the aim of training people who create and grow business that contributes to society and are capable of global group management, Mitsui has developed a variety of human resources development programs and established promotion and assignment systems that help employees to grow through opportunities for wide-ranging experiences. Also, we aim to strengthen the competitiveness of the entire company by promoting diversity management to create environments where individual employees with a diverse range of backgrounds can fully exert their potential and continue working in safety and good health. CLP participants (February 2019) Artist’s impression of One Bangkok after completion Innovation lab – Moon (February 2020) Mitsui continues to contribute to the enhancement of people’s quality of life While our functions and roles as a general trading company have Social Contribution Activities P.99 through its business activities in such areas as electric power, water often centered on the creation of value through “connecting” In our social contribution activities, we have set out the “community treatment, water supply and sewerage systems, logistics, railroads, and companies, products, and other elements in the past, we have contribution”, “environmental conservation” and “human resources communications, by developing infrastructure that is essential for the growth determined to evolve beyond that pattern into a company that development” as our priority areas, in accordance with our MVV (Mission, and advancement of countries around the world and of local communities. proactively “creates” business. Mitsui will accelerate DX as both Vision, and Values) and Materiality. Mitsui will continue to pursue For example, we are promoting a cooling and power distribution business in defensive and offensive strategy, and advance our business models sustainable growth striving to solve social challenges through both Children enhance their capacity to solve societal Thailand to contribute to the betterment of living standards. for the digital economy. business and social contribution activities. issues through group discussions (July 2019) 54 Social Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, Materials, Food and Products Mitsui & Co. has built optimal supply chains, spanning all stages from upstream to downstream, including Improving Access to Nutrition through a Shrimp Farming and procurement, production and logistics etc., and contributes to the sustainable supply of metals, chemicals, Processing Business in Vietnam Activity energy, food and other resources, raw materials, and manufactured products. As part of its efforts, Mitsui engages in investment and trading business in such areas as oil and natural Demand for sustainable, high-quality protein has been growing, not only in Western countries but also in gas/LNG, to secure and supply the energy resources essential for social development. In particular, we Asia, especially China, which has seen population growth and the expansion of the middle class. Mitsui’s participate in natural gas/LNG development projects in various parts of the world to ensure stable supplies affiliate Minh Phu Seafood Joint Stock Company (“Minh Phu”), which owns two processing plants and of gas-derived energy, which has a relatively low environmental load compared to other fossil fuels. Our shrimp farming ponds covering an area of 900 hectares in southern Vietnam, is the world’s biggest shrimp extensive involvement covers the entire value chain, from production to marketing. In addition, looking producer and processor. In a mangrove forest, it produces shrimp sustainably under conditions similar to ahead toward the realization of a low-carbon society, we are engaging in the field of next-generation the natural environment, while continually monitoring the mangrove ecosystem and managing water energy, for example, the commercialization of renewable energy technologies such as biofuels, and the quality. A key advantage for Minh Phu is its vertically integrated business structure encompassing all stages creation of business models for hydrogen transportation and storage. from shrimp farming to processing and sales. It exports an extensive range of products, including highly Mitsui actively participates in the development of mineral and metal resources. We endeavor to ensure processed, high added-value products, to around 50 stable supplies of iron ore and copper, etc., for Japan and for other markets around the world. We are also countries and regions worldwide. Shrimp is a low-fat building a metal scrap supply network in preparation for the global recycling society of the future. With source of high-quality protein that is also rich in the iron and steel products, we are building supply structures for infrastructure projects to meet buoyant antioxidant astaxanthin. Mitsui is contributing to an demand in rapidly growing emerging economies. At the same time, we procure and supply iron steel increase in Minh Phu’s corporate value through the use products, including high-environmental-performance parts, for a wide range of industrial sectors such as of digital technology and AI in farming ponds and the motor vehicle industry and the energy sector. processing plants, and through supply chain In the automotive sector, we not only export vehicles, but also conduct local logistics business in various restructuring and efficiency improvements at all stages regions, and have built a stable global chain extending from production to finance. As regards our rail from farming to marketing. At the same time, Mitsui is transport business, in addition to the export of freight cars and related equipment, we also engage in contributing to enable people’s better access to leasing business and other services to meet a variety of needs across the railroad value chain. nutrition by supplying shrimp to numerous countries Shrimp farm developed and operated by Minh Phu Loc An In our chemical business, Mitsui is also deepening its engagement in the agricultural sector, including and regions through Minh Phu. Aquaculture Co., Ltd., wholly owned by Minh Phu the manufacture of the nutritional element methionine, as well as the development of phosphate rock P.37 Acquisition of Environment-Related Certifications fertilizer resources and global trading of fertilizer raw materials, such as sulfur and sulfates. We are also developing our chemicals business through wide-ranging transactions and investments that contribute to various industries, including new initiatives focused on carbon fiber and “green” chemicals. In our food business, we pursue our goal of enhancing nutritional access through the stable supply of food. Against the backdrop of world population growth widening the gap between food supply and Our Stories: Secure sustainable supply of essential products demand, and expanding regional imbalances in supply capacity, we strive to ensure the stable and P.19 Contributing towards the Development of Highefficient supply of safe, reliable food resources with our food-related business. In addition, we promote the Productivity, Sustainable Agriculture through establishment of an optimal supply chain, and engage in projects that contribute to enhancing Environmentally-Friendly Biopesticides adaptability to climate change, abnormal weather, and other disasters. 55 Social Supplying Food and Products with Ensured Safety and Security Policy on Consumer Safety Policy Regular Food Safety and Security Education for Employees Activity Initiatives for Safety and Security Our efforts to manage risks relating to food safety and security include food safety seminars for employees Mitsui is well aware that consumer safety, confidence and security are of major importance in conducting of Mitsui and our affiliated companies. Designed to strengthen compliance with the relevant laws and its business. regulations and ensure accurate labeling, these seminars have been held at the rate of about once per With such concerns in mind, we have established the Consumer Product Handling Policy and Consumer month since October 2002. A total of 198 seminars have been held as of March 2020. In the fiscal year Product Handling Regulations, and each relevant business unit has also established detailed rules to ended March 2020, a total of 618 people, including employees of affiliated companies, attended seminars ensure the appropriate handling of consumer products. on a wide variety of themes. These included two sessions focusing on allergies through case studies of compliance failures, and another devoted to learning the basics of food labeling and the correct ways to The Consumer Product Handling Policy label genetically modified foods and fresh foods by looking at actual products in retail outlets. These Placing More Emphasis on the Consumer and Ensuring Product Safety sessions were prompted by an upward trend in food labeling violations, resulting in harmful consequences Whether engaging in manufacturing, importing, or domestic marketing of consumer products, Mitsui reaches for a large number of people, and by the full enforcement of the Food Labeling Act from April 1, 2020. beyond its goal of providing products that offer cost savings or superior performance, and thereby additionally emphasizes a consumer-oriented approach by which the utmost priority is placed on handling safe products that consumers can use with total confidence. Initiatives by Ventura Foods for Food Safety and Security Activity Developing and Operating a Risk Management System To ensure that the Consumer Product Handling Policy functions in practice, we have developed a sound risk Ventura Foods, LLC, in which Mitsui has invested, not only complies with all relevant laws and regulations, management system and are working to maintain and improve systems used in collecting, disseminating, and but is also continually enhancing its food safety and quality management systems, in order to ensure disclosing information on accidents involving products, and arranging for product recalls in the event of productconsumer safety and satisfaction. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, employees of Ventura Foods related accidents. completed over 8,460 hours of food safety-related training as part of the company’s efforts to prevent food fraud and improve traceability. Ventura Foods also responds to diverse consumer needs by adding new products to its Marie’s® Market Reserve™ line of Ensuring the Safety and Security of Foods and Products Policy Activity refrigerated dressings, which are sold in small 7.75ounce bottles for ease of use by oneor two-person Mitsui puts consumer safety and security first for all items it handles, not just for consumer products. households. The new products include vegan, glutenIn the foods area, Mitsui works to secure supply of food products to Japan, which has the lowest food free, and dairy-free choices. self-sufficiency rate among the industrialized countries. The Food Business Unit and the Retail Business Unit place maximum priority on food safety and security, and, accordingly, have established internal rules and internal committees for food sanitation and developed a food safety database, which includes information related to overseas production processes. Furthermore, Mitsui is a member of the Japan Processed Foods Marie’s® Market Reserve™ refrigerated dressings Wholesalers Association (a general incorporated association), and by complying with the guidelines and manuals issued by the association, we contribute to the safe and secure supply of processed food products in the distribution process. Mitsui also gives priority to marketing with the aim of supplying safe drugs that physicians and pharmacists can choose and supply to consumers with confidence. 56 Social Supplying Food and Products with Ensured Safety and Security Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure Initiatives in Promoting Responsible Marketing of Pharmaceutical Products Activity Business Initiatives Relating to Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure Activity Mitsui has invested in TriNetX, Inc., which develops Mitsui & Co. continues to contribute to the enhancement of people’s quality of life through its business healthcare data services business with a focus on life activities in such areas as electric power, water treatment, water supply and sewerage systems, logistics, science companies. TriNetX has built a network of railroads, and communications, by developing infrastructure that is essential for the growth and electronic medical records collected from healthcare advancement of countries around the world and of local communities. organizations across 24 countries, particularly in the United In the area of electric power, while we have business in gas-fired thermal power plants and gas States. It provides life science companies with services that distribution, we recognize the importance of reducing of GHG emissions as a material issue and we are support clinical trial efficiency and marketing. Mitsui uses reinforcing our renewable energy business, such as solar photovoltaic and solar thermal power projects, TriNetX’s platform to provide life science companies and wind power projects, and biomass-related plant projects, and we are providing various solution services healthcare organizations with various types of data that such as storage batteries and energy management services. contribute to better and more appropriate utilization of There is a growing need for improvements in convenience and safety, against the backdrop of pharmaceutical products. population growth, rising living standards, and changing lifestyles. Mitsui is responding to such demand by developing and operating water supply and sewerage systems and wastewater treatment facilities, and by engaging in urban development projects, such as the development of logistics and industrial facilities, especially seaport and airport projects to respond to changing societal needs. With regard to the shipping business in the mobility domain, Mitsui is focusing on vessel ownership and operation and the LNG carrier business, so as to adapt to tighter environmental regulations and the growth of and change in maritime cargo traffic. As regards railroads, which form a major artery for land transportation, we export freight cars and related facilities and undertake rail transportation infrastructure projects using Japanese institutional finance. Other business activities in this area include rail leasing, general freight business, and passenger transportation. In the area of infrastructure-building, our business includes digitalized engineering processes, which not only improve the accuracy, productivity, and safety of construction work including operational assistance for general construction machinery, but also allow even relatively inexperienced construction machinery operators to carry out precise construction work. Mitsui also promotes the utilization of ICT in such areas as high-speed communications, electronic settlements, and other communications and service platform businesses, especially in emerging countries, aiming for the enhancement of quality of life and social infrastructure. At the same time, in our effort to build new social systems, we strive to create new business, including medical and healthcare services, agriculture, and energy management. Furthermore, in terms of both the application of our business strategy and our contribution to society, besides making efforts to contribute to local communities and revitalize regional economies, we also promote community investments with the aims of encouraging investment and regional development, and creating employment at the regional level. 57 Social Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social Infrastructure Improving Living Standards and Social Infrastructure through By seeking review from the authorities and relevant experts, we aim to not only comply with laws and Nation-Building Projects in Mozambique Activity regulations but also minimize societal and environmental impact to the communities. Mozambique is expected to grow as one of Africa’s leading resource-producing countries, and Mitsui has Investment and Participation in District Cooling and identified Mozambique as an important country. Our policy is to pursue business operations that Power Distribution Business in Thailand Activity contribute to nation building, while capturing demand in connection with Mozambique’s economic growth. When a project requires the relocation of local residents, we formulate a relocation plan through Together with Twain real estate company One Bangkok Co., Ltd. (“OBC”), leading Thai energy producer Gulf dialogue with local residents, NGOs, and other relevant parties, and carry out relocation procedures Energy Development Public Company Limited (“Gulf”), and Japanese engineering firm Tokyo Gas according to international standards. Engineering Solutions Co., Ltd. (“TGES”), Mitsui is investing and participating in a district cooling and power One of the initiatives in which Mitsui is investing and participating in Mozambique is the Moatize Coal distribution business for One Bangkok and will supply and sell chilled water and electric power in the One Mine and Nacala Rail and Port Infrastructure Project, which includes the integrated operation of a coal Bangkok facilities for a period of 30 years, starting from 2022. mine, a passenger and freight railway system, and port infrastructure. Mitsui held regular public hearings One Bangkok is a new landmark development in central Bangkok that is set to open in 2023, being for residents relocated as a result of this project and provided compensation and support for lifestyle developed and implemented by the group companies of TCC Assets (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Built on around 17 improvement. We are also working to achieve harmony with local communities through initiatives that hectare site, the 16-building fully-integrated district comprises five premium-grade office towers, three help to solve societal issues, including support for the construction of water pipes and other infrastructure, luxury residential towers, five luxury and lifestyle hotels, four differentiated retail precincts and art & culture the construction of schools and medical facilities, the provision of teacher training, the supply of school and public spaces. In line with the smart city development concept, the centralized district cooling lunches, support for basic education, the provision of farming advice and occupational training, and infrastructure will provide environmental benefits and efficiencies and a state-of-the-art, high-efficiency awareness-raising activities focusing on the prevention of infectious diseases. electric water chilling system will be used to provide air conditioning to the buildings. The system will run Mitsui has taken a similar approach with gas field on recycled water and has the added benefit of being able to chill water overnight for use the next day, development off the northern coast of Mozambique reducing demand for electricity at peak times and optimizing energy efficiency. under the Area 1 LNG project, an integrated Mitsui has managed both largeand small-scale upstream-midstream scheme encompassing all gas-fired power generation, as well as water stages from natural gas production and liquefaction treatment and gas distribution businesses in the to LNG shipment. We have held over 800 country. Drawing upon its knowledge and knowconsultation meetings with local communities and how of the infrastructure business accumulated built not only housing for relocation, but also through these projects, Mitsui will contribute to the hospitals, schools, and other public facilities. These betterment of living standards and realize large-scale projects have also contributed to creating sustainable societies in Thailand by ensuring the employment opportunities for local residents, and successful development and operation of this we will continue to make efforts to stabilize the Assistance with agricultural technology helps local people to grow project in partnership with TGES, as well as the livelihoods of the local community. better crops (June 2019) leading Thai company Gulf, and OBC. Artist’s impression of One Bangkok after completion Mine Closure Policy, and Mine Closure-Related Initiatives Policy Activity Our policy on mine closure is to take proper procedures according to plan to minimize impacts on the Our Stories: Enhance quality of life environment and society in peripheral areas, while promoting development of local communities. P.22 Contributing towards Enhancement of People’s Lives and In our mining activities, we formulate business plans which incorporate future mine closures and Economic Development through Mini-grid Projects in rehabilitations. Environmental impact is thoroughly assessed during the project formation stage as well as Non-electrified Regions during mine operation. 58 Social Healthcare and Aging Society Business Initiatives Activity Initiative to Promote the Slow Calorie Projects to Slowly Digest Food Activity In emerging countries, especially in Asia, continuing population growth and demographic aging are In Japan, lifestyle disease and unbalanced eating habits are becoming a problem, though the amount of causing a serious shortage of hospitals, and there has been diversification in healthcare needs due to a calories and carbohydrates that people intake is decreasing. This could be due to an increase of processed rapid increase in lifestyle diseases and other factors. The spread of COVID-19 will likely increase the use of foods that are soft and easy to chew with a higher degree of refinement, which speeds up digestion and remote medical consultations, while healthcare value chains are expected to expand into the wellness absorption. At Mitsui Sugar Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Sugar), an associated company of Mitsui, a focus is placed on field, including presymptomatic treatment and disease prevention. We also anticipate an accelerating carbohydrates (sugars) which have a characteristic of fast absorption and are the highest intake of human trend toward the use of digital technology to improve customer satisfaction and operational productivity. among energy producing nutrients. Mitsui Sugar named the slowing down of digestion and absorption of In view of these trends, we aim to be a pioneer in transforming the healthcare eco-system centering on the food (especially carbohydrates) as “slow calorie”, and are conducting awareness-raising activities for “slow hospital business toward a people-centered world of wellness. In this role, we will actively utilize our calorie”, as well as development, support, and promotion activities for products utilizing “slow calorie” in capital and know-how as a private sector company, including our assets, our partnerships with key order to materialize its slogan, “create a healthy and robust body”. stakeholders, and our ability to utilize healthcare data effectively. We will continue to work toward the creation of a society in which people can lead healthier and richer lives by contributing to the advancement of healthcare in terms of access, quality, and efficiency through our business activities. Improving Healthcare Access through the Drug Manufacturing, Sales and Distribution Activity We have been engaging in the manufacturing, sales, and distribution of high-quality pharmaceuticals Establishment of a Healthcare Fund to Close the Supply–Demand Gap in China Activity needed by society, particularly in Russia, via JSC R-Pharm, which is the country’s largest pharmaceuticals company, in China through Shenzhen Main Luck Pharmaceuticals Inc., and in India through Keimed Private Mitsui, China Resources Group, which is one of the largest companies in the Chinese healthcare market, Limited. Through such business, we are seeking to improve access to medical treatment and fill in the gaps and HOPU Investments, one of Asia’s leading investment companies, have established a joint investment between supply and demand in the medical field in countries/regions where medical systems are company for fund schemes, CMH Healthcare Fund L.P. (“CMH Healthcare Fund”). With a total scale of US$1 underdeveloped. In addition, we are working to improve access to medical treatment in those countries/ billion (approximately ¥108 billion), CMH Healthcare Fund will invest in hospital business, such as the regions by ensuring the each country/region’s pharmaceuticals price-setting systems and regulations. management or contract management of clinics and specialist hospitals, especially in China, as well as healthcare-related business in China and other countries. Demographic aging and the improvement of public health insurance systems in China are driving a Responding to Global Health Problems rapid rise in healthcare expenditures, resulting in qualitative and quantitative supply–demand gaps in the — Fighting Infectious Diseases (Malaria, Measles, etc.) Activity healthcare market. The establishment of this fund is an important regional strategy toward our goal of In the Jirau hydropower generation business in Brazil, under a public–private partnership, the project establishing a healthcare eco-system in Asia. We will company has been implementing a social contribution and environmental action program since 2009 continue leveraging synergies with our existing with the aim of improving the health and sanitary environment for local residents. Particular emphasis is business activities to expand our business base in being placed on measures to combat malaria. While working on building hospitals and basic healthcare the Chinese market and contributing to the further facilities and providing mobile floating hospitals (vessels) to secure access to medical examinations and development of healthcare. treatment, the project company has implemented healthcare education and seminars for disease prevention. Its contribution to vector control efforts includes donation of extermination materials and research equipment, dispatch of researchers, exterminators, and other experts, distribution of mosquito nets, and implementation of vector propagation monitoring and mist spraying of insecticides. The number of malaria cases in the region was reduced by 90% between 2010 and 2019, which has earned The signing ceremony for the CMH Healthcare Fund (June 2019) considerable international recognition. 59 Social Increasingly Diverse Consumer Demand Mitsui & Co. believes that one of our important roles is to quickly identify diversifying consumer needs and Provision of Cutting-Edge Data Marketing Functions Using Consumer Data Activity continue to provide value and functions. Mitsui provides marketing functions based on the latest data analysis tools, as an initiative targeting new Our subsidiary Legoliss Inc. (“Legoliss”) helps companies to build and install Data Management Platforms needs and markets emerging from the diversification of consumer lifestyles. (DMP) that can manage the large volume of data accumulated in day-to-day business operations and By monitoring consumer needs and developing and supplying diverse services and products that provides support for how to analyze and utilize this data. Legoliss has a brilliant track record as a leader in embody those needs, we will continue to contribute to the creation of a society in which people can enjoy providing data marketing consulting and support services for many clients, including top B2C brands by fulfilling lives. planning and executing DMP strategy in online media buying and other execution channels. Mitsui has been providing cutting-edge data marketing solutions with partners in the United States to Japanese companies. In recent years we are focusing on marketing services that contribute to the Bringing New Excitement to Daily Life —Video-Based Marketing by Tastemade Activity sophisticated data usage in the cloud environment. Through our investment in Legoliss, we aim to build a structure capable of providing the best of breed of solutions to meet the client demands. We continue to Mitsui’s decision to invest in Tastemade was prompted by our awareness that this is an era of diversified provide advanced data solutions through Legoliss. Currently we are providing data services with Tapad, consumption in which trends begin with consumers. We have started to take up new retail business Inc., (cross-device matching) and Foursquare Labs, Inc. (location data). We continue to enhance our value in challenges based on both Tastemade’s systems that enable monitoring and analysis of vast resources of consulting functions to provide support at all scenes from building DMP to data utilization. viewer data on its own, and Mitsui’s evolving capabilities in the logistics field, including our traditional expertise in efficiency improvement and labor-saving methods, supply and demand forecasting, and inventory optimization. Tastemade is a lifestyle media company. It streams videos on themes that include food, travel, and homes to a global audience of over 250 million people per month. It has built support among younger people, who are seen as immune to advertising, by creating videos with entertainment value that make people want to try new things, while introducing sponsors’ products in ways that blend naturally into the content. In addition to its core business initiatives, Tastemade has also begun to use results from analyses of viewer interests and reactions in development of non-media products and services. In the fall of 2019, our New York-based subsidiary Paul Stuart promoted its fashion brand through Tastemade. In addition to broadening the potential of its brand by targeting a new customer segment, we plan to utilize obtained data in sales spaces, sales methods, and product development. By working with Tastemade to identify consumer needs quickly and create services that truly match those needs, we will realize enriched and more enjoyable lifestyles together with consumers. Recording video content (February 2017) Diagrammatic representation of marketing using a data management platform. 60 Social Respect for Human Rights As Mitsui & Co. conducts business globally in many countries and regions around the world, we regard Principles. We comply with laws and regulations of the countries and regions in which we conduct our business respect for human rights, in accordance with international standards, as the foundation of our activities. Where internationally recognized human rights standards and national/regional laws and regulations sustainability management. We have emphasized respect for human rights in both the Mitsui & Co. Group are in conflict, we seek ways to honor the principles of internationally recognized human rights while complying Conduct Guidelines and the Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd., with the laws and regulations. and we have implemented various initiatives. Governance/management structure Human rights initiatives in the corporate sector have become increasingly important in recent years. The Board of Directors of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. is responsible for overseeing the adherence to this Policy and the We recognize the need for human rights initiatives not only within Mitsui, but also across the entire supply Policy implementation. chains. In August 2020, we formulated a Human Rights Policy to clarify our approach to human rights as the basis for initiatives in this area. This policy was approved by the Corporate Management Committee, Human rights Due Diligence and was reported to the Board of Directors meeting. We commit to implement human rights due diligence to identify, assess, prevent and mitigate adverse human In accordance with its Human Rights Policy, the Mitsui & Co. group will respect human rights in its rights impacts associated with our business activities. activities as a group. We also aim to promote respect for human rights in collaboration with our business partners. Human Rights Issues related to Business Activities • Forced Labor P.5 Corporate Mission, Vision, Values We do not tolerate forced labor. In addition, we do not tolerate any forms of modern slavery, including bonded labor or human trafficking. Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity • Child Labor We do not tolerate child labor, and we comply with the minimum working age stipulated by the law. We do not hire individuals that are under the age of 18 for roles requiring hazardous work. Human Rights Policy Policy • Discrimination We prohibit any form of discrimination based on race, creed, sex, social status, religion, nationality, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, physical and mental disability or any other grounds. We respect each employees’ Mitsui & Co.’s mission is to “build brighter futures, everywhere” through realizing a better tomorrow for earth and individuality and diversity and seek to cultivate an environment in which they can perform to the best of their abilities. for people around the world. As challengers and innovators, we create and grow business while addressing material issues for sustainable development. To realize this mission and vision, Mitsui & Co. Group views respect • Harassment and Inhumane Treatment for human rights as a foundational value, as stated in our Group Conduct Guidelines. We do not tolerate any form of harassment, whether physical or mental, including sexual harassment or power harassment. Furthermore, we prohibit any language or behavior that could be harmful to the working This Human Rights Policy (“Policy”) sets out our group-wide approach to human rights throughout our business activities environment of others including discriminatory language or behavior as well as harassment. in countries and regions around the world, and Mitsui & Co. Group commits to operate with respect for human rights • Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining following this Policy. In addition, we expect various stakeholders including our business partners, to understand and We respect the rights of employees to associate freely and bargain collectively in our labor-management relations. respect human rights in line with this Policy, and aim to collaboratively promote respect for human rights. • Working Hours and Wages Respecting Human Rights in our Business Activities We monitor employees’ working hours, holidays, leaves of absence and wages to ensure we are operating in We strive not to infringe on human rights in our business activities, nor to contribute to human rights accordance with applicable laws and regulations. infringements by others through our business relationships, including supply chains. • Occupational Health and Safety In line with applicable laws and regulations, we aim to develop safe, healthy working environments in which Respecting Internationally Recognized Human Rights Standards every individual employee can work with peace of mind. We are committed to respecting human rights understood as, at minimum, those set out in the International Bill • Community Impact of Human Rights and the ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and To prevent adverse impacts on the safety and health of local communities, we conduct human rights impact Rights at Work. We also support the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the assessments, covering issues such as prevention of pollution and water stress, and implement necessary Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and conduct our business activities in line with these measures in line with international standards to avoid risks and mitigate negative impacts. 61 Social Respect for Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement Activities of security personnel We believe it is critical to understand human rights issues from the perspectives of affected stakeholders. We In advancing business activities around the world, Mitsui hires security companies to ensure the safety of further recognize that certain groups of stakeholders are more vulnerable to adverse human rights impacts and its business activities. thus require heightened attention. We therefore value the importance of dialogues with relevant parties and strive In appointing a security firm, we comply with relevant local laws and regulations in the countries and to properly respond to human rights issues associated with our business activities. regions in which we conduct our business activities, and select security companies based on relevant Remedy international standards such as the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, UN Code of Where we identify that our business activities have caused adverse human rights impact or contributed to it Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials, and the Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law through our business transactions including our supply chains, we will work to remediate such impacts through Enforcement Officials. appropriate processes. Grievance Mechanisms Human Rights Management System We continue to build upon our whistleblowing procedures and grievance mechanisms to promptly identify and respond to human rights issues related to our employees or wider business activities. The Board of Directors of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. is responsible for overseeing the adherence to this Policy, and the Corporate Management Committee makes material decisions regarding the Policy execution. The Education and Training Sustainability Committee, a subordinate body of the Corporate Management Committee, is in charge of We will provide necessary training and capacity building to our executives and employees to ensure that they deciding detailed plans and measures for the Policy implementation. understand this Policy and act in line with the commitments in this Policy. Reporting We will continuously report our efforts and progress on respecting human rights through our reports, websites, Employees’ Human Rights System Activity and other communication channels. As a company engaged in business on a global scale, Mitsui is not only working to promote diversity and inclusion, but is also taking various steps to prevent harassment and discrimination. These measures include the establishment of whistleblowing systems that allow employees to report compliance issues, Initiative for Specific Issues Policy including cases relating to human rights and discrimination, and obtain advice through channels within or outside the employee’s direct reporting line. Another example of our efforts in this area is fostering a Children’s rights “speak up” culture in which employees are encouraged to report situations that concern them. We will We support the Children’s Rights and Business Principles and strive to conduct business activities with continue to implement initiatives to ensure respect for the human rights of our employees, including respect to children’s rights. training programs and the dissemination of related policies. Rights of indigenous peoples P.76 Career Development Initiatives for Our Diverse Human Resources We strive to respect the human rights and cultures of indigenous peoples by complying with all P.106 Integrity and Compliance applicable laws and regulations of the countries and regions in which we conduct our business activities as well as by respecting relevant international standards such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, the Convention concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent Business Risk Management System Activity Countries (ILO Convention: C169), and the principle of “free, prior and informed consent (FPIC). Mitsui classifies any new business project that involves significant qualitative risks related to the environment, society, and corporate governance as “Specially Designated Business.” Such projects are implemented in accordance with the Specially Designated Business Management System. Projects 62 Social Respect for Human Rights covered by this system are subject to internal screening in relation to occupational health and safety. In Human Rights Risk Assessment Process the case of development projects, the screening also encompasses the human rights of local residents ①Identification of human rights risks and other stakeholders. The Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee meets as required, not only when projects are initiated, but also during operation and the termination stage, to deliberate on Establishment of screening standards with reference to indicators and tools, etc. potential human rights violations and ESG risks, such as changing environmental risks and occupational • Tools used by international organizations to assess ESG risks in relation to private sector investment • Sector classifications used by ESG assessment organizations to measure human rights risks health and safety issues. • Country-specific human rights indicators used by international organizations P.113 Specially Designated Business Management System and Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee ②Establishment of human rights risk items Human Rights Due Diligence Activity Establishment of risk items that comprehensively cover the social aspects of international standards relating to corporate social responsibility, together with human rights and labor-related items, with reference to In accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, in the fiscal year international norms, etc. ended March 2020, Mitsui appointed external experts and began conducting due diligence with regard to • International Bill of Human Rights • SA8000 human rights in the supply chains of products handled by Mitsui and its overseas trading affilliates, as well • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and • ISO26000 (guidance standard on social as the main business operations of its consolidated subsidiaries. Rights at Work responsibility) The first step was to identify business areas with significant human rights risks. We established human rights identification and screening criteria based on international indicators and other tools, and carried out screening processes. The next step was to identify human rights risk items in preparation for the ③Establishment of additional priority risk management items for supply chains implementation of human rights assessments. These human rights risk items comprehensively encompass the social aspects of international norms and standards relating to corporate social responsibility, as well Establishment of supply chain risk management items as additional indicators with reference to international norms as items relating to human rights and labor. We also added priority risk management items in supply • United Nations “Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights” • OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct chains. In particular, items in the four areas identified by the International Labour Organization (ILO) as core labor standards were assessed as priority high-risk items. As a result of risk assessment, our business operations and supply chains mainly related to food, textiles, building materials and mining industry were identified as presenting high risk business areas with ④Definition of risk severity significant human rights risks. We compiled an outline of human rights risks and formulated measures to Recognition of the four categories of core labor standards defined by the ILO as priority risk items mitigate these risks. The items of main risk mitigation measures were added to the supply chain survey for • Freedom from forced labor • Freedom from discrimination at work the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, and will be checked through on-site inspections starting in the fiscal • Freedom from child labor • Freedom to form and join a union, and to bargain year ending March 2021. By the end of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2023, we plan to conduct a survey collectively of all major suppliers of materials and products identified as having high risk based on human rights risk assessments. Mitsui will work with suppliers to ensure an understanding of respect for human rights and promote human rights practices throughout its supply chains. ⑤Implementation of human rights risk assessments P.66 Initiatives with Suppliers • Risk mapping • Formulation of risk mitigation measures • Creation of a risk overview 63 Social Respect for Human Rights Respecting Indigenous Peoples System Activity Human Rights Training Activity When conducting operations, Mitsui strives to comply with all laws of the applicable country or region, As part of our initiatives in relation to human rights in supply chains, we invited Ms. Asako Nagai of and to respect the human rights and cultures of each country or region’s indigenous peoples in Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to a meeting of Sustainability Promotion Officers in September accordance with international standards, such as the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of 2019. Ms. Nagai gave a presentation on “Trends in Business and Human Rights” at the meeting, which was Indigenous Peoples and the Convention Concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples in Independent attended by 49 people. Her lecture on related trends provided a valuable opportunity to consider human Countries (ILO Convention: C169). For example, the operations of our forest resource business in Australia rights issues in various frontline business situations at a time when companies are required to take action are guided by respect for the traditional rights of the Aboriginal peoples. We have ensured accountability and disclose information about human rights violations, not only in their own operations, but also by obtaining FSC® certification (FSC®-C107463), which requires regular audits by third-party certification throughout the value chains that are linked to their activities. bodies. This certification is based on 10 major principles, including respect for the traditional rights of In relation to employees’ human rights, we are indigenous peoples. There are stringent audits covering such aspects as whether or not Mitsui’s working to reduce harassment cases by providing management of business operations gives consideration to traditional Aboriginal rights, and whether or mandatory harassment prevention training for all line not measures are taken to prevent damage to significant cultural sites, etc. In our iron ore mining managers and employees in a managerial position operation in Brazil, we maintain close communication with the indigenous people living in the Amazon to equivalent to the line manager level. foster mutual respect. In November 2019, Mitsui & Co. (Australia) Ltd. In Japan, Mitsui has entered into agreements with the Biratori Ainu Association and with the town of invited an external attorney to present a compliance Biratori in Hokkaido, where a part of Mitsui’s Forests is located, to cooperate in activities to protect, and seminar on the topics of discrimination and pass on, Ainu traditional culture through the conservation of forests. harassment prevention and unconscious bias. The presentation also covered responses to Australia’s Modern Slavery Act (2018). Human rights training (September 2019) The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 Activity In 2015, the United Kingdom enacted the Modern Slavery Act, which is designed to eliminate slave labor. The act requires profit-making enterprises that conduct business within the U.K., and which have an annual turnover above a certain threshold, to publish an annual statement confirming that measures are taken to eradicate slavery and human trafficking in their business activities and their supply chains. In compliance with requirements under Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act, Mitsui and its affiliated companies issue annual statements affirming that we prevent forced labor and other forms of modern slavery and human trafficking. The UK Modern Slavery Act 64 Social Supply Chain Management Promotion of Supply Chain Management Policy • Discrimination To prohibit any form of discrimination in employment. Mitsui & Co. has built diverse value chains throughout the world and provides a wide range of functions • Harassment and Inhumane Treatment and services. We are active at every stage of the supply chains, from upstream to downstream, and have Not to tolerate any form of harassment, irrespective of whether it is physical or mental harassment. as many as 20,000 suppliers. In conducting business globally, we are fully aware of our responsibilities, • Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining such as complying with laws, respecting human rights, and maintaining occupational health and safety, To respect the rights of employees to associate freely and bargain collectively in our labor-management giving comprehensive consideration to reduction of the environmental load, and ensuring safety for relations. products and services and consumer confidence. Together with our suppliers, we endeavor to correctly • Working Hours and Wages assess and solve ethical and social issues in the supply chains in order to meet society’s demands. To properly manage employees’ working hours, holidays, leaves of absence, and wages in accordance with To correctly assess and solve issues in the supply chains, Mitsui formulated its Supply Chain CSR Policy applicable laws and regulations. in December 2007, and has since made efforts to ensure that all of Mitsui’s suppliers fully understand our • Occupational Health and Safety standards and cooperate in the implementation of the policy. We reviewed the policy based on society’s To secure the health and safety of employees in the work environment. changing expectations and demands, and upgraded it to the Sustainable Supply Chain Policy in August • Community impact 2020, and are working to ensure compliance with and implementation of this policy. We make every effort To conduct human rights impact assessments, covering issues such as prevention of pollution and water to enhance our supply chain management by identifying potential problems in our supply chains and stress, for prevention of adverse impacts on the safety and health of local communities. To implement identify key issues based on the characteristics of each business model, country/region, and industry. necessary measures in line with international standards to avoid risks and mitigate negative impacts. Reduction of Environmental Burden To reduce the burden on the environment through the efficient utilization of resources, energy, and water, as Sustainable Supply Chain Policy well as the thorough reduction, reuse, and recycling of waste, including harmful substances, and its proper 1. Mitsui & Co.’s mission is to “build brighter futures, everywhere” through realizing a better tomorrow for earth disposal. To give the utmost consideration to the environment to the extent technologically and and for people around the world. Toward the realization of this goal, Mitsui & Co. will strive to gain, through economically feasible by exercising an appropriate degree of influence and evaluating the impact on the business activities of the Mitsui & Co. group, an understanding of issues associated with the supply chains in environment, not only in the prevention of pollution, but also on such issues as climate change and the which Mitsui & Co. group is involved. Furthermore, based on various perspectives of stakeholders who may be conservation of biological diversity. affected by these issues, Mitsui & Co. will value dialogue with relevant parties, while working to find solutions Safety and Security of Products and Services to these issues on a global group basis. In this way, Mitsui & Co. will do its utmost to achieve sustainable To ensure safety and security of products and services. development. Information Disclosure 2. Mitsui & Co. will require its business associates, including suppliers, to understand and implement the following To properly disclose information related to the above principles in a timely manner. principles, and will strive to create sustainable supply chains in cooperation with them: 3. Where it is identified that in violation of this policy, Mitsui & Co. group’s business activities have caused adverse Respect for International Standards human rights impact or contributed to it through its business transactions including its supply chains, Mitsui & To ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations of relevant countries, fair transactions in Co. will work to remediate such impacts through appropriate processes. accordance with international rules and practice, and corruption prevention. Respect for Human Rights To strive not to infringe on human rights in our business activities, nor to contribute to human rights infringements by others through our business relationships, including supply chains. • Forced Labor Not to tolerate forced labor or any forms of modern slavery, including bonded labor or human trafficking. • Child Labor Not to tolerate child labor and to comply with the minimum working age stipulated by the law. Not to hire individuals that are under the age of 18 for roles requiring hazardous work. 65 Social Supply Chain Management Heightening Employee Awareness and Providing Training Seminars System Activity Supplier Surveys In promoting compliance with this policy, we consider interactive communication with our suppliers to be To increase the awareness and sensitivity of all employees with respect to human rights, labor rights and very important. We work to build relationships of trust, and strengthen our supply chain management by other issues in our supply chains, and to prevent problems, we will continue to heighten employee working jointly on ideas for improvements with our partners, wherever needed. For this reason, we awareness and provide training seminars. regularly conduct surveys targeting the suppliers of Mitsui and its subsidiaries to confirm the status of their adherence to our policy, and whether they have their own policies related to such areas as human Number of Participants for the Training Seminars rights and labor practices, health and safety, business ethics, and environmental management. Mitsui FY2018 35 started to conduct supplier surveys from the fiscal year ended March 2012, and specified the targets in the fiscal year ended March 2020 to suppliers that handle products in high-risk business domains in FY2019 120 accordance with the human rights due diligence. FY2020 266 Number of companies surveyed FY2016 39 Initiatives with Suppliers System Activity FY2017 50 FY2018 68 When engaging in business with new suppliers, we conduct a survey based on our Supply Chain CSR Policy (currently Sustainable Supply Chain Policy) to assess various risks of social issues beforehand, and to FY2019 74 ensure that all suppliers of Mitsui understand the said policy. As for the existing business and relevant FY2020 12 suppliers, we also conduct regular supplier surveys and supplier on-site surveys, in order to confirm the actual situation of business operations and identify suppliers with high risks in relation to social issues Supplier On-Site Surveys such as climate change, biodiversity, environment management, human rights, and working environment. In addition to the abovementioned surveys of suppliers, we also conduct interviews with persons in charge and on-site inspections of suppliers’ manufacturing facilities using a checklist based on the Company-Wide Uniform Supplier Communication Forms compliance items in our policy. Furthermore, we provide advice and guidance after the on-site surveys Beginning in the fiscal year ended March 2009, we started sending letters (in Japanese, English, Chinese, when required. French, Spanish, and Portuguese) to all new suppliers of Mitsui’s business units, overseas offices, and subsidiaries (about 50,000 suppliers in total) requesting their understanding and cooperation in regard to Survey Target our policy, in a move to ensure that all Mitsui suppliers are aware of this policy. In addition, we conduct internal examinations in alternate years, to verify that the letters were dispatched to the suppliers. FY2016 Supplier of paper raw materials (wood chips) FY2017 Supplier of food raw materials (apple juice) Target period Number of Letters Sent to New Suppliers FY2018 Supplier of oleochemical products (oleochemicals) FY2014–FY2015 6,130 FY2019 Supplier of seafood (salmon), feed manufacturer FY2016–FY2017 7,130 FY2020 Suppliers of apparel products FY2018–FY2019 4,752 66 Social Supply Chain Management On-site Surveys of Suppliers (Apparel Business) System Activity · No work accidents have been reported to the authorities over the past three years. Through the on-site surveys, it was confirmed that appropriate actions are being taken on minor cases, such as In the fiscal year ended March 2020, Mitsui and a third-party expert jointly conducted on-site surveys at follow-up actions by in-house health, safety, and environment (HSE) departments. the suit factory of MAY10 Joint Stock Company (“MAY10”), and the sewing factory of Viet Thinh Garment • Emergency preparedness: Evacuation routes, safety equipment, first aid kits, fire extinguishers, and Joint Stock Co. (“Viet Thinh”) in Vietnam. Both are suppliers of Mitsui Bussan I-Fashion Ltd. (“MIF”), Mitsui’s other items are equipped. A fire alarm system has consolidated subsidiary, which trades in textile raw materials, industrial raw materials, and woven and been installed at the Viet Thinh factory, which is a knitted fabrics, and also produces and procures apparel and fashion goods, as well as accessories. The large-scale facility. two-day surveys consisted of site inspections, • Provision of good working conditions: interviews with managers and workers, and checks of Both factories have female factory managers, and a related documents. The main focal points of the high percentage of workers are female. For this surveys were human rights, occupational safety and reason, the factories have excellent welfare systems health, compliance with laws and regulations, for female workers, including menstrual and environmental management, and relationships with maternity leave, subsidies for workers with children The inside view of the factory of MAY10 (August 2019) local communities. aged up to six, and healthcare programs for female workers aged 40 and older. The results of the surveys confirmed that both companies are taking appropriate action on all items, Environmental Management and that both factories meet the requirements • The companies have formulated environmental management policies in accordance with laws and stipulated in the Supply Chain Policy. regulations, and are implementing those policies. The outside view of MAY10 (Vietnam) • The companies have obtained discharge permits for industrial wastewater and hazardous waste, etc. Results of Supplier On-site Surveys • From an operational viewpoint, the risk of environmental contamination resulting in air or water Acquisition of Certification pollution, etc., is low. • Both factories have been certified under the SA8000, ISO14001, and ISO9001 international standards. • The usage amounts of energy (electric power) and water (mainly water supplies and sewage) are They comply with local laws and regulations concerning working hours and employment, etc. relatively low for both companies. Human Rights, Labor Local Communities • Child labor: No workers aged under 18 are present in either factory. • The companies view relationships with local communities as an important part of their environmental • Forced labor: No foreign workers are employed, and no forced labor is occurring. management systems and have established contact points for consultation with local residents. • Freedom of association: Labor unions have been formed at both factories, and the collective bargaining right of workers is guaranteed. At the MAY10 factory, 100% of workers belong to the union. Summary of Supplier On-site Surveys • Wages: Both factories are located in Minimum Wage Region I, which has the highest minimum wage. The suppliers have established effective PDCA systems covering human rights, labor, environmental They meet this standard. management, regulatory compliance, and relationships with local communities, in part because of the • Working hours: Hours worked are within the regulatory limits (maximum of 48 hours per week + 30 requirements of their customers in Europe and North America. There was no evidence of the human rights hours of overtime per month). violations that typically affect female workers in Southeast Asia, especially in the fashion and sewing • Occupational safety and health industries, such as sexual harassment and wage discrimination. Nor was there any evidence of forced · Occupational safety officers are appointed in accordance with laws and regulations. labor, child labor, or any problems related to the employment of foreign workers. · Working environments and conditions are satisfactory in terms of lighting and ventilation, etc. Steps The third-party expert raised one minor issue, suggesting that it would be better from an ergonomic have been taken to control the temperature inside sewing areas, including the installation of viewpoint to attach backrests to the workers’ chairs. Viet Thinh began to provide chairs with backrests on a numerous wall-mounted fans. Adequate working space is also provided. prioritized basis, starting with approximately 100 pregnant workers. 67 Social Supply Chain Management Identifying and Providing Solutions for Issues in the Supply Chain Activity Occupational Health and Safety/Labor Management and Human Rights Management To meet the demands of customers both in Japan and overseas, MIF carries out centralized management MIF continuously promotes supply chain CSR activities, encourages business that seeks to create of its supplying factories and offers them technical guidance and other support. With the aim of building environmental value, and pursues initiatives in human rights management, with the aim of becoming a the MIF quality control system, it has been strengthening its sustainability measures, including the company that is trusted by stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, employees, consumers, and local establishment of a dedicated organization, the quantification of quality control levels, and the addition of communities. Through global partnerships, the company makes earnest efforts to find solutions to the check point “labor management in consideration of human rights” to the check-sheet items for MIF problems and issues in the supply chain and realize sustainable growth while coexisting harmoniously factories. “Occupational health and safety” and “labor management” are important points in audits. For with society. this reason, before customers carry out their CSR audits (regular audits or new audits) MIF carries out In accordance with the SDG Compass process, in the fiscal year ended March 2019, MIF identified preliminary reviews at domestic clothing factories to see if any major issues exist from the customers’ material issues as important management priorities out of the 17 SDGs. standards, and deals with them accordingly, thereby supporting the factories’ acquiring certification (passing audits), when necessary. MIF’s Materiality Theme of Initiatives Corresponding SDG In regard to occupational health and safety, MIF provides support for the introduction of related Respecting human rights in • Ensure that human rights are respected at all companies in the value chain measures, such as ensuring the appropriate configuration of aisles and emergency exits, providing the value chain • Work to strengthen checking functions at supplying factories and undertake evacuation routes and evacuation drills, installing firefighting equipment (fire extinguishers and fire the elimination of human rights violations, such as forced labor and child labor hydrants) and safety equipment, managing chemicals, and collecting employees’ opinions and providing • Work to respect the human rights of foreign workers hotlines. Regarding labor management, MIF provides domestic clothing factories with checks in respect Function to “connect” as a • Support initiatives to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to issues such as child or forced labor, harassment, human rights violations, discrimination, and trading company at all companies across countries and regions in the value chain punishments (fines). It also reviews and offers support for improvements when required regarding other • Lead the development, manufacture, and sales of eco-friendly materials and products related aspects such as guaranteeing a minimum wage, appropriate working hours (prohibiting working on holidays and long working hours), and the right to organize and carry out collective bargaining. Water safety and environ• Eliminate the use of harmful dyes, and work to purify factory wastewater Furthermore, it examines the actual management of foreign trainees at its domestic clothing factories, mental conservation • Adopt dyeing methods that reduce water use by 99% and provide support for improvements as needed. Promoting recycling and • Work to reduce the use of fluorine water repellents reuse • Reduce harmful waste disposal Results in the fiscal year ended March 2020 • Develop recycled and sustainable materials • MIF has sent its Supply Chain CSR Policy to 161 companies (80 domestic suppliers and 81 overseas suppliers) in total (cumulative total of 5,715 companies [domestic suppliers: 4,306, overseas suppliers: Environmental Value Creation 1,409] since the establishment of the policy in 2008). MIF engages in the development and sale of environmentally-friendly, textile-related products with • MIF’s partner brands accepted CSR audits that MIF carries out at supplier factories. advanced functionality that are eco-friendly. MIF has also obtained certification and registration under Survey based on a check sheet: 24 domestic factories and 8 overseas factories bluesign®*1 and the Global Recycle Standard (GRS)*2 and maintains compliance with these standards, Audit by partner brands: two domestic factories and 30 overseas factories which are regarded as among the most stringent in the world. Prior to these audits, MIF dispatched personnel dedicated to audit matters to supplier factories as To obtain bluesign® certification and registration, MIF is required to ensure that its collaborating supply necessary, in order to carry out preliminary reviews and make necessary improvements. chain manufacturing facilities in Japan and overseas are taking comprehensive steps to care for not only the environment but also their workers. An applicant company and its supply chain facilities must meet the standards set out for bluesign® certification, such as the prohibition of child labor, the elimination of forced labor and discrimination, the upholding of freedom of association, and occupational safety and health. *1 bluesign® is a holistic system that provides solutions in sustainable processing and manufacturing to industries and brands. *2 GRS is an international, voluntary, full product standard that sets out requirements for third-party certification of recycled content, chain of custody, social and environmental practices and chemical restrictions. 68 Social Creating New Value Mitsui & Co. has created the Long-term Management Vision (“LTMV”) to define a clear picture of its such as cancer detection with AI and 100% recyclable apparel business using 3D printers. Amid the future. In the LTMV, the evolution of Mitsui’s role from “connecting” to “creating” is positioned at the drastic changes in the world, we will move ahead of the times and accelerate our value creation core of the company’s pursuits. In the past, our functions and roles as a general trading company toward driving society forward. have often centered on the creation of value through “connecting” companies, products, and other elements. The LTMV sets out our determination to evolve beyond that pattern into a company that proactively “creates” business. Digital Transformation (DX) System Activity Mitsui will accelerate DX as both defensive and offensive strategy, and advance our business models for the digital economy, including the creation of value through the utilization of Mitsui’s The evolution of digital technology has brought about the emergence of new business models, data resources, and use of AI and IoT. making companies’ relative competitiveness increasingly apparent. In the current era, a company’s productivity greatly depends on its ability to process data to facilitate rapid and accurate decisionmaking at all stages of business, from sales activities through to complicated management Innovation Hub—Moon Creative Lab System Activity decisions. The global spread of COVID-19 has further accelerated this trend, for example, by encouraging changes to working styles through the widespread shift to working from home. An In August 2018, we established Moon Creative Lab Inc. (“Moon”) to develop and incubate new irreversible “new normal” is now becoming established in many fields. In view of these changes in business for the Mitsui & Co. global group. Moon is headquartered in Palo Alto, the U.S., the world the external environment, Mitsui has set about implementing a “DX Comprehensive Strategy” epicenter of innovation, and also has a base in Tokyo. project. Amid a dramatically changing social and economic environment, Mitsui aims to use this Moon’s mission is to create a future vision for Mitsui by building new businesses from the project to create new value by taking the lead in promoting business, while at the same time ground up. Moon provides an environment and functional capabilities for this “0 → 1” process, i.e., achieving fundamental improvements in productivity. These activities are a pivotal part of the the process of forming completely new business that provides solutions to specific social issues, “Transform & Grow” theme of the Medium-Term Management Plan. thereby accelerating our evolution. At Mitsui, the Information Strategy Committee is chaired by the CDIO (Chief Digital Information Moon seeks business ideas from Mitsui & Co. global group organizations, business units, Officer) and participated by the CFO, the CSO, and a number of representative directors, executive officers, departments, subsidiaries, teams, task forces, or anyone from our 46,000 employees around the and the general managers of the relevant corporate staff divisions appointed by the President & CEO. The world. Ideas contributed from the frontlines of business around the world are enhanced through Committee proposes important policies in relation to information and DX strategies, and the Integrated dialogue with Moon’s operating teams. The criteria for the selection of ideas take the form of Digital Strategy Division, in collaboration with the business units, drives DX initiatives. questions posed to employees who submit the ideas. For example, “Will your idea create new value Through such DX initiatives, Mitsui is working to reduce costs and increase sales via efficiency for Mitsui? Will it create new value for society?” “Will your idea alleviate problems affecting large improvements and optimization to enhance the quality of existing business, and, at the same time, numbers of people and contribute to well-being?” “How will your idea help solve a social issue?” to create new business models. Examples include the use of AI for such purposes as medical “Does your idea have a vision for the future and a diagnosis, logistics route optimization, and ticket price adjustment. In the fiscal year ended March scenario for the achievement of that vision?” “Does 2020, a project promoted together with our business partner, Mitsui Ocean Development & the project leader have the ability, commitment, Engineering Company (MODEC), using IoT and AI to reduce downtime at one of its FPSOs (offshore and passion to thoroughly carry out his/her oil production facilities), gained recognition from the World Economic Forum as a “Manufacturing project?” Questions such as these clearly reflect the Lighthouse”; a world-leading production site successfully adopting the cutting-edge technologies values of Mitsui. The final selection of projects for of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. which commercial implementation will be initiated We are also implementing DX initiatives within the company with the aim of achieving major is made by the Moon Committee, which also improvements in the efficiency of day-to-day operations, energizing communication, and includes external partners who are professional facilitating knowledge sharing and utilization. The fully paperless operation of meetings and the business designers. introduction of digital signatures using IT tools has helped us to seamlessly continue with our tasks A wide array of projects are currently underway, Innovation lab —Moon (February 2020) even under the teleworking environment. 69 Social Human Resources Management Throughout Mitsui & Co. group’s long history, the source of its competitiveness and growth has always Measures in the Medium-term Management Plan 2023 Activity been diverse people who share the values of “Challenge and Innovation” and “Open-mindedness.” We regard our employees as one of the most important stakeholders, and the most important asset. Local Depth for Global Reach, • Promote and appoint personnel regardless of where they were recruited With the aim of training people who create and grow business that contributes to society and are Global Reach for Local Depth • Develop next-generation leaders on a global basis capable of global group management, Mitsui & Co. has developed a variety of human resources • Strengthen Global Talent Management development programs and established promotion and assignment systems that help employees to grow Further Deepening of Diversity & Inclusion • Create frameworks and organizations where diverse personnel can thrive • Strengthen employee engagement on a global group basis through opportunities for wide-ranging experiences. Also, we aim to strengthen the competitiveness of • Provide an innovative working environment where employees can deliver their the entire company by promoting diversity management to create environments where individual best employees with a diverse range of backgrounds can fully exert their potential and continue working in Strengthen Diverse Individuals • Inspire and develop personnel who can take on business management safety and good health. • Implement personnel systems and operations that empower the individual to succeed Personnel Management in the Medium-term Management Plan 2023 Our approach towards the Medium-term Management Plan 2023 and Personnel Management Policy Strengthening Employee Engagement on a Global Group Basis The business environment is changing rapidly on a global scale. Mitsui & Co. has launched its Medium-term We conduct the Mitsui Engagement Survey as a way of building our organizational strength Management Plan with the aim of achieving “Transform and Grow” at a time when business is becoming through the enhancement of employee motivation. The 2018 survey covered employees working in increasingly diverse, sophisticated, and complex. One of the six corporate strategies formulated to drive the Head Office and offices in Japan, as well as employees in overseas branches and offices. Going transformation and growth is the personnel strategy, the aim of which is to deploy diverse professional forward, we plan to extend the survey to include group companies. We plan to conduct the next talent to the right positions, and develop business management talent on a global group basis. Survey in 2020 and every other year thereafter. Overall results from the Mitsui Engagement Survey 2018 on a global basis* Global response rate: 89% Percentage of employees who gave positive responses to related questions. Employee engagement** “I am respected as an individual” 59 % 80 % * Mitsui & Co. employees in Japan and overseas branches and offices (including regionally hired staff ) ** Employees’ enthusiasm toward their work, including self-motivation to work hard, and a sense of loyalty toward the company. 70 Social Human Resources Management Human Resources Development and Allocation Recruitment of Human Resources Career Education Programs Activity Mitsui offers various career education programs designed to foster career awareness in students and Our Approach Policy provide work experience opportunities. A particular priority in this category is internship. We accepted 110 interns in the fiscal year ended March 2017, 311 in 2018, and 190 in 2019. (The internship program was Mitsui & Co. is committed to fair recruitment practices. We select individuals on the basis of their abilities postponed due to COVID-19 in 2020.) In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we launched a three-day and personal qualities. For example, we offer people to apply globally for positions without regard to residential program and a one-day session, through which participants were able to engage in various nationality, gender, age, or other attributes, such as the universities from which they graduated. Our activities with employees, including collaboratively creating proposals on new projects. selection processes, including entry sheets and interviews, include no questions that are irrelevant to Throughout the year, we hold “Challenge and Innovation Experience” seminars. There are several applicants’ abilities or suitability, such as religion or registered place of domicile. Furthermore, staff who versions of these seminars covering different aspects of our work, such as business investment, trading, conduct interviews receive training to ensure fair employment screening processes for applicants. We and overseas infrastructure projects. We held 27 seminars in various parts of Japan in the fiscal year ended accept applications both from new graduates and mid-career applicants, regardless of their previous work March 2018, 49 in the fiscal year ended March 2019, and 64 in the fiscal year ended March 2020. experience. Specific Policies on Employment Screening and Job Advertisements Activity Since the fiscal year ended March 2018, Mitsui has run a two-day recruitment camp to ensure that selections are based on a proper understanding of the company and its business operations. Seven people were selected under this system in the fiscal year ended March 2018, and in the fiscal year ended March 2019 the number was increased to 17, and to 22 in 2020. The system gives applicants opportunities to gain an in-depth understanding of the nature of Mitsui’s business, and enables them to gain a clear understanding of the company through communication with employees. It also allows us to make decisions based on a better recognition of each individual’s abilities and personal qualities, so that we can assign them to appropriate positions after they join the company. In addition, we have been providing a wide range of application opportunities as part of our efforts to Career education programs (December 2019) recruit diverse individuals capable of working successfully in a global arena. We hold corporate information sessions and selection screening programs in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, and France, as well as web seminars so that people throughout the world can learn about our business and company system. We also actively recruit mid-career workers and recruit about 50 people in this category each year, which is equivalent to about 25% of total appointments. Various methods, such as round-table meetings with employees, are used to give applicants opportunities to learn more about our business operations. Moreover, we actively disseminate group recruitment information with the aim of attracting talented people to work for the Mitsui & Co. group by holding joint corporate information sessions with group companies, and through other means. P.95 Number of Hires by Gender (Non-consolidated)★ 71 Social Human Resources Management Human Resources Development Human Resources Development Program (Abridged Edition) Our Approach to Human Resources Development Policy The main source of competitiveness for the Mitsui & Co. global group is its human resources. The Mitsui & Co. global group respects diverse individuality and aims to foster human resources that will create new value and take on a central role in global group management. Throughout its long tradition, Mitsui & Co. has always focused on human resources. Our approach to human resources development is represented in the company’s saying, “The individual builds the business, and the business cultivates the individual.” As the words signify, the company’s priority mission is to develop strong individuals who can create new value through business activities based on their expertise and broad knowledge. Indeed, it would be no exaggeration to say that this is the company’s ultimate raison d’etre. For this reason, we regard on-the-job training (OJT) as the cornerstone of human resources development. We also implement comprehensive off-the-job-training programs in various forms to support and supplement human resources development through OJT. Furthermore, by offering the combination of on-site training, online training, and e-learning, we pursue an optimal training system that is less restricted by time and location. Human Resources Development Programs System Activity Grade-Based Training and Business Skills Training To achieve the goal of fostering growth in human resources capable of driving “Transform & Grow” and taking on a central role in global group management, we have designated necessary qualifications and roles by job grade, from new employees to management-level employees, and have been implementing a wide variety of human resources development programs, including grade-based training programs, optional programs, and programs for selected individuals. 72 Social Human Resources Management Global Training Programs Human Resources Training Programs in Japan and the Number of Participants/Dispatched Employees The Mitsui & Co. global group has numerous global training programs that are designed to enable (Unit: persons) employees to manage business on a global basis. Number of At the Mitsui Head Office, we offer the Overseas Developmental Dispatch Program for Young Category Training Programs Outline participants FY2020 Employees, which includes the Foreign Language & Business Culture Trainee program (FLBCT) for Grade-based Management Training Program, New Line The aim of these programs is to foster human developing regional specialists by learning about local societies, cultures, and languages completely away Training Manager Program, Leadership Program, resources capable of global group management. from work for a year, and the Overseas Trainee Program (OTP) designed to enhance expertise. We also Programs Administrative Staff Training, Female Participants acquire knowledge that includes 1,349 Business Staff Program, New Hire Induction our management philosophy, business skills, provide the Business School Program for mid-level employees, and the Administrative Staff Overseas Training, Mid-career Hire Induction Training and business mindset Training Program. Bussan Academy Marketing, Management Strategy, Finance, Professional training programs with the aim of In addition, with the aim of fostering leaders who will take on a central role in next-generation global Program Logical Thinking, Mindset, Communication, increasing participants’ specialist knowledge in 1,480 Organizational Behaviors and Leadership various fields business management, we launched a unique program called the Harvard Business School Global Management Academy Program (GMA) in 2011, in partnership with Harvard Business School. Through its Objective-based Career Design Program, Retirement Life Plan Training programs for senior employees, which Programs for Program are designed to support them in hands-on, case study-oriented lectures, diverse participants, which include not only Mitsui & Co. global Senior Employees autonomously devising the direction of their 457 group employees but also employees of our overseas business partners, learn about leadership and career and to adapt to the change of environment and their roles innovation by competing with and helping each other to improve. Grade or Project Manager Development Program, Programs aimed at acquiring specific skills and For management-level employees, we also offer Executive Education, which is a short-term business Objective-based Inter-industry Exchange Training Programs, mindsets, expanding horizons through 2,616 school program conducted at first-class business schools in Europe and the U.S. Training Programs MOC (Mitsui Open College), GM One-on-One interactions with other industries, and building Training at Head Office and offices in Japan personal connections Number of Participants in the Global Training Programs (in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2020) 159 Trainees in 32 Countries P.95 Hours/Days of Training for Competency Development and Expenditure on Training (Non-consolidated) CIS Development of Human Resources Capable of Global Group Management System Activity Far East North Europe Europe 6 3 America 8 1 26 We focus on the development of human resources Far East capable of taking responsibility for global group North Europe Middle East 18 America management, which is a key pillar of Mitsui’s 17 1 14 consolidated management. Asia Asia In order to provide support for human resources Middle East 19 3 development at each group company in Japan, and Africa 6 2 Asia to build human networks, we provide grade-based Oceania CSA 1 training through such courses as the General Africa 5 28 1 Manager Training Program, Department Manager Training Program, and New Hire Induction Training Regionally hired staff engaged in active discussion during GMP training (November 2019) Overseas Developmental Dispatch Program for Young Employees (Overseas Trainees, Overseas Training Program, Business School Program) 115 participants in 31 countries (as of March 31, 2020) Program, as well as optional training programs, such Executive Education (short-term business school program for management level employees) and GMA (Harvard Business School) as the Bussan Academy programs. 35participants in 5 countries (in FY2020) Administrative Staff Overseas Training Program In addition to the various training programs held at overseas offices, we offer employees of our overseas 9 participants in 9 countries (as of March 31, 2020) subsidiaries well-developed programs of both short-term and mediumto long-term training at the Mitsui Head Office. Short-term programs include the JTP (Japan Trainee Program), which is offered in the first few 73 Social Human Resources Management years after joining the company, and GMP (Global Managers Program), which is an optional training focused Competency Appraisal,” and “Contribution Appraisal.” For the “Individual Competency Appraisal,” an appraiser on leadership for employees in management positions. Mediumto long-term programs are held for a performs a comparative assessment of the competency of an employee in relation to other employees in the period of one to three years, and include the LBP (Japan Language and Business Program), which provides same appraisal group; this appraisal is used for and reflected in decisions regarding employee promotion, job Japanese language lessons and practical business training, and the BIP (Business Integration Program), which assignments, salary, and so on, in accordance with the cumulative points in the employee’s individual provides practical business training. competency appraisals over the most recent three years. Having cumulative points from appraisals for three Furthermore, we launched the Change Leader Program (CLP) to identify talented staff on a global years, rather than a single-year appraisal result, avoids a one-time effect and enables appropriate appraisals as basis and develop them into leaders who will actively take on challenges and lead the realization of to how an employee has been developing during the three-year period, and for considering promotions. innovations. For the “Contribution Appraisal,” setting out appropriate targets is the premise for an appropriate appraisal. P.77 Development and Promotion of Regionally Hired Staff As such, employees and their managers must engage in in-depth discussions in order to share a common understanding of the established targets, so that the targets will be challenging and acceptable to both parties. An appraiser assesses the value added to, and the degree of contribution made to the company by an employee, as well as the degree to which the employee has taken on challenges to achieve a target. We also have a mechanism whereby the results of these appraisals are linked to the performance of the company, and reflected in the bonus. In the fiscal year ended March 2019, we revised these appraisal systems. We have incorporated a mechanism to allow both promotion and demotion in order to facilitate the early promotion of employees who produce outstanding results and demonstrate strong capabilities, and to give them roles with greater responsibility, while also carrying out finely-tuned assessments with the aim of fostering a healthy sense of urgency. Furthermore, we have introduced the President’s bonus to reward employees who make a noteworthy contribution to or who produce outstanding results toward strengthening Mitsui’s earnings base, or who take on difficult challenges aspiring to new heights. Interactive Communications between Line Managers and Team Staff System Activity One-on-One Program In order to realize more highly motivated workplaces through support for cultivating a strong relationship of trust among employees and for improving their performance, we encourage one-on-one meetings between Appraisal System line managers and their team staff at least once a month. We have launched the One-on-One Program for departmental GMs in the Head Office and offices in Japan to help them with these one-on-one meetings. Mitsui and its group companies encourage employees to take on new challenges, help them enhance their Through this program, GMs can secure time to regularly communicate with their team staffs, which increases individual capabilities, and inspire them to work with a high level of motivation and enthusiasm, through communication time and enhances the quality of communication. As a result, GMs participating in this personnel appraisals. The objectives of conducting the appraisal process are not limited to enhancing program gain a deeper understanding of their team staffs. As a measure for supporting staff to grow into employee understanding of Mitsui’s management philosophy, or to providing input for setting compensation strong individuals, about 90% of the departmental GM participants gave positive feedback. or assigning new positions, but also include promoting talent development through the appraisal process. Appraisal meetings, such as one-on-one meetings, are held periodically between employees and their Mitsui Management Review (MMR) managers, and employees receive comprehensive feedback on their performance and specific contributions. In the fiscal year ended March 2006, we introduced the Mitsui Management Review (MMR) for line managers These meetings create an effective framework for human resources/personal ability development. responsible for handling global consolidated management in Japan and overseas, as well as at affiliated The appraisal system for staff hired in Japan consists of two types of appraisal criteria: “Individual companies, as an opportunity for them to gain insights by reflecting on their own management and 74 Social Human Resources Management leadership capabilities. Members of the organization working under each manager rate him or her, providing Appropriate Appointment and Allocation of Personnel an opportunity for the manager to reflect on his or her own performance based on the results, and to implement management style improvements. In recent years, the MMR is carried out once every two years, and in the fiscal year ended March 2019, the program was held for 1,176 managers. In addition, workplace Policy of Placing the Right People in the Right Positions Policy meetings are held to give direct feedback to members of the organizations about the insights. By sharing the views of both managers and their team staffs, it helps to clarify the challenges they need to tackle in the People are the most important assets for the Mitsui & Co. global group. We aim to create a cycle in which our workplace. As such, the MMR is leading toward the creation of more open and communicative workplaces human resources can grow through opportunities to have diverse experiences, while deepening their human where discussions contributing to the improvement of management are actively carried out, and the networks, thereby creating opportunities for even better experiences. enhancement of bidirectional communication between line managers and team staffs. On the other hand, in the past 15 years since the launch of this program, required conduct, capabilities, and qualifications for managers and leaders have changed. For example, they now need to manage more diverse Deployment of Talent and Human Resource Mobilization System and competent human resources, and cope with changing work environments. Organizational management capabilities required of line managers are also becoming more and more sophisticated. As such, proper In order to maximize the potential of our diverse, talented professionals and organizational competitiveness, evaluation of leader adequacy and stepped-up efforts to foster talented leaders are becoming important we focus on placing the right people in the right positions. challenges more than ever. In order to be adaptive to various challenges, we are considering revising the MMR. Every year, employees are given the opportunity to have dialogue with their line managers on the basis The plan is to include line manager candidates to its participants, and use the results of the new MMR program of the prescribed career development survey. Based on the individual employee’s characteristics, expertise, as a reference when promoting them to line managers. Also, by including line managers and colleagues to operational capabilities, areas of specialty, and experience, we formulate a plan for the development and those who provide objective perspectives in evaluations, the MMR can have multi-layered, 360°viewpoints, utilization of our human resources and implement appropriate and optimized personnel assignments. Also, which result in upgrading the evaluation approach to be more transparent, objective, and convincing. Through in order for our valuable human resources to fully exert their individual capabilities, we have introduced the such operational improvements among others, we will enhance our human resource development. following human resource mobilization measures, which facilitate assignments beyond organizational boundaries. Employee Dormitories System Activity Strategic Allocation of Human Resources Human resources are vital but finite management resources. Taking into account the external environment Mitsui has been maintaining employee dormitories for many years. Not just to offer secure, comfortable and the balance between our business portfolios and profits, we agilely transfer and position our human living environments to young employees, we also hope to achieve various synergies through having resources to growth domains that we have defined as targets under our management policies. We are employees live together. continually implementing human resource allocation measures such as the ones listed below to When dormitory residents learn from their seniors/juniors and colleagues, and compete with each accelerate our business offensives, which has resulted in the promotion of business by diverse, talented other, autonomous growth is encouraged. We believe that personal networks beyond organizational professionals. boundaries built at dormitories and a sense of community, as well as everyday life itself at dormitories, will Through the fiscal years ended March 2016 and 2020, we allocated 36 people from resource business become invaluable assets for their future, and we encourage new graduates hired by the company, in into non-resource growth business, such as healthcare and nutrition & agriculture. During the fiscal years particular, to make use of our dormitories. ended March 2018 and 2020, we have embodied our policy of growth-driven shift by transferring 107 At present, almost 360 employees, mostly young employees who have been with Mitsui for up to people from corporate units to the frontlines of business, with the aim of streamlining corporate units and three years, reside in four dormitories located in the suburbs of Tokyo. Inter-dormitory sports competitions strengthening business frontline units. and other events as well as everyday life at each dormitory help to deepen communication among From the fiscal year ending March 2021 and onward, we plan to further accelerate personnel transfers employees along vertical, horizontal, and diagonal axes. to priority areas with our policy of “placing the right people in the right positions” in mind. Because dormitory residents include regionally hired staff who stay in Japan for long periods to participate in training programs at the Tokyo Head Office, the dormitories are also widely used for global networking among employees. 75 Social Human Resources Management Career Development Initiatives for Our Diverse Human Resources Human Resources Bulletin Board System System Activity The Diversity Management that Mitsui Is Aiming For Policy System This system encourages employees to take up the challenge of assignments of their choice that are In the Mitsui & Co. group, employees who come from a wide variety of backgrounds in terms of beyond interorganizational boundaries. We have introduced this system to facilitate the autonomous nationality, gender, values, and other attributes play active roles globally. career formation of employees and realize our policy of “placing the right people in the right positions” by We implement “diversity management,” under which each and every member of our diverse human matching human resource needs across business domains. If an employee wants to use his or her resources recognizes and respects each other, inspires each other to exert their capabilities to the fullest, capabilities, skills and specialist knowledge in a business area other than the one to which he or she is brings new value to our business, and creates innovation. This allows us to enhance the competitiveness currently assigned, and if it is judged that the transfer would be beneficial for both the employee of the Mitsui & Co. global group. While developing systems and measures for supporting the growth of concerned and the company, and would enhance the competitiveness of our human resources and diverse human resources, we have also been focusing on cultivating a corporate climate and culture that organization, then a transfer will be implemented. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, 31 employees were fosters “diversity & inclusion,” in which where diversity is accepted and respected. transferred under this system, which gave a cumulative total of 439 employees transferred since the commencement of this system in the fiscal year ended March 2000. Diversity Management Goals and Action Policies Human Resource Mobilization Measures in Recent Years Strategic allocation Autonomous allocation 76 Social Human Resources Management Diversity Management Promotion Framework Career Development Initiatives for Global Talent Board of Directors Development and Promotion of Regionally Hired Staff System Activity Diversity Committee Corporate (advisory committee to the Corporate Management Committee) Change Leader Program Management Committee Chairperson: Hirotatsu Fujiwara, Representative Director, Senior Executive The Change Leader Program (CLP) is an initiative to Managing Ofﬁcer (Ofﬁcer in charge of Human Resources & General Affairs Div.） identify, nurture, and develop diverse talent on a global Members: General Manager of Human Resources & General Affairs Div. General Manager of Corporate Planning & Strategy Div. basis and to train them to become leaders who can Members designated by the chairperson other than above actively and boldly push forward reforms necessary to Secretariat: Diversity Management Dept. create business. A total of 43 participants selected from around the world have joined this program in the past Legal Div. Overseas Chief Human two years. Participants held direct dialogue with top Corporate Human Resources & Resources Ofﬁcers management in the Head Office, and took part in Planning & Investor Strategy Div. General Affairs intensive business discussions on leadership and the Relations Div. Div. RDC Long-term Management Vision, among other topics. RDC RDC Mentors were assigned for each participant to further HR Coordinator facilitate their growth, while they set up their own RDC at each stretch assignments to accomplish. As a measure to business unit foster “change leaders” who will drive local business origination, we plan to continue this program going CLP participants (February 2019) forward. Career Development Initiatives for Diverse Global Talent Since joining Mitsui & Co. India as a regionally hired staff member, Mr. Ashraf has developed his career while accumulating experience in Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur, Dubai, and other locations, where he has worked mainly in the area of mineral & metal resources. In April 2020, he became Mitsui & Co. India’s first regionally hired managing director, a role in which he has maintained his unwavering commitment to challenge and innovation. By supporting the Faisal Ashraf development of environments in which people from various Managing Director, Mitsui & Co. India backgrounds can succeed, Mitsui & Co. is maximizing the potential of regional, business, and human diversity, and accelerating business creation. 77 Social Human Resources Management Promotions to Executive Positions Training and Transfer to Japan An increasing number of talented regionally hired staff Number of GM Positions Held by Regionally Regionally hired staff selected for training as nextPersonnel Sent to Japan (As of March 31 Each Year) members are being promoted to managerial positions, in Hired Staff (As of March 31 Each Year) generation leaders are sent to Japan on various programs. 40 line with our commitment to training regionally hired staff They are given opportunities to study the Japanese 75 members in each region and strengthening our pool of 73 26 70 language and Japanese business practices and experience 30 30 64 22 human resources and locally-originated business. In the 60 25 Japanese work styles, while learning about other aspects 7 past, most people appointed to managerial positions as 45 46 52 20 of Japan, such as its culture and history. Their training is 20 13 21 1 20 20 26 3 2 general managers (GMs) in overseas offices were sent out 25 targeted toward their development as management 18 10 16 9 2 7 22 30 from Japan. As a result of coaching and training regionally 18 20 personnel who will one day play key roles in Mitsui & Co. 10 10 10 ＊ 5 10 9 9 hired staff members, as well as providing opportunities for 15 9 11 global group management. In addition to opportunities to 6 0 assignment to Japan and global training and other 4 4 8 11 13 11 network with people within and beyond Mitsui & Co. 0 6 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 initiatives, the percentage of GM positions held by global group, the program is also designed to enable FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 regionally hired staff members has reached 25% in the participants to build lifelong relationships by inspiring and Japan Language and Business Program (LBP) Business Integration Program (BIP) Americas, 25% in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East, and Americas being inspired by other talented people who are gathered Transferees EMEA Africa), 10% in the Asia Pacific region, and 13% in East Asia Asia Pacific in Japan for the same purpose. The program to dispatch * Including one regionally hired staff transferee accepted by an (as of March 2020). One of them is the managing director Other regionally hired staff to Japan started in the early 2000s. affiliated company in FY 2017, two in FY 2018, and one in FY 2019 of Mitsui & Co. India. We will continue to strengthen our Since then, a total of 168 people have participated in efforts to achieve optimal personnel allocation, including staff hired in Japan, as part of the continuing various programs in Japan (Japan Language and Business globalization of human resources in the Mitsui & Co. global group. Program (LBP), Business Integration Program (BIP), transfers, etc.). The Mitsui & Co. global group will continue to implement these programs going forward. Transfers between Overseas Countries Appointing personnel with a thorough knowledge of each Number of Regionally Hired Staff Transferred between Support for Employees Who Are Citizens of Countries Other Than Japan country and region is essential to developing business Overseas Countries (As of March 31 Each Year) Mitsui & Co. group has excellent human resources with a variety of nationalities in many countries and with deep local roots in order to capture every business regions around the world, and encourages them to play active roles in developing business that is closely 30 opportunity while adapting flexibly to ever-changing 28 connected with individual regions. In order to boost global group management, Mitsui brings employees 25 4 business environments. We are driving further 24 24 from its group companies to Japan on job transfers and training, and supports human resources 5 2 3 diversification forward to ensure that the right people can 20 19 4 18 development and the establishment of human networks within the group. 2 5 work in the right place on a global basis, regardless of 15 13 14 13 Moreover, Mitsui has built a support framework for non-Japanese employees who are hired by the 1 nationality or location of recruitment. We are increasingly 10 10 4 Tokyo Head Office, such as a mentor system aiming to provide comprehensive support for career 1 providing employees with opportunities not only for 5 6 development and independence, and provision of support for administrative procedures, such as training in Japan, but also for transferring to other 4 3 3 5 3 updating or changing visa status. 0 overseas offices, including affiliated companies, in FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 addition to offices in other countries in the same region. Recent examples include the transfer of staff members Americas EMEA from London to Dubai and from Hong Kong to a Asia Pacific consolidated subsidiary in Silicon Valley. We will continue Other to support the globalization of human resources in the Mitsui & Co. global group, while verifying the effectiveness and advantages of this policy. 78 Social Human Resources Management Career Development Initiatives for Women Proportion of Female Managers % 400 12.0 Commitment to the Promotion of Women’s Empowerment Policy 10.0% 300 9.0 7.4% Mitsui has made continuing efforts to promote career advancement for women, and today, female Mitsui 200 6.2% 6.9% 6.0 5.7% employees are actively engaged in various roles in our global group. We aim to achieve a female manager 4.8% ratio of 10% by 2025 (7.4% as of July 2020) as part of our efforts to turn diversity into a force for business 100 3.8% 200 221 240 253 3.0 2.3% creation. 0.9% 1.1% 1.3% 126 168 0.7% 0.7% 0.8% 76 We are working toward this target under the two action plans detailed below. We will continue to 0 19 20 23 27 32 38 0.0 08/4 09/4 10/4 11/4 12/4 13/4 14/7 15/7 16/7 17/7 18/7 19/7 20/7 25/3 focus on initiatives to promote career advancement for women, leading to the promotion of women to positions as corporate officers and managers. Proportion of female managers Number of female managers Action Plan Related to the Promotion of Women’s Empowerment (from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2025) The plan describes our targets for the period up to the end of the fiscal year ending March 2025 under the Training Diverse Female Leaders System Activity Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. In FY 2020, we established the Women Leadership Initiatives to develop diverse role models for female Action Plan Related to the Promotion of Women’s Empowerment (from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2025) (in Japanese only) leadership through sustained efforts to train next-generation female leadership candidates. The program included lectures about the organizational development philosophy needed by leaders, and an Voluntary Action Plan on Promotion of Women to Managerial and Executive Positions assessment system designed to encourage participants to see themselves as leaders. We also introduced a Our voluntary action plan was posted on the Keidanren website in March 2020. mentoring scheme, and created opportunities for dialogue with senior management. Twelve female employees are working steadily to build their future careers through participation in the first program. Voluntary Action Plan on Promotion of Women to Managerial and Executive Positions (in Japanese only) We are also increasing our recruitment of female career staff, including both mid-career and new graduates. These people will form an expanded P.96 Performance Data Related to Diversity pool of talent to become the next generation of female executives. P.96 Performance Data Related to Diversity P.81 Mentor System (December 2019) 79 Social Human Resources Management Initiatives to Support Career Development Activity Other Initiatives to Support Employees Career Vision Workshops These workshops are held for junior female staff members, in which participants develop and verbalize Supporting the Active Participation of Senior Personnel System concrete images of their mediumto long-term career paths through discussions and a preliminary assessment designed to raise self-awareness. After the workshop, they are encouraged to engage in We have established a unit within the Human Resources & General Affairs Division that is fully dedicated to dialogue with their line managers and express their diverse career paths and turn this into action. supporting our senior personnel. We provide various training opportunities, such as Career Design Training, as well as holding individual interviews to support personnel aged 50 or over to help them work Support for Female Employees Transferred Overseas actively and to independently design their own career development path. As areas of activity for Mitsui employees expand, an increasing number of female business staff members Mitsui has introduced a “re-employment system” that provides employees who wish to continue are taking up overseas postings accompanied by children. Employees in this situation have individual working after reaching the mandatory retirement age of 60 with the opportunity to continue working up meetings with other employees who have experience with overseas work in tandem with childcare. Mitsui to the maximum age of 65. We strive to build an environment that enables active participation by senior also provides a full range of support for staff members with preschool children who take up overseas personnel by continuing to make use of their work experience, knowledge, and skills even after they reach assignments unaccompanied by their spouses, including subsidies for daycare and babysitting. the mandatory retirement age, and also provide support for those who wish to work outside of the company depending on individuals’ career choices. Evaluation by Society for Efforts to Promote Female Participation In the fiscal year ended March 2020, Mitsui was selected as a “Nadeshiko Brand” in recognition of its Initiatives to Support the Careers of Senior Employees to Enable Them to Play Active Roles Within and Outside the Company initiatives to promote active roles for women in the workforce. This was the sixth straight year since the Provision of • Interviews for senior personnel fiscal year ended March 2015 in which Mitsui was selected as a Nadeshiko or Semi-Nadeshiko Brand information If they so wish, employees aged 50 or over can have interviews to discuss their career development going forward, preparations for retirement, and Mitsui’s systems (e.g., retirement payments, pensions, support for retirees, reemployment contract). Through these interviews, company. employees also receive advice and information on specific topics, such as surveys of the post-retirement re-employment market. (Approximately 200 interviews are held per year.) • Re-employment system seminars P.118 Evaluation by Society (Nadeshiko Brand, Eruboshi (L Star)) Seven months before reaching retirement age, employees attend seminars about systems and procedures. (Held four times per year for a total of approximately 140 employees.) If they wish, employees can also attend individual follow-up meetings. • Interview to confirm intentions regarding re-employment Interviews are conducted with employees who do not attend the re-employment system seminars, or any other employee who wishes to have an interview. Training • Career design training Business staff members participate in two-day off-site training programs when they are between the ages of 48 and 51, and again when they are between the ages of 54 and 58. These sessions provide employees with opportunities to learn about public and corporate systems, to take stock of their own values and strengths, and to engage in group discussions about work-style options. (Held nine times in FY 2020 with a total of 217 participants.) • Life plan training One-day training program for administrative staff members aged 50 and above. Participants use these events to consider optimal career choices through information sharing and discussions. (Held one time in FY 2020 for 24 participants.) • Senior career seminars These seminars provide employees aged 50 or over with opportunities to learn how to create an independent second career. The program includes a keynote address by Jitsuro Terashima, a former officer of Mitsui, as well as panel discussions with invited participants from among retirees and post-retirement contract employees, and lectures on financial planning. (Held six times in FY 2020 for a total of 216 participants.) Support for • Discussions are held by the Re-employment Committee, which is composed of executive officers and division GMs, about the specific active activities of each senior employee. Support is given for a diverse range of opportunities both in Japan and at overseas offices and affiliated participation companies. within the • We have developed the Overseas Fringe Benefits System to support overseas activities. company • As of March 31, 2020, there were 143 re-employment contract employees (including 17 employees working overseas). In the fiscal year ended March 2020, 36.2% of employees aged 60 accepted a re-employment offer. Support for • The retiree support system is for employees aged 50 or above who wish to look for re-employment outside the company. We provide activities support for job-seeking employees through companies specialized in re-employment and we post re-employment information via the outside the intranet. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, 45 employees aged 50 or above found their next career outside the company utilizing the company support directly or indirectly provided by the company. 80 Social Human Resources Management Hiring People with Disabilities System Promoting Understanding of SOGI System In order to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, and as part of its efforts to promote diversity and We have implemented measures that enable all employees to fully exhibit their capabilities in playing inclusion, Mitsui is working to expand the quantity and quality of employment opportunities for people active roles regardless of SOGI (sexual orientation/gender identity) out of our belief that gaining a proper with various types of disabilities. In this area, we work closely with Mitsui & Co. Business Partners Ltd. (MBP), understanding of LGBT* is important. As a part of our efforts, we are focusing on raising awareness among which was established in 1981 as a trailblazing special-purpose subsidiary. employees and improving the office environment. For over 20 years, Mitsui has exceeded the statutory rate for the employment of people with * LGBT is an abbreviation of L = Lesbian, G = Gay, B = Bisexual, T = Transgender In this report, “LGBT” is also used to refer to all sexual minorities, in addition to LGBT. disabilities, and as of June 2020 our rate stood at 3.09%. We have set a target of 3.0% for 2023, when the statutory rate is expected to be revised, and we are aiming for further expansion of employment Fostering Employee Awareness opportunities. Mitsui is working to ensure full compliance with its Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Mitsui has made various qualitative improvements to provide people with opportunities to contribute Officers, which specifically prohibit discriminatory and insulting behavior based on sexual orientation or according to their ability levels, without limiting areas of activity based on whether or not people have sexual identity. The Mitsui & Co. LGBT Guidebook (Japanese only), which was compiled using expert disabilities. In addition to general administrative duties, such as printing, mail, and office layout advice, has been posted on the company intranet to foster understanding among employees. Other management, people with disabilities are employed in an extremely wide range of areas, such as initiatives to raise employee awareness include in-house seminars presented by LGBT activists. LGBT issues operations relating to personnel management, payroll, and benefit programs, and the arrangement of are also covered in other educational activities, such as training prior to overseas transfers. These activities business travel. We will continue our efforts to create working environments in which people with various give employees opportunities to think about mutual consideration when working with people who have disabilities can achieve success and growth in the same workspace with other employees of MBP and different value systems. Mitsui, and to develop and expand areas of work. Initiatives by the entire Mitsui & Co. group include an annual seminar and information sharing event for Enhancement of Working Environments affiliated companies on the promotion of employment for people with disabilities. In the fiscal year ended We have established a contact point for consultation about LGBT-related issues as part of our initiatives to March 2020, 38 people from 30 companies participated in this event. Through lectures by MBP recruitment staff create working environments in which people can overcome problems and work well in an atmosphere of and related stories from employees, participants Trends in the Percentage of People with Disabilities in respect for personal identity, including sexual identity. During the fiscal year ended March 2020, we learned about our approach to the creation of Mitsui’s Workforce (as of June 1) established an external contact point in addition to the in-house one in order to create an advice system environments in which people can work with a 3.10% 3.09% that would be more considering of privacy for persons. We are also improving our facilities, including the 3.00% sense of motivation and energy regardless of 2.90% provision of multi-purpose restrooms in the Head Office building and other branches. whether or not they have a disability. 2.80% 2.74% 2.77% 2.70% We will continue our efforts to eliminate 2.60% 2.51% 2.51% barriers to engagement in society for people with 2.50% 2.40% 2.42% 2.53% Initiatives to Promote Career Advancement System 2.46% disabilities by qualitatively and quantitatively 2.30% 2.24% 2.20% 2.20% promoting employment for people with 2.10% 2.26% Mentor System 2.00 disabilities across the entire Mitsui & Co. group, Our initiatives to encourage career advancement for diverse talent include the introduction of a long-term 2.00% % 1.90% and by developing environments in which 1.80% 1.80% mentoring program for participants in the Change Leader Program and Women Leadership Initiatives. 1.70% diverse people can work together in the spirit of 11/6 12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 Employees who combine leadership with a strong awareness of the need to accept diversity are selected mutual respect to create value in various ways. Employment ratio of people with disabilities Legally stipulated ratio as mentors. Through regular dialogue with these mentors, participants are encouraged to perceive themselves as leaders and form new values. We have also introduced the mentor system in overseas offices, such as the Americas Business Unit. Through these initiatives, we are fostering a corporate culture in which talent is developed through communication with diverse mentors. 81 Social Human Resources Management Creating an Environment for Taking on Challenges and Driving Creation Mitsui & Co. aims to heighten its overall competitiveness as a company and provide new value to society Measures Implemented on the Office Floors of the New Head Office Building by creating environments in which individual employees can enhance their productivity and exert their (1) Group address system: capabilities to the fullest. We are implementing a variety of initiatives to create environments that allow By designating general areas for each division/department, we have been able to introduce a free address every employee to work energetically and enthusiastically and achieve personal growth in step with the system for each organization to allow people to choose where to work, in line with their objectives. This enables company’s growth. employees to secure the fluidity needed to collaborate with other departments while ensuring the productivity of their own organization, facilitating activity-based working. (2) Stacking to promote business synergy: Embodying New Ways of Working at Mitsui & Co. Presented The floor layout of each division/department allows flexible responses and changes in accordance with the in the Long-term Management Vision—Work-X Activity management strategy. Organizations that would be expected to mutually create synergy are located immediately above, below, or next to one another. In May 2020, Mitsui completed its relocation to the new Head Office building. Under the “Long-term (3) Communication space (Camp): Management Vision 2030” formulated in 2017, we defined our new Head Office building as a place where On every office floor, we have created shared space (Camp) where people come together in a natural way and diverse individuals will create new value through intellectual chemistry with numerous professionals, both hold conversations and come up with ideas. The Camp spaces include interior staircases to link floors vertically, at and outside the company, and will create the Mitsui & Co. of the future. We have positioned the as well as café counters. With such a design we aim to provide opportunities for diverse professionals from within and outside the company to come together, generate opportunities for collaboration, and create new relocation to the new Head Office building as not just a simple change of address but as an opportunity to value. accelerate innovation that will contribute toward the realization of our vision for 2030. In the summer of 2019, we established Workplace Experience 1.0 (“Work-X”) to present a vision for our workplace and measures for realizing it, and have promoted the Work-X initiative as a company-wide By combining these measures, we aim to increase the productivity of our organizations, while further project based on the theme of changing the awareness and behavior of employees. The two main themes accelerating our growth by strengthening cross-organizational coordination and collaboration with set out in Work-X are “Agile & Evolving” and “Human Centric”. external partners. Since we moved to the new office building, we have continued engaging in initiatives to further enhance our office environment by repeatedly verifying the effects based on various data to further improve productivity. Group address Introduce the free address system within each organization Our Stories: Develop talent leading to value creation Stacking Camp Arrangement of Set up and make P.28 Work-X—Driving a transformation of employees’ mindsets organizations use of that promotes communication and behavior comprehensive areas strengths 82 Social Human Resources Management Work-Style Innovation Policy Average Paid Leave Days Taken and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated)★ (%) (days) Since 2015, Mitsui has been promoting work-style innovation to review existing ways of working and 80 74.9% 16 72.3% 73.1% realize flexible and priority-focused work styles that are unconstrained by spatial or temporal restrictions. 70 66.6% 14 14.4 14.0 61.4% 13.9 60 12 12.8 Work-Style Innovation Action Plan 50 11.8 10 Specific KPIs and action plans for work-style innovation have been formulated from three perspectives: 40 8 (1) the elimination of excessive working hours, (2) encouraging employees to take annual leave, and 30 6 (3) promotion of flexible work styles. These have also been posted on the Japan Business Federation 20 4 (Keidanren) website. 10 2 0 0 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 (1) Elimination of excessive working hours (KPI) We will reduce the number of employees working more than 620 hours of overtime per year (statutory Average paid leave taken per year Average paid leave usage ratio per year calculation) to zero by the fiscal year ending March 2021 by supporting individual employees’ efforts to improve productivity and efficiency through a priority-focused work style. Employees at Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (excluding contract employees) (2) Encouraging employees to take annual leave (KPI) We will increase the percentage of annual leave taken (including leave taken in half-day and hourly units) to Work-Style Innovation Measures 70% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 by supporting individual employees’ efforts to improve productivity As measures for realizing work-style innovation, we introduced systems for enabling the taking of annual and efficiency through a priority-focused work style. We have already achieved this KPI, and aim to paid leave in hourly units, mobile work, and selecting staggered working hours for individuals. In April continuously maintain the current level (the percentage of annual leave taken was 73.1% for the fiscal year 2019, we launched Mitsui & Co. teleworking (working from home) on a company-wide basis and ended March 2020). implemented major changes to the company dress guidelines. In light of major changes in the environment, especially the relocation to the new Head Office building in May 2020, we will accelerate the (3) Promotion of flexible work styles (KPI) work-style innovation including the teleworking system. We will increase the percentage of employees giving positive answers to questions on work styles in in-house surveys, such as whether the workplace environment is suitable for the maximization of productivity, and whether there are no obstacles to work in the workplace, to 60-70% of all employees by the fiscal year ending March 2024. Work-Style Innovation Action Plan (in Japanese only) P.97 Human resources data (Mitsui Engagement Survey) 83 Social Human Resources Management May 2020 Relocation to Measures Description Benefits, Aims, Etc. the new Head Ofﬁce building Being able to Employees can take up to the equivalent of five This measure supports realization of a more prioritized work “Company Dress Guideline” take paid annual days of their annual paid leave in hourly units. (The style by enabling employees to take a necessary leave more from April 2019 New measures leave in hourly units same applies to full annual leave for nursing care and family care [10 days each per year]). conveniently when they need it. starting from 2015 “Mitsui & Co. teleworking” Mobile work Employees can work outside of the office By eliminating unproductive time, such as travel time, this from April 2019 scheme (including working at home outside regular scheme allows employees to work more efficiently and working hours), during hours outside of regular productively. 2018 Mitsui Engagement Survey working hours or unscheduled time before and after customer visits. 2017 Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles Staggered This system allows individual workers to stagger This system allows individual employees to proactively select working hours for the start of their working day within 90 minutes their optimum working hours at their own discretion, individuals before or after the normal start time, provided that depending on their job duties and work schedules, realizing “Individual-based staggered working hours” the required number of working hours is a prioritized work style with increased efficiency and from June 2017 maintained. productivity. While maintaining the prescribed daily working hours, employees can individually choose their working hours on a daily basis from Company dress This measure allows individual units to establish The system respects the self-discipline of employees as 13 options by considering the working hours that maximize not only their own performance, but also that of the organization. guidelines their own dress guidelines to reflect industryprofessionals, improves work productivity and efficiency, and related needs and business practices, which vary encourages the free flows of ideas. from organization to organization. 2016 Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles Mitsui & Co. This measure makes it possible to work from home This system aims for greater productivity and efficiency of both teleworking during working hours. After carrying out trials over individuals and organizations by allowing employees to select both “Mobile work scheme”from June 2016 the past two fiscal years, teleworking has been “time” and “place” in line with their objectives and to work in a Employees are permitted to take their company computers with them after made available to all employees (we have also task-oriented way, while retaining the basic approach of face-toregular working hours or for customer visits in order to work outside the added the emergency teleworking system). face communication in the office. Given the fact that we relocated company (including at their homes). By eliminating unproductive time, such as unnecessary travel time, employees can work with high levels of efﬁciency Partial revision is planned in light of major changes to the new Head Office building in May 2020, we are planning to and productivity. in the environment, especially the relocation to the revise this system by keeping our basic approach of carrying out new Head Office building in May 2020. our work at the new Head Office building, which offers various “Annual paid leave on an hourly basis”from April 2016 spaces for diverse ways of working, but offering the option of Employees can choose to take hourly-based paid leave up to the accumulated number of teleworking more flexibly when permitted by the company. such hours equivalent to 5 days per ﬁscal year as part of their annual paid leave. 2015 Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles “Employee opinion survey on work styles”from October 2015 Work–Life Management Policy System Activity Mitsui supports work–life management so that every employee is able to fully meet their life responsibilities while pursuing career development by displaying their potential in the workplace to the fullest. As part of such support, we have introduced various systems that goes beyond statutory requirements to assist our employees in both work and childcare/family care, and other various measures for providing options for realizing better work–life management. These systems and measures are available regardless of gender. Combined with the measures for realizing work-style innovation which apply to all employees, such as the mobile work scheme and the individual-based staggered working hours scheme, these systems and measures have encouraged not only female employees but also male employees to take part in childcare and family care. By introducing these various systems, we are developing an environment in which employees are able to efficiently produce maximum performance, even within a restricted time frame. 84 Social Human Resources Management Activities to Support Childcare System Activity Pre-Leave Orientation As part of our efforts to remove concerns about taking maternity leave or childcare leave and support Measures to Support Childcare employees taking childcare leave to make a smooth return to the workplace, we launched pre-leave Mitsui has implemented various support systems and measures to enable our employees to achieve the orientations in the fiscal year ended March 2020. The orientation requires the employees take part best work–life management between work and childcare at different life stages, such as childbirth and alongside their line manager, and provides the employee with the opportunity to consider at an earlier child-rearing, based on their individual approaches and choices. stage how to spend their time during the leave, and also how to manage working and childcare after returning to work. Furthermore, it provides the line manager with the opportunity to gain a fuller Systems and Support Measures That Can Be Utilized from Pregnancy through Children’s Developmental Stages understanding of the employee and to think about how to build an environment that will support the (Full-time Employees) employee’s future career-building and work–life management. This initiative enhances awareness of the individual and deepens understanding in the workplace, and also encourages male employees to take a childcare leave. Contracted Childcare Facilities In addition to partially subsidizing babysitting and extended childcare costs, Mitsui partially covers housekeeping service costs in order to support a flexible childcare system that suits each employee’s situation. As part of our efforts to develop support measures that respect each employee’s work–life management approach, we have concluded a contract with an external childcare facility located inside the new Head Office building, which opened in May 2020, allowing our employees to use the service on a monthly or temporary basis. Work–life Management—Childcare Leave for Male Managerial Staff I took two weeks of childcare leave to support my wife after she gave birth. As well as general housework such as cooking, doing the laundry and cleaning, I took care of changing, feeding, and bathing our newborn. Even before taking the childcare leave, I have been trying to create an environment that would allow the entire organization’s performance to be maintained and improved through the use of ICT and other means, to share information and know-how with my team Nobutaka Mochizuki staffs. Taking the childcare leave made me further realize the Department GM importance of the need to pay close attention to how Machinery and Infrastructure Legal Dept., Legal Div. individuals work in situations that require diverse and autonomous ways of working. 85 Social Human Resources Management Activities to Support Family Care System Activity Family Care Consultation Service As a way of alleviating the concerns and anxiety employees might have in their individual circumstances, In addition to developing the family care system, Mitsui has developed various support measures with a we have concluded a contract with an external NPO to provide opportunities for face-to-face individual focus on providing information about family care and strengthening our consultation systems. We aim to consultations on family care with family care experts every month, in a meeting room of the Head Office. establish the best system for balancing work and family care in accordance with each individual We have been facilitating teleconferences as well so that employees working at the offices in Japan other employee’s approach to family care and their choices. In addition, we have established “special support than the Head Office and employees overseas can make use of the consultations, and also have set up a leave” as a measure to support balancing work and family care for employees who do not meet the criteria system to allow consultations via email or telephone for urgent inquiries. We have also developed an for obtaining family care leave but who have family members with disabilities requiring a certain amount internal consultation system that allows employees to consult directly with the Human Resources & of support. General Affairs Division on such matters as how to use internal systems and support measures and how to realize optimum work–life management. Systems and Support Measures to Support Work and Family Care (Full-time Employees) Recognition from Society for Our Support for Work–Life Management Activity Kurumin Certification P.118 Evaluation by Society (Kurumin) Mitsui & Co. Action Plans under the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children (in Japanese only) Sixth Period – April 2019 to March 2021 P.97 Employees Taking Childcare or Family Care Support (Non-consolidated) ★ Policy for Re-employment Due to Spouse’s Job Relocation System Out of respect for employees’ work–life management approach and their family situations, in 2007 we introduced the re-employment system for employees who had to resign due to the transfer of their spouse in order to help them to respond to the life change. The system offers re-employment opportunities for employees who were forced to resign due to their spouses’ job relocation, and many employees have been re-employed using this system. As part of efforts to promote active careers by these Seminars to Support Family Care employees at Mitsui in the future, the Human Resources & General Affairs Div. provides consultations for We regularly hold family care seminars during lunch breaks for employees to gain information that is the employees before they resign so that they can consider such matters as how to spend their time necessary for the preparation of or during family care. At the seminars, in addition to cultivating awareness during their period away from Mitsui and their careers after re-employment. of working alongside family care, we deal with specific topics, including family care insurance systems, P.97 Re-employment System for Employees Who Had to Resign Due to the Transfer of Their Spouse family care facilities, and explanations of company systems. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, a total of around 200 employees took part in the seminars. Furthermore, we have established an environment for providing necessary information in a variety of forms, such as posting the “Handbook for Assisting Work alongside Family Care” on the company intranet. 86 Social Human Resources Management Promoting Internal Communication Activity entitled “Getting to Know Mitsui & Co.—Food”, was held, where employees enjoyed casually talking to each other through the introduction of food and drink products handled by Mitsui, and related business Diversity Cafe schemes. At other offices in Japan, a total of ten ATW dialogue sessions took place, in which employees of Along with changes in the social milieu, such as a greater diversity in people’s sense of values, the rising affiliated companies also participated. number of dual income households where husbands and wives both hold jobs, and the aging of the Furthermore, in the fiscal year ended March 2020, Kurumaza (roundtable meeting), where the population, there has been an increase in the number of employees who seek new kinds of career paths President & CEO meets with employees for open discussions, was held on 29 occasions at the Head Office, and ways to manage their work and private lives. We started hosting the Diversity Cafe in 2009 as a venue 5 times at other offices in Japan, and 58 times at overseas offices. By sharing management’s thoughts and for exchanging information and promoting dialogue beyond barriers of ages and job grades. At the event, ideas from a variety of perspectives and bringing together the opinions and thoughts of employees participants have the opportunity to share their through face-to-face meetings, we endeavor to create an organization with an atmosphere of openness. experiences with one another on topics that As the revitalization of communication is expected more than ever through a variety of new facilities interest them, to think together, and to develop and systems, as well as through our Work-X initiative in the new Head Office building, we will advance new awareness. In the fiscal year ended March various new initiatives aimed at further promoting both internal and external communication in the fiscal 2020, we held the Diversity Cafe a total of four year ending March 2021. times, including a session for male employees entitled “Food Education for Children and Cooking Lessons” and a session for employees providing Joint Efforts with Labor Unions Policy family care entitled “How to Successfully Manage Work and Family Care”. The 26th session of the Diversity Cafe (June 2019) Basic Policy We respect the rights to collective bargaining and freedom of association of employees. Mitsui & Co. and Creating Opportunities for Communication the Mitsui Labor Union, which was established in 1962, hold a shared understanding of the societal Toward the realization of our goal to “Transform & Grow” set out in the Medium-term Management Plan mission of Mitsui. Both parties respect each other’s positions, and work toward the sound development of 2023, we actively provide opportunities for dialogue among employees, and also between management the company and society and toward the improvement of the social, economic, and cultural status of and employees, in order to establish an environment that enables strong individuals to engage in union members. Accordingly in May 2015, a union shop agreement was concluded. As of March 31, 2020, co-creation. We have been holding so-called Active Talk Wednesday (ATW) sessions as employee the number of union members stood at 4,378 (representing an 83.1% participation ratio). gatherings on a regular basis, with the aim of stimulating internal communication. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, at the Head Office, three seated-style ATW dinner sessions were hosted with a focus on Discussions with the Labor Union stimulating communication between the management and employees, and four ATW lunch sessions We share various issues with the labor union and actively engage in discussions, with the aim of creating were held to strengthen networking among employees. In addition, in October 2019, an internal event an environment in which every employee can continue working with energy and motivation, and in which both employees and the company achieve continual growth. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, Mitsui engaged in multi-layered discussions with the union on a wide range of topics, including human resource management systems, salaries and bonuses, work-style innovation, training, and occupational health and safety. We introduce those systems and measures on the basis of the labor-management agreement. In determining salaries and bonuses, we comply with the laws and regulations of each country/region where we engage in business, ensure a living wage that exceeds the minimum wage, and promote creation of a good working environment for every employee. Regarding occupational health and safety, we have revised our targeted overtime hour limit and maximum overtime limit based on special extensions under the Labor Standards Act. In addition, in order to manage overtime work within the targeted overtime limits set by the union and management, we have Active Talk Lunch (May 2019) Getting to Know Mitsui & Co. Food (October 2019) 87 Social Human Resources Management Health Management, Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives been working to implement thorough working hours management by sharing data about employees’ Our Approach towards Health Management/Occupational Health and Safety Policy working hours with union officials. In response to a proposal received from the labor union, during the fiscal year ended March 2020, we held labor-management discussions in relation to the Medium-term The Mitsui & Co. global group aims to develop safe, healthy working environments in which every Management Plan 2023. We have also held briefings to promote the correct understanding of personnel individual employee can work with peace of mind. We see this as essential for enabling each employee to appraisal systems by those giving and receiving the appraisals, held labor-management discussions to work at his or her full potential, and to continue strengthening the competitiveness of the entire Mitsui & Co. increase the sense of satisfaction with appraisals, and enhanced and reviewed training for newly global group. In addition to measures in accordance with the laws and regulations in each country where appointed line managers. we engage in business, we have established structures to ensure that we properly respond to Regarding remuneration, in order to increase the motivation of every employee, enhance a focus on emergencies, such as accidents and disasters. We also implement various health management and results, and foster a healthy sense of tension, we have revised our remuneration system that ensures promotion measures. appropriate assessments of individuals’ displays of skills and levels of contribution to their organization and reflects such assessments in their bonuses. Health Declaration Policy FY2018 June: Expanded working team-level negotiations (union proposals for training systems) September: Collective bargaining (introduction of the union’s newly appointed executives) Recognizing that the good health of employees is one of Mitsui & Co.’s greatest assets, we formulated the April/November: Working team-level negotiations (discussions about the working environment in the new Head Office building) Health Declaration in September 2017. FY2019 April: Collective bargaining (salary negotiation for the fiscal year ended March 2019) June: Expanded working team-level negotiations (revisions to human resource management systems) December: Collective bargaining (revision of the agreement on overtime and holiday work) February: Expanded working team-level negotiations (the bonus formula for the fiscal year ended March 2020, and partial revisions to human resource management systems) FY2020 May: Collective bargaining (human resource-related matters) September: Collective bargaining (introduction of the union’s newly appointed executives), Labor-Management Discussions (appraisals) January: Labor-Management Discussions (new Medium-term Management Plan) Dialogue between Management Executives and the Labor Union We are working to maintain healthy relationships and to deal with various issues through labormanagement cooperation. For example, we actively create opportunities within each unit for dialogue with management executives and discussions with the COO and general manager of each unit regarding business overviews and policies, the administration of human resource management systems, and human resource development (in total 19 such meetings were held in the fiscal year ended March 2020). June 2019 COO of Performance Materials Business Unit, COO of Iron & Steel Products Business Unit, COO of Mobility Business Unit I, COO of Retail Business Unit, COO of IT & Communication Business Unit, COO of Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit, COO of Corporate Development Business Unit, COO of Food Business Unit, GM of Legal Division, COO of Energy Business Unit I July 2019 COO of Mobility Business Unit II, GM of CFO Planning & Administrative Division, COO of Healthcare & Service Business Unit, COO of Infrastructure Projects Business Unit, COO of Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit, COO of Energy Business Unit II, COO of Basic Materials Business Unit, President & CEO 88 Social Human Resources Management Health Management Promotion Framework System Health Promotion Committee In February 2017, Mitsui established the Health Promotion Committee under the basic policy of (1) promoting Under the leadership of the Senior Executive Managing Officer serving as the Chief Health and Safety “Health and Productivity Management,” which regards health management as a management priority, and (2) Supervisor, we have created the following framework for promoting employees’ health maintenance, maintaining and enhancing employees’ health through the implementation of “Health and Productivity including the establishment of the Health Promotion Committee, and have been promoting health Management” and improving the company’s productivity. Committee meetings are held on a quarterly basis, and management throughout the company. the minutes of each meeting are uploaded on the company’s intranet for the purpose of sharing the information among all employees. As part of our “collaborative health” program, through which we aim to implement effective Producing a White Paper on Health measures for enhancing employees’ health under a partnership between the health insurance union and the company (with company representatives including the Senior Executive Managing Officer in charge, the General Safe and Comfortable Workplaces Manager of the Human Resources & General Affairs Division, the head of the Health Management Center & Medical Clinic Dept. of Human Resources & General Affairs Division, occupational physicians, and other healthcare professionals), Mitsui and Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society will work together to plan and decide on policies aimed at maintaining and enhancing employees’ health, and to execute these policies. Hygiene Committee The Hygiene Committee headed by the Chief Health and Safety Supervisor (a position held concurrently by the Representative Director, Senior Executive Managing Officer in charge), consists of occupational physicians, health officers, employees recommended by management, and employees recommended by the labor union. The committee holds monthly meetings and discusses ways to improve working environments, ways to develop an appropriate framework, and other related matters based on the advice provided by qualified occupational physicians and health officers. Topics discussed by the committee include the results of workplace inspections, countermeasures based on those results, regular reports on long overtime hours, as well as implementation of regular health checks and stress checks, and influenza vaccination programs. The committee reflects members’ opinions in safety and health measures to ensure employees’ health and workplace safety. The committee also communicates with employees by posting the minutes of the committee’s monthly meetings on the intranet. Health Performance Index • Percentage of employees undergoing health checks: 100% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 • Medical questionnaire response rate: 100% by the fiscal year ending March 2021 • Percentage of employees undergoing stress checks: 90% or higher by the fiscal year ending March 2021 • Smoking rate: Reduction by 0.5% compared to the previous fiscal year Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program “White 500” The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi jointly implement the health and productivity management organization program “White 500”. Mitsui has been recognized as one of the Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations under the White 500 initiative for four consecutive years. P.118 Evaluation by Society 89 Social Human Resources Management White Paper on Health Percentage of Employees Undergoing Health Checkups Since the fiscal year ended March 2020, we have visualized the results of a variety of initiatives carried out FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 to promote employee health, such as the ratio of employees receiving health examinations, the Undergoing health checkups 87.7% 90.0% 97.3% 99.8% 99.3% prevalence of lifestyle-related diseases, and data on smoking and alcohol consumption-related measures and stress checks. Our aims are to raise individual awareness of health and improve behavior. We have Medical Support System (Mutual Aid Association) posted data in comparison with countrywide data, data by department, and chronological changes on This system supports association members and their families in Japan and overseas by covering medical the company intranet to communicate such information to Mitsui employees. expenses that are not covered by health insurance in the event of illness or injury. Health Advice/Health Maintenance Promotion Measures Employee Health Management Policy System Activity Health Guidance We implement the following health promotion measures to help employees avoid lifestyle diseases and In-house Medical Clinic metabolic syndrome. We have established a clinic in our Head Office building and a medical treatment room in the Osaka Office. The clinic in the Head Office building covers a diverse range of specialist areas, including internal medicine, Measures Target Group Guidance Provider orthopedic surgery, ophthalmology, dermatology, and E.N.T., and is equipped to provide medical Designated health guidance People aged over 40 Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance consultations for employees. It also provides medical checkups for employees who are about to travel (active support, motivational support) Current or potential metabolic syndrome sufferers Society overseas or have returned from overseas assignments, as well as inoculations. Consultant physicians are Individual health guidance (weight loss People aged 39 or under Public health nurses from the assigned to each office in Japan to provide health management for employees working in those locations. support), recommendations to undergo Potential metabolic syndrome sufferers Health Management Center & medical examinations Medical Clinic Dept. Examinations at the Head Office Medical Clinic (Unit: persons) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Dietary advice People affected by obesity, lifestyle diseases, Registered dieticians or metabolic syndrome Examinations (total number of people examined) 24,173 21,421 18,200 13,979 12,033 Individual health guidance Underweight female aged 39 or under Public health nurses from the Health Management Center & Medical Clinic Dept. Medical Examinations We provide multiple regular in-house medical examination opportunities per year, and employees are able to view the results of their own examinations on the intranet. Mitsui and the Mitsui Bussan Health Provision of Healthy Menus in the Employee Cafeteria, Trial Introduction of Healthy Cafeteria App Insurance Society are also working collaboratively toward the prevention and early detection of lifestyle Menus in the employee cafeteria provide information about the calories, protein, carbohydrate, fat, and diseases and other conditions, and the provision of enhanced health advisory services, through the salt equivalents of each meal. The cafeteria also provides healthy meals with an emphasis on dietary implementation of the following measures: balance for employees’ health, and vegan lunchboxes. Furthermore, we trialed the Healthy Cafeteria app, a • Provision of opportunities for employees aged 35 and over to undergo comprehensive health smartphone health management support app, at the employee cafeteria (the first demonstration trial was examinations at external medical institutions, and all payment of the expenses of such examinations. held in 2018, and the second demonstration trial was held with the improved app in 2019). The Healthy • Provision of subsidies for employees aged 35 and over who undergo brain checkups, lung cancer Cafeteria app has been jointly developed by our associated company AIM Services Co., Ltd., and the screenings, gastroscopic examinations, and colorectal cancer screenings. healthcare technology company Oishi Kenko Inc., which develops healthcare technology business. The • Provision of specific health advisory services for employees aged 40 and over. app suggests optimal meal choices based on health data stored by the user, and uses meal records to • Provision of subsidies for cervical cancer screenings for female employees aged 34 and under. analyze dietary excesses and deficits and provide advice. It also records other health-related information, • Provision of subsidies for breast cancer (mammography and ultrasonography) and uterine cancer such as step counts and alcohol consumption. The aim is to enhance employees’ awareness of health from screenings for female employees aged 35 and over. the perspective of lifestyle habits, and help them to change aspects of their lifestyle that are adversely • Provision of opportunities for new hires to undergo a pylori infection test and medical interview at the affecting their health. We have also provided the Healthy Diet Coaching Program, through which medical checkup before employment. 90 Social Human Resources Management employees can individually seek advice from dieticians, Smoking Reduction Measures etc., in order to review their lifestyles and improve their In the new Head Office building, all spaces used exclusively by Mitsui are smoke-free, and there are no health, such as by losing weight. The second smoking rooms. We are implementing the following measures to help employees to quit smoking, with a demonstration trial showed that all of the participants goal of a year-on-year reduction of 0.5% in the percentage of smokers: had become more health-conscious, while 86.5% had changed their lifestyles. Moreover, participants in the • Provision of a counseling room for those wishing to quit smoking Healthy Diet Coaching Program achieved significant • Creation of a smoking cessation support page on the intranet improvements in weight loss, with an average weight • Provision of seminars on passive smoking and smoking cessation loss of 4.8 kg per person, and in other indicators, • Implementation of a smoking cessation program using a quit-smoking app including waist measurement and HbA1c. The Healthy Cafeteria app As part of measures to reduce cancer, lifestyle diseases, and other health problems, Mitsui, in cooperation Use of Outside Fitness Gyms, Exercise at Work with the Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society, pays subsidies to employees who successfully quit smoking Mitsui’s lineup of optional welfare services includes attendance services for employees to use outside through smoking cessation therapies provided under the health insurance scheme. fitness gyms at corporate rates. Furthermore, we have also introduced the “Round Refresh” program, under which trainers visit workplaces once a week during Smoking Rates at Mitsui working hours to lead employees in stretching exercises. By standing up at their desks and performing light exercises, employees can relax their muscles, and alleviate shoulder stiffness and back pain. This not only helps to restore their concentration and creativity, but also improves the workplace atmosphere by providing a chance for communication. Employees feel mentally and physically refreshed and are able to reduce stress. Employees participating in a “Round Refresh” session. (March 2018) Results of “Round Refresh” Survey The following responses were received in a questionnaire survey of the departments taking part in “Round Refresh”. Alcohol-Related Measures Since the fiscal year ended March 2017, we have been running health seminars that include genetic susceptibility testing for alcoholism. Furthermore, during the fiscal year ended March 2020, we held seminars for newly hired employees and M/M Leaders (employees in charge of supporting new employees), which include genetic susceptibility testing for alcoholism, with the aim of preventing health risks and accidents by raising awareness of alcohol issues when joining the company. Learning about one’s own physical traits has led to a decrease in the volume and frequency of drinking, helping to improve the physical condition and performance of employees. Moreover, in respect to managerial staff members working at the Head Office, the head of Mitsui’s medical clinic has given seminars to line managers, or equivalent and higher positions, and provided an 91 Social Human Resources Management opportunity to receive genetic susceptibility testing for alcoholism to those who wish to receive testing. and antiseptic solutions in every workplace as part of our efforts to prevent the occurrence and spreading of The goal is to deepen understanding of how to handle alcohol in an appropriate way. At certain overseas infections. In addition, we promote awareness-raising activities to make sure that employees can obtain in-depth offices, the head of the medical clinic has also given such seminars, and we have distributed videos of knowledge of preventive methods for tuberculosis, malaria, HIV/AIDS, and dengue fever through providing related these seminars on the intranet as part of our efforts to communicate useful information to all employees. training and seminar programs. We also maintain a framework at the company level to ensure timely action through cooperation between workplaces and public health clinics, the Security Management Department, clinics, Health Support for Female Employees and industrial health staff, based on risk assessments and monitoring of the occurrence of infectious diseases while To provide support for female employees, we established a consultation desk to offer advice on women’s health obtaining information about infectious diseases from overseas medical assistance firms and public health clinics. and maternal health through individual consultations with female physicians. Useful health-related information In collaboration with the Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society, we subsidize the cost of vaccinating is provided via the intranet, together with notices on the availability of various types of health advice. children aged 13 and under against influenza, as children in this age group are regarded as having a high During Women’s Health Week, we hold seminars for female employees on topics relating to female infection rate and the potential to develop serious diseases. health, including gynecological diseases and their prevention, and the achievement of hormonal balance. P.59 Responding to Global Health Problems—Fighting Infectious Diseases (Malaria, Measles, etc.) In the fiscal year ended March 2020, we started providing health guidance for underweight women aged 39 and under. P.116 Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) We also provide subsidies for cervical cancer screening for female employees aged 34 and under, and for breast cancer (mammography and ultrasonography) and uterine cancer screening for those aged 35 Mental Health and over. Mental Health Promotion Plan (formulated on May 1, 2016) Mitsui recognizes that the mental health of its employees is an important priority issue in order to promote happy Health Management for Employees Working Overseas lives for its employees and their family members, to increase productivity at the company, and to develop lively For employees who underwent medical checkups before overseas assignment or during temporary return workplaces. Accordingly, we will promote mental health initiatives, not only in terms of dealing with mental health to Japan and are deemed as requiring another checkup, we communicate with such employees directly to problems, but also in a broader sense, including measures to revitalize workplace communication, etc. ensure they receive such a checkup and assist to promptly make a reservation for the checkup and/or medical consultation. Moreover, we regard health management for not only employees working overseas We have set the following targets to be achieved in the five-year period up to the fiscal year ending March 2021: but also their families as an important priority, and we have established systems to ensure that advice is 1. All employees, including managers, shall understand mental health issues, and become able to fill his or her available at any time if employees or family members suffer physical or mental illness. Specifically, in own role in promoting mental health. cooperation with each business unit, occupational physicians at the Head Office provide support for 2. Fully establish and permeate the stress check system. employees assigned overseas via email, telephone, and interviews using a videophone system. 3. Achieve a 100% response rate in the regular medical questionnaire. Vaccinations and health checkups are provided for employees assigned overseas and their families. They also receive overseas health management training covering physical and mental health and other aspects, as well as information about how to obtain medical information and access support systems Under Mitsui’s Mental Health Promotion Plan, employees are able to obtain advice easily and at any time while overseas. We also provide health management support for employees working overseas and their via a dedicated consultation service. Through consultations with occupational physicians and health families in partnership with emergency medical service contractors. nurses, employees can receive the support that meets their individual needs. Employees also have access to counseling by specialists at the company clinic. In addition, we have established external advice lines Countermeasures against Infectious Diseases through which not only employees, but also their family members can seek advice anonymously via As a company with numerous overseas offices and branches, Mitsui recognizes the importance of responding to telephone or email, or arrange consultations. global health issues, such as tuberculosis, malaria, and HIV/AIDS. In addition to taking steps to protect employees Even when an employee takes a temporary absence from work, occupational physicians and health working in locations where there is a high risk of infection, Mitsui also works actively to contribute to local nurses continue to provide highly attentive care. To ensure that employees can feel confident about communities, and provide periodic programs for them. Specifically, we run an in-house program that provides returning to work, they go through a preparatory process that includes multiple interviews. After their influenza vaccinations, for which approximately 2,000 employees apply every year. We also provide mouthwash return to work, they receive follow-up care, including health monitoring and measures to prevent 92 Social Human Resources Management recurrences, based on collaboration among occupational physicians, health nurses, company doctors, and Healthy Working Environment System Activity other personnel. Mitsui also implements stress checks with the following aims: (1) measuring the level of employees’ We have implemented the measures detailed below at the new Head Office building to develop stress in order to raise employees’ awareness of their own stress levels, (2) linking this to improvements in a safe working environment for employees. the workplace environment, and (3) preventing mental health problems (primary prevention). We provide employees suffering from high stress with opportunities to have interviews with occupational physicians, Safe Working Description of Initiatives and give feedback pertaining to the group analysis results to the workplace, for the purpose of improving Environment Initiatives the working environment. Ergonomic workplace • We have introduced a group address system and free address system, in order to improve productivity through agile teaming in line with work and project needs, and to realize a pleasant office environment. • Twice a month, occupational physicians, health nurses, and other medical personnel visit each workplace Percentage and Number of Employees Undergoing Stress Checks to examine whether a safe working environment for employees is being maintained, and to identify and Stress checks FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 respond to safety and health problems in order to ensure a healthy work environment. Illumination We have introduced luminance sensors and motion detectors to control illumination levels and lighting Percentage of employees 79.1% 77.2% 85.4% 83.1% equipment in an appropriate and efficient way. In addition, by using circadian lighting, which takes biological rhythms into account, we have improved both energy savings and comfort. Number of employees 3,861 3,721 4,090 3,956 Noise By using double structure airflow windows for the building, we have reduced noise and improved the effectiveness of insulation. Walls in meeting rooms have been fitted with soundproof structures that prevent sound from being audible outside the rooms. On the office floors, we have introduced sound Training and Seminars on Health and Safety masking equipment to reduce discomfort caused by surrounding noise. In addition to mental health training and labor management training for line managers, training for health and Indoor air quality Effective air conditioning is provided by a system with outside air intakes. This lowers the CO2 level while reducing the air-conditioning load. The environment within the building is monitored every other month. safety management overseas, and health management training for new-graduate employees, we also hold other Humidity/Temperature • We maintain internal humidity at an appropriate and comfortable level above 40%, even during winter health and safety seminars as part of our efforts to build an organization with a high level of health literacy. when the air tends to be drier, by introducing water vapor through the use of variable air volume (VAV) control/a district cooling and heating system. • We have introduced a radiant air-conditioning system at the company medical clinic in order to increase Results of Training Activities in FY 2020 (Unit: persons) comfort and sound control, while preventing airborne infections by suppressing the occurrence of Training Program Participants viruses and dust in the air. Training before overseas assignments: Overseas risk management (overseas health and safety management) 379 • On the office floors, we have introduced a user-input-based air-conditioning system linked to the building’s internal location positioning system, enabling fine-tuned temperature control. Training for new Business Staff M2 Band/line managers: Mental health for line managers, labor management for • We maintain a comfortable working environment by setting the air conditioning at 26° C in summer and 96 line managers 24–25° C in other seasons. Introducing the “Cool Biz” system has allowed a comfortable workplace Introductory training for new employees: Health management as a working professional 176 environment to be maintained in the summer months, while also reducing the air-conditioning load. M/M Leader (employees in charge of supporting new employees) Training 136 “Alcohol-Related Risks” Training for managers at the Head Office (departmental GM, or equivalent and higher positions), “Alcohol-Related Risks” (including seminars at offices in Japan and certain overseas offices) 1,104 Working Hours Management Policy Policy System Activity “Enjoying Alcohol Sensibly” seminar for M/M Leaders 130 We appropriately monitor our employees’ working hours, and implement the following measures in order Genetic susceptibility testing for alcoholism “Quit Smoking” seminar 7 to develop a workplace environment in which they can continue to work healthily and safely, and with peace Total 2,028 of mind, without falling into chronic overwork: • Raising employees’ awareness of appropriate working hours in order to maintain their health, improve In addition to the above seminars and programs, we aim to raise awareness for health among employees productivity, and comply with laws and regulations by such means as sending regular messages from through lectures by occupational physicians and health nurses at the Hygiene Committee and by regularly the management. uploading “Messages from Occupational Physicians” and “Health Nurse Column” on the intranet to enable • Education activities for employees, including the formulation of the Working Hours Handbook and a all employees to obtain health information. manual about attendance management systems, and a compilation of FAQs to provide clear 93 Social Human Resources Management information about laws, regulations, and corporate systems relating to working hours, as well as the Occupational Safety System Activity posting of this information on the intranet. • Regular monitoring by the Human Resources & General Affairs Division, using data of working hours from Mitsui takes various measures to protect its employees (including contract employees) from workplace attendance management systems, building entry/exit times, and PC usage histories. accidents, including periodic inspections by occupational physicians, in order to ensure their safety and • Continual compilation and distribution of information about overtime hours worked and annual paid security. We have established mechanisms to make sure accidents are promptly reported to the Human leave taken in each unit. Resources & General Affairs Division. When accidents occur at Mitsui or its affiliated companies, reports are • Training and other activities for managers to appropriately manage and oversee their team members’ immediately submitted in accordance with our compliance-related procedures and a structure is set up to working hours. take the appropriate actions, and, at the same time, we strive to prevent recurrences. • Creation and monitoring of KPIs under the Work-Style Innovation Action Plan. Targets for FY 2021 In addition, based on the Industrial Safety and Health Act, we urge employees who have worked Zero Workplace Accidents overtime in excess of certain standards to consult with our occupational physicians, and suggest to them measures for reducing excessive working hours and preventing health problems. Zero Fatal Accidents From the perspective of consolidated management, we have been preparing standards for labor management at our affiliated companies to suit the business models of the respective companies. Under P.98 Occupational Health and Safety Data (Non-consolidated)★ these circumstances, we have implemented the following measures at our affiliated companies in Japan with the aims of promoting the understanding of laws applicable across all Japanese companies, and ways of responding accordingly, as well as developing appropriate labor management systems by sharing Security Management System Activity approaches and know-how in relation to working hours: • We hold regular meetings with the aim of exchanging information and strengthening relationships Mitsui promotes various kinds of business through its 132 points of global operations (as of April 1, 2020), between the personnel staff at our affiliated companies. At these meetings, we share Mitsui’s policies in and a large number of employees go on business trips to many parts of the world almost every day. Ensuring relation to work-style innovations, and give updates on the details of any legal amendments. the security of employees and their families is one of our most important tasks for the company. In cooperation • We have created a checklist of 53 items related to labor management in general, including the with relevant divisions, offices, and security companies in Japan and overseas, Mitsui obtains and analyzes management of working hours. We make use of the checklist when developing labor management the latest information on the political situation, security situation, and so on, and shares such information with systems at affiliated companies as part of governance by the supervisory divisions, as necessary. related staff in order for the employees to be able to raise their safety awareness. Mitsui has also prepared systems to handle situations such as accidents, injuries, and diseases, in cooperation with emergency health Regarding overseas branches, working hours are properly managed so as to comply with related laws care service companies. and regulations in each country. For employees who are being dispatched overseas and their accompanying family members, the P.98 Paid Leave Days Taken and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated)★ company provides seminars on security measures. P.83 Work-Style Innovation Action Plan P.98 Annual Average Actual Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ P.98 Monthly Average Overtime Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ 94 Social Human Resources Management Data of Personnel Affairs Data Concerning Employees (As of March 31 of each year) ★ Number of Hires by Gender (Non-consolidated)★ (Unit: persons) Consolidated Non-consolidated New graduates Mid-career Total Total Total employees Average age of employees Average number of years of Male Female Total Male Female Total employees (persons) (years old) service (years) FY2016 94 57 151 35 6 41 192 (persons) Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total FY2017 113 78 191 29 1 30 221 2016 43,611 4,292 1,613 5,905 42.6 40.7 42.1 18.9 17.8 18.6 FY2018 103 80 183 38 4 42 225 2017 42,316 4,238 1,615 5,853 42.5 40.6 42.0 18.8 17.6 18.5 FY2019 104 56 160 22 4 26 186 2018 42,304 4,217 1,642 5,859 42.7 40.6 42.1 18.9 17.5 18.5 FY2020 96 80 176 38 4 42 218 2019 43,993 4,141 1,631 5,772 42.7 40.7 42.2 18.9 17.6 18.5 FY2021*1 89 46 135*2 – – – 135 2020 45,624* 4,050 1,626 5,676 42.7 40.5 42.1 18.8 17.2 18.3 *1 Figures as of April 1, 2020 *2 Includes employees who is scheduled to join (Male: 6, Female: 1) Employees hired directly by Mitsui & Co. and by consolidated companies, without a fixed contract period. * Percentage of female employees in the global workforce: 33.8% (as of March 31, 2020) Hours/Days of Training for Competency Development and Expenditure on Training (Non-consolidated) Number of Employees by Operating Segments (As of March 31, 2020) (Unit: persons) Total hours of training Average hours of training Average days of training Average training expenditure per year per employee per year per employee per year per employee per year Non-consolidated Consolidated FY2020 79,101 hours 13.94 hours 2.80 days JPY 347,459 Iron & Steel Products 305 1,505 Training programs organized by the Human Resources & General Affairs Division, excluding Global Training Programs Mineral & Metal Resources 278 634 Machinery & Infrastructure 853 17,017 Chemicals 738 5,238 Average Hours of Training by Gender per Year (Non-consolidated) Energy 401 888 Lifestyle 834 10,642 Male Female Innovation & Corporate Development 476 6,301 FY2020 Business staff 14.98 hours 14.98 hours Others 1,791 3,399 Administrative staff 10.26 hours 10.26 hours Total 5,676 45,624 P.72 Human Resources Development Programs Number of Employees by Region (As of March 31, 2020) ★ Average Personnel Turnover & Voluntary Turnover Rate of Full Time Employees (Non-consolidated) (Unit: persons) Staff hired in Japan Regionally hired staff Average personnel turnover rate Voluntary turnover rate Japan 4,464 – Male Female All Male Female All Americas 324 558 FY2018 3.17% 3.98% 3.40% 1.22% 2.22% 1.50% Europe, the Middle East and Africa 249 594 Asia Pacific 514 1,520 FY2019 5.04% 4.62% 4.93% 1.31% 2.57% 1.66% Others 125 – FY2020 4.86% 6.12% 5.23% 1.48% 2.31% 1.72% Total 5,676 2,672 95 Social Human Resources Management Performance Data Related to Diversity Number of Female Employees Dispatched Overseas (As of April 1, 2020） Proportion of Female Managers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1 of each year) ★ (Unit: persons) Full time employees*1 Business staff*1 Managers Administrative staff Female Female Female CIS Total Female Total Female Total Female Total ratio ratio ratio 2 North 2016 5,952 1,653 27.8% 4,791 492 10.3% 3,472 168 4.8% 1,161 America Europe 2017 5,917 1,674 28.3% 4,748 505 10.6% 3,514 200 5.7% 1,169 11 9 2018 5,880 1,662 28.3% 4,727 509 10.8% 3,551 221 6.2% 1,153 Far East 2019 5,793 1,667 28.8% 4,648 523 11.3% 3,483 240 6.9% 1,145 Asia 8 20 Number of 2020 5,676 1,629 28.7% 4,586 540 11.8% 3,431 253*2 7.4% 1,090 Female Employees Middle East Dispatched Overseas *1 Full time employees include business staff and administrative staff. Business staff includes managers. Central and 4 (2020/4/1pos) South America *2 Includes 3 female general managers. Overseas Assignment : 35 Africa Oceania 8 Overseas Trainee Dispatch : 20 1 1 Foreign Language & Business Proportion of Female and Foreign Corporate Officers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1 of each year)★ Culture Trainee Course : 9 (Unit: persons) Directors Corporate Auditors Total : 64 Ratio of non-resident Total Female Female ratio Non-resident Total Female Female ratio directors 2016 14 2 14.3% 1 7.1% 5 1 20.0% 2017 14 2 14.3% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% Region name Number of people Cities/area 2018 14 2 14.3% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% North America 9 New York, Houston, Silicon Valley, Vancouver 2019 14 2 14.3% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% Central and South America 8 Mexico City, Monterrey, Sao Paulo, Belo Horizonte, Florianopolis, Lima • 2020 14 3 21.4% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% Europe 11 London, Paris, Amsterdam, Hamburg, Milan, Lisbon, Istanbul Middle East 4 Dubai, Doha Africa 1 Johannesburg Actual Status of Promoting Career Advancement for Female Employees (Non-consolidated) Asia 20 Singapore, Bangkok, Jakarta, New Delhi, Kuala Lumpur Proportion of Female Managers Oceania 1 Perth % Far East 8 Seoul, Shanghai, Dalian, Hong Kong, Taipei 400 12.0 CIS 2 Moscow 10.0% 300 9.0 7.4% 6.9% 6.2% 200 5.7% 6.0 4.8% 3.8% 100 240 253 3.0 221 200 2.3% 168 1.3% 126 0.8% 0.9% 1.1% 0.7% 0.7% 76 0 19 20 23 27 32 38 0.0 08/4 09/4 10/4 11/4 12/4 13/4 14/7 15/7 16/7 17/7 18/7 19/7 20/7 25/3 Proportion of female managers Number of female managers 96 Social Human Resources Management Employees Taking Childcare or Family Care Support (Non-consolidated)★ Family Care (Unit: persons) Child Care (Unit: persons) Nursing leave for family Short-time working for Staggered working Family care leave care family care hours for family care* Staggered Nursing leave for Short-time working Childbirth FY2016 Male 1 42 0 0 Childcare leave working hours for childcare for childcare attendance leave childcare* Female 0 59 0 0 FY2016 Male 13 42 11 7 93 Total 1 101 0 0 Female 49 107 137 1 – FY2017 Male 1 50 0 0 Total 62 149 148 8 93 Female 0 74 0 0 FY2017 Male 13 64 7 5 102 Total 1 124 0 0 Female 50 138 162 0 – FY2018 Male 0 36 0 0 Total 63 202 169 5 102 Female 0 60 0 0 FY2018 Male 23 97 0 0 90 Total 0 96 0 0 Female 64 182 150 0 – FY2019 Male 2 44 0 NA Total 87 279 150 0 90 Female 2 66 2 NA FY2019 Male 29 120 0 NA 85 Total 4 110 2 NA Female 45 186 127 NA – FY2020 Male 1 47 0 NA Total 74 306 127 NA 85 Female 1 85 2 NA FY2020 Male 28 113 0 NA 79 Total 2 132 2 NA Female 56 197 127 NA – * We included the staggered working hours system for childcare and family care in the individual-based staggered working hours scheme from June 2017. Total 84 310 127 NA 79 * We included the staggered working hours system for childcare and family care in the individual-based staggered working hours scheme from June 2017. Re-employment System for Employees Who Had to Resign Due to the Transfer of Their Spouse (Non-consolidated) (Unit: persons) Return Rate and Retention Rate after Childcare Leave Year of retirement/registration FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Male Female Number of Business staff 7 5 8 4 3 FY2020 Return rate after childcare leave*1 100% 100%*2 registered Administrative staff 11 11 6 11 10 ex-employees Retention rate after childcare leave*3 96.3% 98.1%*2 Total 18 16 14 15 13 *1 Percentage of employees who returned to work as compared to the number of employees who reached the end of childcare leave in FY2020 *2 Number of retirees does not include registrants of the re-employment system associated with the transfer of their spouse *3 Percentage of employees who are enrolled as of April 1, 2019, out of those returned to work during FY2019 “Mitsui Engagement Survey” (introduced from FY2019) and Results of the “Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles” (FY2016–FY2018) (We completed Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles in FY2018 and launched the Mitsui Engagement Survey as a new mechanism on global basis from FY2019.) Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles Mitsui Engagement Survey 1st (FY2016) 2nd (FY2017) 3rd (FY2018) (FY2019) Employee engagement*1, *2 – – – 59%*3 Employee satisfaction*4, *5 72.6% 76.0% 77.6% – *1 Coverage: Mitsui employees in Japan and overseas branches and offices (including regionally hired staff ) *2 Employees’ enthusiasm toward their work, including self-motivation to work hard, and a sense of loyalty toward the company *3 Percentage of employees who gave positive responses to related questions about employee engagement *4 Coverage: Mitsui employees in Japan *5 Average percentage of responses regarding “work motivation,” “sense of growth,“ and ”satisfaction with having chosen to work at the company” 97 Social Human Resources Management Annual Average Actual Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ (Unit: hours/year) Comparison with Industry Average (for Wholesalers and Retailers with a Business Scale of 100 Employees or More) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Annual average actual working hours (hours) 1,911.24 1,941.03 1,920.72 1,957.72 1,939.84 Lost time injury frequency rate 1.94 2.08 2.09 Employees at the Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (including contract employees). Lost time injury severity rate 0.10 0.10 0.04 (Reference) Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s “Survey on Industrial Accidents in 2019” Monthly Average Overtime Working Hours (Non-consolidated)★ (Unit: hours/year) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Average Annual Salary of Employees Monthly average overtime working hours (hours) 19.1 18.9 19.0 19.1 (Non-consolidated) (Unit: yen) Average annual salary • Employees at the Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (non-managerial staff ) (excluding contract employees) • Calculated on the basis of prescribed working hours FY2020 13,934,117 * Employees at the Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan. Paid Leave Days Taken and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated)★ FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Participation Rate of Labor Union Membership Average paid leave taken per year (days) 11.8 12.8 13.9 14.4 14.0 (Non-consolidated) (As of March 31) Participation rate Average paid leave usage ratio per year (%) 61.4 66.6 72.3 74.9 73.1 2020 83.1% Employees at the Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan (excluding contract employees) Occupational Health and Safety Data (Non-consolidated)★ FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Concerning the data marked with ★(FY2020 and 2020), an independent practitioner’s assurance report prepared in accordance with the ISAE 3000 Target Employees Contractors Employees Contractors Employees Contractors international standard was given by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. Please refer to the independent practitioner’s assurance report at the link below for details. Number of lost time injuries 0 4 0 1 0 0 0 Number of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 P.120 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Lost time injury frequency rate 0 0.53 0 0.14 0 0 0 Lost time injury severity rate 0 0 0 0.03 0 0 0 Occupational illness frequency rate 0 0.13 0 0 0 0 0 • Employees: Employees at the Tokyo Head Office and branches in Japan, contractors: contract employees • Calculated based on the standards of the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. 98 Social Social Contribution Activities Our Approach towards Social Contribution Activities Policy Employee Participation System Activity Our corporate mission is to “build brighter futures, everywhere”. Based on this corporate mission, Mitsui & Mitsui Global Volunteer Program (MGVP), Volunteer Activity Leave Co. has pursued sustainable growth not only for our company but also for society. We strive to solve social Through the Mitsui Global Volunteer Program, Mitsui encourage employees to participate in various social challenges through both business and social contribution activities, realizing a better tomorrow for the contribution activities that lead to solving societal issues. The MGVP is a matching gift scheme, under earth and for people around the world. Furthermore, we value employees’ awareness on social issues and which Mitsui donates ¥1,000 for every employee who participates in voluntary activities each year to encourage their volunteer work contributing to community and society. NPOs, NGOs, and other organizations. Since the launch of the program in 2009, Mitsui has donated approximately ¥37 million to 10 organizations. Priority Areas for Social Contribution Activities In striving to realize our corporate mission to “build brighter futures, everywhere”, we have identified five Donations material issues that have a large impact on our business operations as well as that are important for our • FY2016: Support for a project to improve living environments in impoverished regions in Myanmar, stakeholders. In our social contribution activities, we have set out the priority areas of “community through the Mae Fah Luang Foundation contribution”, “environmental conservation” and “human resources”, in accordance with our MVV (Mission, • FY2017: Support for a project to build an accommodation facility for nurses in Ghana through Vision, Values) and Materiality. Plan International Japan • FY2018: Support for a project to provide scholarships in India through Plan International Japan • Community contribution: • FY2019: Support for a project to develop preschool educational facilities in Colombia through We contribute to the sound development of communities, aiming to build a globally sustainable society. Plan International Japan • Environmental conservation: • FY2020: Support for a cashew farm revitalization project in Zambia through the ETG Farmers Foundation We work to create an eco-friendly society, as a company that operates various business globally. • Human resources development: To harness employees’ participation in social contribution activities, Mitsui provides five additional We provide a variety of learning opportunities to develop talent leading to new value creation. days of annual paid leave to promote employees’ volunteer activities. Through these initiatives, we particularly aim to achieve the following SDGs’ 17-Goals: No.4 (Quality Employee Volunteer Activities Programs in Collaboration with NPOs/NGOs Education), No.8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), and No.15 (Life on Land). In collaboration with the Asaza Fund, an NPO that was a grantee of the Mitsui & Co. Ltd., Environment Fund, Mitsui’s employees and their families have been helping to grow pesticide-free rice using only organic fertilizers in traditional paddies in valleys. They are a part of many paddies, known as yatsuda, that Social Contributions (Fiscal Year Ended March 2020) Activity are being increasingly abandoned in Japan. Yet, as they provide rich habitats suitable for a wide The total social contribution expenses for the fiscal year ended March 2020 were 1.51* billion yen. variety of flora and fauna by using valley wetlands, (Charitable donations 5%, Community investments 36%, Commercial initiatives 59%) restoration and preservation of these areas is * Figures include cash donations and monetary conversion equivalent of in-kind payments. However, activities such as personal donations by employees needed, together with nearby forests, streams, and and volunteer activities have not been included. other natural areas. A total of over 2,200 employees and their Political Contributions (Fiscal Year Ended March 2019) Activity families have participated as volunteers in the Yatsuda Regeneration Project since its launch Total political contributions for the fiscal year ended March 2019 were 28 million yen. in 2007. Employees and their families transplant rice (April 2019) *This figure was reported in the Japanese government's Official Gazette issued on November 29, 2019. 99 Social Social Contribution Activities Global Social Contribution Activities (Community Contribution, Environmental Conservation, Human Resources Development) Activity Study program in Japan for university students in Russia P.103 TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program P.103 Support for the MGVP/Support for providing equipment Improvement of the Scholarship Program for and teaching materials to the preschool Educational Environment Indonesia P.103 Support for the Brazilian educational institution in Colombia in Myanmar P.101 Community in Japan P.101 P.99 Mitsui & Co. Ltd., Environment Fund/ TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Restoration of the Cardamom water Leadership Program P.103 system and community Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy P.103 development (Cambodia) Mitsui’s Forests P.37, 48, 102 P.101 MGVP/Support for a cashew Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund/ farm revitalization project Yatsuda Regeneration Project P.99 (Zambia) Mitsui & Co. Ltd., Environment Fund/ P.99 Conservation and maintenance of a wetland created by an earthquake and environmental education for P.104 future generations 57 organizations 3,916 persons 6 countries/regions 33 universities 792 persons Partnership with NPOs and NGOs Employee Volunteers Mitsui-Endowed Lecture Programs and Scholarships and Training in Japan (January December 2019) Support for the University 100 Social Social Contribution Activities Community Contribution System Activity Support for the Improvement of the Educational Environment in Myanmar We provide seamless support for the improvement of the educational environment in Myanmar at all Support for the Brazilian Community in Japan levels from elementary to higher education, in partnership with various organizations. As a company with extensive business operations in Brazil, Mitsui provides various types of support to • Support for elementary education through participation in elementary school construction by the foster reciprocal understanding between Japan and Brazil and find solutions to issues affecting the Myanmar Terakoya Support Team (since 2014, Mitsui has supported the construction of six schools for Brazilian community in Japan. approximately 1,900 children) • Agriculture seminar at Yezin Agricultural University Scholarship Program for Brazilian Schoolchildren in Japan • Scholarship support for Myanmar students at the Tokyo University of Agriculture Mitsui has been providing scholarships since 2009. The purpose of this program is to provide educational opportunities to children who would otherwise be unable to continue their studies due to economic Restoration of the Cardamom Water System and Development of Sustainable Communities reasons, and to help Brazilian children to participate more actively in Japanese society by enhancing their in Cambodia Japanese language education. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, 398 children attending 26 schools Surrounded by inundated forests, Lake Tonle Sap in Cambodia is an important fishing ground for local received scholarships. A total of 290 of these children, who are in elementary school grades five and communities, which rely on a combination of farming and fishing for their livelihoods. In recent years, above, took the Japanese-Language Proficiency Test (JLPT), and 101 passed. logging operations and use of insecticides in the forests have caused water pollution and other problems, leading to a decline in fish populations. Through the Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Environment Fund, Mitsui has been Extracurricular Classes at Brazilian Schools in Japan contributing to the development of sustainable communities by supporting the activities of Conservation Since 2014, Mitsui has supported extracurricular classes at Brazilian schools in Japan in cooperation with International, an international NGO. It has worked to introduce systems to stabilize livelihoods through a the Consulate-General of Brazil in Tokyo. The purpose of these classes is to help children prepare for their village-level savings scheme for fishing income, while also conserving the inundated forest environment. future careers by learning about the importance of work. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, Mitsui’s employees gave a total of six classes attended by 221 children. Other Support Activities • Seminar on the future of Brazilian children in Japan (Kaeru Project) A psychologist was invited from Brazil to present advisor training seminars in cooperation with local governments and NPOs in three cities with Brazilian communities. • Support for initiatives by NPOs, to foster multicultural coexistence among Brazilians in Japan (10 organizations supported in the fiscal year ended March 2020) The 3rd extracurricular class for FY 2020 at a Brazilian school in Japan (August 2019) NPOs conference at Brazilian embassy (November 2019) 101 Social Social Contribution Activities Environmental Conservation forests that have grown back mainly through natural action following deforestation due to a natural disaster or tree harvesting, for instance. Areas within these forests that are particularly important from the viewpoint of biodiversity are designated as “Biodiversity Conservation Forests” (approximately 10% of all Mitsui’s Forests’ Manifold Initiatives Policy System Activity Mitsui’s Forests), in which more rigid management is conducted in order to conserve biodiversity. P.48 Biodiversity Mitsui & Co. owns forests in 74 locations in Japan, from Hokkaido in the north to Kyushu in the south. Mitsui’s Forests cover a total area of approximately 44,000 hectares, which is equivalent to about 70% of the area of Tokyo’s 23 wards, or 0.1% of Japan. We have worked under our Forest Management Policy to Social Value of Forests protect and nurture these forests and make productive use of the benefits that they provide. Appropriate forest management is only a part of our commitment. We are also actively engaged in In addition to contributing to the accumulation and absorption of carbon dioxide by exerting their initiatives to utilize forest resources on various levels. As part of our contributions to society and to local various functions that are beneficial to the public, 30% of Mitsui’s Forests have been officially designated communities, we use our forests for environmental education activities. Resources from our forests are as Water Conservation and Water Safety Forests, helping to secure water resources and mitigate flood also used to support cultural activities and traditional events in surrounding areas, as well as damage. reconstruction in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. Mitsui supports the campaign Mitsui has been properly managing Mitsui’s Forests, and is the only private company that owns largeto promote the use of Japanese-grown timber as a way of revitalizing the Japanese forestry industry and scale forests of more than 10,000 hectares in Japan with forest certification under two international providing additional impetus for regional development. For example, we stably provide timber as a supply standards: FSC® (FSC®-C057355), and SGEC (Certification No. SGEC/31-21-1101). source of wood biomass fuels for local biomass power generation business. We also provided SGECMeanwhile, with the aim of realizing both certified cedar for use in some parts of the roof and eaves of the New National Stadium building that was forest conservation and forest business, we have completed in November 2019. Timber from Mitsui’s Forests was also used in various parts of the Mitsui’s been working to create a mechanism for using new Head Office building completed in 2020. profits from the forest business to maintain natural In the area of environmental education, Mitsui’s Forests are used for field studies that teach people forests and naturally regenerated forests. Mitsui about the role of forests, for forestry experience programs, and for various other activities within and stably provides timber that accounts for about beyond the company. In the area of helping to protect culture, we have entered into an agreement with 0.1% (approximately 50,000 m2) of the annual the Biratori Ainu Association and Biratori Town in Hokkaido concerning the protection and fostering of demand for timber in Japan, while supplying Ainu culture. We also have continued dialogues timber fuel to biomass power generation projects with Ainu organizations in other places in in Tomakomai and Shimokawa-cho, Hokkaido, in Hokkaido on the preservation of Ainu culture and which we have invested. other topics, and exchanged opinions and cooperated with an NPO that engaged in the Forest Management Policy Tashiro Forest, Hokkaido investigation and preservation of the endangered freshwater fish, Japanese huchen that is native to P.37 Environmental Management (Acquisition of Environment-Related Certifications) Hokkaido. Through such initiatives and activities, we continuously work toward building good Proper Forest Management communication with local communities. Mitsui’s Forests are divided into “Forests for Regeneration and Harvest” (approximately 40%) and “Natural Forests and Naturally Regenerated Forests” (approximately 60%). Forests for Regeneration and Harvest are forests that have been planted and cultivated by human hands, and follow a repeated cycle of planting, Timber from Mitsui’s Forests used in the new Head Office building (the reception desk on the first floor) cultivating, harvesting, and utilization for the production and supply of lumber resources. Natural Forests are forests that have been cultivated through natural action, while Naturally Regenerated Forests are 102 Social Social Contribution Activities Human Resource Development System Activity opportunities for university students selected in Australia to participate in a three-week study tour of Japan every year. In Russia, since 2015, Mitsui has conducted a Japan studies program for students of Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy several universities, including St. Petersburg University. We have made arrangements for them to visit our Mitsui launched the SASUGAKU Academy (education for sustainable development) in 2014, which helps bases in Japan, such as the Chubu Office, as well as our business partners’ sites. children to develop their ability to create a sustainable future. The course consists of a five-day program for children in the upper grades of elementary school in Japan, and is implemented every year using our TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program global business activities as teaching materials. Mitsui has participated in the TOMODACHI Initiative, a public–private partnership program led by the U.S. This sustainability education initiative has government and U.S-Japan Council to foster the development of young leaders for the next generation, attracted considerable attention from academia since the foundation of the initiative. through various conference presentations, and has In 2013, we have launched the TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program, through which 20 been lauded as a progressive example of selected young leaders working in Japan and the United States are given the opportunity to visit each Education for Sustainable Development (ESD). other’s countries. With the program themes of leadership, innovation, and the entrepreneurial spirit, Mitsui received the Corporate Youth Experience participants broaden their perspectives and knowledge as next-generation global leaders through site Promotion Award of Japan’s Ministry of Education, visits and dialogues with top executives from the government and industrial sectors and with young Culture, Sports, Science and Technology for the leaders. Furthermore, we encourage potential leaders in the three prefectures affected by the Great East fourth consecutive year, and in the fiscal year Japan Earthquake of 2011 to participate in the Japanese delegations with the aim of developing leaders ended March 2020, we received the highest award, who can drive the reconstruction process. We the Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science also create opportunities for networking with Children enhance their capacity to solve societal issues through group and Technology Award. discussions (July 2019) American delegations visiting the earthquakeaffected areas. Through these activities, we aim Supporting Human Resource Development for Future Generations through Scholarship Schemes to foster exchange in relation to disaster As part of its educational support for future generations, Mitsui has been providing scholarships through reconstruction activities, promote local the Mitsui Bussan Trade Promotion Foundation since 1989, mainly for students from Asian countries. The cultures, and tackle various issues, such as the cumulative total of scholarship recipients has reached 383. Since 1992, through the Mitsui-Bussan promotion of inbound tourism and Scholarship Program for Indonesia, Mitsui has worked in partnership with local organizations to provide revitalization of industry, supporting the scholarships to selected high school students in Indonesia. The students receive support for five-and-half recovery of earthquake-affected communities. years, enabling them to start from a Japanese language program and to graduate university in Japan. Of A cumulative total of 139 young leaders have the 46 students who have received scholarships, around half have been recruited by Japanese companies participated in the Japanese and American Members of the Japanese and American delegations and other representatives for the fiscal year ended March 2020 (July 2019) and serve as bridges between Japan and Indonesia. delegations in the past seven years. Photography by Kerry Raftis—Keyshots.com K.K Mitsui also provides scholarships to university students in Mozambique. Further, Mitsui operates a scholarship program through the Mitsui USA Foundation. Contributing to Global Human Resource Development through Mitsui-Endowed Lecture Programs at Overseas Universities and Training in Japan We have worked to foster reciprocal understanding with young people in the next generation and to engage ourselves in activities for promoting international exchange. We aim to contribute to the creation of brighter futures in countries and regions, where Mitsui has business activities. Mitsui has endowed lecture programs in the United States, China, Myanmar, and Poland. Furthermore, since the establishment of the Mitsui Educational Foundation in Australia in 1971, Mitsui has provided 103 Social Social Contribution Activities Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund System Activity Disaster Relief Activities System Activity Mitsui established the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund in 2005. Disaster Relief Activities With the aim to create a sustainable society, the Fund supports Social Issue Solving Goals When disasters occur in Japan or overseas, Mitsui provides various forms of support to minimize various activities and research by NPOs, universities, and other Vision the damage and contribute to the earliest possible recovery in the affected areas. Our support includes SDGs organizations that are working to find solutions to global 【Target Areas】 donations from the company and voluntary donations from our employees, as well as volunteering environmental problems. The creation of a future-oriented activities by our employees. A. society is a vital mission for this fund. When soliciting and Global selecting projects, we give particular priority to projects with Environment Mitsui’s Disaster Recovery Support Activities in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2020 the potential to yield results that will have a wide impact on B. C. Cyclone Idai in Mozambique/Typhoon Hagibis in Japan/Bushfires in southeastern Australia/Response to Ecosystems Backcasting society. To decide which projects make significant Resource and the the spread of COVID-19 Circulation Symbiotic contributions to the solution of global environmental Society problems and the creation of a sustainable society, we use a Conservation/Restoration Activities Spanning Forests, Villages, and the Sea in Earthquake-affected D. Relationship “backcasting” approach. between People Wetlands, Environmental Education for Future Generations and Society In addition to providing grants for activities and research Subsidence caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake created a wetland area in the Moune district of by NPOs, universities, and other organizations, Mitsui also Kesennuma City in Miyagi Prefecture, which has since been designated by the Ministry of the Environment encourages its employees and their families to participate in as an important area in terms of biodiversity for its unique ecosystems. Through the Mitsui & Co. Implementation in society these activities as volunteers. Environment Fund, Mitsui has provided support to the NPO Mori wa Umi no Koibito. It has carried out In the fiscal year ended March 2020, there were 153 research, aiming to create a good environment which can maintain a healthy ecosystem through applications, of which 86 were for activity grants and 67 for Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund biological surveys, appropriate environmental management, and improvement activities. Mitsui has also research grants. After a stringent selection process by a panel Research/Activity helped its efforts to pass on a rich natural environment to future generations, together with the know-how that included experts in various fields, 12 activity grants and needed to protect that environment, through environmental education for children and young people. five research grants were selected. The total amount provided The education was based on fieldwork carried out in the wetlands. for these 17 projects was approximately ¥103 million. Since 2005, grants totaling approximately ¥5,907 million have been provided for a cumulative total of 588 projects. The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund 104 Governance ––Executive Summary Integrity and Compliance P.106 Corporate Governance and Internal Controls P.111 In order for the Mitsui & Co. global group to continue to be a truly trustworthy corporate group for society, we make serious efforts Corporate Governance to ensure that all officers and employees are aware of the importance of compliance and act with integrity, while preventing Mitsui places emphasis on “improved transparency and accountability” and “the clarification of the division of roles between the compliance violations by maintaining our status as an organization with integrity on a global group basis. oversight activities and the executive activities of management.” Sound supervision and monitoring of management with the viewpoints of External Directors and External Audit & Supervisory Board Members are ensured, and an internal control system for Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity disclosure is established so that all executives and employees fulfill their accountability to stakeholders under the principle of fair We formulated the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines -With Integrity to further clarify our basic approach towards integrity disclosure. While increasing the effectiveness of supervisory functions by having Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Mitsui and compliance which had been shared within the global group. We revised these guidelines in November 2019 particularly to implements corporate governance by maintaining an Audit & Supervisory Board system, believing that having Internal Directors enhance items on human rights. We will continue to review these guidelines in accordance with changes both within and outside who are familiar with its business practices and operations is essential to the business of a general trading company. By adopting a the company. Committee System in which External Directors and External Audit & Supervisory Board Members participate, we achieve highly effective corporate governance to secure “improved transparency and accountability” and “the clarification of the division of roles Compliance Program between the oversight activities and the executive activities of management.” The President & CEO, CCO, and other executives are proactively engaging in Number of Directors (Total: 14) Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Total: 5) awareness-raising activities in order to realize an organization with integrity. At the “With Integrity Month” in November 2019, the President & CEO directly Internal External Internal External delivered his message about integrity to employees under the theme “Thinking Ratio of External Directors/ Audit & Supervisory 9 (64.3%) 5 (35.7%） 2 (40.0%) 3 (60.0%) about Integrity.” Other “With Integrity Month” programs included a panel Board Members discussion about integrity between young employees and members of the Male Female Male Female Compliance Committee as panelists, including the CCO, and lectures by external Ratio of Female Directors/ speakers. We held the Mitsui & Co. group CCO meeting, attended by the CCOs of Audit & Supervisory 11 (78.6%) 3 (21.4%） 4 (80.0%) 1 (20.0%) Group CCO meeting (September 2019) Board Members Mitsui and its affiliated companies in Japan, which included seminars and group discussions about the whistleblowing system, and also formulated the Guidelines Japanese Foreigners Japanese Foreigners Ratio of Foreign Directors/ on the Establishment of Compliance System at Affiliated Companies. As the first step, these guidelines have been used to deepen Audit & Supervisory 12 (85.7%) 2 (14.3%） 5 (100.0%) 0 (0.0%) discussions at the Board of Directors meetings and other such occasions at respective affiliated companies in Japan so that each Board Members company can strengthen the compliance framework based on its own issues and tasks. 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Facilitating Communication and Fostering a “Speak Up” Culture (As of July, 2020) We believe that the essence of compliance lies in the development of an open working environment that reflects our Internal Controls management philosophy and values, so that problems can be prevented through smooth communication. Mitsui is also actively In accordance with the basic framework of the internal control process introduced by Business Accounting Council, the various fostering a culture in which people speak up when they become aware of issues to discover problems at an early stage. systems are implemented in order to achieve the following: “Improvement of effectiveness and efficiency of operations,” “Compliance with accounting standards and securing reliability of financial reporting,” “Compliance with laws, rules that are equivalent to the laws, and observance of management philosophy and company rules including all codes of conduct which reflect this philosophy,” and “The conservation of company assets.” Risk Management P.113 ESG-Related Risk Management Information Risk Management Business Continuity In order to comprehensively manage risk from both quantitative and qualitative Based on our Information Security Policy, we have established the Information Risk We have formulated Business Continuity Management (BCM) framework to minimize perspectives, while responding appropriately to changes in social conditions and Management Subcommittee under the Information Strategy Committee, with the business risks, such as the loss of customers and damage to our corporate reputation, business models, we have defined the business that has high qualitative risks, such as CDIO serving as the committee chair. Having developed the Rules on Information resulting from the suspension of important business processes in the event that our ESG-related risks, as “Specially Designated Business,” and are pursuing such businesses Management, Rules on Information System Management, and Rules on IT Security, we ability to maintain our business operations is seriously impeded by earthquakes, with due caution under our Specially Designated Business Management System. are properly managing our information assets (information and IT systems) on a global floods, terrorism, epidemics, power shortages or other contingencies, or when such group basis, and will continue making improvements to information management. situation is expected to continue for a significant period of time. 105 Governance Integrity and Compliance Our Approach towards Integrity and Compliance Policy Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers The “Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (“Business Conduct Mitsui & Co. considers a sound reputation to be the foundation of business, and recognizes that it is only Guidelines”)” specify how every Mitsui employee and officer should act in his/her daily activities from the through a strong compliance culture that we can maintain our reputation and the trust of society. In our perspective of compliance with laws and regulations, internal rules, and corporate ethics. The Business pursuit of compliance, we recognize that it is essential not only to comply with laws and regulations but also Conduct Guidelines help us fulfill our corporate social responsibility and gain the trust of our stakeholders. to behave and act with integrity. They have been revised from time to time since their establishment in February 2001 to reflect the In order for the Mitsui & Co. global group to continue to be a truly trustworthy corporate group for society, changing environment. we make serious efforts to ensure that all officers and employees are aware of the importance of compliance To ensure that all our employees develop a proper understanding of the Business Conduct Guidelines and act with integrity, while preventing compliance violations by maintaining our status as an organization and to review the effectiveness of these guidelines, we implement training and e-learning courses on a with integrity on a global group basis. regular basis under the supervision of the Board of Directors, and at the same time, we require that all employees pledge to comply with the Business Conduct Guidelines every year. Likewise, each of our group companies has formulated and implemented its own individual business Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines and conduct guidelines, based on the Business Conduct Guidelines, in the way best suited to its specific business Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers Policy activities. In addition, we have put in place business conduct guidelines in our overseas business locations, reflecting the local laws and regulations, and customary practices, of the countries in each region. Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity While each of the Mitsui & Co. group companies has individually established its Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. own business conduct guidelines based on its specific business activities, we 1. Compliance with the Law and Integrity 8. Compliance with Procedures for Export and drew up the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity in November 2. Respect for Human Rights and Diverse Cultures Import and Other Applicable Laws 2018 to further clarify our basic approach towards integrity and compliance that 3. Office Environment and Harassment 9. Company Fund, Financial Reporting and had been shared on a global group basis. We reviewed and revised these 4. Compliance with Antitrust Law, etc. Meeting Tax Payment Obligations guidelines particularly to enhance items on human rights. We will continue to 5. Conflicts of Interest between Employees and 10. Political Donations and Other Contributions review and revise these guidelines in accordance with changes both within and the Company 11. Social Contributions outside our company. Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines 6. Gifts and Favor 12. Protection of Environment 7. Treatment of the Company’s Information 13. Action against Antisocial Group 14. Report and Sanctions Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity Five Key Principles Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers 1. We will comply with laws and regulations, and act to the highest ethical standards. We will respect human rights and never engage in discrimination of any kind. 2. We will respect the individuality and diversity of every employee, and foster a culture of open-mindedness. 3. We will engage in fair business practices, and respond to the trust placed in us by society with good faith and sincerity. Our Stories: Build an organization with integrity 4. We will place value on the global environment, and contribute to the realization of prosperity and a high quality of life for society. P.31 Promoting the Concept of Integrity and Sharing Values 5. We will speak up with courage when we have doubts, or feel that something is wrong, for the good of the company. in the East Asia Bloc Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity 106 Governance Integrity and Compliance Compliance Framework System Compliance Organization chart The Compliance Department of the Legal Division leads compliance-related initiatives on a global group Compliance Committee Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer basis under the direction and supervision of the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and in collaboration with Chairperson： CCO the Compliance Supervising Officers appointed in each of Mitsui’s units and offices in Japan and overseas. Members ： General Managers of Human Resources & General Affairs, Legal, Corporate Planning & Strategy, Logistics Strategy, CFO Planning & Administrative, The objectives of these efforts implemented on a Mitsui & Co. global group basis are to (i) heighten and Internal Auditing, and two Chief Operating Officers of Business Units Observers ： General Manager of Audit & Supervisory Board Legal Div. General Manager compliance awareness, (ii) improve and strengthen compliance programs, and (iii) respond to specific Member Div. and an outside attorney-at-law compliance-related matters as they arise. In the fiscal year ending March 2021, Compliance Administrators have been appointed in each business unit, and complement the fulfillment of duties of the Compliance Administrative ofﬁce of the Compliance Committee (Compliance Department of Legal Div.) Supervising Officers. Compliance Administrators also accelerate, on a practical level, activities to raise awareness for integrity and compliance within the business unit, as well as development and Head Ofﬁce reinforcement of a compliance framework at each affiliated company supervised by the business unit. Head Ofﬁce Corporate Business Units Ofﬁces in Japan Regional Blocs of Americas Business Unit EMEA Business Unit Asia Paciﬁc Business Unit Compliance Compliance the Head Ofﬁce Compliance Compliance In addition, the Compliance Committee has been established as a forum for discussing topics relating Staff Divisions Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcers Supervising Ofﬁcers Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcer Supervising Ofﬁcer Compliance Supervising Ofﬁcer (Chief Operating (General Managers Supervising Ofﬁcers (Regional Business (Regional Business to compliance. As the development of a compliance framework is becoming ever more important, we Supervising Ofﬁcers (General Managers) Ofﬁcers of Headquarter of Ofﬁces in Japan) (COOs of Regional Blocs) Unit COO) Unit COO) (Regional Business Unit COO) Business Units) have increased the number of Compliance Committee meetings since the fiscal year ended March 2019. We also added two business unit COOs as committee members to facilitate discussions that reflect Overseas Overseas Overseas subsidiarOverseas subsidiarsubsidiarDepartDepartBusiness Business Business business frontline aspects, and have engaged in active discussions. With the participation of external ments ments BUs BUs Ofﬁces Ofﬁces ies, branches, Units subsidiaries Units ies, branches, Units ies, branches, Units ofﬁces ofﬁces ofﬁces attorneys, the Compliance Committee discusses action plans for improving the compliance framework President President President based on various compliance-related matters that have been reported. The minutes of the committee General Manager General Manager COO COO COO COO General Manager COO Subsidiary President COO General Manager COO General Manager COO meetings are released on the company intranet. The Board of Directors has the function of supervising the operation and other related matters of the Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff Staff compliance framework on a global group basis, and, in principle, the CCO reports to the Board of Directors twice a year on the operational status of the compliance framework, as well as the results of deliberations at the Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Afﬁliated companies Compliance Committee meetings. The Board of Directors actively discusses key measures to be taken going forward. In formulating the Mitsui & Co. Group Conduct Guidelines—With Integrity, external directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members made specific suggestions and comments in relation to the content of the guidelines and awareness-raising activities, and those suggestions and comments have been reflected in the guidelines. Compliance Program Policy System Activity In addition, Mitsui & Co. group CCO meetings, in which CCOs of Mitsui and affiliated companies in Japan participate, and overseas office CCO meetings, are held regularly in order to actively exchange We believe that even if a detailed, fine-tuned compliance program information and opinions about optimum initiatives and other related matters, thereby strengthening the is formulated, the effectiveness of the compliance framework compliance framework on a global group basis. cannot be reinforced without management executives taking the In the event of a compliance violation or a risk thereof, the corresponding Compliance Supervising lead in compliance-related initiatives. For this reason, the President Officer (such as the business unit COO) and Compliance Administrators will take the lead in responding to & CEO, CCO, and other executives are proactively engaging in the situation, identifying the causes and formulating recurrence prevention measures, and then report to awareness-raising activities and sending messages to employees the CCO. In some cases, the Compliance Department of the Legal Division will take action under the continuously and repeatedly on the importance of integrity and leadership and supervision of the CCO. Procedures have been stipulated in advance for the establishment compliance. In particular, we engage in “With Integrity Month” of Crisis Response Headquarters under the direct supervision of the President & CEO to ensure timely and activities every November in order to continue raising awareness of A message from the President & CEO during “With appropriate decision-making on crisis response measures. the importance of integrity. Integrity Month” (November 2019) 107 Governance Integrity and Compliance Specific measures include the promotion of integrity awareness through the CCO Blog and other media, and Moreover, we continued providing a learning course based on a compliance handbook explaining the the fostering of a “speak up” culture in which people do not hesitate to speak up when they feel that something is Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co. The purpose of these activities was to going wrong. We also steadily implement compliance awareness surveys, share information about compliance promote assimilation of basic compliance knowledge that officers and employees of Mitsui should possess in violations, and take steps to prevent recurrences. Other initiatives focus on thorough management at the business order to perform their day-to-day tasks. frontline, the reinforcement of control over operational processes, and the promotion of human resource mobility. Mitsui also maintains an active program of compliance training for officers and employees of group In addition, we provide various types of training and e-learning programs. companies. We distributed the Mitsui & Co. Group Compliance Handbook in response to requests from Mitsui aims to achieve continual improvement by remaining focused on society’s expectations. We also subsidiaries and group companies in Japan. We also provided an e-learning platform to allow the distribution of recognize the importance of continually assessing risks relating to our business activities and reviewing our our own teaching materials and the implementation of an online test similar to that used for Mitsui’s compliance-related measures based on the results of those assessments. Each year, we verify the effectiveness of employees. Overseas offices and group companies also implement compliance education and training measures implemented in the previous fiscal year and identify issues based on the results of compliance programs that reflect local regional characteristics. awareness surveys, the content of discussions by the Compliance Committee and the Board of Directors, exchanges of views with compliance liaison managers in each organization, and feedback from outside Efforts to Ensure Compliance with Applicable Competition Laws assessment bodies. Findings from this process are used in the formulation of activity plans for the next fiscal year. We regard compliance with competition laws in applicable jurisdictions as an important issue for our corporate management, and we provide various manuals and hold regular seminars to ensure that all officers and employees Compliance Education and Training are informed of, and comply with, the applicable competition laws. In particular, with respect to the prevention of Mitsui implements a variety of compliance education and training programs to deepen employees’ compliance cartels, we established and enacted the “Code of Conduct in Relation to the Prevention of Cartels” as a subawareness and disseminate essential knowledge and information about compliance. standard of the Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co. in November 2018. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, we provided compliance training (including lectures on preventing By presenting a specific code of conduct in relation to the prevention of cartels, we have clarified our stance violations of human rights and personal rights) for employees at all levels, from new entrants to managers, as on ensuring compliance with the applicable competition laws and raised awareness among all of our officers well as for employees about to be transferred overseas or to group companies, or assigned outside the and employees of the compliance requirements. In addition, we also work to ensure that compliance with the company, and seminars on important laws and regulations in Japan and overseas. We also implemented applicable competition laws is achieved on a global group basis by each of the Mitsui & Co. group companies, harassment-related training, which is mandatory for line managers and employees in managerial positions by carrying out education and training on the applicable competition laws while taking into account the equivalent to line managers, as part of our efforts to prevent such occurrences. These training programs also characteristics of each respective region. include guidance on the procedures that staff members should follow when they receive reports or requests for advice about compliance violations, with the aim of creating an organization in which employees feel safe to Initiatives to Prevent Corruption speak up about such issues. We also regard compliance with anti-corruption laws in the applicable jurisdictions as an important issue for our At the “With Integrity Month” in November 2019, the President & CEO directly delivered his message about corporate management. The Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Anti-Corruption Policy, which was published in December 2016, integrity to employees under the theme “Thinking about Integrity.” Other “With Integrity Month” programs included defines Mitsui’s comprehensive framework and initiatives for preventing all forms of bribery and corruption. When panel discussions about integrity between young employees and members of the Compliance Committee, examining new business projects, due diligence is carried out based on this policy, in particular, for projects that including the CCO, who participated as panelists. are deemed to have a high risk of corruption. In addition, in order to ensure that all officers and employees comply Additionally, lectures were conducted by external speakers. with anti-corruption laws, we have established rules on the management of business entertainment for public Furthermore, in order to share the values of “With Integrity” officials, as well as rules on the appointment of sales agents, and have also been conducting various kinds of with overseas subsidiaries and group companies in Japan education and training. Furthermore, we have been implementing education and training related to antiand overseas, some programs were translated into English corruption laws at Mitsui’s consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas as well, promoting the development and are available for streaming via the company intranet. In and operation of an anti-corruption framework that conforms to Mitsui’s own framework. addition to these company-wide initiatives, individual The Board of Directors oversees the administration of the compliance framework on a global group basis, organizational units also ran active programs that included including compliance with the Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Anti-Corruption Policy. With Integrity Month program “Thorough Panel Discussion on seminars, information-sharing sessions, and discussions. Integrity” (November 2019) Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Anti-Corruption Policy 108 Governance Integrity and Compliance Compliance Awareness Survey Facilitating Communication and Fostering a “Speak Up” Culture System Activity Each year we conduct a Compliance Awareness Survey to ascertain the level of compliance awareness of officers and employees in the Head Office and offices in Japan. Surveys are also conducted at overseas We believe that the essence of compliance lies in the development of an open working environment that offices and group companies as required. The results are used in the formulation and implementation of reflects our management philosophy and values, so that problems can be prevented through smooth various policies. communication. Should problems occur, a report must be immediately made to line managers or those in charge so that appropriate action can be taken in a timely manner. Mitsui is actively fostering a culture in FY2019 FY2020 which people speak up when they become aware of issues. Management executives continually disseminate ① Do you think that there is good workplace communication, and that you can the message that discovering problems at an early stage is important and speaking up about issues will lead easily talk about compliance matters with your line managers, colleagues, 92.7% 93.2% to improvement in the company. and team members? We have established eight channels for reporting/consulting about compliance-related matters within ② Do you think that the company is serious about promoting the use of the whistleblowing system? 92.5% 92.7% or outside employees' direct reporting line, including external attorneys and independent organizations outside of the company (anonymous access is possible). These channels are available for all officers and ③ If you became aware of a compliance issue, would you use 81.8% 80.9% employees of Mitsui, as well as contract employees, and officers and employees at companies to which we the whistleblowing system to report the matter or seek advice? entrust work who engaged in or are engaging in such work. Reporting can be made via telephone, email, fax, letter, or by other such means (accessible at all hours, except for reporting via telephone). In relation to the third question, while working to create a workplace that facilitates open-minded communication, we will continue fostering a “speak up” culture so that everyone can feel safe to use the Channels for Reporting/Consulting about Compliance-Related Matters whistleblowing system, when necessary. Audit & Legal Division (Compliance Department) Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) Supervisory Other Initiatives Board We identify lessons from compliance-related matters occurring within the Mitsui & Co. group and develop recurrence prevention measures. Information about such matters that could be useful as reference for the Compliance Supervising Officers in Head Office’s Business Units/Corporate Staff Div., Overseas Corporate Staff Div. development of compliance systems is shared across our entire group. Regional Business Units, Regional Blocs of the (Human Resources & General Affairs Div., etc.) As in the previous fiscal year, we held the Mitsui & Co. group CCO meeting, attended by the CCOs of Head Office, and Offices in Japan Mitsui and its affiliated companies in Japan, which included seminars and group discussions about the whistleblowing system. In addition, we work to ensure consistent compliance at the group level through Channel① Channel② Channel③ Channel④ Channel⑤ Channel⑥ Channel⑦ Channel⑧ visits to key affiliated companies in order to identify issues affecting each company, and to provide advice General Manager of Compliance External External Relevant Divisions Liaison Manager/ Third-party Attorneys about the development and administration of autonomous, self-sufficient compliance programs. and Departments etc. Compliance Organization Managing Officer In the fiscal year ended March 2020, with the aim of further accelerating these initiatives, we formulated the Guidelines on the Establishment of Compliance System at Individual Affiliated Companies, which compile minimum rules and principles that are necessary for the development of a compliance framework at an affiliated company. As the first The most important way to ensure that the whistleblowing system is used effectively is to prevent any step, these guidelines have been used to deepen form of retaliation against or disadvantageous treatment of whistleblowers. With regard to this point, in discussions at the Board of Directors meetings and other addition to stipulating prohibition of such actions against whistleblowers in the rules for the such occasions at respective affiliated companies in Japan whistleblowing system, we specifically stipulated that any person engaging in retaliation against or so that each company can strengthen its compliance disadvantageous treatment of a whistleblower could become subject to disciplinary action. In April 2019, Group CCO meeting (September 2019) framework based on its own issues and tasks. we also stipulated additional measures in the whistleblowing system rules to encourage people to speak 109 Governance Integrity and Compliance up, such as guaranteeing the anonymity of people who make reports, and establishing a rule that if a Number of Whistleblowing Reports person who is involved in a compliance violation reports the matter to the company himself/herself, such A total of 20 whistleblowing reports were submitted directly to the Compliance Department of the Legal action will be taken into account when disciplinary actions are decided upon. Division or through external channels in the fiscal year ended March 2020. All of the reports were related to We further enhanced the transparency of whistleblowing processes and confidence in the system by harassment. posting a video entitled “Speak up when you think something is wrong!” on the intranet for officers and Although the number of whistleblowing reports declined from 51 reports in the fiscal year ended March employees. The video explains Mitsui’s whistleblowing system, including the various routes for reporting/ 2019, we believe that this is because matters related to harassment or embezzlement have started to be consulting about issues and the investigation process after an issue is reported. reported or consulted about via the employee’s direct reporting line, while they had previously been reported mainly via the whistleblowing system. We recognize that the culture of speaking up has steadily Response after Whistleblowing spread throughout the workplace. Reports are submitted to the CCO via the Compliance Dept. of the Legal Div., and necessary investigations are carried out under the supervision of the CCO. Based on such investigations, whether or not a FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 compliance violation actually occurred is analyzed, prevention reoccurrence measures are formulated, and Number of whistleblowing reports 25 51 20 remedial action is taken in accordance with the direction and approvals given by the CCO. Feedback on the investigation results is provided based on a request from the whistleblower. Once a certain period of time has elapsed after necessary actions are taken for the reported matter, whether there were any acts of retaliation against the whistleblower is checked. Status of Compliance Reports Activity Analysis of investigation Checks are carried We believe that if employees report or consult about compliance-related matters at an early stage, we can results and out to ascertain Whistleblowing Investigation consideration of Action Feedback take action to mitigate problems, ultimately leading to the prevention of compliance violations. We, therefore, whether retaliation measures to has occurred prevent recurrence encourage officers and employees to report potential issues early, even if they are not certain that compliance violations have occurred. For our group companies in Japan, we have created a process for ensuring that employees feel that it is In the fiscal year ended March 2020, 1,050 reports were made in relation to compliance at the Head Office, safe to report/consult about issues, by (1) making available the use of external law firms and third-party offices in Japan and overseas, and affiliated companies. None of these matters had a material effect on the organizations designated by Mitsui as external reporting/consulting channels, and (2) monitoring the business of Mitsui or its affiliated companies. Furthermore, there were no cases where Mitsui received any actions of group companies and providing guidance to ensure that whistleblowing systems are properly legal sanctions or paid any fines or financial penalties due to violations of anti-bribery laws or anti-competition established and administered. As regards overseas offices and group companies, regional Compliance laws. Supervising Officers are leading the development of whistleblowing channels, while also ensuring that these systems reflect local laws and regulations, as well as specific local customary practices in each country. Global Tax Management Policy Policy Furthermore, Mitsui has introduced the Global Group Hotline, a special whistleblowing hotline for reporting and seeking advice regarding cases that breach the laws of Japan or another country in relation We are committed to complying with our tax obligations in a proper and fair manner, and appropriately to anti-trust (monopoly) laws or anti-corruption laws, or cases that give rise to suspicion of such breaches. managing our global tax costs. Our Global Tax Management Policy is available below. Under the system, which is accessible in six languages including Japanese and English, the Compliance Department of the Legal Division of the Head Office becomes a unified channel by which to receive Global Tax Management Policy whistleblowing reports from overseas trading affiliates, and other subsidiaries in Japan and overseas. Officers and employees of group companies are also able to make a report or seek advice directly through Mitsui’s whistleblowing system when the issues are related to officers and employees of Mitsui or when the issues could have a serious impact on the Mitsui & Co. group. 110 Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Control Basic View on Corporate Governance Policy System Board of Directors Activity In structuring the corporate governance framework, the Company places emphasis on “improved transparency The Board of Directors is the highest authority for execution of business and supervision, and in order to and accountability” and “the clarification of the division of roles between the oversight activities and the secure this function, the Company has maintained a number of Directors that is suitable for having executive activities of management.” For “improved transparency and accountability,” the Company ensures substantial discussions. The tenure of Directors is one year, and Directors can be reappointed without sound supervision and monitoring of management with the viewpoints of External Directors and External Audit obstruction. The Chairman is authorized to call for a meeting of the Board of Directors and to chair the & Supervisory Board Members. The Company has also established an internal control system for disclosure so that meeting. His role as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company chiefly involves carrying out all executives and employees fulfill their accountability to stakeholders under the principle of fair disclosure. For supervision of management. He does not concurrently serve as an executive officer and he is not involved in “the clarification of the division of roles between the oversight activities and the executive activities of the execution of day-to-day business operations. In addition, the Company has established the Governance management,” the Company delegates execution of business to Managing Officers substantially while the Board Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Remuneration Committee to serve as advisory bodies to of Directors retains a supervisory role over Managing Officers’ business activities. Chief Operating Officers of the the Board of Directors. These committees have majorities of external members, including their chairpersons. 16 Headquarter Business Units and the 3 Overseas Regional Business Units serve concurrently as Managing At Board of Directors’ meetings, matters that are deliberated or reported on abide by the Company’s Officers and engage in business operations for the consolidated Group in a responsive and flexible manner. internal regulations. In addition to matters concerning fundamental policies related to management, While increasing the effectiveness of supervisory functions by having Audit & Supervisory Board Members, important business execution and matters authorized by resolutions of the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Company implements corporate governance by maintaining an Audit & Supervisory Board system because it the Company passes resolutions on matters determined by law and company statute. The Board of Directors believes that having Internal Directors who are familiar with its business practices and operations is essential to also receives reports regarding matters determined by law and the status of important business operations. the business of a general trading company. By adopting a Committee System in which External Directors and Regular meetings of the Board of Directors are held once every month in principle and extraordinary External Audit & Supervisory Board Members participate, the Company achieves highly effective corporate meetings are held from time to time at any time if deemed necessary. In the fiscal year ended March 31, governance to secure “improved transparency and accountability” and “the clarification of the division of roles 2020, 15 meetings were held. between the oversight activities and the executive activities of management.” Sustainability, internal control or risk management-related reports to the Board FYE March 2020 Corporate Governance Framework Agenda of the Board Time of Meeting Matters Reported Relevant Risk Management Structures/Systems Internal Control System Review 2020/4/8* • Internal control overall • Authority delegation system, ringi system, oversight and support by General Meeting of Shareholders corporate staff divisions • Prior setting of position limits, monitoring by specialist units • Internal Control/Portfolio Management Committee Election / Dismissal Election / Dismissal Election / Dismissal Sustainability related 2020/3/25 • Overall activities related to sustainability • Sustainability Committee Governance Committee (including Climate Change) Mitsui & Co. Group Compliance 2019/10/30 • Compliance risks • Compliance Committee Audit & Supervisory System 2020/3/25 • Establishment of and compliance with Business Conduct Guidelines for Reporting Board Members / Auditing Advice Independent Auditors Board of Directors Nomination Committee Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Audit & Supervisory • Development of internal whistle-blowing system Board • Implementation of training and other awareness-raising activities. Remuneration Committee Internal control evaluation 2019/6/20 • Internal controls relating to financial • J-SOX Committee Coordination Appointment and dismissal; report given under the Financial reporting • Self-assessment of effectiveness of internal control systems by units Accounting surveillance of selection, Placing important items Instruments and Exchange Law under assessment, and testing by independent units audits Coordination Auditing on the agenda, reporting dismissal and conduct of duties Internal Auditing Div. 2019/9/11 • Result of internal auditing • Internal audit framework centered on Internal Auditing Div. Coordination on business execution Activity Report Internal Auditing Division Framework for Execution of Business Mitsui & Co.’s risk exposure and 2019/12/18 • Credit risk (commercial claims, • Examination of credit lines and ringi applications and monitoring controls externalloans/guarantees,term deposits) • Ringi examination of commodity/forex long and short positions, on-site • Market risk (commodity/forex long and inspection of inventories, etc. Number of Directors (Total: 14) Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Total: 5) short positions, inventories) • Examination through ringi processes, realization of returns from • Business risk (business assets, loans/ investment projects and their optimization Internal External Internal External guarantees to related parties, external • Collection and analysis of country risk information, position monitoring Ratio of External Directors/ 9 (64.3%) 5 (35.7%) 2 (40.0%) 3 (60.0%) investments) by country, designation of countries for suspension of transactions, Audit & Supervisory Board Members • Country risk designation of special countries, formulation of country-specific policies Male Female Male Female • Operational risk • We have taken further step to identify operational risk affecting Ratio of Female Directors/ 11 (78.6%) 3 (21.4%) 4 (80.0%) 1 (20.0%) individual business projects Audit & Supervisory Board Members Cyber Security 2019/12/18 • Cyber Security • Technical support, human support (including security awareness Japanese Foreigners Japanese Foreigners activities), support to affiliated companies Ratio of Foreign Directors/ 12 (85.7%) 2 (14.3%) 5 (100.0%) 0 (0.0%) Audit & Supervisory Board Members * The status of Internal control regarding fiscal year ended March 2020 was reported to the board of directors held April 8, 2020, immediately after the 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% ending of such fiscal year. (As of July, 2020) 111 Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Control Audit & Supervisory Board Activity Mitsui affiliated companies. The Internal Auditing Division, the division positioned directly under the President and Chief Executive Officer, examines the status of development and implementation of the The Audit & Supervisory Board Members supervise the Directors’ execution of duties as an independent internal control of Mitsui. institution with the mandate of the shareholders. For this purpose, Audit & Supervisory Board Members The Company has established major committees pertaining to the execution of business and carry out multi-faceted, effective audit activities such as attending important internal meetings, verifying implementation of internal control as follows, and is taking measures to respond to a wide range of risks reports and investigating our business, and take necessary measures in a timely manner. and forms of businesses, which continue to increase and diversify. A meeting of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members is regularly held prior to a meeting of the Board of Directors and whenever necessary. In the year ended March 31, 2020, 24 meetings were held. The main Framework for Internal Controls and Execution of Business Activities items considered and discussed at the Audit & Supervisory Board are as follows: Audit policies, audit plans Internal Auditing Division President and CEO Business Operating Organization (Inside / Outside of Japan) and work assignments; Assessment of Independent Auditor; Audit activities conducted by full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members; Major issues and due process relating to matters to be discussed at the Board of Directors meetings; Major issues and resolutions relating to the internal control system on a Crisis Management Headquarters Corporate Management Committee Global Group basis; and Monitoring of progress on discussions between the Company and the Exercise necessary decision making in place of Deliberate upon basic policies and important Independent Auditor about various issues including “Key Audit Matters”. normal in-house decision mechanisms relating to all matters for the execution of Groupwide business conceivable matters requiring an extraordinary operations Each Audit & Supervisory Board Member has a duty to audit the following issues: (i) in the area of response. The President and Chief Executive Officer business auditing, execution of duties by Directors, decision-making processes at the Board of Directors serves as head of this Headquarters and others, and the status of operation and improvement of the internal control systems, and (ii) in the area of financial auditing, the independence of the Independent Auditors, the system of financial Compliance Committee*1 Portfolio Management Committee*2 reporting, accounting policies and processing of financial information, financial statements, reports from Develop, maintain and improve the effectiveness Establish corporate portfolio strategy as well as of the compliance structure investment and loan plans, monitor our the Independent Auditors, and the system of corporate information disclosure. corporate portfolios, and examine important individual proposals Integrated Report 2020 (P. 102 Mitsui’s Corporate Governance) Disclosure Committee*1 Information Strategy Committee*2 Develop principles and basic policy for statutory Plan Companywide information strategy and disclosure and timely disclosure as well as the determine and monitor essential policies Execution of Business Activities System internal structure, and discuss and determine the concerning the establishment of a management materiality and appropriateness of information to platform and promotion of a structure for be disclosed information strategy Environmental & Societal Ultimate responsibility for execution of business operations lies with the President and Chief Executive Advisory Committee J-SOX Committee*1 Sustainability Committee*1 Officer. The President and Chief Executive Officer delegates authority to the Chief Operating Officers of Environmental Fund Develop, maintain and improve the effectiveness Plan, design, and propose a management Deliberation Committee the business units and regional business units, who, in turn, report to the President and Chief Executive of the system for ensuring the reliability of our approach that focuses on sustainability with Officer. The Corporate Management Committee is organized for deliberating the basic policies and consolidated financial reporting regard to Mitsui and society as a whole important matters relating to the overall management. The Committee consists of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer (the committee chair), the Directors in charge of Diversity Promotion Committee*2 Corporate Staff Units, and Representative Directors or Managing Officers nominated by the President and Chief Executive Officer. The Corporate Management Committee is held weekly, in principle. Matters Make proposals regarding basic policy and the plan for diversity promotion, and formulate and referred to the Corporate Management Committee meeting are determined by the President and Chief implement targets set along with the plan Executive Officer, taking into consideration discussions among the Committee members. *1. Sub-committees to the Corporate Management Committee Based on the basic design of internal controls provided for by the Board of Directors, management *2. Advisory bodies to the Corporate Management Committee assumes the role and responsibility of maintaining, operating and assessing internal controls at Mitsui and 112 Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Control Risk Management Internal Controls System ESG-Related Risk Management System Activity In the construction of internal control processes, aiming to achieve the objective of the internal control Business opportunities, as well as the risks associated with doing business, have increased and are becoming process—“Improvement of effectiveness and efficiency of operations,” “Compliance with accounting standards more diversified due to the impact of economic globalization, progress in information technology, and and securing reliability of financial reporting,” “Compliance with laws, rules that are equivalent to the laws, and increasing awareness of the importance of corporate social responsibility. Based on this understanding, observance of management philosophy and company rules including all codes of conduct which reflect this Mitsui & Co. recognizes the necessity of comprehensively managing risk from both quantitative and philosophy,” and “The conservation of company assets”—the following systems are implemented. qualitative perspectives, while responding appropriately to changes in social conditions and business models. We have defined business that has high qualitative risks, including risks related to the natural Risk Management System environment, society, and governance, as “Specially Designated Business,” and have been endeavoring to Risks arising from Mitsui’s business activities are monitored and managed by Chief Operating Officers of business develop such business with due caution under our Specially Designated Business Management System. units and regional business units within the authorization delegated to them from the Company’s management. In the promotion and management of each business, we bear in mind the various climate change scenarios Measures taken by each business unit to manage quantitative risks include setting position limits and loss-cut that are put forward by internationally recognized organizations, such as the International Energy Agency, and limits and conducting monitoring through divisions with relevant expertise. For the management of qualitative analyze the potential impact of such scenarios on our business. We have been reflecting the results of these risks, the business units are obligated to observe relevant internal regulations. When a business unit or regional analyses in our screening processes for investments, loans, and other activities. A shift toward a low-carbon business unit takes on risks that are greater than the scope of authority granted to them, it is necessary to obtain society could have an impact on our energy business among others, and in response to that we have been approval of the Corporate Management Committee or a relevant representative director or senior managing promoting environment-friendly, next generation energy business. Moreover, since Mitsui is engaging in officer, depending on the importance of the situation, in accordance with the standards of the internal approval business in a variety of locations around the world, climate change-related measures implemented by various system. countries and regions could have a significant impact on the profitability and sustainability of our business. By Furthermore, organizations such as the Portfolio Management Committee, the Sustainability Committee, and utilizing the global network that we have established through our business activities over many years, we the Crisis Management Headquarters establish and develop risk management structures on a Companywide basis monitor the measures adopted in each country and region in a timely manner, as well as trends relating to and handle significant risks. Members of the corporate staff of each committee are responsible for surveillance of stakeholders influencing those measures, and use the obtained information in our decision-making process. Mitsui’s position regarding the risks they are in charge of overseeing, as well as the control of risks within the prescribed range of their authority and the provision of support to relevant directors and managing officers. P.40 Strategy and Risk Management for Climate Change Response Ensuring the Appropriateness of Operations within the Corporate Group Specially Designated Business Management System and Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee The Company has set forth the “Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles.” In With reference to international standards related to environmental and social aspects, we have created an light of other laws and regulations, the Company requires its subsidiaries to develop and operate internal ESG due diligence checklist, which compiles environmental and social risks by business area. Each controls based on these principles and to the extent reasonable. For its equity-accounted investees, the business unit uses the checklist to conduct ESG impact assessments, which encompass climate change, Company coordinates with other equity participants and encourages the equityaccounted investees to pollution prevention, ecosystems, water stress, human rights, and other matters. Based on the develop and operate similar internal controls. In addition, from its officers and employees, the Company assessments, we designate business areas that pose high qualitative risks related to the environment, appoints supervising officers to each affiliated company and has them conduct management based on the society, governance, etc., as “Specially Designated Business”, and promote such business based on the “Rules on Delegation of Authority for Supervising Officers of Affiliated Companies.” Specially Designated Business Management System. When we identify a project as Specially Designated Business, we conduct internal assessments and, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles wherever necessary, consult with the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee, the Sustainability Integrated Report 2020 (P. 112 Execution of Business Activities and Internal Controls) Committee, or other committees for advice as to whether or not to proceed with the proposed project, and for suggestions on how improvements can be made. Ultimately, the final decision on whether or not to P.114 Information Risk Management proceed with any given project is made through the ringi (circular executive approval) process by the P.107 Compliance Framework Corporate Management Committee, the Board of Directors, and representative directors, all of whom P.113 ESG-Related Risk Management 113 Governance Risk Management 3 Projects receiving subsidies • Evaluation in light of Mitsui’s management philosophy (MVV) supervise ESG risks, in accordance with the predetermined qualitative and quantitative standards. All projects that directly or indirectly receive subsidies from • Social impact and ensuring accountability and process transparency Furthermore, not only when beginning a new project, but also during operation and when terminating a governmental and administrative agencies, or other such • Determination of the interests of stakeholders, and resultant considerations and responses entities, both within and outside of Japan • Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term as the operator project, we convene meetings of the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee, if necessary, in order to of a business with a high public profile deliberate ESG risks, including the impact of changes in environmental risks and occupational safety and 4 Business harboring other unusual reputation risks • Evaluation in light of Mitsui’s management philosophy (MVV) health. Business that may be in conflict with public order and morality, Mitsui’s • Social impact and ensuring accountability and process transparency management philosophy, etc. and business with a high public profile • Determination of the interests of stakeholders, and resultant considerations and responses The members of the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee consist mainly of external experts Examples: Business involving utilization of sensitive personal • Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term as the operator information, social infrastructure business, etc. of a business with a high public profile who are familiar with a broad range of fields, including climate change, environmental restoration, environmental policy with respect to water, energy, etc., technology trends, human rights, and labor issues. The advisory committee members assess the risks related to such matters and provide recommendations where appropriate for improving projects. Information Risk Management Policy System In the fiscal year ended March 2020, 13 projects were individually assessed under the Specially Designated Business Management System. Among these, six projects were categorized under the environment-related Information Security Policy business domain, while seven were categorized as projects receiving subsidies and other projects. We will We regard information as an important business asset, and recognize that it is essential for Mitsui to properly continue to conduct risk assessments and make improvements by utilizing the Specially Designated Business manage information. Based on our Information Security Policy, we have established the Information Risk Management System and Internal Carbon Pricing Analysis, and implement comprehensive and well-balanced Management Subcommittee under the Information Strategy Committee, with the CDIO serving as the management of risks from the project formation stage up to the termination of the projects. committee chair. Having developed the Rules on Information Management, Rules on Information System Management, and Rules on IT Security, we are properly managing our information assets (information and IT P.42 Introduction of Internal Carbon Pricing System systems) on a global group basis, and will continue making improvements to information management. Furthermore, we have established the Rules on ODA (Official Development Assistance) Business Management for promoting ODA business, which has a high public profile and, therefore, requires highly Information Security Policy transparent operational processes. Under this system, Mitsui’s ODA Projects Evaluation Committee reviews these projects as necessary and ensures appropriate risk management. In particular, we carry out comprehensive Protecting Personal Information assessment of risks related to bribery and corruption considering the significance of those issues. We have appointed a Chief Managing Officer of the Personal Information Protection Management System (PMS) and established a PMS office to work at heightening awareness among all management and staff of the importance of Business Domains Subject to Specially Designated Business Management System personal information protection, in accordance with the Personal Information Protection Guidelines and Rules on the Business Domain Key Points for Screening Applicable to All Four Business Domains Protection of Personal Information. • Significance and social value of the business itself As we have a broad spectrum of involvement in diverse commodities and services, we handle a large amount of • Significance of Mitsui engaging in this business personal information, particularly in B2C (business-to-consumer) business fields. Accordingly, we take particular care to 1 Environment-related business • Contributions of such business to the environment and society All business that have a large impact on the environment • Measures to mitigate environmental load (incl. climate change, biodiversity ensure that all data is protected. From the perspective of accident prevention, in addition to our education and Examples: coal fired power plant business, offshore oil field loss, water risk) training systems, we appoint a Personal Information Management Officer in each division. These officers regularly business, etc. • Safety assurance and work environment • For development business, appropriate consideration for and review the status of personal information management in the daily course of business and enhance it as needed. understanding of the human rights of local residents and other related parties, and other related matters Regarding compliance with the EU GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) that came into effect in May 2018, • Compliance with environmental laws, regulations and guidelines, etc. Mitsui has established internal rules to ensure proper management systems and operational rules for the handling of 2 Medical, healthcare and bioethics related business • Ethical screening based on the guidelines of three Japanese government personal data that falls within the scope of application of the GDPR at each Business Unit. Furthermore, we have Business related to the fields of medical and healthcare, business ministries (Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome and Genetic Sequencing related to the development of technologies relating to the human Research: MEXT, MHLW, METI) provided all officers and employees with information on the GDPR via the intranet, and have been engaging in genome, genetic analysis, genetic recombination, and other • Approval by the ethics committee of the research institute in question, operational management required by the GDPR such as compliance with the duty of keeping records of information relevant matters, or business that handles products to which these acquisition of informed consent, checking of processes, etc. technologies are applied processing activities. Examples: Business with a high public profile in the medical and healthcare fields (dialysis, pharmaceutical drug manufacturing We recognize that a timely response according to global standards towards other overseas laws and regulations business), development of new drugs using genetic analysis related to personal information, in addition to the GDPR, leads to the enhancement of our corporate value. technology, etc. 114 Governance Risk Management Cyber Security BCM Framework System In line with the advancement of information and communications technology (ICT) and digitalization in the business of Mitsui and affiliated companies, we have developed a cyber security framework on a In non-emergency situations, the BCM general representative (the GM of the Human Resources & General global group basis while utilizing the expert knowledge of our subsidiaries specialized in the area of cyber Affairs Division) is responsible for supervision of the overall BCM. The BCM general representative security. In addition, in case of a cyber-attack, we have strengthened dedicated units for responding to manages the BCP, which includes the provision of education for all employees and training for staff such events and are conducting regular inspections on our cyber security measures. members in charge of emergency response with support from the secretariat of the Emergency Response Headquarters, the establishment and revisions of related rules and documents, and preparation for and Business Continuity Management (BCM) and Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Policy response to emergency situations. In case of an emergency, such as a disaster, the Emergency Response Headquarters will be set up, with the BCM officer (the Managing Director who supervises the Human Mitsui regards business continuity in times of disaster as a vital management priority. We have formulated Resources & General Affairs Div.) serving as its head, who will be responsible for the approval of the BCP a Business Continuity Management (BCM) framework to minimize business risks, such as the loss of and implementation of tasks stipulated in the Rules on Emergency Business Continuity Management. customers and damage to our corporate reputation, resulting from the suspension of important business processes in the event that our ability to maintain our business operations is seriously impeded by earthquakes, floods, terrorism, epidemics, power shortages, or other contingencies, or when such a BCP Revision, and BCP-Related Training Activity situation is expected to continue for a significant period of time. Following the compilation of business continuity guidelines for business corporations by the Japanese The BCM general representative is responsible for supervision of the planning, management, and government (specifically, by the Central Disaster Management Council of the Cabinet Office), Mitsui formulated administration of the BCP, the formulation, promotion, and implementation of the BCP, the approval of its BCM Policy in 2006. Under the BCM framework, we formulated the Business Continuity Plan (BCP), and we education and training for employees in relation to business continuity, and the compilation of disaster have regularly reviewed it to ensure that we can maintain an appropriate management structure. response manuals. These manuals have been created based on the company-wide BCP and set forth Under this policy, Mitsui has also developed the Rules on Business Continuity Management, which actions to be taken by the Emergency Response Headquarters for performing important corporate defines rules for activity policies, procedures, organizational structures, and other related matters to ensure processes in the event of a disaster, as well as manuals stipulating actions to be taken by individual offices business continuity or the early resumption of business activities in the event of disaster, respectively for the after the occurrence of a disaster. In addition, we regularly conduct business continuity drills involving the Tokyo Head Office, other offices in Japan, overseas regional business units, and regional blocs. immediate start up and operation of the Emergency Response Headquarters based on scenarios in which a major disaster occurs, such as an earthquake directly beneath the Tokyo area. We continually improve our Business Continuity Management Policy organizational response capabilities by revising the manuals to reflect any issues identified through these Safety of Human Life: drills. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, we conducted one Emergency Response Headquarters drill. Mitsui & Co. regards the safeguarding of human life as its first priority in relation to business continuity We have also introduced a system to confirm the whereabouts and safety of business and management in the event of disasters. administrative staff, contract employees, and temporary staff in Japan. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, Implementation of Business Continuity Management: we conducted two general drills, and provided information on the results of responses in these drills to all Mitsui recognizes the importance of business continuity management in times of disaster and will maintain a business continuity plan and structures to ensure the appropriate implementation and administration of that plan. employees, facilitating the use of this system. We will work to enhance the effectiveness of the business continuity plan by improving the business continuity In addition, each office maintains stocks of emergency food and equipment. Under the provisions of awareness and capabilities of individual employees, and by engaging in interactive dialogue with stakeholders. the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Measures for Stranded Persons, we maintain a three-day supply of Continuous Improvement: emergency food and equipment for Tokyo Head Office employees and employees of affiliated companies Mitsui will formulate, implement, and administer a business continuity plan for business continuity management and will regularly review and continuously improve this plan. based in the Head Office. Emergency kits containing food and other supplies are also available for all the Coexistence with and Contribution to Society: employees at the Tokyo Head Office, and can be taken by employees who have an urgent need to return When formulating and reviewing its business continuity plan, Mitsui will consider not only its economic role, but to their homes. also its coexistence with society and community reconstruction. We will be aware of and respond appropriately to the roles that we may be called upon to perform from time to time, such as the prevention of secondary P.116 Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) disasters, community contribution, and coexistence with communities. 115 Response to the Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Establishment of Emergency Management Headquarters Internal Communications In May, with employees facing a long-term shift to working from home, the President & CEO issued a video In response to the global spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), Mitsui & Co. established the message in which he called for concerted efforts by management and employees to overcome the various Emergency Management Headquarters in January 2020 to ensure the safety of Mitsui employees working challenges. In the past we have achieved growth by transforming ourselves in a changing world. Going around the world and their family members, and to maintain business continuity. We have taken timely forward, we will turn environmental changes into opportunities via company-wide efforts to overcome this and appropriate actions in accordance with directives from national and local governments. We have also crisis through innovation, both during the COVID-19 pandemic and in the post-COVID-19 world. implemented measures based on our business continuity plan (BCP) from the perspective of responding We have held a Teams Live event for all employees on the theme of the Mitsui approach to working to the needs of our business partners and customers, and from the viewpoint of global management. under the “new normal.” In addition to a message from the President & CEO, the event became a forum for the open exchange of views between management and frontline business workers about new discoveries and lessons learned from the sudden shift to working from home during this emergency Actions Concerning Officers and Employees period, and about future approaches to work. We have sought to protect our employees from infection by implementing a work from home at offices in Countermeasures in Offices regions where COVID-19 is spreading. Employees stationed in countries where medical facilities were In our Head Office and Japanese offices, we have optimally combined physical attendance and work from deemed to be inadequate have been temporarily evacuated to Japan, together with their families. home to achieve a balance between infection prevention and business activities. Attendance at offices is managed in each unit according to operational needs and priorities. In order to ensure safety and Implementation of Teleworking reassurance for our employees, each office has taken respective countermeasures such as installing hand We began to introduce the MBK telework scheme on a company-wide basis in April 2019 as one of our sanitizer dispensers and thermography systems at building entrances, regular sanitization of the offices, work style innovation measures. We have also implemented DX measures, eliminated all paper documents and limiting the seats that can be used to avoid the “3Cs” (crowding, closed spaces, close proximity). from meetings, and employed IT tools, such as the introduction of electronic document signing. Our experience of teleworking and the development of IT infrastructure have helped us to maintain business Integrated Report 2020 (P. 052 COVID-19) continuity during the COVID-19 pandemic. Number of People Number of DocuSign Social Contribution Activities Attending Meetings via Users Microsoft Teams With the spread of COVID-19, our offices and branches have provided various forms of support to customers and other external stakeholders. 12,715 Support for Frontline Medical Workers Mitsui has donated medical supplies for use by frontline medical professionals in their battle against the 6,491 COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, with support and cooperation from our business partners and affiliated companies, we have supplied box lunches, beverages, snacks, and other items. Employee Initiatives 479 408 Eager to contribute as individuals, 170 employee volunteers supplied face shields manufactured by our affiliated 20/1 20/5 20/1 20/5 company, Fictiv Inc., to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of Social Welfare and Public Health. We are Meeting using Microsoft Teams continuously carrying out various other initiatives utilizing our company network and ideas from employees. 116 Material Issues of Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality in Association with Initiative Themes and the GRI Standards In identifying material aspects, Mitsui & Co. first establishes each Materiality-based specific theme based on the Management Approach set out in the GRI Standards. While this page only lists the themes for each Materiality and relevant material aspects, our website provides the GRI Standards Comparison Chart, which shows that our report is prepared in accordance with the Core option of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. GRI Standards Comparison Chart Materiality Theme Identifying Material Topics in GRI Materiality Theme Identifying Material Topics in GRI Secure sustainable Sustainable Supply of Resources, Energy, GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Create an eco-friendly Water Resource GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts supply of essential Materials, Food and Products GRI 413 Local Communities society GRI 303 Water products Supplying Food and Products with GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Circular Economy GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Ensured Safety and Security GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 306 Effluents and Waste GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety Environmental Pollution GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Enhance quality of life Enhancement of Quality of Life and Social GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Biodiversity GRI 304 Biodiversity Infrastructure GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 413 Local Communities Healthcare and Aging Society GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts Environmental Performance Data GRI 302 Energy GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 303 Water Increasingly Diverse Consumer Demand GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 305 Emissions GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 306 Effluents and Waste Respect for Human Rights GRI 408 Child Labor Develop talent leading Creating New Value GRI 404 Training and Education GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor to value creation Human Resources Development and GRI 404 Training and Education GRI 410 Security Practices Allocation GRI 411 Rights of Indigenous Peoples Career Development Initiatives for Our GRI 404 Training and Education Diverse Human Resources GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment Supply Chain Management GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment Creating an Environment for Taking on GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Challenges and Driving Creation GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Health Management, Occupational Health GRI 408 Child Labor GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety and Safety GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor Data of Personnel Affairs GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment GRI 401 Employment GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety Social Contribution Activities GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 404 Training and Education GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 415 Public Policy Build an organization Integrity and Compliance GRI 205 Anti-corruption Create an eco-friendly Environmental Management GRI 201 Economic Performance with integrity GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behavior society GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 307 Environmental Compliance Corporate Governance and Internal Controls GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 413 Local Communities Risk Management GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment Climate Change GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 413 Local Communities GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 117 Evaluation by Society External Recognition Our selection for inclusion in major ESG investment indices in and outside Japan indicates that we are highly evaluated by society. Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices are global stock indexes developed jointly by Dow Jones & Company in The Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection is designated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and the U.S. and RobecoSAM AG in Switzerland. Major corporations around the world are evaluated in terms of Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) from among the companies listed on the TSE on the basis of their economic, environmental, and social performance. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, 318 companies outstanding IT utilization initiatives. Mitsui has been selected for five consecutive years since the launch of the (which included 34 Japanese companies) including Mitsui were selected for the World Index. award in 2015. For the selection in 2019, high evaluation was given to: development of IT utilization from Mitsui’s wide-ranging business to sport, entertainment, and other various areas, including the initiatives to FTSE4Good Index Series establish digital twins for improving productivity of large business assets, such as energy facilities, power The FTSE4Good Index Series is a series of stock indexes developed by FTSE Russell, which is a wholly owned plants, vessels, and manufacturing lines, and to utilize collected data, as well as the establishment of a dynamic subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange. FTSE Russell evaluates major corporations around the world from pricing company; and company-wide measures to realize work-style innovation through utilization of IT tools. the perspective of environmental, social, and governance criteria, including the labor standards applied throughout their supply chains, as well as on the basis of corporate sustainability. It selects companies that Nadeshiko Brand satisfy its standards as constituents of the index. Mitsui has fulfilled the index criteria, and has continually been Since the fiscal year ended March 2013, METI and the TSE have been jointly selecting TSE-listed outstanding selected in the FTSE4 Good Index Series since 2004. enterprises that encourage women’s success in the workplace as “Nadeshiko Brands.” Since the fiscal year ended March 2015, Mitsui has been selected as a Nadeshiko or Semi-Nadeshiko Brand company for six consecutive years. FTSE Blossom Japan Index Nadeshiko Brand selection: Fiscal years ended March 2015, 2016, 2018, and 2020 The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of Japanese companies that demonSemi-Nadeshiko Brand selection: Fiscal years ended March 2017 and 2019 strate strong environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices. The index uses FTSE Russell’s ESG Ratings data model, which draws on existing international ESG standards such as the UN Sustainable Development Eruboshi (L Star) Goals (SDGs), and is adopted by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) of Japan as a core ESG The Eruboshi system certifies companies that have submitted notifications under the Act on Promotion of benchmark for its passive investments. Mitsui fulfilled the criteria of the index and was selected in the FTSE Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Promotion of Women’s Career Activities Act) Blossom Japan Index. promulgated on April 1, 2016, and that meet the specific standards and are regarded as implementing outstanding initiatives to promote the advancement of women in the workplace. Mitsui was certified as MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) having achieved the second of three levels under the Eruboshi system. Developed by Morgan Stanley Capital Investment (MSCI), the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index is adopted by GPIF as a tracking benchmark for its passive ESG investment. The index is a selection of Japanese Kurumin Certification companies from each industry that represent high gender diversity. Mitsui fulfilled the criteria of the index Kurumin certification is given to “child-raising supporting companies” on an application basis. The certification and was selected in the MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index. requires that the company (1) has formulated a general employers action plan under the Act on Advancement The inclusion of Mitsui in any MSCI index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children and (2) has achieved targets set in the plan sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Mitsui by MSCI or any of its affiliates. The MSCI indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI while satisfying certain requirements. Mitsui has been certified by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and and the MSCI index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its affiliates. Welfare as a company actively providing childcare support, three times in 2008, 2011, and 2015, acquiring the next-generation development logo, “Kurumin.” Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The CDP is an ESG evaluation program that urges leading companies (in terms of market capitalization) in Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program major countries to disclose their climate change strategies and greenhouse gas emissions. Replies from such Through this program, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi jointly companies, together with their scores, are provided to institutional investors. Mitsui has been responding to recognize large companies and smallto medium-sized enterprises that have been implementing excellent the questionnaire since the fiscal year ended March 2012. In the fiscal year ended March 2020, Mitsui was health management, based on measures in line with local health problems and the health promotion granted the rating “Management Level B” in relation to both climate change and water security. initiatives pursued by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Mitsui has been recognized as one of the Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations under the initiative “White 500” for four consecutive years. 118 Evaluation by Society Awards Received in the Past Five Years FY2020 • Received the Best IR Award at the IR Awards 2019 by the Japan Investor Relations Association (JIRA) • Selected for the top award in the Commerce Industry category and won third place in the Disclosure to Individual Investors category at the 2019 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan • Received the Award for Excellence at the 22nd Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2019) by Nikkei, Inc. • Received Education Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Minister’s Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) FY2019 • Received the “Best IR Award at the IR Awards 2018” by the Japan Investor Relations Association (JIRA) • Selected for the top award in the Commerce Industry category and won second place in the Disclosure to Individual Investors category (selected out of 28 companies that represent the top 10% of each industry) at the “2018 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure” by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan • Received the Award for Excellence at the 21st Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2018) by Nikkei, Inc. • Received Award of Merit in the Environmental Report section of the Environmental Communication Awards 2018 by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment • Received the Judging Panel’s Incentive Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) FY2018 • Selected for the top award in the Commerce Industry category at the “2017 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan • Received the Award for Excellence at the 20th Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2017) by Nikkei, Inc. • Received the Judging Panel’s Special Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) FY2017 • Received the Hiroko Koshino Prize and Hiroshi Yagyu Prize in the 22nd National Geographic Japan Advertising Awards (Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund) • Received the Japan Association for Human and Environmental Symbiosis Award for Environmental Activities (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) • Received the Judging Panel’s Incentive Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) FY2016 • Ranked second place in the 18th Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2015) by Nikkei, Inc. 119 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report （TRANSLATION） Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report July 31, 2020 Mr. Tatsuo Yasunaga, Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Masahiko Sugiyama Representative Director Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. 3-2-3, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the data indicated with ★ for FY2020 and 2020 (the “Sustainability Information”) included in the “Sustainability Report 2020”, and “Data of Personnel Affairs” and “Environmental Performance Data” created for the Company’s webpage of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). The Company’s Responsibility The Company is responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Information in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company (indicated with the Sustainability Information). Greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty for reasons such as incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and numerical data needed to combine emissions of different gases. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”), ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the IAASB and the Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information, issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: ・ Evaluating whether the Company’s methods for estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or reperforming the estimates. ・ Undertaking site visits to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant assumptions applicable to the sites. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company. The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in the Japanese language. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 120 MITSUI & CO., LTD.
