United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress March 2020 MYANMAR POLESTAR DMC & MICE Management Contents Statement of continued support by the 3 Managing Director About Myanmar Polestar Travels & Tours 4 The Ten Principles 5 Human Rights Principles 6 Labour Principles 9 Environmental Principles 11 Anti-Corruption Principles 13 Message from our Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that Myanmar Polestar Travels and Tours will provide its continued support to the United National Global Compact. We fully support the ’Decade of Action’ to deliver the bold vision of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and will do what we can to fulfil this. Our company is committed to integrate UN Global Compact’s Ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption into our business operations. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will outline our new sustained actions towards promoting the fundamentals of the Global Compact framework. We believe that responsible tourism, is paramount to a successful business in the tourism industry. Informing our stakeholders about our actions is an integral part of our commitment. Sincerely, Aung Lin Htin Managing Director 3 ABOUT MYANMAR POLESTAR Myanmar Polestar was originally set up as a family business in 2001. Over the years, our staff has As a result of these developments and the easing of grown to over thirty knowledgeable and passionate travel restrictions, the country saw an individuals, operating out of our Yangon office. From unprecedented growth in international tourist the outset, we specialized in serving Japanese arrivals. customers, offering a wide spectrum of products and In 2013 it surpassed the 2 million mark. Following services. Building on our extensive experience from this growth a Tourism Master Plan was created for the Japanese market and by adapting our products 2013 to 2020 to improve the tourism-related to the taste of travelers from Europe and North infrastructure sustainably in order to cope with the America, we are now devoting our full attention to influx of tourists. This plan predicted that Myanmar our clients from these markets. would welcome 7.48 million tourists in 2020. Due to As a medium-sized inbound tour operator, we the political situation in 2017 tourism saw a great arrange services in Myanmar and package them into fall in numbers. Slowly recovering from this, in 2019 products that are subsequently marketed abroad by numbers rose by 40.2% and Myanmar becoming the our partners or sold directly to our clients. Our no.1 fastest growing travel destinations, however products range from individual services such as still falling short of the projected numbers and flights, hotels, sightseeing tours, transfers, and reaching just over 4million in 2019. In 2020 tourism cruises to fully-fledged packages including a guide, worldwide is being hit hard by the coronavirus meals, accommodation and transportation. pandemic and it is unknown how this will effect We also provide Destination Management Services numbers over the year. to the MICE market, providing a range of Events, Since the opening-up of the country Myanmar has Incentive trips, Meetings and conferences in and seen many more business opportunities at the around Myanmar. same time, there have been many issues to deter In 2016 we became the official partners of Pacific tourists from travelling. World to create Pacific World Myanmar, improving We at Myanmar Polestar equally feel that it is our our MICE services with support from our global duty to contribute to a responsible and sustainable network. development of the tourism industry in Myanmar, aiming to create a better place for those who work In 2011, after five decades of military rule, the in the industry, for those who are affected by the government of the Republic of the Union of industry and the travelers themselves. Supporting Myanmar embarked on a process towards the UNITED NATION’S GLOBAL COMPACT is one of democratic governance, initiating political, the tools that enable us to reach this goal by clearly economic and social reforms. formulating our policy, how to translate it into action and how to eventually measure the outcome. 4 THE TEN PRINCIPLES Businesses should support and respect the protection of Principle 1 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Principle 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 occupation. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 10 including extortion and bribery. 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals Tourism Masterplan in 2013, a document guiding the The tourism industry is responsible for numerous sustainable development of the tourism sector until violations of human rights taking place all over the 2020. globe. The situation in Myanmar has been particularly Despite the challenges and potential harmful effects of alarming: government-run tourism companies in tourism on human rights, we also recognize the Myanmar have long been accused of being complicit in potential of the tourism industry to promote and human rights abuses in the past, such as forced labor. enhance human rights. As a private sector company, This also led to a boycott of the tourism industry that we also consider it our duty to contribute our share. was in effect for at least 10 years but was lifted once First of all, we hereby declare our support to all the government started its democratic reforms in articles affirmed in the Universal Declaration of 2011. While this is not to say that the issue is resolved Human Rights. Furthermore, Myanmar Polestar fully as there are still severe violations of human rights endorses the UN Guiding Principles on Business and taking place (e.g. land-grabbing and involuntary Human Rights (UNGPs) as well as the IFC Performance resettlement), at the same time a positive trend is Standards and Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) recognizable in terms of awareness and policies both Guidelines. in the private and public sector. At the national level, As children constitute the most vulnerable members of this manifests itself through the development of the our society, their rights are in need of particular Responsible Tourism Policy in 2012, followed by the protection from harmful effects caused in relation to tourism and traveling. Myanmar Polestar therefore 6 became the first tourism company in Myanmar to join The Code (of Conduct for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and Tourism) in Policy’. Attended by a variety of businesses and 2013 and since then have been recognized as a Top industries in Myanmar held by MCRB (Myanmar Member. The Code is a global, industry-driven Center for Responsible Business). This training was to initiative that aims to fight against and eliminate all help develop and improve our approach in respecting forms of sexual exploitation of children in relation to human rights, and communicating what we do to the tourism industry. We have also provided training stakeholders. to improve our staff’s knowledge on the negative affects of orphanage tourism. As witnessed in Implementation Cambodia, while tourists think they are benefitting the In order to prevent any involvement in or with children in these orphanages, more often than not, harmful practices, we monitor and then select our they are adding to the problem. suppliers accordingly. As we bundle single services In 2011 a study that was carried out in Myanmar into packages that are ultimately sold to the endfound that 73% of children in orphanages still had 1 or consumer, we can make a difference by choosing 2 parents still alive. Tourists who give money to these suppliers – to our best knowledge that are not orphanages, rather than family help schemes, are involved in any practices that do not respect human adding to this widespread problem. With orphanage rights. We also aim to inform and educate our clients tourism on the rise in Myanmar, we have been about this and give reasons why or why not we are teaching our staff the side effects of this and why we offering a particular supplier or service. should not promote, or send any of our tourists to In addition, being signatory to The Code, we provide these destinations. in-house training to our own staff and our tour guides In September 2016 our staff participated in a on the issue of sexual exploitation, and ways to workshop on ‘Developing a Company Human Rights recognize and report any harmful activities. 7 Furthermore, we are obliged to embed The Codes Measurement of outcomes principles in our supplier contracts, most notably Myanmar is still in a transitory state undergoing major concerning the hotels we are working with. In 2017 changes in its social, political and economic landscape. we created new clauses in our contracts, with all our Addressing and claiming legitimate rights is still often suppliers, to monitor and report any activity taking challenging and not always given. We hope that by place on their premises and in their area of participating, monitoring and discussing to initiatives responsibility. We use this as a platform to educate our focusing on human rights this will eventually suppliers and it is therefore our responsibility to make contribute to establishing industry-wide standards in sure that the respective contractual clauses are indeed the long run. With more international businesses and understood, agreed to and returned to us signed. influence in the country we are already seeing the We have also sent staff members to attend training impact of more international standards being adopted sessions throughout the year, such as in June 2017 on by many local businesses. Human Resources and Management, held by CBI from In addition, by providing the supplier agreement, we the Netherlands who support the sustainable and contribute to raising awareness, increase our economic development in developing countries. suppliers’ knowledge of the issue and we encourage Finally, we recognize an increasing number of them to monitor and report suspicious behavior by industry-driven initiatives, NGOs and civil society their staff or guests. Nonetheless, it is our duty to groups that devote their attention to issues of human make sure that the agreement is signed and returned rights and to the greatest extent possible we aim to in agreement of the clause. Only if it is included, we lend them our support and share our experiences. can audit and select all our partners and suppliers against the backdrop of their compliance with The Code’s principles. Therefore, by the end of this reporting period, we aim for a 100% contractual embedding of The Code’s principles. 8 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, policy and goals world employment in the tourism industry is the best or The tourism industry is continuously growing in only way to make a livelihood, particularly in developing importance on a global scale. This is not only reflected by countries the economic impact is of major significance. increasing numbers of tourists travelling but also due to the economic significance of the global industry. The In Myanmar, according to the World Travel and Tourism travel and tourism industry is growing faster than Council, Myanmar’s travel and tourism industry industries such as manufacturing and retail, leading to sustained 1,282,500 jobs (5.7% of total employment) in the fact that every 11th job in the world lies within this 2017 inclusive of direct, indirect, and induced sector. It can thus be stated that the sector is highly employment. While the amount of jobs created by the significant with regard to employment generation – at industry is highly positive, the conditions under which the same time the tourism industry is to be held many people currently work certainly leave room for accountable in many instances for poor working improvement. conditions and even the violation of human rights through e.g. forced labor. However, in many areas of the 9 Implementation At Myanmar Polestar we support and adhere to the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In line In addition, our engagement with The Code against the with the principles, we assure that: Sexual Exploitation of Children in Tourism we also 1. No employee is subject to any form of contribute to eliminating forced labor and child labor discrimination based on gender, race or physical as the sexual exploitation of children often takes place abilities, or religion. in the context of forced labour in prostitution. 2. Employees are only hired with a minimum age of 18 years. Measurement of outcomes 3. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is We aim to measure the outcome of our rules and strictly forbidden. mechanisms in place by counting and evaluating any 4. All employees are free to be part of any association cases of labor-related issues that may arise. In or nongovernmental foundation. addition, we will evaluate the work-force against the backdrop of well-balanced demographics, especially 5. Every employee has the right to negotiate his/her paying attention to this when hiring new personnel. salary. Finally, we aim to monitor staff turn-over and work 6. There is no form of forced and compulsory labor. place satisfaction and take the necessary actions if we 7. Every employee receives a working contract of two observe any areas that need improvement. years. 8. All our office staff members are employed yearround, merely the tour guides are freelance and are employed as needed. 10 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 technologies. Assessment, policy and goals In Myanmar, some areas are already affected by environmental degradation and the pressure on The tourism industry’s impact on the environment is natural and cultural assets is constantly increasing due multi-layered. Tourism heavily depends on natural to the large and unforeseen influx of visitors. If actions resources and assets as they often serve as the very are not taken soon then some irreparable damage may reason why people want to travel to a particular be inflicted on some of the destinations already destination in the first place. At the same time, affected. however, tourism often runs the risk of harming or Sustainability is key to the future of tourism in even destroying these very resources. On a global Myanmar and it is therefore of utmost importance that scale, tourism may contribute to global warming, all stakeholders are aware of these challenges and aim exacerbate the depletion of natural resources and to act in the least harmful way possible. This relates to contribute to the loss of biodiversity. At the regional both the supply and demand side, i.e. tourism and local level, tourism may be one factor posing a companies as well as travelers. As tour operator our threat to a region's natural and cultural resources, strategy is two-fold: on the one hand we aim to reduce such as water supply and heritage sites and create the environmental footprint of our daily operations at additional pollution through traffic emissions, our office. On the other hand we aim to monitor and littering, increased sewage production and noise. reduce potential harmful impacts on the environment of our travel packages. 11 Implementation Regarding our office premises, we aim to reduce the amount of resources used for our daily operations. management, we aim to only cooperate with suppliers This of course relates to the amount of paper utilized, that act responsibly in the given framework conditions printing in general and printing in color as well as the currently prevalent in Myanmar.. reduction of plastic. We always turn off the lights and air-conditioning in rooms that are not used. Measurement of outcomes In addition, we are working towards Travelife We will continue to monitor the amount of resources certification and in March 2017 we were awarded used by our office with the aim to reduce our footprint Partner level, the second stage within the three stage in the long run and ways to have a positive impact. We certification. Travelife is an International framework will also continue to closely monitor the for travel businesses to help improve our social, environmental impacts inflicted on the different economic and environmental impacts. destinations. As more tools for environmental impact Besides creating awareness among our employees, we assessment become available, we will choose the also aim to educate our clients about the value of our suppliers with the best record in environmental natural resources and how to reduce potentially management. In the long term, we want to be at the harmful impacts when traveling. For instance, we forefront of applying responsible environmental encourage our clients to use alternative means of practices of Myanmar’s tour-operators, through transportation instead of flying domestically, as the adherence to environmental legislation and the active highways and bus network is improving. In addition, encouragement of conservation and responsible usage we educate our clients by encouraging them to engage of natural resources. in sustainable practices such as tree-planting in the country’s arid plains. Finally, in terms of supply chain 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Principle 10 and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals Measurement of outcomes Corruption and the lack of transparency are longWe are planning to develop a company’s antientrenched problems in Myanmar in both the public corruption manual that clearly states our actions and private sphere of business. Initial steps towards against any forms of corruption including bribery, reducing and holding perpetrators accountable have political influence, external pressure or extortion. been taken by the Union Government. Realistically, Employees will be trained and audited for knowing however, it will take some time for mechanisms to be and applying it. In addition, the workforce shall be in place that actually make a difference. informed that whoever suspects or reports suspected dishonest activity has the right to remain anonymous Implementation should he/she so require. Finally, it will be made clear that any employee who is found participating in Myanmar Polestar does not support and fights against corruption practices will be subjected to legal action. any forms of corruption including bribery, political influence, external pressure or extortion. Any company activity is to abide by the law of the Union of the Republic of Myanmar and we aim to act according to ethical principles in every situation. 13
