2019 CONTENTS I. About II. Sustainability eProseed at eProseed 04 08 20 04 Message from the CEO 10 Products, Solutions & Services 22 The world around us 06 eProseed in numbers 12 Global and local presence 23 The value of good governance 14 Governance 24 Creating value for stakeholders 15 Expertise at the service of customers 28 eProseed’s shared value framework 17 A recognised partner 2 III. Setting targets IV. About for continuous the report improvement 30 56 32 Key achievements 58 Reporting boundaries, period and content and management approach 58 Sources of information 51 Goals for 2020-2022 58 Restatements of information 58 GRI content principles note 59 Methodology 62 Review & approval 63 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index 68 Acknowledgements 3 GRI 102-14 I UNGC-Statement of continued support by the CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CEO AT EPROSEED, WE BELIEVE THAT TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION ARE THE MAIN DRIVERS FOR SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL ADVANCEMENTS. We conduct our business in an ethical and socially responsible manner, eProseed in a way that benefits our customers, employees, partners, suppliers and the wider community. is committed We make great turnkey and end-to-end solutions helping public sector to build a authorities and private businesses with streamlined processes and data management capabilities to steer better decisions based on accurate better future predictive analysis. for the next Our core component to make this happen is our dedicated and diverse team of people. In 2017, I took the decision to adhere to the Ten Principles generation of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption and I am convinced and beyond. ” these principles help reinforce the foundations necessary for reaching our goals. I hope you will enjoy reading our second annual Communication on Progress and Sustainability report. You will be able to discover what Geoffroy de Lamalle, actions eProseed undertakes to integrate the UNGC principles into CEO of eProseed its business strategy, culture and daily operations. eProseed actively engages with its stakeholders to share this information, along with the global ambitions and aims we have. 4 GRI 102-14 Innovate At eProseed, we are explorers and innovators, we seek to see business through the eyes of the customer, regardless of nationality where others or culture, and strive to make their expertise and commitment, along with eProseed’s products, contribute to the digitised global economy. When we speak about environment in the ICT industry, we often refer to the efficiency of the systems and the related power consumption. follow! Obviously, it’s something that eProseed already considers as criteria when choosing an infrastructure topology on premise or in the Cloud. Endorsement of the UN Global Compact principles in 2017 signified eProseed’s ambition is also to offer environmentally and socially the start of a transformation process sustainable products and services. As a middle-size company, we which focused on developing the would like to embrace circular economy models to realise societyorganisational alignment, leadership wide benefits and work towards a positive future for all. and innovative-thinking required Bottom line, my wish is to make eProseed a corporate brand that to integrate sustainability into stands for equitable opportunities for all of its stakeholders, internal how eProseed does business. This and external. journey continues with this second As a proof of its engagement, eProseed is proud to have been Sustainability Report, a product of awarded by INDR (Institut National pour le Développement durable the work of all of eProseed’s units et la Responsabilité sociale des entreprises) in Luxembourg, with the and departments, supported by the ESR (Entreprise Socialement Responsable) label. This guarantees experts of Forethix. In order to ensure the trust and the credibility of our sustainability governance through a robust methodological approach, a transparent labelling process and an external validation done by eProseed engaged in this transparindependent experts. ency journey leveraging on the GRI standards for extra-financial perforeProseed is committed to building a better future for the next mance reporting. generation and beyond. If you would like to share your feedback with us, please feel free to write us at csr@eproseed.com. 5 GRI 102-6 I GRI 102-7 I GRI 102-9 eProseed in numbers 160 people serving customers 21 Excellence Awards 2017 Support to the Ten Principles of 14 Non-financial 13 performance indicators UN Global Compact in 5 countries 6 Sectors served (Governments and institutions, Finance, Telecom, Utilities, 154 Suppliers UN Sustainable Development Goals eProseed contribute to Insurance and Banking, Transport) 7 100% Total capitalisation 5 Equity Pillars of the 59% 8 Debt sustainable strategy 41% Privately-held €44,6M In sales representing a Members of the Stakeholder groups reached out to for the 77% representing CSR Committee engagement program 30.729 increase compared to 2018 days of consultancy Sustainability at eProseed *Methodological note: When preparing this second sustainability report, we added disclosure GRI 102-7 iv to enhance compliance with GRI Standards requirements. 6 UNGC-Description of actions Enabling sustainable strategy By committing to a responsible approach, eProseed the integrated management model. This starts with eProseed’s commitments to the Ten UNGC does not only aim to meet the expectations of the day-to-day management, operations, products, Principles are related to a macro-sectoral its stakeholders. The approach also aims to solutions and services. This model also applies to context and aims to contribute fully on the most successfully integrate sustainable development into societal and environmental impact considerations. relevant topics. COMMITMENTS PILLARS OF SUSTAINABLE STRATEGY MACROCONTEXT UN Global Compact Ten Principles Answering the stakeholders Labour Commit to an ethical approach of doing business expectations across the entire DELIVERING RESPONSIBLE Principle 4 value chain PRODUCTS, SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES Implement new technologies Anti-corruption Envision a long-term business model addressing legacy technologies Principle 10 Labour Facilitate inclusive dialogue Listening to the stakeholders Principle 3 Integrate technology as Human Rights Keep investing in expertise and knowledge a strategic business drive Principles 1, 2 A RESPONSIBLE AND INCLUSIVE MANAGEMENT Labour Taking care of all employees Talent shortage Principles 3, 5, 6 Leveraging on diversity to foster innovation and be Labour Global digitalised world close to customers Principle 6 CONSIDERING IMPACT CO2 cost of data Environment ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES Using natural resources wisely Exploiting the increasing amount Principles 7, 8, 9 AND THE ENVIRONMENT of data to create value UN Global Compact Principle 4 “Labour” eProseed is in the process of implementing a “Human Rights Policy” and a “Sustainable Procurement Policy” in order to reflect its commitment to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its operations and throughout its supply chain. eProseed does comply with all regulations applicable in Luxembourg regarding labour and has not received any claim internally or from its supervisory entity. 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 1| ABOUT ePROSEED 9 GRI 102-2 I GRI 102-6 1.1 | PRODUCTS, eProseed products provide a 360° view of key data across legacy systems. The vision focuses on 3 key pillars: SOLUTIONS • Monitoring Key Performance and Risk Indicators: the eProseed products allow supervisory authorities to provide and monitor their Key Performance and eProseed & SERVICES Cloud Risk Indicators. Based on thresholds and algorithms, the platform triggers alerts and workflows of onsite/offsite inspection processes. • Data Visualisation & Dashboarding: eProseed FSIP for Central Bank the eProseed products focus on data Innovate where others follow! management. It provides tools for data collection, validation, enrichment and transformation which allow meaningful data visualisation and dashboarding. eProseed eProseed is a leading provider for PRODUCTS & CUSTOMERS FSIP for Fund ICT solutions and delivers integration • Predictive Modelling & Management eProseed offers a range of innovative services to enable customers to Benchmarking: on top of this, the business solutions to help solve complex boost IT flexibility, to enhance platform leverages Machine Learning industry challenges. The main products business agility and to increase algorithms (Artificial Intelligence) are dedicated to support Supervisory competitiveness. eProseed’s team to provide predictive risk models eProseed FSIP Authorities in their regulatory activities by for Financial consists of experts in all ICT global and capabilities for benchmarking providing a comprehensive and integrated Institutions leading technologies: Oracle, IBM, institutions amongst predefined and platform. During the last 9 years, eProseed SAP and many others. customised peer groups. focused on financial supervision solutions to better support Central Banks and Financial In regards with products of the eProseed’s team of experts, Regulators. Public Sector Revenue Management, eProseed enables organisations to deploy eProseed’s platform covers the Foundations software stacks at low risk, with eProseed offers an integrated platform end-to-end processes. Indeed, controlled costs, and enjoy all with plug-and-play modules such as: out-of-the-box processes allow the the benefits of their solution • Banking supervision Revenue Management Authority to quickly. eProseed's track record of • Pension and Insurance supervision define the Tax Library, manage the eProseed success across Financial Services, • Securities and Markets supervision Taxpayers through the CRM module TopCase Telecommunications and Public • Payment supervision of the platform, send Tax Statements, Sector customers, consists of multiple • Payroll and Income Tax supervision manage the Tax Collection and all the successful go-lives. follow-up processes, and many other • Property and Land Tax supervision • Consumption Tax supervision processes and integration services. eProseed Deployer • … 10 GRI 102-2 SOLUTIONS SPECIALISATIONS Products are tailored eProseed partners with major Database, Data Integration, to customer’s precise technology providers such as Business Process Management, needs. eProseed delivers Oracle, IBM, Swift and SAP so that Service-Oriented Architecture. high-quality, reliable customers will benefit from strong eProseed also offers solutions, fully aligned to first-hand experience with a wide complementary value added customer organisation’s Turnkey End-to-End Database & range of innovative and reliable services for management and requirements and its Solutions Data Management technologies. technology practices such as delivery model ensures We are an Oracle Platinum Partner, Identity Access Assessment, end-to-end solutions with a strong set of specialisations Licences Assessment, Concierge respecting high quality (17 specialisations across the entire Services and tailor-made trainings. standards including a Oracle product stack) including personalised training and knowledge transfer sessions. eProseed is focused on IT Modernisation & Middleware Consolidation partnering with major vendors so that customers will benefit from strong first-hand experience with a wide range of new technologies. Enterprise Architecture Digital Transformation SERVICES eProseed has extensive expertise in all components of Middleware and Hardware including Database management and monitoring. eProseed experts are used to solving challenging cases using highlymature practices with proven results. They deliver award-winning services and solutions that allow a faster Return On Investments at lower risk and Identity & Oracle Concierge Training decrease Total Cost of Ownership. Access Assessment Licenses Assessment 11 GRI 102-3 | GRI 102-4 | GRI 102-6 I GRI 102-7 1.2 | GLOBAL & LOCAL PRESENCE Proximity in all aspects with all customers eProseed has a GLOCAL (global-local) Romania, United Arab Emirates, United approach, focusing on proximity in all Kingdom, Turkey, Uganda, Sweden). Guatemala aspect with all customers. For the purpose of this second Sustainability report, the focus is set on Headquartered in Luxembourg, transparency efforts and disclosure eProseed typically operates at eProseed’s headquarters and internationally through its local branches main location: Luxembourg. The first – this facilitates closer day-to-day chapter I. About eProseed introduces interactions with customers and eProseed Group globally. The chapters provides higher efficiency. eProseed's II. Sustainability at eProseed (p. 20 to “right-sourcing” model combines, when 29), III. Settings targets for continuous appropriate, local and near-shore improvement (p. 30 to 55) and IV. About resources. the report (p. 56 to 68) consequentially only contain elements, information and Today, eProseed's customers bring data related to the Luxembourg office. its experts to operate in 13 countries One of the main area of improvement will (Australia, France, Guatemala, Lebanon, be to expand the scope of future reports Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, to include other locations. 12 GRI 102-3 | GRI 102-4 | GRI 102-6 Netherlands Sweden This second Sustainability report discloses United Kingdom Luxembourg data for the headquarter in Luxembourg. Romania France Turkey Portugal Lebanon Uganda United Arab Emirates Australia 80% of the group's activities come from Luxembourg, United Arab Emirates, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. 13 GRI 102-11 I GRI 102-18 1.3 | GOVERNANCE FOUNDER & CEO BOARD OF PARTNERS The partners have a financial stake in the eProseed Group and define with the CEO the main Geoffroy de Lamalle guidelines of the strategy. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Geoffroy de Lamalle Stéphanie Noël Fabien Henriet Sónia Silva Henri Agbodjan Eric Lippert MANAGEMENT TEAM CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF OPERATING CHIEF TECHNOLOGY CHIEF PEOPLE SALES DIRECTOR VP OF PUBLIC OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER SECTOR AND HOMELAND SECURITY The Executive Committee follows a precautionary approach when assessing risks inherent to its operating model and locations and when managing daily operations or introducing new products. 14 GRI 102-8 1.4 | EXPERTISE AT THE SERVICE OF CUSTOMERS eProseed’s expertise supports the delivery of NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE technological solutions and its biggest asset to achieve this is its people. eProseed’s people are AND BY GENDER technology-driven and customer-focused. eProseed’s CTO office is composed of leading MEN WOMEN experts in their respective fields, who are published authors (technology and integration books, numerous presentations Oracle Open World and 83 18 other international events, white papers, …) and take PERMANENT 125 27 part in Customer Advisory Boards, and numerous CONTRACT 127* 29 Beta programs. 0 0 TEMPORARY 0 0 People are the heart of eProseed’s business. CONTRACT 2 2 eProseed is committed to creating and maintaining a working atmosphere where colleagues can be 78 15 passionate, engaged and aligned with strategy, FULL-TIME 120* 23 living core values every day and bringing values 124 29 to delighted customers. 5 3 PART-TIME 5 4 *Methodological note on restatement of information: 5 2 When preparing this second sustainability report, we noticed that some of the information presented were not correct. The following values disclosed in the 2019 report have been restated compared to the 2018 report: Number of men in permanent contract in 2018: 125 instead of 120 Number of men in full-time employment contract in 2018: 120 instead of 115 2017 2018 2019 15 GRI 102-8 I GRI 102-41 LUXEMBOURG 56 HEADQUARTER employees 23 UTRECHT BUCHAREST employees 9employees BRUSSELS 1 ISTANBUL employee 2 employee LONDON 5 employees BEIRUT 10 employees 30 PORTO employees GUATEMALA DUBAÏ 17 CITY 6 employees employees SYDNEY 1 employee No employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 16 GRI 102-9 | GRI 102-10 | GRI 102-12 | GRI 102-13 1.5 | A RECOGNISED PARTNER Awarded 21 Excellence Awards eProseed customers have demanded platforms supported by Oracle technologies. in 9 years So eProseed has developed a robust and solid business relationship with Oracle over the last 10 years. The remaining suppliers are contracted for the purpose of corporate 1. UKOUG Middleware Partner of the Year 2019 activities, they represent in comparison a minor spending. There have been no 2. Oracle PaaS Partner Community Award 2019 Outstanding Developer Contribution significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain throughout 2019. 3. Oracle PaaS Partner Community Awards 2018 – Outstanding SOA CS Contribution 4. Information Security Awards 2018 – Oracle awarded eProseed “Oracle Fusion Middleware Partner of the Year” 4 times GDPR Initiative of the Year in a row (2010, 2011, 2012, 2013), amongst other awards such as “Oracle Partner of 5. Oracle PaaS Partner Community Awards 2017 Outstanding SOA CS Contribution the Year” (2009, 2013, 2014, 2015) and “Oracle PaaS Community Awards” (2015, 2016, 6. Luxembourg ICT Awards 2017 – 2017, 2018, 2019). As an Oracle focus player, and with years of experience in Oracle IT Development Company of the Year technologies, eProseed is the perfect partner in order to solve the challenges at hand. 7. Luxembourg Finance Awards 2017– RegTech Solution of the Year 8. Oracle Database Appliance Western Europe Summit 2017 – ODA Regional Partner Award Benelux eProseed has signed a strategic partnership with IBM Red Hat, one of the 9. Oracle Partner Community 2016 – SOA achievement World’s leading provider of cutting-edge technology solutions enabling customers 2016 for increased IT efficiency and reliability. IBM Red Hat is a leading provider of 10. Oracle Cloud Innovation Award 2016 – Cloud Integration category enterprise open source solutions, using a community-powered approach to deliver 11. Oracle Partner Community 2015 – high-performing Linux, cloud, container, and Kubernetes technologies. Paas4SaaS partner of the year 12. Oracle Partner of the Year 2014 technology – Luxembourg eProseed has a strategic partnership with SAP, the market leader in enterprise 13. Oracle Global Innovation award 2014, worldwide (Webcenter Suite category) application software enabling companies of all sizes in all industries to run at their 14. Oracle MENA (Middle East North Africa) best. Together with SAP we aim at offering our customers with the best business Industry Partner of the year 2014 solutions and services. 15. European ICT Awards 2014 – European Startup of the year 16. Oracle Partner of the year 2013 – Luxembourg eProseed has a strategic partnership with SWIFT, the World leading provider 17. Oracle FMW Innovation Award 2010, Worldwide 18. Oracle Middleware Partner of the year 2010-2012 of innovative interbank financial messaging services, software solutions and 19. Oracle Benelux industry Partner of the Year 2009 communication standards for processing financial transactions in a secure, standardized and reliable environment. 17 GRI 102-12 | GRI 102-13 Launched in 2000, the UN Global Compact (UNGC) is the largest corporate At eProseed, we have sustainability initiative in the world, with over 13,000 signatories based in 160 countries. In 2017, eProseed declared its voluntary commitment to align operations and always been convinced that strategies with the ten universally accepted principles of the UNGC. This report aims innovation and technology at being the first Communication on Progress to the UNGC and document its progress are factors that can have to implement the 10 Principles. This commitment takes shape in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and engages eProseed to take action a positive impact on our in support of UN goals and issues. customer's social and environmental responsibility, IMS (Inspiring More Sustainability) for more than 10 years, has been the leading whether through digitalisation network of Luxembourg companies involved in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). projects, but also in sectors eProseed became an IMS member in 2018. eProseed benefits from the network and expertise of IMS which shares best practices around practical CSR implementation such as mobility or health. with its members and offers events and trainings year round. IMS has 48 members It is internally, among our companies in Luxembourg. employees, that we have the opportunity to invest in terms The INDR (Institut National pour le Développement durable et la Responsabilité of expertise but above all to sociale des entreprises) aims to promote responsible business practices in promote a cultural diversity Luxembourg by assisting companies of all sizes to align their economic, social, and environmental objectives and recognize those firms which successfully do so. within the company, which is a real asset to eProseed’s current development. The ESR (Entreprise Socialement Responsable) label enables organisations to structure, formalise and enhance their social responsibility initiatives in order Human values have always to create shared value for themselves and for society. been part of eProseed's The 18th official award ceremony of the ESR label, took place on 3 December 2019 strategy, especially in a at the Chamber of Commerce, in the presence of Ms. Paulette Lenert, Minister for Consumer Protection and Minister for Cooperation and Humanitarian Action. context of an extremely On this occasion, the ESR label was officially awarded to 38 companies, including rapid international growth.” eProseed, that commit to a responsible approach according to the INDR's labelling criteria. Stéphanie Noël, COO 18 GRI 102-16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 1.6 | VALUES EXPLORE eProseed embraces and promotes The following core values are the foundation of the company exploration. eProseed experts are and are essential to eProseed’s responsible business. frequently contributing to technological advancements, participating to Oracle Advisory Boards, Beta testing, executing Proof of Technologies, Proof of Concepts, etc. even if they do not have a direct requirement for using the new advancement immediately. eProseed experts are keen to explore FUN EXPLORE and discover new techniques, methods eProseed’s people are known for and technologies that will empower their legendary passion for what they do, and all this while having FUN INNOVATE them to fulfil their next challenges. fun. Work hard, play hard! INNOVATE LOYAL & RESPECTFUL Innovation is key for eProseed. Experts eProseed’s people are loyal are frequently working at the forefront and respectful to their fellows, VALUES of technology to establish innovative customers and partners – and elegant solutions to solve complex eProseed fosters diversity and customer problems. inclusion. LOYAL & As such eProseed experts are leading the RESPECTFUL LEARN way by innovating where others follow. STRENGTH eProseed encourages cool, calm, LEARN solid strength within its teams, eProseed experts learn every single day. no matter how pressured the situation. STRENGTH No matter what they do on a day-today basis, they spend time learning new techniques, methods and technologies. Learning is an essential outcome and ingredient of corporate Exploration and Innovation values. 19 2| SUSTAINABILITY AT ePROSEED 21 2.1 | THE WORLD AROUND US Holding regular in-depth reviews of system usage and technological advance is key to the subsistence and future growth of businesses today. TALENT SHORTAGE FAST ADOPTION OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES Implemented wisely, technology is becoming a Rapid digitalisation has transformed the job market. Digital change is constant and fast. Technology is one source of competitive advantage. Business from any Global enterprises especially in ICT, continue to face of the main current trends impacting business future sectors will have to consider themselves as techtalent shortages and increasing skills demand from across all sectors and regions. The emergence and nological or software-driven companies in order to their customers. Recruiting and retaining skilled workers adoption of these new technologies are disruptive achieve their transition and continue a profitable and in the sense that they allow new business models to sustainable business. is a challenge that all managers and HR teams are facing. In that context, the continuous training and emerge and are adopted extremely fast by end-users. ICT AS AN ENABLER professional certification of internal experts has A European-wide initiative has implemented a become a key aspect of talent management. IMPLEMENT NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND ADDRESS LEGACY TECHNOLOGIES “vade mecum” describing the criteria to assess which sectors and activities are considered to be green : the CO2 COST OF DATA Organisations need to adopt, experiment, implement taxonomy. The analysis* performed by the working The digital revolution has brought new practices, and learn from new technologies. Implemented group, assesses that ICT sector represented 3.9% of the including “cloud computing”. correctly, they will create value, if they are integrated EU value added, 2.5% of total employment, 15.7% of total Having data stored in the cloud makes it available within the wider organisation and address the more R&D and 3.6% of GDP.! for many products at once. Worldwide data is stored in fundamental challenges of legacy technologies. However, based on the estimates published by the data centers in multiple locations. ‘European Framework Initiative for Energy & EXPLOITING THE INCREASING AMOUNT Most data centers consume almost as much electricity OF DATA TO CREATE VALUE Environmental Efficiency in the ICT Sector’ ICT currently for IT-related needs, such as cooling or power accounts for 8-10% of European electricity consumption A critical element of how technologies will impact conversion, as they do for powering the servers and up to 4% of its carbon emissions. corporations is the huge amount of data being themselves. As a result, about 50% of the electricity bill ICT is considered – in EU's foundation for its created. Beyond the initial challenge of storing in a data centre is due to air conditioning. sustainability regulatory framework – as a sector which and managing this data, the key dimension to be ICT, despite being an intangible sector, has a concrete can reduce its negative environmental impact, either: unlocked is how to extract and interpret from this and considerable role to play in reducing CO2 • through the greening of its own activities (ie: data data insights which can be either monetised or incorconsumptions and GHG emissions. For data centres centres, networks and softwares); or porated into key strategic drivers. specifically the way the data centre is managing its • as an enabler of potential and source of solutions for environmental footprint is critical to reducing negative INTEGRATE TECHNOLOGY data-driven specific solutions adressing the challenges impacts on a global scale: low or zero emissions can AS A STRATEGIC BUSINESS DRIVER of future resource efficiencies. be achieved by sourcing electricity from renewable Technology should not be considered as a mean *Source: Taxonomy Technical Report, “Financing a Sustainable sources, from the grid or on site. to achieve cost-reductions or process efficiencies. Economy”, EU technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance, European Commission’s Joint Research Centre analysis on the EU ICT sector, based on 2015 data, June 2019. 22 GRI 102-18 2.2 | THE VALUE OF GOOD GOVERNANCE Sound governance demonstrates eProseed’s integrity and transparency, from the definition of its strategy to the daily delivery of operations and The CEO of eProseed is also the founder of the company customer services. and its main shareholder • Sets the sustainable strategy for the group In addition to its corporate governance, eProseed • Monitors the company’s performance in corporate has developed a sustainable governance system Chief Executive sustainability to support its sustainable strategy in the form of an internal Sustainability Committee. Officer Together with the support and engagement of Includes representatives from Operations, People and internal and external stakeholders, the Sustainability Technology departments across various seniority levels Committee develops programs and actions in line (Directors, Managers and employees) with the strategic pillars of eProseed’s vision. • Contribute to the definition, measurement and collection of sustainability performance metrics Sustainability • Participate in the preparation and update of Committee the sustainability report • Act as points of contact for the implementation of the sustainable strategy in other locations 23 GRI 102-42 | GRI 102-43 2.3 | CREATING VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS eProseed believes that effective engagement with stakeholders is key to achieve a successful sustainable strategy. The Sustainability Committee of eProseed, including its key stakeholders, highlighted its commitment to regular and sustained communication with all stakeholders . Key objectives are: e  nhance dialogue with customers, suppliers, and business partners to integrate their expectations in the implementation of eProseed’s sustainable strategy; increase employees’ participation in the Sustainable strategy construction; and introduce eProseed’s sustainable vision into the Company to increase identification and loyalty. eProseed's stakeholders are an integral part of its strategy. eProseed has multiple stakeholders categorized into 8 groups, which it has identified according to their level of dependence on the organisation and their level of influence on the organisation. Listed below are eProseed’s key stakeholder groups and the ways in which eProseed communicates with each group. 24 GRI 102-40 I GRI 102-43 LOCAL COMMUNITIES & TERRITORIES PRODUCTS, SOLUTIONS & SERVICES RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Employees Customers Daily Daily Corporate suppliers Computer Key business partners equipment, fruit Oracle, IBM, SAP, and coffee supplies, SWIFT stationary Weekly Monthly Media, press Other suppliers Recruitment Occasionally agencies, bank, building owner Monthly Research & innovation partners Supervisory entities Universities ITM*, CNPD** Occasionally Unscheduled *ITM (Inspection du Travail et des MInes) has an inspection, advisory, mediator and control role in the field of working conditions, including occupational safety and health. **The National Data Protection Commission (Commission Nationale pour la Protection des Données – CNPD) verifies the legality of the processing of personal data and ensures the respect of personal freedoms and fundamental rights with regard to data protection and privacy. 25 GRI 102-43 As part of its reporting process, eProseed involved APPROACH TO a sample of stakeholders in the identification, ENGAGEMENT selection, prioritisation and validation of key How does eProseed define the nature of the COMMUNICATION sustainability topics. STAKEHOLDER relationship it aims to have CHANNELS GROUP with the stakeholders? How often do eProseed exchange with stakeholders? eProseed develops a dialogue programme with its stakeholders on different levels, as detailed in the annexed table. Management-employees communication; Online survey; EMPLOYEES Involve Performance reviews The company engages its stakeholders at various levels throughout the year. A particular voice is given to them during the reporting process (identification, CAB: Customer-Advisory-Board (event organised by prioritisation, content evaluation), through which the Oracle); ACE Directors roadshows Conferences; Corporate committee identifies the expectations and key topics CUSTOMERS Involve website and brochures; Contracts negotiations; Business Development Manager visits and oversight; Operational expressed as important and takes them into account oversight with Project & Delivery Manager in the sustainable strategy. CAB: Customer-Advisory-Board (organised by Oracle); Conferences; Contracts negotiations; Business KEY BUSINESS PARTNERS Involve Development Managers visits & oversight; Delivery Manager oversight visits; Obtainment of customer testimonials for the attribution of “Oracle specialisations” OTHER SUPPLIERS: Consult Funding and financing agreements BANKS OTHER SUPPLIERS: Consult Passive communication at each opening RECRUITMENT AGENCIES SUPERVISORY ENTITIES Monitor Unscheduled CORPORATE SUPPLIERS Inform Online survey MEDIA, PRESS Monitor Unscheduled Opportunistic; Establishing partnerships for the RESEARCH & INNOVATION development and commercialisation of research projects Monitor PARTNERS outcomes such as advanced Proof of Concepts; Answering RFPs; Conferences 26 GRI 102-43 I GRI 102-44 EXPECTATIONS What do stakeholders expect from us? ENGAGEMENT PROGRAM Competencies evaluation and personal development Measures promoting work-life balance Value sharing mechanism in remuneration packages Involvement and consultation of employees Work-life balance Access to trained and certified experts Delivery of qualitative counsel and advice Monitor: eProseed and the stakeholders Inform: eProseed will implement a one-way Projects & missions delivered on-time targeted communication with the stakeholders, keep in touch through public communication (media, website) there is no invitation to reply Demonstration of expertise from Oracle qualified consultants Execution of projects in line with the Oracle methodology Financial discipline and responsible investments Consult: eProseed will implement a Involve: eProseed will implement a two-way Transparent description of the recruitment needs limited two-way communication with the communication with the stakeholder, with stakeholders, where eProseed asks questions the objective to learn on both sides but Respect of local laws and regulations and the stakeholder answers stakeholders and eProseed act independently Fairness in treatment of employees or data privacy Fair and transparent selection process Payment of invoices in due time Transparent information about sustainable performance eProseed 2020 objective is to formalise Expertise and technical skills the stakeholder engagement program and to Regional presence for commercialisation and distribution build and run the commitment plan considering the stakeholders priorities. 27 2.4 | EPROSEED’S SHARED VALUE FRAMEWORK For eProseed, operating a responsible business model means delivering its corporate goals considering: • the commitments eProseed has towards its employees and stakeholders; Responsible business model • the positive and negative impacts eProseed has on the environment; contributes to those main SDGs • and the contributions eProseed can make towards society at large. OUTPUTS Luxembourg Human & Intellectual eProseed offers training and career evolutions to all employees. Maintaining their level of competencies is crucial to their personal INPUTS development and creates direct value for all customers. Luxembourg 706 hours of training, an average of 13 hours/employee/year Human & Intellectual Competencies, time and skills of the workforce FUN Financial 56 employees, eProseed creates value for both employees and shareholders. 14 nationalities Employees receive wages, salaries and other benefits in kind. S eProseed also has a financial contribution towards society through payment of corporate taxes and social contributions. By making a Financial EX H GT financial profit the company ensure the continuity of business: benefits PL Financial discipline OR S EN are re-invested in innovation products and entering new markets. and strong cash-flow E TR ES Direct economic value generated and distributed: €38.753.843 SOLUT VIC 100% privately-owned ION ER S Supply chain Supply chain A RESPONSIBLE Whether it’s with its business partners through licensing or Creation of indirect economic & INCLUSIVE through the purchasing of office supplies, eProseed contributes value through purchasing MANAGEMENT L OYA L indirectly creating value for other companies in the value chain. 63% of suppliers are local €9.306.333 spent with local suppliers Partnerships for innovation &R eProseed uses “best-in-class” ES N Partnerships for innovation technologies as highly requested AR eProseed helps our customers transition to new business models or by customers to bring forwardPE PRO D UCTS LE help them modernize their existing infrastructures. Providing them thinking solutions to the market CT FU a reliable and efficient solutions allows them to focus on their core 21 awards & 17 specialisations L business developing their own value proposition. 10.755 days of consultancy I N N O VAT E Environment Considering impact Environment on natural resources Conceiving products and services conscious of its environmental impacts CO2 neutral emission building eProseed monitors CO2 usage in our datacenters and buildings. 44% decrease in Energy Intensity Ratio (headquarter building) 28 GRI 102-46 I UNGC-Measurement of outcomes eProseed responsible strategy allows to contribute mainly to 5 SDGs During the preparation of the and monitors its performance with 14 non-financial indicators page first Sustainability report (2018) eProseed conducted an analysis with its stakeholders. This analysis Keep investing and retain • Stand out thanks to expertise GRI 404-1 33 showed the priorities amongst the expertise and knowledge • Create jobs and retain employees GRI 401-1 35 topics to be reported considering the sustainability challenges, issues and impacts. Each of the priority topics Envision a long-term • A financially strong business model, able to invest to adapt to the changing GRI-201-1 37 identified for this sustainable business model technology landscape strategic approach, can be • Consider the sedentary nature of professions in the well-being of employees GRI 403-2 39 linked to concrete contributions Taking care of employees • Giving work its true value GRI 202-1 41 from the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Sustainable Development Goals are the Commit to an ethical • Guarantee the confidentiality of customers’ data GRI 418-1 42 blueprint part of the 2030 approach of doing business • Foster relationships with local suppliers GRI 204-1 43 Agenda for Sustainable Development, an international commitment from all countries • Listening for: appropriate responses for employees, tailor-made solutions GRI 102-43 44 part of the United Nations to for customers, increased transparency towards external stakeholders Facilitate inclusive dialogue • Be transparent and give visibility GRI 402-1 45 achieve a better and more • Building cohesion setting the example GRI-405-1 46 sustainable future for all. The Leveraging on diversity to foster • Break free from professional biases towards men and women innovation and be close to customers • Consider the needs of all generations 47 SDGs address the global • Get a different perspective through different cultures • Equilibrium in the remuneration of women and men challenges the World faces, including those related to poverty, inequality, climate, • Environmental impact comes from inside and outside the organisation GRI 302-1/GRI 302-2/GRI 302-3 49 environmental degradation, Using natural resources wisely • A trade-off between proximity to the customers and the environmental impact of travels GRI 305-3 50 prosperity, peace and justice. 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 3| SETTING TARGETS FOR CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS 31 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 3.1 | KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH KEEP INVESTING AND RETAIN EXPERTISE AND KNOWLEDGE Standout, thanks to expertise Management mechanisms Training plans and certification progress are part of eProseed’s career management strategy and are reviewed with employees through the yearly appraisal cycle. Why is it important? eProseed is an innovative company and always Evolution of management mechanisms promotes state-of-the-art ICT technologies and Every year, eProseed increases its investments in methodologies. Therefore, education and trainings terms of education programs dedicated to employees. are key elements for eProseed’s people to be a e-learning platforms are provided to collaborators differentiator to eProseed’s competitors. which allow them to get access to educational content at their convenience. To better support eProseed 's customers in their digitalisation programs more than 15 employees have been certified as Cloud implementation specialists in 2019. To ensure high and harmonized levels of knowledge for Importance Stakeholders a maximum of colleagues, several sessions have been Primary Employees organized to share the best and most innovative practices. 32 GRI 103-3 I GRI 404-1 Target for improvement Performance eProseed solutions require more and more The number of hours of training offered by eProseed to different types of technologies to ensure turnkey its employees is proportional to the gender distribution. It solutions delivered on customer side. That is why demonstrates eProseed shows equal treatment of men and eProseed decided in 2019 to embrace additional women in the distribution of training hours. technological stacks alongside the Oracle one. To maintain the same outstanding level of expertise in the others stacks, eProseed will adapt its technical 706 hours of training in 2019 competency matrix and its training programs. Total number of training hours Means to achieve target To cope with these additional technologies and its continuous growth, eProseed will adapt its 2017  550 h corporate structure into business units in which development capabilities will be based on 2018  774 h technologies grouping same type of technical skills. This new organisational model will ease 2019  706 h knowledge sharing and will allow definition of more specific training programs. Average number of training hours per employee per year (breakdown by gender) Methodological note on 2017 2018 2019 restatement of information: When preparing this second sustainability report, we noticed that some of the information presented here were not correct. The following values disclosed in the 2019 report have been restated compared to the 2018 report. MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Number of training hours: 11 19 12 12 13 12 550h in 2017 and 774h in 2018 instead of 9.154hw which was AVERAGE AVERAGE AVERAGE the aggregated value of both 12 13 13 years, from which all selfpaced webinar learning has been excluded. 33 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 KEEP INVESTING AND RETAIN EXPERTISE AND KNOWLEDGE Create jobs and retain employees Management mechanisms eProseed was established less than 10 years ago and has grown significantly over these 3 last years. Unfortunately, HR processes did not evolve at the same pace and were time consuming given Why is it important? the manual workload attached to it. In 2019, to properly follow In a service company and solution integrator such as up the career paths of employees and meet their expectations in eProseed, the most important resources are human terms of goals and personal development, the yearly appraisal and intellectual capital. eProseed has always aimed at process has been reviewed and has included a better definition covering the end-to-end talent management process of SMART objectives for each team member. -from acquisition to leaveas this drives efficient and eProseed developed a capacity plan in order to anticipate better sustainable investments, creating customer satisfaction the resource needs and enhance the acquisition process. through service excellence and technical expertise. Evolution of management mechanisms After recording and tracking a full year of capacity planning data, eProseed is able to better anticipate its needs in terms of resources. Skills set, seniority level and numbers of resources can be planned in advance to absorb activity peaks and/or specific missions. Drive teams with clear and SMART objectives has already shown effects on team members motivation. To support the end-to-end talent management process, eProseed implemented Importance Stakeholders exit interviews. Indeed, talent retention is key for a company like Primary Employees eProseed and it is therefore important to capture any information that can contribute to improve the collaboration with employees. 34 GRI 103-3 I GRI 401-1 Target for improvement 7 A first version of the capacity planning helped Performance to optimise the workload. To improve this asset, it must get correlated to the sales pipeline; providing the HR department with a better forecast of the resourcing needs. eProseed aims NEW EMPLOYEES IN 2019 to set up a “continuous” appraisal process to increase the agility in the feedback loops to HR and Management teams and respond better to the growing demand. As aforementioned, HR is 2017 2018 2019 currently collecting feedback during exit interviews. TOTAL: 12 TOTAL: 31 TOTAL: 7 eProseed believes that this information is really valuable and the Executive Committee is constantly 15 monitoring this in order to enhance or adapt internal procedures. 9 6 Means to achieve target 5 5 4 eProseed selected the Oracle Suite for Human 2 1 1 1 1 Capital Management (HCM Suite) in order to 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 support all HR processes and to focus more on the collaborators (including a suite of modules supporting each step of the talent management < 30 30-50 > 50 < 30 30-50 > 50 < 30 30-50 > 50 yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. cycle, such as Talent Acquisition, Employee On boarding, Project Portfolio Management, Time Tracking, Employee Performance Management Oracle HCM Suite is still an ongoing project at eProseed and therefore the analytical module is not and Exit Interview Process). The suite will allow us entirely ready. HR department defines a set of KPIs in order to monitor the talent acquisition, the talent to track more efficiently the different HR processes management and ultimately the staff turnover. So far, the reporting provided to the members of and to provide a complete reporting solution for the Executive Committee covers the first aspect and eProseed foresees having a more complete view the Executive Committee. The implementation in the first half of 2020. The tool allows eProseed's management team to optimise the resources for started in 2019 and shall be finalised in 2020. accomplishing the future and on-going projects. 35 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 ENVISION A LONG-TERM BUSINESS MODEL A financially strong business model, able to invest to adapt to the changing technology landscape Management mechanisms To enhance eProseed's commitment Over the years, eProseed has grown to Sustainability Governance, CSR significantly. Nevertheless, eProseed committee enlarges its engagement can increase its performance and and extends the sustainable strategy Why is it important? increase its efficiency as it delivers to other locations. As a profitable company, eProseed aims to create solutions and products. value for itself but also for its customers. Financial Means to achieve target success is necessary for eProseed and all business Evolution of management The Executive Committee will: to meet sustainability goals now and in the future. mechanisms • Deploy the new target operating Indeed, economic performance KPIs are the main eProseed decided to set up an model; ones that eProseed’s executive committee looks to executive committee to follow-up • Implement KPIs allocated to in order to take appropriate decisions and launch and steer the company’s activities an accountable executive to initiatives and investments. Financial performance to achieve and meet the objectives monitor them and define relevant also directly affects other stakeholders, such as set by the eProseed Partners. The processes and tools to monitor the employees, local communities and investors. executive committee is responsible for performance; implementing the strategy fulfilling • Provide quarterly reports to the long-term objectives. partners in order to refine the 2020Target for improvement 2022 strategy; The implementation of eProseed • Deployment and extension of CSR target operating model has started Committee footprint; allowing the more detailed definition • eProseed will appoint a CSR Importance Stakeholders of performance and efficiency Manager. Primary Employees, Customers, of teams to deliver products and Suppliers solutions for the customers. 36 GRI 103-3 I GRI 201-1 The direct economic value Information on the creation and generated and distributed distribution of economic value (EVG&D) by eProseed provides a basic indication of in 2019 remains stable how an organisation has created wealth for stakeholders. Performance compared to 2018. The direct economic value eProseed generated for stakeholders Stakeholder 2017 2018 2019 in the reporting period included the following: group Direct economic value generated Revenues Wide variety of 10.694.589 € 21.107.140 € 20.291.803 € stakeholders Economic value distributed Operating costs Suppliers 6.918.723 € 13.899.772 € 15.459.635 € Payments to providers Shareholders 0€ 0€ 0€ of capital Payments to Government authorities 377.689 € 576.185 € 483.166 € government and citizens Employee wages Employees 2.365.435 € 3.489.879 € 3.604.260 € and benefits Community investments N/A 0€ 0€ 0€ Total 9.661.847 € 17.965.837 € 19.547.061 € Economic value retained 1.032.742 € 3.141.303 € 744.742 € 37 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 TAKING CARE OF EMPLOYEES Consider the sedentary nature of eProseed professions in the well-being of its employees Management mechanisms In relation to existing initiatives it appears that eProseed is not entirely proactive on this matter. Why is it important? Being a mostly sedentary profession it's important Evolution of management mechanisms for eProseed to provide the conditions needed for a eProseed promotes sport events, provides free entrance to gyms and also healthy and safe work environment. encourages people to eat BIO and fair‑trade fruits by providing some twice a week. The company also increased the travel insurance for employees. Target for improvement There is a clear intention to improve focus on this by executing new initiatives in the coming year. Due to continued growth, eProseed has planned to look for new office spaces to welcome current teams and new incomers. Importance Stakeholders Means to achieve target: Primary Employees, Supervisory eProseed plans to provide free entrance to gyms, raise the frequency of entity (ITM) delivery of free healthy food for employees, increase the insurance package for employees and extend these initiatives to other locations than Luxembourg. The future layout of offices will ease mobility and the selection of some furniture will include ergonomic standards. The location of the new buildings will also be defined to reduce travel time for most of employees. 38 GRI 103-3 I GRI 403-2 Performance Lost day rate: Number of work-related Any accident, fatal or non-fatal, arising or occurring in Injury rate: 2017: 0,00% injuries: the course of work. Accidents on the way to and from work 2018: 0,00% 2017: not available 2019: 0,02% ONE are included, journeys for professional reasons are included. We only consider major accidents for the calculation of work2018: 0,00% Number of lost days due to occupational related injures, i.e. any accident that leads to incapacity for 2019: 0,01% illnesses and work-related injuries, relative work with a medical certificate. Frequency of injuries, relative to the total to the total number of hours scheduled to be For accidents on the way to work, we only consider an accident time worked by all employees worked by all employees when it consists at least of a material damage and has been subject to a reporting to the ITM (Inspection du Travail et Occupational illnesses rate: Absentee rate: des MInes) and the AAA (Association d'assurance accident). 2017: 0,00% 2017: 0,20% 2018: 0,00% 2018: 2,18% 2019: 0,00% 2019: 2,47% Number of fatalities: Death of a worker arising from an occupational illness or injury Frequency of occupational illnesses Measure of days lost due to absences of any (illnesses arising from a work situation) ZERO sustained or contracted while performing work. kind (work-related or not), expressed as a relative to the total time worked by all percentage of total days scheduled to be employees worked by all employees NUMBER OF DAYS SICK LEAVE FOR NON-WORK RELATED REASONS 2017 2018 236 DAYS 60 DAYS 179 DAYS 115 DAYS 2019 Methodological note on restatement of information: When preparing this 140 11 second sustainability report, DAYS DAYS we noticed that some of the 296 294 -49% 151 information presented here were not correct. The following values disclosed in the 2019 DAYS report have been restated DAYS DAYS between compared to the 2018 report: 2018 and 2019 Number of days sick leave for non-work related reasons: 296 days instead of 33 in 2017, 294 days instead of 39 in 2018. 39 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 TAKING CARE OF EMPLOYEES Giving work its true value Management mechanisms eProseed is a non-discriminatory employer and is hiring and promoting employees based only on the qualifications and skills required for the work. The company strives Why is it important? for a diverse workforce and aims to find the best suited The wages and salaries are determined by local candidates who share the same open values. relevant competitive market data rather than by legally defined minimum wages. It's important Evolution of management mechanisms for eProseed to be aware of the current market As eProseed is growing fast, it is important to comply to offer competitive salaries as employees are its with applicable minimum wage legislation and to keep main assets. reviewing as the market is constantly evolving. The management team has also implemented a new system for recording salaries, performance reviews, including overtime hours and other elements of compensation, and to provide legally mandated benefits. Target for improvement eProseed wants to maintain its attractiveness by offering innovative benefits and maintaining comparative Importance Stakeholders benchmarks with its peers. Primary Employees Means to achieve target The HR department will continue to conduct market evolution studies, refine benchmarks and extend this to other geographies. 40 GRI 103-3 I GRI 202-1 Performance 1,5 The average entry LEVEL WAGE at eProseed is TIMES HIGHER THAN THE LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE* (intern or apprentice wages are not considered entry level wages.) * The local minimum wage in Luxembourg in 2019 was €2.508. The average entry The average entry level wage for men is level wage for women is 43% HIGHER 68% HIGHER than the local than the local minimum wage minimum wage LUXEMBOURG ENTRY LEVEL ENTRY LEVEL WAGE MEN WOMEN 41 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 418-1 COMMIT TO AN ETHICAL APPROACH OF DOING BUSINESS Guarantee the confidentiality of customers' data Management mechanisms eProseed has not implemented monitoring so far. However, eProseed is paying special attention to data handling in respect of local and international regulations. Why is it important? In a more and more regulated Evolution of management mechanisms Performance environnement, eProseed must comply During 2019, eProseed investigated how best to gain certification in with local regulations in Luxembourg and Number of respect of best management practice. It appeared that a number complaints international regulations. The company must of different ISO certifications might be good standards to meet to received also support its customers to comply with reassure customers. PSF (“Professionals of the Financial Sector”) concerning their specific regulations and circulars to certification was also highlighted as a first concrete step and is well breaches (leaks, avoid any non compliant behaviours or any respected in Luxembourg. thefts or losses) reputational risks materialising. of customer Target for improvement privacy: ZERO eProseed will finalize the administrative aspects to become a PSF certified support company. This will guarantee for customers of the financial sector that eProseed operates systems containing confidential information ethically and with strict confidentiality. The methods and processes of this PSF certification are the first steps to enter into ISO 27001. Importance Stakeholders eProseed will strengthen GDPR compliance to ensure personal data Primary Customers (including customer data) are adequately managed and protected. Means to achieve target: eProseed will work with a consultancy bureau to finalise the PSF certification. This company will have the required expertise and will guide eProseed through this journey and help to implement the monitoring and metrics to achieve the required standard. eProseed will appoint a DPO and deploy key components of GDPR. 42 GRI 102-9 I GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 204-1 COMMIT TO AN ETHICAL APPROACH OF DOING BUSINESS Foster relationships with local suppliers Management mechanisms Although eProseed has some initiatives to promote local suppliers, eProseed needs to improve. Why is it important? Evolution of management mechanisms eProseed’s GLOCAL (global but local) strategy Over time, the purchasing department has built good Performance ensures that only suppliers that respect the highest working relationships with well established local Increase in spending standards and that provide value to the local suppliers. eProseed aims for purchases to help local with local suppliers 21% environment will be engaged. ecosystems. Some providers have relationships with eProseed since its foundation. Target for improvement Main target is to continue leveraging local partners INCREASE to fulfill eProseed’s needs. It’s also important to between 2018 and 2019. ensure the well-being of suppliers’ (payment Portion of spending schedules, stability in business, etc.) and reduce with local suppliers: environmental impact. Importance Stakeholders 2017: 43% 2018: 50% Primary Suppliers 2019: 60% Means to achieve target: eProseed is continuing to use local partners where possible, for any supply needs. The company will continue to fulfil its commitments with local suppliers in due time and with fairness and deploy such practices consistently across geographies. 43 GRI 102-43 FACILITATE INCLUSIVE DIALOGUE Listening for: appropriate responses for the employees, tailor-made solutions for customers, increased transparency towards the external stakeholders In essence, eProseed is a company that operates The approach to stakeholder engagement is through strong and sustainable partnerships detailed in the chapter 2.3 Creating value for with different vendors. One good example is the stakeholders (pages 24 to 27 and the methodology collaboration with Oracle that has been one of the used in the reporting approach is explained in pillars of eProseed’s growth. It is therefore in the the methodological note 4. About the report eProseed DNA to consider relationships in the form (pages 56 to 62). of exchanges, collaborations, sharing of ideas and co-development. 44 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 402-1 FACILITATE INCLUSIVE DIALOGUE Be transparent and open Management mechanisms Although this topic is key to eProseed, the analysis of the communication channels within the company shows that communication is mainly top Why is it important? down. Plans to favour bottom-up communication Performance eProseed’s people are the main workforce and have been established and will be executed are delivering value to the company. Therefore, imminently. Notice period regarding it's important for management to get the entire operational changes 4 commitment of all employees in order to achieve Evolution of management mechanisms common goals. In order to favour bottom-up communication and bidirectional feedback between management and collaborators, an executive point of contact has been appointed. Monthly breakfast sessions have WEEKS been organised in order to have an open discussion with the employees regarding relevant topics of the moment. Importance Stakeholders Target for improvement Primary Employees eProseed encourages and puts in place mechanisms to facilitate bottom-up communication channels. Means to achieve target: To achieve this target, management will participate in team building events. eProseed also has an open-door policy for management. eProseed believes that it is important to organise worldwide staff events to exchange information about eProseed and its goals during which round tables are organised to address questions and collect feedback. eProseed will work on enhancing homeworking framework. 45 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 405-1 LEVERAGING ON DIVERSITY TO FOSTER INNOVATION AND BE CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS Building cohesion setting the example Management mechanisms EXECUTIVE Main differentiators of eProseed are the GLOCAL approach and the high level Why is it important? of expertise. These two drivers allow the company to establish offices close to its COMMITTEE eProseed is a growing global international company and has customers all around the world customers and close to well known technological centers of excellence wherever 2019 they are located. The results of this strategy create a lot of diversity in terms of and therefore it is important to recreate the same cultures, education backgrounds and technical expertise. melting pot within the company. Indeed, eProseed is Through many world-wide professional events, eProseed is promoting and sharing this promoting a GLOCAL (global-local) approach with expertise by sending its team members to present its most innovative cases. customers which brings proximity in all aspects with all customers. Evolution of management mechanisms To support its growth, eProseed opened a new office in Istanbul and reinforced its team in Abu Dhabi. Internal mobility of team members is actively promoted to strengthen relationships between the different teams and encourage them to discover new cultures and 75% 25% work environments. But also to bring the best expertise closer to customers. MALE FEMALE Participation to professional events has been expanded to include more Importance Stakeholders collaborators allowing them to share their knowhow and to be inspired by the Primary Employees & customers most recent and innovative technologies. 75% Target for improvement Means to achieve target: 2019 eProseed's strategy is also looking to establish new offices in 2020 to Some studies will be done to decide the locations reinforce its GLOCAL approach and to stay close to technical innovation centers. 25% of new offices depending on prospects' needs and Sharing technical expertise is aligned with sharing various cultural values which new innovation centers inside or outside Europe. is reflected in the company's core values. 0% More professional events will be identified to eProseed World event has been organised in February 2019 in Luxembourg. This < 30 30-50 > 50 increase local market presence of eProseed. event was a perfect example of highlighting diversity within the company. 90% of yrs. yrs. yrs. Corporate events will be encouraged within local the team members were able to join this 2 day event from all over the world and offices or cross offices to ease cultural exchanges. had the chance to present their local office to the rest of the employees. 46 GRI 103-3 I GRI 405-1 Performance Break free of professional biases for men and women Get a different perspective through different cultures 81% MALE 79% MALE 82% MALE 2017 2018 2019 BELGIAN 23% 25% 29% FRENCH 18% 20% 16% BRAZILIAN 9% 20% 13% INDIAN 2% 7% 7% PORTUGUESE 5% 7% 7% EGYPTIAN 2% 5% 5% HUNGARIAN 4% 4% 5% MOROCCAN 4% 4% 5% 2017 2018 2019 ITALIAN 2% 4% 4% ENGLISH 2% 2% 2% ESTONIAN 2% 2% 2% GERMAN 2% 2% 2% SPANISH 0% 2% 2% UKRANIAN 0% 5% 2% ALGERIAN 2% 2% 0% POLISH 2% 0% 0% SYRIAN 2% 2% 0% 19% FEMALE 21% FEMALE 18% FEMALE TURKISH 2% 2% 0% Consider the needs of all generations Equilibrium in remuneration of women and men 93% EMPLOYEES* 2018 2019 Methodological note 73% 75% on restatement of information: When preparing this Executive Committee 85% 115% 97% 109% second sustainability report, we noticed 17% 13% 13% that some of the 10% 2% 4% Senior Management 94% 106% 99% 105% information presented here were not < 30 30-50 > 50 < 30 30-50 > 50 < 30 30-50 > 50 correct. The values yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. yrs. disclosed in the 2019 Consultants and 102% 98% 103% 87% report have been Operational staff restated compared 2017 2018 2019 to the 2018 report for Ratio of remuneration of women and men compared the: Breakdown of *Executive Committee, Senior Management, Consultants and Operational staff to the average remuneration of each employee category. employees by age and by nationality. 47 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 302-1 I GRI 302-2 I GRI 302-3 USING NATURAL RESOURCES WISELY Environmental impact comes from within and without the organisation Why is it important? eProseed is concerned about climate change for future generations. Management mechanisms eProseed believes that climate change is an important topic for the As an ICT company, eProseed relies on servers to whole planet. eProseed is convinced that technology and innovation will support its activities. Technical choices are also contribute to reducing CO2 emissions and everyone should contribute to it. selected depending on environmental impacts. eProseed decided to establish its headquarters in a fully green location. The building systems take their energy from solar panels, wind turbines and a solar water heating system. The building also benefits from rain-water harvesting for toilet usage, automatic shade systems to prevent Importance Stakeholders sun raising the temperature in the offices and a Secondary Civil society, Local Geothermal AC system. communities, Customers, Suppliers Evolution of management mechanisms Despite its importance, eProseed was not very proactive on this topic. Nevertheless, some Means to achieve target: initiatives have been implemented in the area of The main objective for 2020 is to continue to reduce the consumption recycling. of energy in datacentres and to optimise eProseed solutions and products to reduce electrical consumption and storage footprint. On Target for improvement the other hand, eProseed will foster green mobility through policies eProseed will optimise the use of its datacentres and fiscal benefits and will integrate environmental aspects in the and will continue to work on innovative solutions selection and furnishing of the new offices. to reduce CO2 emissions. 48 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 302-1 I GRI 302-2 I GRI 302-3 Performance INSIDE 3% Methodology and assumptions: The energy consumption within the organisation includes the electricity consumption of eProseed's headquarter building INCREASE in Luxembourg. The measurements are based on information provided by the building owner. in the electricity consumption within the organisation (from headquarter's building) The energy consumption outside the between 2018 and 2019. organisation includes the fuel consumption 2018: 19.500 kwh of the cars made available by eProseed to its 2019: 20.000 kwh employees through an operational leasing 35% arrangement. The measures are based on the OUTSIDE 26% information provided by the leasing company. The energy consumption of the Datacentre is also included in the organisation's external DECREASE consumption (for data specific to eProseed's internal usage as well as the storage of DECREASE in Energy Intensity Ratio* from inside customer's data). The measurements are based in energy consumption outside the and outside the on the information provided by the company organisation between 2018 and 2019. organisation between hosting the Datacentre. 2018 and 2019. Electricity consumption outside the organisation (from Datacentre): The energy consumption resulting from business 2018: 38.000 kwh travels by plane or train of employees has 2019: 42.500 kwh been excluded, as eProseed does not have the information systems or processes in place Fuel consumption outside the to collect this data. organisation (from employees commuting): Methodological note: 2018: 1.191.964 kwh The conversion factors used are: 2019: 877.899 kwh 1 liter diesel = 10,74 kwh 1 liter petrol = 9,63 kwh 49 GRI 103-1 I GRI 103-2 I GRI 103-3 I GRI 305-3 USING NATURAL RESOURCES WISELY A trade-off between proximity to customers and environmental impact of travel Management mechanisms eProseed is mainly providing services in the location Performance the company is present and the executive committee Indirect (Scope 3) considers the operating model whenever it happens Why is it important? GHG emissions 12% to work with a customer in a region not yet covered. Following its GLOCAL approach, eProseed fosters eProseed also includes criteria such as the CO2 proximity with customers to be efficient in the emissions in the choice of company cars and considers creation of solutions. The obvious consequence alternative transport options. also sits in the reduction of CO2 emissions. Evolution of management mechanisms DECREASE eProseed invested in a video conference system to Between 2018 and 2019. foster the relationship with the customers and the 2018: 480 Teq CO2 teams in the other locations. 2019: 421 Teq CO2 The strategy of the corporation is to also grow the The indirect emissions of teams and the overall competences in order to have eProseed are based on the better relays in all our premises and to reduce the GHG emissions of the cars made available by eProseed Importance Stakeholders travel of the most senior collaborators. to its employees through Secondary Civil society, Local an operational leasing. The Target for improvement measures are based on an communities, eProseed will continue the ongoing transformation average number of kilometers Customers, Suppliers and strategy and reduce non essential travel that is traveled per employee for its having significant impact on the environment. daily commuting. Methodological note: Means to achieve target: The conversion factors used are based on the CO2 compensation eProseed will promote video conferencing and car-pooling as much as possible. eProseed will work on tool provided by myclimate.org for enhancing homeworking framework. an average-sized gasoil car. 50 3.2 | GOALS FOR 2020-2022 Performance 2020-2022 Targets Units 2018 2019 Evolution Total hours eProseed decided in 2019 to embrace 774* 706 of training STABILITY additional technological stacks on top of the Oracle one. To maintain the same outstanding level of expertise than the Oracle one's in the others stacks, eProseed Average hours of See will adapt its technical competencies Stand out thanks training per employee 13 hrs 13 hrs Page matrix and its training programs. to expertise per year STABILITY 33 Definition of an action plan to implement Proportion of training assessment quotation mechanism offered to men and Proportional Proportional including sustainability criteria in the women STABILITY appraisal process. Finalise the implementation of Oracle HCM Suite to allow a full reporting of the talent management cycle to the Executive See Create jobs and Number of new Committee. 31 7 Page retain employees employees Integrate HCM with other sales REGRESSION 35 management and project management tools to support robust capacity management. *2018 information restated. 51 Performance 2020-2022 Targets Units 2018 2019 Evolution Implementation of economic KPI’s and responsible executive to monitor it. A financially Quarterly report to partners and refining strong business of the strategy 2019-2022. model, able to Direct economic See Implementation of CSR action plan to invest to adapt value generated €39.072.977 €38.753.843 Page other locations. to the changing and distributed STABILITY 37 Appointment of a CSR Manager. technology Publish a Code of Ethics and Business landscape Conduct that, at a minimum, incorporates the requirements of Oracle’s “Partner Code of Ethics” and the laws applicable to business. Number of ZERO ONE work-related injuries STABILITY Number of fatalities ZERO ZERO Consider the STABILITY Involve an occupational therapist to raise sedentary nature See awareness about work postures and of the professions Injury rate 0,00% 0,01% Page adjust the ergonomics of the workstations in the well-being Occupational illnesses rate 0,00% 0,00% 39 to individual needs especially in the of employees Lost day rate 0,00% 0,02% context of offices furnishing. STABILITY Absentee rate 2,18% 2,47% Number of sick-leaves for non-professional 294 days 151 days reasons IMPROVEMENT See Average entry salary 149% 155% Page vs. local minimum wage STABILITY 41 Implement the measuring mechanism Giving work its to adequately monitor the gender true value equilibrium in remuneration packages in Average entry salary for See the different offices. men/women vs. local 51% 43% Page minimum wage 48% 68% STABILITY 41 52 Performance 2020-2022 Targets Units 2018 2019 Evolution Implement a privacy policy describing how eProseed addresses confidentiality of data in general usage (website, sales and marketing activities), delivery of Guarantee the See its productions, solutions and services Number of confidentiality of ZERO ZERO Page (handling of customers’ data), recruiting complaints customers’ data STABILITY 42 (handling of candidates’ personal data). Implement GDPR governance and procedures (with a focus on employee training and awareness). Ask suppliers who participated in the consultation for this report to participate to a joint collaborative workshop with the aim to assess the report impact and Foster relationProportion of See exchange on their future expectations. ships with local spending with 50% 60% Page suppliers local suppliers IMPROVEMENT 43 Implement a sustainable procurement policy including a selection methodology for new suppliers and an assessment methodology for existing suppliers on social and environmental criteria. Progressively and continuously expand the commitment of internal and external Listening for: stakeholders through dedicated appropriate sustainable development programs responses for the to raise awareness, provide trainings, employees, tailorNumber of and share best practices. See made solutions stakeholder groups 5 5* Page Integrate materiality analysis for the customers, reached out for STABILITY 44 approaches at each site, especially increased consultation in locations outside of Europe. transparency towards external Create an evaluation committee stakeholders composed of external stakeholders in order to jointly develop the content *No additional stakeholder consultation program took place in 2019. of future reports. 53 Performance 2020-2022 Targets Units 2018 2019 Evolution Expand the boundaries of the reporting to gradually integrate other countries in the reporting perimeter. Refine the data collection internal tool for sustainability metrics in order to quantify Notice period See and report on the 2020 progress against Be transparent regarding 4 weeks 4 weeks Page the targets set. and give visibility operational STABILITY 45 Engage further internal employees in changes the understanding and appropriation of the sustainable strategy by creating 1-pager fact sheets per SDG to present eProseed's impact, contribution indicator and progress. Review internal HR policies and draft a dedicated Human Rights policy to Building See Gender diversity at 75% 75% integrate eProseed’s commitment cohesion setting Page Board level 25% 25% towards UNGC Principle 4 to uphold the the example STABILITY 46 elimination of forced and compulsory labour in its operations and supply chain. Break free of professional Gender diversity 79%* 83% biases towards at employee level 21%* 18% STABILITY men and women Provide training to employees on preventing discrimination and Human See Rights Violations. Age diversity at 0% (<30 yrs) 0% (<30 yrs) Page Facilitate internal communication employee Board level 100% (30-50 yrs) 75% (30-50 yrs) 47 across team members via workshops Consider the (m/f) 0% (>50 yrs) 25% (>50 yrs) IMPROVEMENT addressing the topic of “understanding needs of all yourself to understand others better”. generations 17% (<30 yrs) 13% (<30 yrs) Age diversity at 76% (30-50 yrs) 75% (30-50 yrs) employee level (m/f) 7% (>50 yrs) 13% (>50 yrs) IMPROVEMENT *2018 information restated. 54 Performance 2020-2022 Targets Units 2018 2019 Evolution Get a different Participate in local initiatives around See perspective CSR and sustainability in order to Number of nationalities 17* 14 Page through different exchange with peers and share own REGRESSION 47 cultures practices and experiences. Energy consumption inside the organisation 19.500 kwh 20.000 kwh (headquarter building) STABILITY Environmental Energy consumption Decommissioning most of the impact comes outside the organisation 38.000 kwh 42.500 kwh See datacentres moving them to the Cloud. from within (data centres) REGRESSION Page and without the 49 Integrate environmental aspects in the organisation Energy consumption selection and furnishing of the new offices. outside the organisation 1.191.964 kwh 877.899 kwh (fuel consumption) IMPROVEMENT Energy Intensity Ratio (compared to the increase NA -35% in volume of activity) IMPROVEMENT Implement a monitoring framework covering the entire scope of emissions for regular professional trips and business trips. Collaborate with the leasing company about incentive mechanisms for a A trade-off Indirect (Scope 3) GHG greener vehicle float or alternative means between proximity emissions. Derivated See (electric bikes). to customers and from the number of 480 Teq CO2 421 Teq CO2 Page the environmental kms driven during 50 Implement a sustainable procurement IMPROVEMENT policy including a selection methodology impact of travels commuting for new suppliers and an assessment methodology for existing suppliers on social and environmental criteria. Enhance existing work practices policies including homeworking framework. *2018 information restated. 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 56 GRI 102-53 Contact pointSUSTAINABILITY for questions regarding REPORTthis report: csr@eproseed.com 2017-2018 GRI 102-54 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 4| ABOUT THE REPORT 57 GRI 102-45 I GRI 102-46 | GRI 102-48 I GRI 102-49 | GRI 102-50 | GRI 102-51 | GRI 102-52 | GRI 102-54 4.1 | REPORTING BOUNDARIES, PERIOD AND CONTENT This report covers the activities and sustainability 4.3 | RESTATEMENTS OF INFORMATION For this second Sustainability report, there has been performance of eProseed’s headquarters in Luxembourg no restatement of information or changes in material for the calendar year from January 1, 2019 to December 31, topics or boundaries. 4.4 | 2019. Subsidiaries have not been included in this first report, except in the first chapter 1. About eProseed (pages 8 to 19). Expanding the scope of sustainability reporting to gradually GRI CONTENT includes main operational sites and key subsidiaries is part of PRINCIPLES NOTE the continuous improvement towards greater transparency. eProseed aims to publish its Sustainability Report every This report has been prepared in accordance with year, in order to continue working towards its objectives the GRI Standards: Core option. of sustainable growth and to transparently disclose the In preparation of its first Sustainability report for company’s progress in its sustainable management and 2017‑2018, eProseed conducted a materiality analysis, performance, as well as a communication channel to actively between May 2019 and July 2019, to identify the priority engage with all stakeholder groups. topics to report on according to the stakeholder Only content that is material to eProseed’s strategy, inclusiveness principle. performance, reputation or ability to create value has been There has been no significant changes in the material included in this Sustainability report. topics identified, the materiality matrix is hence the eProseed's most recent previous report covers the period same. from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2018. The report is available here. 4.2 | SOURCES OF INFORMATION All data and information presented in this report derive from recording procedures and management system databases applied by eProseed. In case the data is processed or based on assumptions, a reference regarding the way or the method of calculation is given, according to GRI Standards. 58 GRI 102-42 | GRI 102-43 4.5 | METHODOLOGY The materiality analysis process used to prepare stakeholder engagement program, consisted of the following 6 steps: Step 1: Two assessment criteria were taken into account: TOPIC IDENTIFICATION • The impact level (from 1 not significant to 4 very In order to create a list of sustainable development significant); topics to consider in the stakeholder consultations, the • The proficiency level (from 1 – very high proficiency to methodology is based on: 4 – low proficiency). • A documentary analysis encompassing existing A rating scale of 1 to 4 was used to avoid averaging. initiatives as well as the GRI Sustainability Reporting The criteria were weighted identically (without a multiplier), Standards. giving each participant the same weight. The position • A comparative sectoral study of peers offering of the areas on the matrix’s X axis corresponds to the equivalent IT services, based on their publicly available average results for the two criteria. The result of eProseed's sustainable development reports. materiality matrix is disclosed on page 61. 50 topics were identified and subsequently underwent an impact analysis and a stakeholder assessment. Those Step 3: 50 topics are listed on page 61 in eProseed's materiality SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT matrix. ASSESSMENT AND CONTRIBUTIONS Step 2: TO THE SDGs ANALYSIS OF THE SIGNIFICANCE In order to refine the impact analysis carried out as part of developing the materiality matrix, a risk and opportunity OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND analysis for the shared-value framework chain created ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS with members of eProseed’s internal Sustainability The significance of the economic, social, and Committee. This was done according to UNGC and GRI environmental impacts of eProseed’s activities was first recommendations (Integrating the SDGs into corporate assessed through a quantitative evaluation questionnaire. reporting: a practical guide, 2018) in order to identify A quantitative survey was sent internally in order to collect contributions to the SDGs. An assessment scale from 1 the maximum number of responses. Out of the 77 invited (low) to 4 (very significant) was used to assess the positive participants, 20 responded, bringing the participation and negative impacts throughout the value chain. rate to 26%. 59 GRI 102-42 I GRI 102-43 Step 4: The pie chart below illustrates the breakdown of internal and external stakeholders which were reached out to during the consultation. IDENTIFICATION AND SELECTION OF STAKEHOLDERS The internal and external stakeholder groups were first Key business profiled by the Sustainability Committee in charge of partners Executive 1 Corporate suppliers producing the report, in accordance with the AA1000SES methodology. Management 6 Stakeholders were then positioned in eProseed’s 3 sphere of influence (their influence on the organisation and how their interactions relate to the company’s Customers responsible management, delivery of products, 9 solutions and services, and shared value creation commitments) against their sphere of dependence (how the organisation/the stakeholder are dependent on each other). Step 5: STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION For this first stakeholder engagement exercise, eProseed selected 16 external stakeholders. A qualitative questionnaire was then sent to each stakeholder representatives to assess their perception of eProseed’s priority areas in its sustainable management and the topics they perceived as most relevant. The participation rate increased to 32%, with responses received from 5 stakeholder groups. Only one rating criterion, the level of significance of the topics, was considered. A rating scale of 1 to 4 was used to avoid averaging. The stakeholders were weighted identically (without a multiplier) to give each participant equal importance. Employees 77 60 GRI 102-47 Step 6: The primary material topics are identified in bold in this list, they correspond to the dots in orange in the grey area. SELECTION OF TOPICS Through analysing the activities' economic, social, and environmental impacts and consulting internal and 1 Competencies evaluation and personal 26 Handling mechanism and transparency of development internal claims external stakeholders, the following materiality matrix was created: 2 Measures promoting and facilitating work27 Transparency in management and life balance governance structure (roles and eProseed's materiality matrix 3 Remuneration and value sharing mechanisms responsibilities, risk management, etc.) 4 Internal communication 28 Privacy data protection 5 Involvement and consultation of 29 Diversity across various seniority levels 3,50 employees 30 Regulatory compliance and legal monitoring 6 Work organisation 31 Combating conflicts of interest 3,40 7 Health and well-being at work 32 Equal remuneration for men and women 3,30 8 Labour-Management relations 33 Customer satisfaction (governance of employees' 34 Knowledge sharing to external parties (e.g.: 3,20 representation bodies & communication) with customers) 9 Professional mobility 35 Privacy & confidentiality of customers data 3,10 41 1 10 Continuous training and education 36 Product innovation 42 11 Diversity at work (equal treatment and 37 Economic performance (financially strong 3,00 35 7 28 measures against discriminations) business model, able to invest to adapt to 3 12 Fair and ethical recruitments the changing technology landscape) 2,90 5 36 INFLUENCEON STAKEHOLDERS 49 22 13 13 Safety at work 38 Reduction and optimisation of energy 37 2,80 15 18 8 14 Energy reduction and optimisation consumption in: data centres 34 27 11 12 14 (home-to-work trips) 39 Reduction and optimisation of energy 2,70 19 31 16 15 Evaluation of suppliers in ethical and social consumption in: energetical impact of data 2,60 matters (developments, configurations and code 45 16 Reduction of payment delays towards optimisation) 43 17 2,50 suppliers 40 Digital assets security (protection against 17 Evaluation of suppliers in environmental external attacks) 2,40 25 2 matters 41 Operational excellence: timeliness in the 33 2,30 44 18 Energy reduction and optimisation (business delivery of services 26 21 4 trips) 42 Operational excellence: quality in the 2,20 23 6 19 Energy reductions and optimisation (building delivery of services 46 9 29 management, energy saving computer 43 Social responsibility: operations with local 2,10 equipment) community engagement 30 10 20 Reduction and optimisation of office supplies 44 Social responsibility: Screening suppliers on 2,00 47 (office supplies, printers, paper, furniture, their social assessment 48 1,90 etc.) 45 Environmental footprint: Screening suppliers 32 21 Raise awareness and train partners in social on their environmental assessment 1,80 20 responsibility and sustainable development 46 Indirect economic impacts 22 Encourage ethical business behaviours 47 Environmental footprint: Reduction of 1,70 0,80 0,90 1,00 1,10 1,20 1,30 1,40 1,50 1,60 1,70 1,80 1,90 2,00 2,10 2,20 2,30 2,40 2,50 2,60 2,70 2,80 2,90 3,00 3,10 3,20 3,30 3,40 3,50 23 Raise awareness of human rights among GHG emissions partners 48 Environmental footprint: Reduction of SIGNIFICANCE OF ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 24 Develop collaborations and partnerships to energy consumption Primary material topics Secondary material topics Tertiary topics (non-material) promote social responsibility topics 49 Environmental footprint: Waste management 25 Participatory decision-making 50 Environmental footprint: Water management 61 GRI 102-56 4.6 | Primary topics were established using a materiality threshold determined collectively by the eProseed REVIEW & APPROVAL Sustainability Committee. The materiality threshold defining the primary material topics (orange dots within the grey area) Production of this second Sustainability report is corresponds to coordinates greater than or equal overseen by a dedicated CSR Committee at eProseed. to (horizontal axis: 2,50, vertical axis: 2,60) The members of eProseed’s CSR Committee are drawn from eProseed’s Management, Human Resources, The secondary material topics (green dots in Technology and Operations teams. eProseed has the white area) were selected collectively by conducted an internal verification of the information the Sustainability Committee in order to set provided in this report. Content is reviewed by the performance targets on environmental aspects Sustainability Committee and approved by the CEO even though the significance and impact on before publication. The objectives for the assurance stakeholders was not rated as primarily important. process included: The tertiary topics (purple dots in the white area) • Accuracy and completeness of data are the least important and were not included in • Reliability of systems used to measure and record data the scope of this report. • Reliability of the extra-financial indicators and ratios compiled from underlying data • Adherence to the GRI Standards NEXT STEPS • Presentation of a complete and fair picture in eProseed’s sustainable strategy is based on a process of the report as a whole continuous improvement and dialogue with stakeholders through a progressive stakeholder engagement program. This program will be further developed and periodically renewed to continually involve new categories of stakeholders as part of the reporting process. 62 GRI 102-55 4.7 | GRI CONTENT INDEX For the GRI Content Index Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for all disclosures included align with the appropriate sections in the body of the report. GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 68 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 11 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 12, 13 GRI 102-4 Location of operations 12, 13 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form 68 GRI 102-6 Markets served 6, 10, 12, 13 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization 6, 12 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 15, 16 GRI 102-9 Supply chain 6, 17, 43 GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 17 GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 14 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 17, 18 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 17, 18 STRATEGY GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4, 5 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 19 GOVERNANCE GRI 102-18 Governance structure 14, 23 63 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 25 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 16 GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 24, 59, 60 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24, 25, 26, 27, 44, 59, 60 GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 27 REPORTING PRACTICE GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 58 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 29, 58 GRI 102-47 List of material topics 61 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 58 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 58 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 58 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 58 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 58 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 57, 68 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 57, 58 GRI 102-55 GRI content index 63, 64, 65, 66, 67 GRI 102-56 External assurance 62 MATERIAL TOPICS ECONOMY MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36, 37 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 37 64 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 202: MARKET PRESENCE 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 40 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40, 41 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 41 MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 43 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 43 ENVIRONMENT MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 302: ENERGY 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48, 49 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 48, 49 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 48, 49 GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 49 GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 49 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity 49 MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 305: EMISSIONS 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 50 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 50 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 50 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 50 65 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER SOCIAL MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34, 35 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 35 MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 402: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 45 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 45 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 45 MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 38 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38, 39 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and abseenteeism, 39 and number of work-related fatalities MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 32 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32, 33 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 33 66 GRI 102-55 GRI DESCRIPTION OMISSION PAGE STANDARD NUMBER MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 46,47 GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 46, 47 MATERIAL TOPIC GRI 418: CUSTOMER PRIVACY 2016 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 2016 GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 42 67 GRI 102-1 I GRI 102-5 I GRI 102-53 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS Contact point for questions regarding this report: csr@eproseed.com COORDINATION & PROJECT PLANNING PHOTOGRAPHY eProseed Sustainability Committee: eProseed Jennifer Lechevallier, Flavia Cammarota, Daniel Alves, Stéphanie Noël, Jose Camacho, DESIGN & LAYOUT Julia Dowding, Sónia Silva, Fabien Henriet Saysouk graphic design METHODOLOGICAL GUIDANCE PRINTING & PRODUCTION Forethix S.à r.l. Saysouk graphic design eProseed Europe SA 13, Rue de l’Industrie L-8399 Windhof Forme juridique : Société Anonyme eProseed Europe SA is a privately-held company established in 2003, which started its activities in November 2009 under the commercial laws of Luxembourg as a Société Anonyme (RCSL : B96487). All interests in the company are held by its CEO and members of Management Board, all of whom are individuals. 68 69 70 71
