UN Global Compact Annual Report June 2020 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 1 June 2020 To our Stakeholders, We are pleased to confirm that A|B Dry reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Frederique Buurman CEO 2. Introduction In 2019, A|B Dry decided to take up the challenge issued by the United Nations by pursuing and promoting the Sustainable Development Goals set out in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development: the UN Global Goals. The Goals in question are addressed to the business community and ask everyone to do their part in creating a sustainable future from an environmental and social standpoint. In addition to conducting a thorough analysis of its impacts on the various Goals, A|B Dry seeks to implement a stakeholder engagement programme with the aim of raising the greatest possible awareness of the Global Goals and the messages that they seek to convey. Our participation is based on the conviction that we all can contribute, in our daily lives, to pursuing sustainable development, but in order to do so we all must be informed and aware of the messages that the Sustainable Development Goals seek to convey. 3. Communication on Progress (COP) covering the period 2019 – 2020 1. Human rights Principle 11 –– A|B Principle A|B Dry Dry supports supports and respects the and respects the protection protection ofof internationally internationally proclaimed proclaimed human rights human rights; Principle 22 –– A|B Principle makes sure Dry makes A|B Dry sure that that we are not we are not complicit complicit in in human abuses, not rights abuses, human rights not even even indirectly indirectly. Commitments and activities A|B Dry is committed to ensuring human rights are respected within its organization and supplierbasis. Actions implemented The hiring/remuneration/advancement/training and termination policy of our group is fair and transparent, no child or forced labour is used. Our production facility where most of the workforce is concentrated is regularly audited by the Management as well as international clients. One of the areas of focus of the local management is to assess and identify workers’ needs including those linked to work-life balance. This is done via interviews and regular dialogue with staff members. All staff members are offered yearly health checks. A grievance/complaints box is made available to all workers. Workers can make complaints anonymously through this box, via their trade union representatives, via their supervisors or directly to management who is regularly available on the production site as well as corporate offices. Measurement of Outcomes Employee turnover in 2019 was 6%. No report of harassment or discrimination was reported in 2019. No investigation, legal case, ruling or fine related to human right abuse in the workplace has ever been reported. 2. Labour Principle 3 – A|B Dry upholds the freedom of association of workers and the effective recognition of Principle the right 3to–collective A|B Dry upholds the freedom of association of workers and the effective recognition of bargaining; the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 A|B Dry upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 4 A|B Dry upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 A|B Dry upholds the effective elimination of child labour; Principle 5 A|B Dry upholds the effective elimination of child labour Principle 6 A|B Dry upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Principle 6 A|B Dry upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. occupation Commitments and activities A|B Dry is committed to a fair transparent hiring policy. Trade Union representation is available at all sites as well as safe workplace facilities. Actions implemented The company is ISO 9001-2015 certified. All staff members have a valid labor contract and have access to trade union representation. The company implements a clear wage scale and applies/exceeds the minimum legal wages standards. There is no income disparity between men & women at equal position. A workplace environment and safety prevention system is in place with potential risks identified and equipment needs regularly analyzed and updated. Accidents are recorded (frequency or severity) as part of the Management System. Measurement of Outcomes Regular meetings are held between management and the trade union representatives. One yearly meeting is held with all the company staff. All wages, holiday, sick leave, maternity leave are in accordance and consistent with the Vietnamese Law. Working hours are also consistent with Vietnamese law and industry standards. Overtime is voluntary and in accordance with Vietnamese laws and regulations. No accident was reported in 2019, additional safety equipment was installed after risk identification. 3. Environment Principle 7 – A|B Dry supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 7 – A|B Dry supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 – A|B Dry undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 8 – A|B Dry undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 – A|B Dry encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 – A|B Dry encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. technologies Commitments and activities A|B Dry is committed to respecting the environment all throughout the value chain and expects the same from suppliers. Actions implemented Greater environment responsibility – reduction of waste / NC products and reporting of wastage. Responsible sourcing from local/nearby origins. Use of recyclable raw materials to make a recyclable product. Minimum carbon footprint at the production facility. Production waste either treated (water) or recycled (plastics). Measurement of Outcomes All environmental permits and licences have been re-issued in accordance with local regulations. Production waste and NC goods % are less than 0.3% of total production / usage. 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – A|B Dry works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitments and activities A|B Dry works in compliance with the highest professional and ethical standards in all its locations. Actions implemented Continuous training of all staffs on anti-corruption policy. All main monetary transactions (involving suppliers and customers) conducted by head office located in country rated low on the corruption index on behalf of its overseas affiliates. Employees dealing with suppliers or service providers are not allowed to accept any gift unless of a reasonable value. Any gift received to be declared and used as part of the company year-end raffles which takes place each year. Employees are not allowed to accept of give kickbacks/incentives/commissions when obtaining or awarding contracts. Suppliers are aware that offer/payment of any kickback/incentive/commission for obtaining contracts will result in immediate termination of the relationship. Measurement of Outcomes All dealings with authorities or any official body are made in writing to minimize risk of corruption. No change of supplier due to corruption issue.
