COMPANY INVESTORS VALUES CAREERS NEWS Social Responsibility  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress Index GC-Active AT&T has a longstanding commitment to environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, More ESG Indexes including human rights, fair labor practices, the environment and anti-corruption. As a signatory Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), AT&T supports the UNGC’s ten principles on these topics. We seek to apply these principles in the strategy and operations of our company, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and our action on these topics is expressed throughout our reporting materials—including the (SASB)  CEO letter in our annual Corporate Responsibility Summary. The index below describes the Task Force on Climate-related Financial location of relevant content in our reporting, and our Policies page lists foundational policies Disclosures (TCFD)  that govern our operating companies and put our values into action. U.N. Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs)  Human Rights UNGC Principle Reference Links 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human See our Human Rights, Our Corporate Governance rights. and Responsible Supply Chain issue briefs. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. See our Human Rights, Our Corporate Governance and Responsible Supply Chain issue briefs. Labor Standards UNGC Principle Reference Links 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the See our Human Rights, Our Workforce and right to collective bargaining. Responsible Supply Chain issue briefs. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. See our Responsible Supply Chain and Human Rights issue briefs. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. See our Responsible Supply Chain and Human Rights issue briefs. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and See our Responsible Supply Chain, Our Workforce occupation. and Human Rights issue briefs. Environment UNGC Principle Reference Links 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. See our Environment, Health & Safety Compliance and Climate Change issue briefs. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. See our Environment, Health & Safety Compliance; Climate Change; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Energy Management; Product Life Cycle; Waste Management and Water Management issue briefs. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly See our Climate Change issue brief and AT&T 10x technologies. Goal website. Anti-Corruption UNGC Principle Reference Links 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. See our Responsible Supply Chain and Our Corporate Governance issue briefs. AT&T CSR Join the conversation using #ATTimpact   We want to hear from you! Contact Us Sign up for our Latest Top News Email Address* First Name Last Name Email Address First Name Last Name Subscribe  Environment  Society  Governance  Reporting  Workforce Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Contact Us Do Not Sell My Personal Information © 2020 AT&T Intellectual Property. All rights reserved. PDFmyURL.com convert URLs, web pages or even full websites to PDF online. Easy API for developers!
