INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FOR A BETTER LIFE 2019 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction ABOUT THIS REPORT CO NTE NTS FEATURES OF THE REPORT This is the Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction(DHIC) introducing the various systems, activities and accomplishments pursued by the company for the purpose of enhancing its social and financial sustainability. The report includes not only a detailed description of DHIC's business strategies and the new businesses regarded as future growth drivers, but also the activities and performance results related to the company's sustainability efforts in the areas of environment and society. DHIC has published the said report annually as a way to continuously communicate with our stakeholders. Company Overview CRITERIA OF REPORT CEO’s Message 002 This report has been prepared based on the Core Options in GRI(Global Reporting Company Profile 004 Initiative) Standards which is the global standard for report preparation. Through the verification by a third party, it has been confirmed that the report has met the corresponding requirements. The details of how the GRI standards were met can be Business Strategy checked through the GRI Index in Appendix. In addition, the industry standard data Market Changes & Response 008 that is required by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board(SASB) has been Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio 010 adequately reflected in the report, while the principles of the UNGC CoP(Communication Reinforcement of Business Competitiveness 024 on Progress) have also been adhered to. PERIOD AND SCOPE OF THE REPORT CSR Focus Areas The report was prepared on the basis of financial and non-financial performances from Core Issues 032 January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. The significant matters that could affect the Creation of Social Value by DHIC 042 decision-making of stakeholders were covered for the period up to the first half of 2020. CSR Aligned with UN SDGs 044 Some quantitative performance data show the data for three years so that the recurring trend may be observed. The financial performance data has been prepared using consolidated financial statements based on the K-IFRS(Korean International Financial CSR Foundation Reporting Standards). In addition, if the information presented in the previous report is Governance Structure 048 either corrected or rewritten, its contents are explained with footnotes. The scope of the Ethical Management 050 report includes all projects of DHIC, and domestic and overseas projects. If necessary, it Green Management 052 includes the activity and performance of overseas subsidiary companies. Safety & Health 056 Talent Management 060 REPORT VERIFICATION Business Management for Human Rights 062 To ensure the reliability and quality of the contents of this report, the non-financial Mutual Growth 064 information has been verified by an external agency. The financial information has been Quality Management 066 reviewed by an external auditor, with the audit results being correspondingly reflected. Customer Satisfaction 068 The non-financial information was verified by KMR(Korea Management Registrar). Each Information Security 070 verification opinion can be checked from page 94 to page 99. Social Contribution 072 Doosan Day of Community Service 076 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The report will be published and distributed in Korean and English languages. It is available for downloading in PDF format from the website of DHIC. Any opinions or Appendix comments can be conveyed through the contact number listed below. Communication with Stakeholders 078 2019 Integrated Report of Participation by Stakeholders 079 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance Summary 080 Risk Management 092 Human Rights Policy 093 Independent Auditors’ Report 094 www.doosanheavy.com Third Party’s Assurance Statement 098 Address: 465, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul Environment Guideline 100 Phone: 82-2-513-6365 SASB Index 101 Department in Charge: Credo/HRD Team GRI Content Index 102 Group Introduction Doosan Credo CSR Value System CO NTE NTS Faith and Philosophy of DHIC Company with Longest History in Korea Doosan Aspiration Proud Global Doosan As Korea's first modern conglomerate, Doosan has undergone numerous changes throughout Doosan its long history spanning 124 years. In 1896, Korea's first modern store the Park Seung-Jik Store Credo To be added to the Global 100 CSR Goal Most Sustainable Companies in the World Index* opened its doors at Baeogae(today’s Jongno 4-ga in Seoul). Since then, Doosan has gone through *As announced at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland continuous change and growth for one century. The Doosan Credo embodies the management philosophy and business CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth Globally Recognized ISB Leader method that have been upheld by Doosan for the last one hundred years. Doosan has been leading the power generation market with its universally recognized The Doosan Credo contains 9 core values. The core values serve as the People-Centric technological prowess in this field. The company also holds a proven track record and core standard for all decision making and actions implemented by Doosan. Company Overview technologies in the area of seawater desalination and as such, is further solidifying its position Doosan aims to achieve its ultimate goals based on these core values. The Reliable Operations as a global leader. Doosan currently owns a total of 17 world-class products. With its unparalleled Doosan Credo consists of the Aspiration and Core Values of Doosan. CEO’s Message 002 CSR Pillars technology, Doosan is solidifying its position as a global ISB leader in the areas of power Company Profile 004 Responsible Engagement generation, desalination and construction equipment. CSR Value Creation Business Strategy Aspiration Advancing to Become an Innovation Pursuing Global Top Tier Company Doosan has been active in 14 countries around the world, particularly in the regions of Europe, 01. Market Changes & Response 008 Nurture a culture respecting human rights Asia, and America. We do not intend to rest on our laurels, but seek to continuously pursue Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio 010 Doosan's ultimate goal is to become a “Proud Global Doosan.” “Proud Reinforcement of Business Competitiveness 024 change. Doosan aims to provide differentiated products and services, which instill pride and trust 02. Fair employment in our customers. Our goal is to become a global company that is always there for our customers. Global Doosan” refers to the aspiration of having all stakeholders, including the employees, feel pride in being associated with Doosan. For 03. Establish a safe work environment CSR Focus Areas employees, this means feeling pride for being a member of the Doosan Group Vision Core Issues 032 organization, and for customers, it means becoming proud consumers of 04. Enhance fair operations and supply chain CSR Creation of Social Value by DHIC 042 Doosan's quality products and services. For shareholders, it would mean CSR Aligned with UN SDGs 044 being a proud shareholder of a company that provides fairly generated, 05. Green Management & Climate Change Response high profits. CSR Priorities 06. Strengthen product / service responsibility CSR Foundation People-Oriented Business Proud Establishment of Global 07. Governance Structure 048 Mgmt, the Source of Our Standards-Complying Incorporate business value to sophisticate community Global Competitiveness Global Doosan Processes Core Ethical Management 050 Values involvement activities Green Management 052 08. Safety & Health 056 Reinforce disclosure of corporate information (CSR) Talent Management 060 The Doosan employee seeks to uphold the 9 core values of the Doosan 09. Business Management for Human Rights 062 Credo wherever Doosan business takes place to ensure that a Proud Implement business that create CSR values Mutual Growth 064 Global Doosan can be realized. The way we do our business, the way we Quality Management 066 10. treat one another and the way we work together with our partners are all Improve CSR performance monitoring Customer Satisfaction 068 Overview of Doosan Group Companies embodied in the core values. Those nine core values of Doosan are as Information Security 070 follows. Develop strong CSR governance(execution system/ Enabler Social Contribution 072 commitment of management and employees) Doosan Day of Community Service 076 Doosan Group 9 Core Values(People, Cultivating People, Integrity and Transparency, Inhwa, Customers, Technology and People Integrity and Transparency Customer Profit Safety & Environment Doosan Values Appendix Doosan Corporation Subsidiaries Auxiliary Institutions Innovation, Profit, Social Responsibility, Safety and Environment) Communication with Stakeholders 078 Doosan Electro-Materials ISB1 CSB2 Doosan Yonkang Foundation Doosan Heavy Industries & 2019 Integrated Report of Participation by Stakeholders 079 Doosan Industrial Vehicle Doosan Solus Hancom Doosan Art Center Global CSR Initiative Construction Cultivating People Harmony Technology & Innovation Social Responsibility Demand of Society Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Performance Summary 080 Doosan Mottrol Doosan Infracore Doosan Robotics Doosan Magazine Doosan Leadership Institute (DLI) (UN SDGs·ISO 26000·UN Global Compact·GRI) Risk Management 092 Doosan Corp. Retail Doosan Bobcat Doosan Mobility Innovation Doosan Bears Human Rights Policy 093 Independent Auditors’ Report 094 Doosan Fuel Cell Power Doosan E&C Doosan Logistics Solutions Doosan Cuvex Third Party’s Assurance Statement 098 Doosan Digital Innovation Doosan Fuel Cell Doosan Mecatec Neoplux Environment Guideline 100 Oricom SASB Index 101 1. Infrastructure Support Business 2. Consumer & Service Business GRI Content Index 102 CEO Message COMPAMY OVERVIEW Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, contract to supply our 5.5MW wind turbine for the project. We have also I sincerely appreciate the steady support you have provided to Doosan been developing a 8MW model as a national project, which will enable us Heavy Industries & Construction(DHIC) throughout these difficult times, to expand our product lineup. We expect to see significant growth in the thereby helping us to overcome operational challenges and prepare a gas turbine and wind power markets once the 9th Basic Plan for Electricity foundation for new growth. Through this Integrated Report, we would like Supply & Demand is released by the Korean government this year. to update you on our current status and plans, as well as demonstrate our DHIC is also participating in a demonstration project for Korea’s first resolve to taking a new leap forward toward future growth. hydrogen liquefying plant. We will build a plant to produce and liquefy hydrogen at our Changwon headquarters in cooperation with Gyeongnam DHIC has taken decisive, yet painstaking measures to overcome the Province, City of Changwon and the Korea Industrial Complex Corporation; current day difficulties and establish a foundation for new growth. and by doing so, we seek to actively contribute to the government’s plans Last year the world economy continued to experience low growth, to shift to a hydrogen economy. while the power generation industry also suffered from a continuous We aim to apply our self-developed digital solutions, such as the power BUSINESS STRATEGY slump. This has resulted in an increasingly fierce market competition, plant optimization solution and early warning system for power plants, while factors like the U.S.-China trade dispute, geopolitical risks and to a wider range of projects that include wind power and water projects, coronavirus outbreak have caused the world economy to become plagued and leverage this to win a larger number of new projects. As for the 3D by rising uncertainties. printing business, we plan to foster growth of this area by developing At this critical juncture, DHIC has also been undergoing its own share new lightweight materials applicable to the aviation and national defense of challenges. Sales has dropped from 7.7 trillion won in 2012(based industries. on separate financial statements) to about 3.7 trillion won in 2019. In We will do our utmost to expedite our business development efforts to order to bolster our weakened financials, we have been going through ensure that these new businesses can emerge as new growth engines for the painstaking process of implementing aggressive measures aimed at DHIC and ultimately produce financial results in the near future. recovery. Even under such difficult circumstances, we were able to lay the We will diligently and steadfastly fulfill our social responsibilities as a corporate citizen. CSR FOCUS AREAS foundation for future growth through the cultivation of innovative new projects. We have completed the final assembly of a gas turbine for power As a member of society, we will faithfully carry out our responsibilities to plants, which is being developed as a government-backed project. We contribute to a better world. To achieve this goal, DHIC has established have also acquired international certification for a 5.5MW wind turbine. strategies and policies based on the ESG(Environmental, Social and Projects have already been successfully secured for commercialization of Governance) criteria and applied this across our entire business. Owing these products. Doosan Babcock has the significant accomplishment of to such efforts, as of 2019, we were included in the list of DJSI(Dow having been awarded a contract to participate in the decommissioning of Jones Sustainability Indices) Korea companies for six consecutive a nuclear power plant. years. We also received an “A-rating” for eight consecutive years in the ESG assessment by the Korea Corporate Governance Service. DHIC is We will step up our efforts to restructure our business portfolio around also actively contributing to the fulfillment of the United Nations’ 2030 environment-friendly technology, through which we expect to drive SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) through our core projects related strong financial results. to sustainable energy and clean water. CSR FOUNDATION DHIC is pursuing the mid-to-long term strategy of expanding our business Though it has not always been smooth sailing, DHIC has been able portfolio by winning increasingly more new projects leading up to the year to overcome many hardships and build a solid market presence as 2024. To this end, DHIC has been actively pursuing not only environmenta competitive enterprise in the global power industry. While we may friendly energy projects involving gas turbines and renewable energy, still face numerous challenges, I am confident that with the combined but also new businesses, such as power plant services, hydrogen and 3D efforts of all our DHIC people, we will be able to successfully stabilize the printing related projects. business. We will seize this opportunity to re-emerge as a sustainable The company is scheduled to deliver Korea’s first locally-manufactured company that is equipped with sufficient capabilities to persevere even gas turbine to the Gimpo Combined Heat & Power(CHP) Plant of Korea in the face of rapid environmental changes and multiple crises. Western Power Co. Moreover, DHIC is also a member of the “Task Force for Development of Korean Standard Gas-Fired Combined Cycle Power I trust that we can look forward to your continued interest and support. 2019 Integrated Report of Plant,” a task force that was launched last February by the Ministry of Thank you. Trade, Industry and Energy. DHIC, along with fellow members that include APPENDIX five other power generation companies and the Korea Institute of Energy Technology Evaluation and Planning, are taking part in the development Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction of a Korean standard gas-fired combined cycle power plant model and the execution of several demonstration projects. Having also won several contracts for the maintenance of domestic gas turbines, such as the Hallim Combined Cycle Power Plant and Ulsan Combined Cycle Power Chairman & CEO Geewon Park Plant, DHIC is also expanding its services business. DHIC has been selected as the preferred bidder for the 100MW Hallim 002 Offshore Wind Farm Project on Jeju Island and expects to soon sign the 003 GLOBAL LEADER Company Profile Doosan History Proud COMPAMY OVERVIEW Global Doosan IN POWER & WATER The Beginning & Challenges 1962~1980 Growing & Developing 1981~2000 Growth into a Global Enterprise 2001~2011 Reinforcement of Eco-Friendly Portfolio 2012~ Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s business vision, “Global Leader in Power & Water,” 1962 Foundation of company 1982 Completed construction of 2001  Became privatized and name changed to 2016  Acquired the U.S.-based ESS(Energy expresses the company’s willpower to become an enterprise that leads the global power generation Changwon General Machinery Plant Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Storage System) specialist 1Energy (the world’s largest) Systems(Currently Doosan GridTech) and water markets. In order to become an innovative global leader that offers services that improve 2006 A  cquired Mitsui Babcock and secured boiler technology 2017  Obtained 5.5MW wind turbine technology the customers’ quality of life, we strive to meet the highest standards in all aspects, such as cutting2009  Acquired Skoda Power and secured Acquired the U.S.-based gas turbine service provider ACT(Currently DTS) steam turbine technology. edge technology, competitive costs, quality, sales and profitability, cultivation of global talents and Completed construction of Doosan Vina corporate culture, all the while putting the Doosan Credo into practice. In addition, as a global leader, Manufacturing Plant in Vietnam 2011  Acquired AE&E Lentjes and secured we strive to effectively respond to the rapidly changing global technology trends and lead the market CFB technology. BUSINESS STRATEGY Acquired the water treatment solution changes. provider Enpure Limited. Declaration of the Doosan Credo Company Established September 20, 1962 Representative Directors Geewon Park, Yeonin Jung, Hyounghee Choi Doosan Lentjes Total Assets Business Type Manufacturer of Machineries and Equipment KRW Headquarters 22 Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon City, Doosan Power Systems 24.8 trillion Location Gyeongnam Province Seoul Office 465 Gangnamdaero, Seocho-gu, Seoul Doosan IMGB Doosan Babcock Revenue KRW Doosan Enpure 15.6 trillion Doosan HF Controls Doosan Skoda Power Doosan Power Systems India Seoul Office CSR FOCUS AREAS Number of Employees Operating Profit 6,721 KRW Doosan Vina Changwon HQ Doosan Power Services America 1.07 trillion Doosan GridTech National Quality Meisters *Consolidated Accounting as of the end of 2019 Doosan Turbomachinery Services 21 Korea Meisters 10 CSR FOUNDATION *As of the end of 2019 Global Network 2019 Integrated Report of Overseas Subsidiaries/Branches/R&D Center APPENDIX Classification Count Entity / Branch Name Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Asia Doosan Power Systems India(India), Doosan Vina(Vietnam) Doosan Power Systems(UK), Doosan Babcock(UK), Doosan Enpure(UK), Overseas Subsidiaries 12 Europe/Africa Doosan Lentjes(Germany), Doosan Skoda Power(Czech Republic), Doosan IMGB(Romania) Doosan Power Services America(U.S), Doosan HF Controls(U.S), America Doosan GridTech(U.S), Doosan Turbomachinery Services(U.S) Riyadh, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Kuwait, New Delhi, Mumbai, Hanoi, Jakarta, Taipei, Manila, Bangkok, Tokyo, Overseas Entities, Asia Beijing, Shanghai, Doosan Power Systems Arabia(Saudi Arabia), Middle East O.C Branches/ 24 Europe/Africa Cairo, Frankfurt, Johannesburg Offices(Sales Office/ 004 Other) America New Jersey, Newington(U.S.), Pittsburgh, Corvallis, Santiago 005 R&D Center 5 Dammam R&D(Saudi Arabia), Boiler R&D Center(UK), Turbine R&D Center(Czech Republic), ATSE(Switzerland), ATSA(U.S) BUSINESS STRATEGY With the shift to green energy, such as gas-fired power and renewable energy, picking up speed at both home and abroad, DHIC has been continuously focusing its efforts on the R&D and commercialization of related technologies. COMPAMY OVERVIEW Market Changes & STRATEGIC DIRECTION OF DOOSAN HEAVY INDUSTRIES & CONSTRUCTION Response Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio DHIC has made continuous efforts to convert our business portfolio in response to the climate change and greenhouse gas reduction agenda of the international community and the shifting energy policies of the government. To preemptively respond to the environmental changes in the energy sector, DHIC has expanded R&D efforts and ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGES IN GLOBAL ENERGY INDUSTRY investments in new projects that support the energy transition policy of the government; closed M&A deals and The international community is increasingly focused on preventing the hazards of global warming and climate business agreements, and performed organizational restructuring. As a result, DHIC is about to become the fifth change through measures that include reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Based on the 2015 Paris Agreement, company in the world to have accomplished developing a gas turbine model and has already signed a contract for a renewable energy shall lead the global power generation market, conforming to the new climate regime which will demonstration project. DHIC is aiming at dramatically increasing its new project wins by 2024, particularly centering BUSINESS STRATEGY start from the year 2021. In addition, it is forecasted that the demand for gas will rise, given that it is regarded as an around gas turbines and new renewable energy(i.e. wind and solar power). alternative fuel to substitute coal and will be a complementary energy source for renewable energy. Korea has made an international commitment to reduce greenhouse gases by 37% from BAU levels by 2030; and Enhancement of Project Delivery Capabilities is preparing to submit the 2050 Long Term Low Carbon Power Generation Strategy by the end of 2020. Accordingly, DHIC has been restructuring its business in line with the trends of the global power industry and the the government announced the energy transition policy in October 2017 and relevant supporting policies aimed at energy transition policy of the government. From the casting and forging of basic industrial materials to gradually transitioning to clean and safe energy. As such, the country will phase-out coal and nuclear power and the manufacturing and supply of power generation facilities and seawater desalination plants, DHIC has dramatically increase the share of renewable energy. Hydrogen is also being considered as a next generation energy taken proactive efforts to strengthen its competitiveness in its existing business areas as well, such as construction, source. EPC and Water. In particular, existing DHIC technology is being leveraged and applied to new businesses to differentiate the DHIC business from that of others. DHIC has also continuously built up its competitiveness in winning new orders through the diversification of the global market, improvement of operations, and increased efficiency of the organization. CSR FOCUS AREAS Strategic Direction of DHIC 01. Market Changes & Response ∧ Continuation of low growth ∧ Reinforcement of environmental restrictions & Increased awareness of eco-friendly products Business Strategy ∧ Rising water-related risks, such as water shortage Strategic Direction Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio ∧ Shift to eco-friendly energy & Reinforcement of GLOBAL CSR FOUNDATION commercialization efforts TREND ∧ Strengthening of core competencies through M&As ∧ Organizational restructuring to implement business strategies aligned with energy transition Enhancement of Project Delivery Capabilities Global Leader ∧ Diversification  of markets through global partnerships INDUSTRY in Power & Water ∧B usiness differentiation by applying advanced technology TREND to synergy-creating new businesses ∧R eduction of fixed costs through improved operations and efficiently run organization APPENDIX ∧ Continuation of low oil prices ∧ Increase in private funding ∧ Accelerated introduction of Industry 4.0 ∧ Expansion of distributed energy generation ∧ Increase in software/ICT-applied services COMPAMY OVERVIEW Gas Turbine KOREA’S FIRST DOMESTICALLY MANUFACTURED GAS TURBINE MODEL FOR POWER PLANTS DHIC has accomplished the feat of developing Korea’s first independently-manufactured gas turbine model. This means that Korea will become the fifth country in the world, following after the U.S, Germany, Japan and Italy, to own technology for manufacturing large-size gas turbines for power plants. All the gas turbines currently being operated in the existing domestic power plants were procured from overseas. As such, when problems arise, it is difficult to obtain a quick response and service. Moreover, in BUSINESS STRATEGY consideration of the future market for gas turbines and the cost of procuring equipment and materials from overseas and their services(reached 36 trillion won as of 2018), securing domestic technology for gas turbines has long been an important national priority. In 2005, DHIC successfully completed the government-led project of developing a 5MW high-efficiency gas turbine for power plants, which it had designated as a new future business. In 2013, DHIC embarked on the development of a largecapacity, high-efficiency gas turbine, and thus, equipped itself with its very own design system, testing infrastructure and manufacturing process. Subsequently, DHIC has been working on the development and testing of a 270MW gas turbine in collaboration with 22 domestic colleges and research centers(with governmental support) and 230 small to medium-sized companies. DHIC completed the basic design in July 2017; the detailed design in 2018; and construction in 2019. DHIC will continue to develop gas turbine products which boast of top-tier performance and efficiency. CSR FOCUS AREAS 02. Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio Gas Turbine Model Developed Independently by Doosan Maintenance Service for DTS Gas Turbine in U.S. Business Strategy MAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS CONCERNING GAS TURBINE After the design and manufacturing of the 270MW Gas Turbine, the final assembly was completed on November 2019. The next step will be a testing of the performance and reliability at the company Test Shop. After the testing, it is scheduled to be installed at the Gimpo Combined Heat & Power(CHP) Plant of CSR FOUNDATION the Korea Western Power Company, where a demonstration run will take place. In addition, DHIC is now capable of supplying locally-manufactured large-size gas turbines and performing maintenance and the replacement of parts. DHIC has received orders for the fuel conversion project of the Hallim Combined Cycle Power Plant and the maintenance of Ulsan Combined Cycle Power Plant. The maintenance of the exhaust cylinder of three gas turbines installed at Ulsan Combined Cycle Power Plant Units No. 4 to 6, another project won by DHIC, was the first case in which a local Korean company had emerged victorious over global competitors in winning a maintenance service contract. In addition, in May 2019, through the signing of an MOU with an independent power producer(IPP) named Midland Cogen Venture(MCV) in the U.S., DHIC began cooperating with MCV on various areas, such as on the operating time improvement/ maintenance of MCVoperated gas turbines, as well as in the area of hybrid power generation, which involves combining renewable energy(wind power and ESS) with gas-fired power generation, and also in the area of repowering services, where new gas turbines developed by DHIC are installed at existing power plants. FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR GAS TURBINE BUSINESS APPENDIX DHIC is in the process of developing a gas turbine model which has been upgraded from the initial model currently being tested. The upgraded model will be a 380MW gas turbine model boasting of a world-class performance. In the future, DHIC is scheduled to conduct several demonstrations and pilot projects on the latest gas turbine and the Power Package Solution developed for combined cycle power plants. As part of the government-led project of promoting the domestic production of materials, parts and equipment, DHIC will be working on the development of technology related to high temperature parts and steam turbine parts used in combined cycle power plants and continuously seek to enhance the performance. Additionally, DHIC aims to increase its share in the services market through the expansion of the services and performance upgrades offered on gas turbine products manufactured by other global OEM companies. New Renewable Energy & Zero Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio COMPAMY OVERVIEW Emission Power Plant Projects TOTAL SOLUTION PROVIDER FOR WIND POWER The domestic wind power market is forecast to grow to the scale of 17.7GW(4.3GW for onshore, 13.4GW for offshore) over the next 30 years in accordance with the Korean government’s Renewable Energy 3020 Implementation Plan. The global wind power market is also expected to grow from 694GW in 2020 to 1,341GW by 2030, thereby recording an annual growth rate of 6.8% on average. DHIC is a Total Solution Provider that can provide customers with the best solution based on a proven BUSINESS STRATEGY track record. As part of the 30MW Tamra Offshore Wind Farm project, DHIC was involved in the analysis of wind conditions, selection of site, provision of materials and equipment, the EPC and O&M(Operation & Maintenance) services, review of project feasibility and stakeholder investments for the project development. In addition, DHIC has acquired competitiveness in offshore wind power projects, having been recognized as the sole Korean company with EPC project delivery experience for offshore wind farms(i.e. 60MW Southwest Offshore Wind Farm). MAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR WIND POWER BUSINESS In 2018, DHIC won the contract for the 18MW Jangheung Onshore Wind Farm project using its 3MW wind turbine model after completing construction of the 46MW Yeongheung Wind Farm II in 2013. This brings DHIC’s total onshore wind power portfolio size to 141MW. DHIC also received an order for the 60MW Southwest Offshore Wind Farm project, which brings our total accumulated offshore wind power portfolio size to 96MW. In 2020, DHIC anticipates winning a contract for a large wind farm on Jeju Island. DHIC has acquired competitiveness in CSR FOCUS AREAS the offshore wind power sector by obtaining the DEWI-OCC(Germany) international certification for its 5.5MW offshore wind turbine model. DHIC has already developed a 3.3MW model derived from this model. DHIC is planning to introduce the 5.5MW model to the 100MW offshore wind farm project on Jeju Island. In addition, DHIC is striving to develop a 8MW model, following the recent market trend favoring large-size wind turbine models optimized for Korea’s low wind speed environment. DHIC aims to apply it to large wind farms after improving the annual power generation amount and operational efficiency to be superior over that of overseas companies. Jeonnam On Land Wind Power Complex THE NEW FUTURE OF POWER GENERATION, ESS & SOLAR POWER CSR FOUNDATION DHIC has been providing a total technology solution, including platform-based control system software to ESS(Energy Storage System) and DER(distributed energy resources), so that customers are able to convert crisis to opportunity and generate profit in the rapidly-evolving energy industry. Based on the project delivery capabilities acquired through technology development efforts and the establishment of companies, such as Doosan GridTech, DHIC has been handling the overall implementation of ESS projects with a combined installed capacity of 106MWh(including an interlinked 4MW PV). These projects include the systems used for the purpose of frequency control, connecting with solar power systems and peak power reduction. DHIC has been raising its competitiveness in the area of ESS through the interconnection of such technologies with large-scale solar power generation. At the 5th Global Energy Storage Conference held in June 2019, DHIC was recognized for its successful implementation of a10MWh ESS at the Beacon Solar Plant in California(the largest of its kind in 2019 Integrated Report of the State) back in 2018 by being awarded the ‘Energy Storage Project of the Year’ award. This demonstrated the innovation, safety, and operational efficiency of DHIC’s ESS System to the world. APPENDIX MAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR ESS & SOLAR POWER BUSINESS DHIC expects to win a project order to install and deliver Korea’s largest solar power plant and a connected Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction ESS facility on Anmyeondo Island in Taean County of the Chungnam Province. With the application of DHIC’s ESS control technology, DHIC plans to establish a stable and efficient PV + ESS renewable energy complex. Using the performance of the Anmyeondo Island facility as a reference project, DHIC aims to present an ESSlinked renewable energy model to the domestic solar power businesses. In 2020, DHIC won a contract for a 150MWh ESS project in Wandoan, Queensland in Australia and will be starting on the construction in the latter In June 2019, at the 5th Global Energy Storage Conference held at the Seoul Grand half of the year. DHIC also expects to implement a solar power plant-linked ESS in Florida and supply a control Hilton Hotel, DHIC received the ‘Energy Storage Project of the Year’ award in recognition of its successful implementation of a 10MWh ESS at the Beacon Solar 012 system software based on the contract it signed with 8 Minute Energy, the largest solar power developer in Energy Storage Project Plant in California(the largest of its kind in the State) back in 2018. North America. DHIC aims to further expand its ESS projects both at home and abroad, taking advantage of new of this year 013 renewable energy trends and leveraging our innovative software and verified performance competency. RESPONSE TO THE EMERGING HYDROGEN ECONOMY Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio COMPAMY OVERVIEW In 2019, the government announced a roadmap for pursuing a hydrogen economy at the national level. The government suggests domestic measures such as establishing hydrogen infrastructure and recharging stations and creating a technical development road map. Each province is also taking steps to comply with national government directives, such as constructing recharging stations and securing funds to stimulate the supply of hydrogen in the transportation sector. Recognizing that the emerging hydrogen business is a potentially good new business opportunity, DHIC has set up a task force to review the business feasibility and technologies of the hydrogen business from various angles. MAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS & FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR HYDROGEN BUSINESS DHIC has developed the capacity and competitiveness on a wide range of energy projects, including nuclear power, thermal power, desalination, wind power and ESS. This BUSINESS STRATEGY accumulated experience and related networks are a great advantage for the company as it enters the hydrogen market. As the leading company of the Changwon Industrial Complex, DHIC is participating in a project to construct and operate a 5-ton liquefied hydrogen production facility in cooperation with the Industrial Complex Corporation and the City of Changwon(total project worth 90 billion won). As part of this project, DHIC is scheduled to build stable infrastructure to enable the supply of hydrogen sufficient enough to operate approximately 13,000 hydrogen vehicles. Through the successful implementation of the Changwon Hydrogen Liquefaction Project, DHIC will be able to emerge as the market leader that has established Korea’s first hydrogen liquefaction facility. DHIC aims to supply both liquefied hydrogen for the transport sector and industrial hydrogen. DHIC plans to continue expanding into this MOU Signing Ceremony for Hydrogen Liquefaction Project in Changwon project area in line with the national hydrogen roadmap. CSR FOCUS AREAS HYDROELECTRIC POWER In 2019, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. held the ‘Hydroelectric Industry Vision Proclamation’ ceremony at which it announced a large-scale investment plan of about 7 trillion won. Investments over the next 10 years include projects to modernize aged hydroelectric power plants(1 trillion won), the construction of new pumped storage hydroelectric plants(3 trillion won), and overseas hydroelectric power plant projects(3 trillion won). Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. also announced their plan to collaborate with local companies. For example, they will seek to promote domestic manufacturing of hydroelectric power plant components, build demonstration power plants in Korea and convert the bidding process for the supply of hydroelectric power plant components CSR FOUNDATION to a competition among local vendors, all for the purpose of promoting mutual growth with the local Korean companies and gain global competitiveness together with the local hydroelectric power industry. DHIC is the sole company in Korea that has proven competency and technology to manufacture and supply major components for large hydroelectric power plants and pumped storage hydroelectric power(e.g., pump turbine, generator), as well as instrumentation & control systems for hydroelectric power plants. Thus, DHIC expects to participate actively in the expansion of the hydroelectric power market. MAJOR ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR HYDROELECTRIC POWER BUSINESS Above. Signing Ceremony for ‘Vision Proclamation of Republic of Korea’s Hydroelectric Power Industry Since supplying the main components for the Gangneung Hydroelectric Power Plant(41MW x 2 Units), DHIC Below. Signing of Business & Technology Cooperation Agreement has successively participated in the modernization projects and new construction projects of all the domestic 2019 Integrated Report of with ANDRITZ of Austria hydroelectric and pumped storage hydroelectric power plants, including the one at Mujoo(300 MW x 2 Units), Samryangjin(300 MW x 2 Units), Sanchung(350MW x 2 Units), Yangyang(250 MW x 4 Units), and Yecheon(400 MW x 2 Units. In addition to the domestic modernization and construction projects, DHIC is now focusing on APPENDIX advancing into the overseas hydroelectric power plant markets in Southwest Asia and Europe. Furthermore, to enhance its competitiveness, DHIC has a business & technology cooperation agreement with ANDRITZ HYDRO Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction GmbH, which retains world-class technology and project experience in the area of hydroelectric power generation. The Cooperation Agreement includes collaborating on modernization of aged domestic hydroelectric power plants and construction of new pumped storage hydroelectric power plants, working together on Korea Hydro & Nuclear Corporation’s overseas hydroelectric power projects, supporting the development of technical competency to enable the independent design of hydroelectric power systems, and training to improve competency in hydroelectric power engineering. Through this agreement, DHIC will procure independent hydroelectric power system design technology, whereas it has had to rely on overseas technology before. DHIC expects to actively 014 participate in the modernization of domestic hydroelectric power plants and in supplying(independently) major 015 components for the construction of new pumped storage hydroelectric power plants. Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio COMPAMY OVERVIEW NEW OPPORTUNITIES FOR NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS, SMR(SMALL MODULAR NUCLEAR REACTOR) As SMR is gaining worldwide attention, many countries and utilities are actively showing their interest in it. It is because SMR nuclear power plants generate clean energy without emission of carbon, contributing to preventing global climate change. In addition, with drastically improved safety and economic advantages, they take up less site area, and can replace existing coal and gas power plants as well as large-scale nuclear power plants. As load follow is available, they can be operated in harmony with new renewable energy plants. Another advantage is that they can also be utilized in various areas, such as desalination and BUSINESS STRATEGY hydrogen production. MAJOR PERFORMANCE AND FUTURE PROSPECTS FOR SMR BUSINESS DHIC has rich experiences and technology in the area of nuclear power including the supply of 32 nuclear reactors and 116 steam generators domestically and overseas(to China, UAE, etc.), and Vogtle nuclear power unit 3 and unit 4 which are currently being constructed in the U.S. by NuScale Power. Highly evaluating DHIC’s manufacturing competency and technology, NuScale Power engaged DHIC to supply core equipment to the first-ever SMR nuclear power plant in the U.S. To strengthen this strategic cooperative relationship, DHIC participated in the investment in NuScale Power together with domestic investment companies; and completed the first equity investment tranche on July 2019 and the CSR FOCUS AREAS third equity investment tranche on December 2019. This business cooperation will allow DHIC to supply equipment worth a minimum of 1.3 billion dollars, starting with modules and other equipment for the SMR project and further expanding to other follow-up projects to happen in the U.S and the world’s nuclear power market. In addition, DHIC participated in the development of SMART, the next generation domestic SMR technology, leading the design and manufacturing of major SMR equipment. It is currently discussing the possibilities of exporting SMR technologies to Saudi Arabia in cooperation with the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power; and pursuing business expansion into the next generation nuclear power market with high growth potential, through joint efforts with other SMR developers. New Scale Power Share Investment MOU CSR FOUNDATION SMART Nuclear Reactors DECOMMISSIONING NUCLEAR POWER PLANT AND NUCLEAR FUEL AFTER USE DHIC has been developing nuclear power plant decommissioning technology since 2015 in order to respond to the need for transportation and storage of nuclear fuel after its use. Demand for such technology is expected to expand due to the increased global aging of nuclear power plants. DHIC has been striving to become the global leader of the market for decommissioned nuclear power plant waste management. In 2017, DHIC developed a cask design technology to transport and store nuclear fuel after its use. 2019 Integrated Report of APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 016 017 Reinforcement of Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio COMPAMY OVERVIEW Service Business Competitiveness DHIC COMPETENCY-BASED SERVICE BUSINESS DHIC has been pursuing service projects drawing on its competencies as an OEM provider of main equipment for power plants, such as sales & marketing/design/procurement/fabrication/project management/quality-related technologies as well as plant engineering(PE) and construction competencies. DHIC competencies enable it to specialize in providing the following services: Diagnosis and Evaluation of Power Plants, Reverse Engineering of other OEM-supplied major components, Field Engineering, Local Operation, and RMS(Remote Monitoring Service). DHIC has been successful in winning service orders for the upgrading of Eraring Power Station in Australia, Renovation & Modernization (R&M) of Bandel Power Plant Unit 5 in India and retrofitting of the Morupule A Power Plant in Botswana, which was won through the project of Sabarmati in India, Yeongdong Power Plant in Korea Eraring Power Station in Australia BUSINESS STRATEGY the fuel conversion of Yeongdong Power Plant Unit 1, and Barh Project in India. Based on these successive project wins, DHIC effectively established itself as a R&M service provider. DHIC has continuously won orders such as the performance improvement of Boryeong Power Plant Unit 3 and the fuel conversion of Yeongdong Power Plant Unit 2. Through these domestic and overseas project experience, DHIC has been able to gain a competitive edge over other OEM companies. In addition, DHIC will likely be able to establish a stable portfolio of service and maintenance projects by targeting power plants for which it delivered main components, by offering its routine/scheduled maintenance services and expanding its supply of spare parts. EFFORT TO REINFORCE COMPETITIVENESS IN THE SERVICE BUSINESS LAUNCH OF TECHNICAL ADVISOR GROUP FOR SERVICE BUSINESS CSR FOCUS AREAS The service business line aims to secure orders to provide maintenance on clients’ power plants, and to ensure successful maintenance services by supplying and applying DHIC-designed and manufactured parts in the maintenance process. An important element of successful implementation of service projects is the competency of the professional TAs who serve as contact points with customers. Accordingly, DHIC has established the TA Academy Center and developed an education curriculum to foster professional TAs for the service business. DHIC is also developing additional training programs together with overseas subsidiaries such as DTS. Through these efforts, DHIC has been improving the competency of existing manpower and cultivating new talents. CSR FOUNDATION DIGITAL SOLUTION DHIC has been developing digital solutions for the various business areas in order to maximize the operational performance of power plants. A demonstration project was completed at the Sasan Coal-Fired Thermal Power Plant #1 in India for our combustion optimization system. The early warning solution has been recognized for its commercial value as made evident when we successfully sold our shares for the license to Korea East West Power. DHIC won orders from Indonesia and Chile for combustion 2019 Integrated Report of tuning projects. Such projects will help DHIC to successfully enter a wider services market. APPENDIX EXPANSION OF SERVICE MARKET DHIC won a maintenance contract for UAE BNPP Nuclear Power Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Plant through collaboration with Doosan Babcock(which has long experience and know-how in the area of servicing power plants); and thereby, establishing the basis for advancement and expansion of service projects for nuclear power plants. After confirming the needs for the fuel conversion (Coal/ Petroleum → Gas) at thermal power plants in the Middle East and South America, DHIC is actively leveraging its fuel conversion 018 technology and advanced into relevant markets. 019 UAW, Jebel Ali M Combined Thermal Power Plant Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio COMPAMY OVERVIEW Technology Development and Demonstrations for Business Diversification EXPEDITING INNOVATION OF R&D PORTFOLIO DHIC continuously seeks to innovate its R&D portfolio in order to develop competitive, cuttingedge technologies which align with the rising global trend for eco-friendly and new renewable energy. As part of these efforts, DHIC has been reinforcing its project competitiveness for large-size gas turbines and securing technology in the area of new renewable energy(e. g., wind power, ESS, hydrogen, battery recycling). DHIC has been accelerating the development and commercialization of BUSINESS STRATEGY environmental solution technologies such EME and CDI, as well as the discovery of new projects to foster next generation business competitiveness. DHIC introduces below the major technologies that have been developed, commercialized and demonstrated for these areas of new businesses and environmental solutions. SECURING INNOVATIVE MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY 500TPD CDI System 01 THROUGH 3D PRINTING DHIC has succeeded in developing and obtaining manufacturing technology for 3D printing which is critical for the 4th industrial ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTION – ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTION – 03 04 revolution. 3D printing technology is based on 3D modeling that FINE DUST REDUCTION TECHNOLOGY ECO-FRIENDLY WATER TREATMENT TECHNOLOGY accumulates metal powders by layers and melts special areas with a laser CSR FOCUS AREAS The problem of fine dust has recently emerged as a societal DHIC has developed a new CDI(Capacitive De-Ionization) technology to manufacture parts. 3D printing can be used to realize innovative designs challenge. The government has enacted a comprehensive measure for for water treatment which is more eco-friendly than the conventional reverse which cannot be produced using general processing technology. It can fine dust control with the goal of reducing domestic emission of fine osmosis membrane-based method. CDI reduces the use of chemicals also drastically reduce manufacturing time and cost. Through technology dust by 30% by 2022(compared to the emission level in 2014). DHIC and increases the efficiency of the coolant and circulating water treatment development efforts, DHIC has been able to secure the technology for the has made continuous R&D investment efforts to develop technology to processes, which has the effect of reducing negative environmental impacts. entire cycle of 3D printing from the design of parts to the quality inspection reduce emissions. Recently, DHIC developed the world best high-efficiency DHIC successfully conducted a pilot test together with the Korea District of finished parts. In particular, DHIC has established itself as being the best EME(Electrostatic Mist Eliminator) which removes both fine dust and white Heating Corp. on a facility with the capacity of treating 100 tons of water per in Korea in regards to innovative design and process development in the smoke from thermal power plant emissions. day over the course of one year to verify its feasibility. Then, a large-scale area of 3D printing for metal powders. EME is one of the treatment systems for emissions by thermal power plants. CDI demonstration plant with a 500 tons per day capacity was set up at the DHIC has applied 3D printing technology to manufacture parts for the It is an eco-friendly process applied at the last stage before emissions are Hwaseong branch of Korea District Heating Corp and successfully operated. gas turbine, which is one of the company’s key businesses, and verified discharged through the chimney. The recently developed EME shall be DHIC’s CDI technology is able to reduce not only the processing costs, but their performance through testing of the 3D-printed parts. In 2020, DHIC installed above the FGD(Flue Gas Desulfurizer) of the power plant. The EME also the facility space by 60%, and the cost of chemicals for water treatment is scheduled to carry out a demonstration on the 3D-printed gas turbine is able to reduce fine dust and super fine dust below 0.5mg/Nm3, which by more than 90%. It has been proven to reduce operating costs by more parts. Moreover, DHIC has been making an effort to strengthen the future CSR FOUNDATION DEVELOPMENT OF MATERIALS FOR NEW BUSINESSES is 4% of the standard limit(12mg/Nm3) and 10% of the emission standard than 50% as compared to previous ionization exchange facilities(with a competitiveness of 3Dprinted gas turbine parts by also applying the 02 in the Seoul Metropolitan area(5mg/Nm3). By just installing an EME at an 2,000 tons per day capacity). Based on the results of the demonstration technology to its services business. In addition, based on its excellent DHIC is a recognized expert in the field of materials and process existing facility, this will have the effect of reducing white smoke discharge project at the Hwaseong branch of KDHC, DHIC plans to develop CDI technical competitiveness in 3D printing, DHIC has been exploring expansion engineering, as it has the engineering capabilities to cover the by 50%. water treatment methods for various power generation facilities. The CDI into 3D printing of parts for the aviation and national defense industries. entire process starting from development of materials to the production DHIC has installed a real life-size Pilot EME at its Changwon Plant and technology is eco-friendly and meets government standards set forth in the DHIC has acquired the international certification(AS9100) to enter the areas and testing. DHIC has the capability to develop a range of materials, successfully completed the pilot run of the EME, which was developed to Chemical Control Act and PSM(Process Safety Management), which is to be of national defense and aviation through participation in national projects including steel, super heat-resistant alloys and composite materials, for be applicable at any domestic standard coal-fired thermal power plant. reinforced in the future. Thus, DHIC expects CDI to become a viable water carried out in cooperation between the military and private sector. DHIC is use in the industry and power generation. DHIC earned its reputation as a DHIC has completed the design for a 500MW EME and planned for a treatment alternative. scheduled to establish a mass production line in 2020 together with the recognized expert as it has abundant development experience under its demonstration project at a standard coal-fired thermal power plant to be introduction of the world’s largest 3D printer. belt and owns a wide-ranging database. In order to develop and design jointly carried out with a major power generation company. In 2020, DHIC new products as an OEM company, it is necessary to have a database on 2019 Integrated Report of is scheduled to complete the demonstration run of a 10,000CMH Pilot EME the materials’ physical properties and this data is also needed to solve the installed at the Hadong Coal-Fired Power Plant Unit 3 of the Korea Southern issues of design and quality. Power Co. Based on the GRANTA database, DHIC has established a new in-house APPENDIX system that can stably provide relevant information regarding the materials necessary for an entire business process, e.g., material development, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction design, manufacturing & construction, and operation & services. DHIC continuously upgrades its unique database system of materials for design and lifespan evaluation(including material damage) for each major product. Based on accumulated competency in materials engineering, DHIC will expand this business area through the discovery of new projects and new technologies, e.g., materials for new renewable energy; materials for the production, storage and transportation of hydrogen; and alternative 020 lightweight materials. 021 Utilizing 3D Printing to Manufacture Parts Water Treatment System Reinforcement of New Growth Portfolio COMPAMY OVERVIEW Digital Transformation DHIC will be commercializing the output of our Digital Transformation efforts, and will be focusing on developing digital solutions to secure competitiveness in future businesses. For Doosan Wind Power Digital Twin VISION Enhancement of Product Competitiveness and Increase in Sales by Utilizing Digital Technology BUSINESS STRATEGY For Customer Increased Efficiency, Reliability and Availability in Power Generation & Industrial Sectors and Contribution to Environmental Preservation DEVELOPMENT OF DIGITAL SOLUTION FOR VARIOUS FUTURE BUSINESSES Industries: Power Generation, Steelmaking, Chemicals, etc Customers: Government, Private Sector, etc DHIC plans to make investments to enhance its competitiveness in various future businesses (Gas Turbine, Wind Power), which includes commercialization of Digital Solutions. CORE VALUE Digital Solutions(3) Insight(1) Gas Turbine | DHIC plans to enhance the competitiveness and differentiate Wind Power | In order to generate additional profit and enhance the 3+1 Prediction & Diagnosis Optimization DHIC’s gas turbines by increasing efficiency and improving reliability through competitiveness of the service business, DHIC has been developing Data Analysis the development of a digital solution. The digital solution package will digital solutions for power-up, smart maintenance, and failure prediction Digital Twin optimize and monitor the performance of DHIC’s gas turbine. It consists of and diagnosis. DHIC is also exploring a digital solution to strengthen combustion automatic tuning(DCAT), performance diagnosis, and prediction competitiveness in solar power and ESS businesses. CSR FOCUS AREAS TECH diagnosis. AI / IoT Domain On Premise / Cloud + Expertise Big Data / Analytics WORK EFFICIENCY THROUGH DIGITALIZATION DHIC has been exploring digital solutions to improve work efficiency, the corporate culture, and work methods. The company has been pursuing a Digital Transformation initiative and applying this across all the stages of the value chain. COMMERCIALIZATION OF DIGITAL SOLUTION DHIC plans to commercialize Digital Solutions, which are products developed by aligning the competencies held by DHIC with various IT technologies(e.g. AI, Cloud, Big Data). Digital Solutions can largely be divided into the following: 1) Prediction & Diagnosis, 2) Optimization, 3) Digital Twin, and 4) Data Analysis Design | DHIC has been promoting the digitalization of the historical design Solution. data and adopting an integrated design process. As increasingly more areas Sales & New Orders Design Manufacturing R&D are being analyzed and the range of application becoming wider, DHIC aims CSR FOUNDATION Marketing Prediction & Diagnosis | The digital solution is not a data-based solution Digital Twin & Data Analysis Solution | The Digital Twin is a solution to to improve the efficiency of the analysis processes by implementing a highthat can only be applied to specific equipment in power plants. As it has an monitor and predict the performance of equipment and to detect and performance cloud computing system. advantage of universal usage, once it has been established that it can be diagnose equipment anomalies by utilizing IoT and AI. DHIC has completed widely applied to various plants and equipment, the utilization rate will likely the compatibility test for wind turbines. This solution can be applied to Sales & Marketing | DHIC has developed the MI(Market Intelligence) Production | Through the Smart Factory initiative that has been pursued rise even further. Based on the commercialization results secured at the end analyze RT(Radiographic Test) images, and then to eliminate defective Navigator Tool which analyzes market trends and develops strategies based by DHIC over the past few years, DHIC has reinforced interconnectivity with of last year, DHIC has been promoting its application to various plants and products based on the analysis. DHIC expects to commercialize the Digital on the acquired data. Drawing on internal and external market data that automated design data and promoted the digitalization of manufacturing equipment within independent power plants(IPPs), manufacturing plans Twin for various suitable purposes when DHIC expands its sales of wind DHIC has collected and digitized, MI Navigator can identify project trends of data. Representative cases are the automation of the welding process for and the Doosan Group. turbines and gas turbines. local competitor companies. In addition, MI Navigator can analyze the order boiler headers and smoothing of turbine blades, and the PLM/MES adoption intake and market share for each region and competitor. for the turbine/generators and castings & forgings. In addition, through the Optimization Solution | Three types of solutions combustion optimizer, virtual plant modeling analysis, DHIC has been troubleshooting using the 2019 Integrated Report of optimized soot blower and coal blending advisor – have been combined New Orders | The ITB & Contract Review System enables DHIC to review bid prediction feature and maintaining an optimal plant operation. into one solution, which DHIC has been busily promoting to domestic and documents(ITBs) and contracts for unfavorable clauses and issues that require mutual consultation between the related parties. After winning an R&D | DHIC is utilizing AI analysis of data and past company experience to APPENDIX overseas power generation companies. The combustion optimizer solution was proven to minimize the emission of NOx and other pollutants as shown order, DHIC utilizes a drone to assess the required civil engineering work. upgrade its competency in designing and developing alloy materials. in a demonstration on the Sasan Power Plant in India in 2019. This solution Drone assessments were conducted for the Samcheok Thermal Power Plant Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction not only minimizes simple pollutants, but also presents various operation project in 2019. DHIC plans to utilize the drone to assess the civil engineering Application of Robotic Process Automation to Simple Repetitive Works | To methods,~ such as a fuel reduction mode. For water projects, DHIC has work needed for the Van Phong Project in Vietnam. In addition, since the increase work efficiency, SW Robots are used to execute simple repetitive developed an optimized Energy Management Solution that minimizes the end of 2018, DHIC has been using an e-Logistics system during project tasks, allowing the employees to focus on higher value added work, electric consumption in desalination plants. DHIC is scheduled to apply this implementation to organize and arrange various logistics documents. thus helping them achieve a better work-life balance. DHIC is planning to solution to the Doha desalination plant in Kuwait. Finally, DHIC plans to expand the use of smart solutions to include not only apply the RPA and AI technologies to expand into more areas for possible the EHS(Environment, Health & Safety) sector, which already utilizes digital collaboration between employees and robots. technology to ensure workers’ health and safety on construction projects, 022 Combustion Optimizer but to other sectors as well. 023 Power Generation EPC Effort to Strengthen Competitiveness DHIC has experience implementing various international projects and has demonstrated its EPC competency across the In the design sector, digital design technology has been actively adopted, design errors minimized and optimal delivery date entire value chain – from the design of power plants to the supply of materials and equipment, as well as construction pursued for the designs. On the procurement side, we adopted the global sourcing method to ensure we can supply our clients and commissioning. Based on its EPC competency, DHIC has been diversifying its business portfolio. Leveraging proven with the appropriate products. In the construction sector, we ensure our projects are executed by skilled, experienced personnel, competencies in civil engineering, architecture(environmental certification), and public SOC projects, DHIC has expanded its while also running various career development programs aimed at discovering and cultivating talents in the field of construction architecture and civil engineering services beyond power plants. Domestic private sector projects include Sooncheon City and commissioning. Being a specialist on overseas construction projects as well, DHIC also offers a wide range of training programs development project; Anyang Knowledge Industry Center; and Deungchun-dong multipurpose building. Domestic public aimed at helping the overseas site workers build up their capabilities. sector projects include the Sejong-Ansung Highway; Pyeongtaek-Godeok Group Energy project; and Wanjoo-Sambong DHIC continuously manages risks that may occur during the operation of projects, through measures such as prior review of Project. potential risks in the project cycle and preparation of countermeasures for identified risks. Based on a systematic EHS system, DHIC In the overseas market, DHIC successfully completed construction of the Vinh Tan 4 Thermal Power plant in Vietnam, thereby implements autonomous safety activities with partner companies. DHIC has accomplished zero-accident performance on many helping to relieve the power shortage in southern Vietnam. Now, DHIC plans to reduce its involvement in coal-fired power overseas projects. In the Saudi Arabia Fadhili project, DHIC achieved 15 million hours of accident-free operation. By implementing plant projects and instead increase its share of sustainable energy projects in line with the shifting global power market early risk management measures and adopting various processes aimed at strengthening on-site safety, DHIC has been able to trends. effectively build up its competitiveness in project delivery. 03. Reinforcement of Business Competitiveness Business Strategy Vinhtan 4 Thermal Power Plant Power Plant Equipment & Materials Reinforcement of Business Competitiveness DHIC has the competency to design, manufacture, and install the core components for boilers. In 2006, DHIC secured competency to self-design and produce boilers through the acquisition of Mitsui Babock (currently Doosan Babcock), a company that owned boiler technology. DHIC’s heavy oil combustion boiler and 1000MW USC boiler have been selected as world-class products. Through the acquisition of AE&E Lentjes (currently Doosan Lentjes) in Germany, DHIC obtained the technical competency to develop environmental facilities and CFB boilers. DHIC is working with our Czech subsidiary Doosan Skoda Power to enhance the competitiveness of flagship products like the steam turbine and generator, which would help to secure a stable pool of new orders and profits. At the same time, based on a solid track record for domestic and overseas Combined Cycle Power Plant (CCPP) Projects, DHIC aims to offer solutions that are applicable to a wide variety of gas turbines, and thereby, continue to win new orders in the gas-fired power generation sector. Effort to Strengthen Competitiveness Boiler Business | As the market for thermal power was reorganized from being centered around large size products to the small to medium-size boiler products, DHIC has sought to strengthen its competitiveness in small to medium-size boilers. DHIC has developed a standard model targeting the market for 50MW coal-fired thermal power generation in Indonesia. Also, DHIC has been expanding this business area through the development of an industrial boiler model which is a refined version of the previous model procured from Doosan Babcock developed by reflecting the latest market trends. To maintain cost competitiveness and increase its market share in the Southeast Asian market, DHIC plans to utilize the manpower and production facilities of its Vietnamese entity, Doosan Vina. Steam Turbine Gas(STG) Business | Through the combined cycle power package solution projects, DHIC seeks to secure technology for high-efficiency STG, BOP and systems for domestic combined cycle power plants. Using the Fujairah F3 Saudi, Jeddah RO combined cycle power plant project that had been won together with local EPC partners as leverage, DHIC aims to build up on its partnerships with local companies to effectively win even more STG projects for large combined cycle power plants. Furthermore, DHIC had also won the Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Company's TCS replacement project owing to its competitive technology and costs.In 2019, DHIC also won an order to improve the performance of at the aging Busan Combined Cycle Thermal Power Plant Units 1 and 3 by replacing the high and medium pressure steam turbines. Through these projects, DHIC was able to confirm its outstanding technology and project competitiveness. WATER EPC DHIC ranks first in market share of seawater desalination using thermal and SWRO(Seawater Reverse Osmosis) methods. DHIC has successfully delivered on 30 projects which together can produce 7 million tons of fresh water for daily use by 24 million people. DHIC aims at providing customers with maximum satisfaction through various business models ranging from a simple supply of systems to Turnkey Projects and the provision of operation and maintenance services after the construction of plants. Effort to Strengthen Competitiveness As a leader of the desalination business, DHIC has constantly been working on developing related technologies and strengthening our competitiveness by engaging in joint research and technology exchanges with our global R&D centers and overseas subsidiaries. Through our efforts to upgrade our desalination technology, such as improving the performance of our thermal and seawater reverse osmosis pretreatment processes, we have been 2019 Integrated Report of able to successfully secure new orders and build up our competitiveness in this field. Furthermore, by improving the operational efficiency of our water treatment systems and developing environment-friendly products, we have been able to preemptively respond to customer needs and develop new business opportunities. By applying the O&M expertise it had acquired over the years, DHIC developed technology for digital O&M services, something that would prove essential in improving the operational efficiency of desalination facilities. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction In addition, by leveraging the knowhow DHIC had acquired from years of successfully developing desalination systems, the company was able to successfully commercialize a zero-liquid discharge(ZLD) system after working on the development for four years since 2012. The zero-liquid discharge(ZLD) is an eco-friendly water treatment method which can produce reusable water while completely blocking the discharge of waste. DHIC has been supplying this technology to power plants in Korea, India and other Southeast Asian countries for treatment of wastewater generated in the desulfurization system. The company has signed a technology license agreement with some Korean SMEs working in the water treatment sector for the purpose of promoting mutual growth with 026 local companies and have also been introducing advanced water treatment technologies to the local industry to 027 help enhance Korea's overall competitiveness in the water business. Shin Boryeong Power Plant Reinforcement of Business Competitiveness COMPAMY OVERVIEW Casting & Forging DHIC began its casting and forging business in 1973. Based on accumulated technology know-how and production experience, DHIC has been manufacturing and supplying cast and forged products of the highest quality to customers. DHIC is proud of its largescale steelmaking plant, casting shop, forging shop and processing plant for their latest automated system, optimized digital convergence process system, and strict quality assurance system which is backed by various quality certifications. The steelmaking plant BUSINESS STRATEGY utilizes a 100-ton electric furnace; and its annual production capacity is 250 thousand tons and maximum 650 tons of ingot. The forging shop utilizes a 17,000-ton press; and its annual Nuclear Power production capacity is 140 thousand tons and maximum 290 tons of large forged product. For the past 30 years, DHIC has been the world’s top supplier of major components for nuclear power plants. The company Effort to Strengthen Competitiveness is recognized for its world-class expertise in designing and manufacturing nuclear power plant components. In order to strengthen competitiveness in this era of industrial advancement, DHIC has In particular, DHIC has the track record of having supplied endeavored to created value for customers. Its investment in optimum infrastructure, e.g., the main components of the first commercially operated 3rd the remelting system, enables DHIC to produce high clean steel and highly-functional metal generation nuclear power plant (AP1000). DHIC is also the sole materials. Moreover, DHIC has discovered new products to add to its project portfolio which company that has the record of manufacturing major components will contribute to external growth and profitability. Based on such competency, DHIC has been exporting products to China, Southeast Asia, Japan, Europe, and the U.S., as well CSR FOCUS AREAS for AP1000 of the U.S. DHIC has manufactured major components for domestic as supplying to the domestic market. DHIC has been recognized by MOTIE for its product nuclear power plants and received recognition for safety manufacturing technology and export competitiveness; and has acquired a total of eight through U.S. and European design certifications. DHIC has world-class product qualifications, including for a crankshaft for vessels, a work roll, and a demonstrated competitiveness in cost, delivery period, and low-pressure turbine rotor shaft. quality through the successful implementation of the UAE PCHE(Printed Circuit Heat Exchanger) is a new project being promoted by DHIC. PCHE is Barakah Nuclear Power Plant. And through the supply of a Shinhanwul #1 & #2 Unit Nuclear Power Plant a high efficiency heat exchanger that is reduced to one-tenth of its previous size. As this man-machine interface system(MMIS) and a reactor coolant enables the heat exchange effect to be maximized even in limited spaces, PCHE has been pump(RCP) to Shin Hanul Power Plant Unit 1 and Unit 2, DHIC has widely applied to hydrogen recharging stations, carrier vessels for LNG, and parts for power successfully accomplished 100% domestic manufacturing of core generation. In addition, DHIC is scheduled to complete the installation of Hot Press(High components. Temperature Diffused junction Reactor) — the necessary facility for PCHE – by the end of DHIC has been pro-actively seeking new orders targeting large October 2020. As DHIC has obtained the core technology of Flow path Design Capability, it nuclear power plants in India, Saudi Arabia, Poland, the Czech expects growth in orders for hydrogen recharging stations, ship building, offshore plants, and power generation. CSR FOUNDATION Republic, and the U.K. DHIC competes based on its ability to supply major components for nuclear power plants, as well as through collaboration with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy(MOTIE), Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.(KHNC) and Korea Electric Power Corporation(KEPCO) ( Team Korea ). DHIC continues to try to diversify its target markets by expanding from DHIC World-Class Products DHIC has been recognized by MOTIE for product manufacturing technology and export competitiveness and retained the traditional U.S. and China markets to the European market. a total of eight world-class product qualifications, as set forth below. World-Class Products Years 1 C/S(Crankshaft for Large Engine) 2003 2019 Integrated Report of 2 W/R(Work Roll for Cold Rolling) 2004 3 MOLD STEEL(Die Steel) 2004 APPENDIX 4 Cast Steel for Ship’s Stem 2007 5 Cast Steel for Runner in Hydroelectric Power(Turbine) 2007 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 6 LP Rotor(Thermal Power Low-Pressure Turbine, Rotor Shaft) 2010 7 Gen. Rotor(Rotor Shaft for Turbine Generator) 2011 8 Built-in End Plate(major component in nuclear power plant ) 2013 Shinkori #5 Nuclear Reactor Shipping 028 029 Forging PBR Product at Forging Factory CSR FOCUS AREAS DHIC conducts sustainable business activities based on stakeholder priorities. Stakeholder priorities have led DHIC to focus on enhancing environmental sustainability and social values for customers, employees, and local community. Reduction of Environmental Impact of Participated in DHIC participated in ‘the Demonstration Project for the Use Approval System of Renewable Energy’ conducted by the Core Issues COMPAMY OVERVIEW KEPCO and the Korea Energy Agency in 2019 in order to participate actively in the ‘Introduction of Purchasing System Demonstration Project for of New Renewable Energy’ that encourages the voluntary consumption of renewable energy by an enterprise, which is Business Activities the Use Approval System of Renewable Energy one of the several government policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The use approval system of renewable energy is the system for a user of renewable electricity to apply for an approval of use amount and receive the approval through the issuance of Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin(REGO) and utilize it for various purposes such as the participation in RE100 Campaign. DHIC has participated in the demonstration project as a part of ‘Approval of Use Amount by Utilizing Self Renewable Environmental issues have become increasingly global due to continuous expansion of enterprises’ business Energy System’ and received the approval of using imaginary renewable energy to contribute to the simulation of 01. activities. Globally, factories’ release of hazardous substances and greenhouse gases is leading to air pollution and demonstration project of the government and express active will of the company for using renewable energy. climate change. Countries with advanced CSR regimes, including EU countries, have been gradually expanding the scope of environmental restrictions. Environmental information disclosure requirements, such as TCFD, have been increasing continuously. In order to manage environmental risk, DHIC expanded its EHS investment and selected core KPIs to be addressed systematically. Also, through activities such as the evaluation of environmental effect on Effort to Reduce DHIC has been primarily assessing environmental impact in order to minimize the environmental impact of business the surrounding area and protection of biodiversity, DHIC endeavors to minimize environmental impacts on local activities on local communities and the local ecosystem. DHIC is implementing a project to assess compliance with Environmental Impact on BUSINESS STRATEGY communities. environment-related laws and restrictions in business activity areas. DHIC will then conduct continuous management Local Community and activity in areas where improvement is needed. Ecosystem Assessment of Compliance with Environmental Regulations at Business Sites In order to minimize environmental impact of business activities on local communities and ecosystems, DHIC has assessed compliance with environmental regulations by all domestic and overseas business sites. Through this assessment, DHIC has also observed the environmental impacts on local society, such as air, water quality, waste, and hazardous materials. Based on assessment results, DHIC has conducted continuous improvement activities to minimize Expansion of In order to achieve the Global Top-Tier of ‘Energy & Environment’, DHIC has established an EHS unit under the chief environmental impacts of business activities. DHIC has created a conducive environment to minimize operating officer(C.O.O); and has implemented various activities to reduce the environmental impact of business environmental impact by appointing a main person-in-charge to undertake improvement activities for each Environmental Investment & activities. In particular, DHIC has introduced eco-friendly facilities which continuously invest in ways to reduce business site. DHIC has updated(as of September 1, 2019) a ledger of environmental laws and regulations; and Setting of Core KPIs CSR FOCUS AREAS environmental pollution. Moreover, in 2019, DHIC adopted the following core KPIs: reduce air pollutants, water prepared separate improvement plans for relevant instances of non-compliance. Through such regular EHS pollutants, waste, and chemicals. These KPIs have been adopted by 4 territories, which have conducted various diagnosis, DHIC monitors compliance with environmental laws and regulations and prevents and/or addresses activities to accomplish the KPIs. case of non-compliance. 2019 KPI and Performances in Environmental Area Biodiversity Management Investment in EHS Area DHIC has reviewed the situation of and conducted protection activities to effectively preserve biodiversity. Before full scale launching of a project in biodiversity areas, DHIC identifies plants Goal in 2019 KRW 5 Billion and animals to be preserved as part of the local ecosystem and implements relevant protection activities. In particular, in order to fulfill local ecosystem protection obligations, DHIC prepares environmental Performance in 2019 KRW 6.63 Billion impact assessment reports before the project and notifies details about the species to be protected. In 2019, a total of 175 species of organisms were identified for protection in areas of DHIC business activity. DHIC has conducted monitoring and environmental improvement to protect the diversity of these identified organisms. CSR FOUNDATION Performance in Environment Area Goal | Implement self-inspection of the system for discharge and prevention of air pollutants; and conduct activities to improve environmental impact. Air Performance | Improved 62 cases of insufficient matters after the implementation of monthly(once per month) self-inspection of the system for discharge and prevention of air pollutants. Goal | Achieve less than 40% of the standard discharge limit for water(end of process). Water Quality Performance | Achieved less than 30%(on average) of the standard discharge limit based on 48 annual (4 times per month) measurements of end-of-process water. Goal | Accomplished more than 90% of recycle rate for waste at Changwon Plant Waste Performance | Accomplished 91.4% of recycle rate for waste at Changwon Plant 2019 Integrated Report of Goal | Use less than the permitted amount(403.6 tons) of hazardous chemicals. Chemicals Performance | Used 229.1 tons of hazardous chemicals in 2019(56% of permitted amount). APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 032 EHS Award for Construction 033 Maximization of Customer Satisfaction External Recognition of The excellence of DHIC quality control competency has been recognized by external stakeholders. On the basis of the Core Issues COMPAMY OVERVIEW Supply Chain with refined quality competency, DHIC conducts quality control that meets international standards from Quality Control System material ship-in to product ship-out. through Upgraded Quality Control Acquisition of International Standard Certification for Quality With constant quality innovation, DHIC has secured world class competency in engineering and manufacturing. Based on the Supply Chain with refined quality competency, DHIC implements a DHIC provides an integrated system of technology and relevant services throughout its business activities – from complete quality assurance system from material ship-in to product ship-out. 02. basic casting and forging to gas turbine and ocean desalination. Quality control is classified as a very important To upgrade quality control, DHIC has adopted a quality assurance system and an environment & safety management task. To deliver the best quality and guarantee customer satisfaction, DHIC continuously improves the management system that conform to global standards. DHIC has acquired and maintained 50 relevant systems of zero-defect quality innovation and quality assurance. DHIC has been upgrading competency in quality certificates from officially approved international agencies, such as ASME(The American Society of Mechanical control by adopting an international standard quality certification system and by procuring excellent manpower. Engineers, KEPIC(Korea Electric Power Industry Code), ISO 9001/14001, and OSHAS 18001. These quality control measures have maximized customer satisfaction with regard to quality. Acquisition Status of Quality Certificates BUSINESS STRATEGY Area of Certification Type of Certificate Qty. ASME(Nuclear Power/Non-Nuclear Power) N/NPT, U/S, etc. 17 types KEPIC(Nuclear Power) MN, SN, etc. 3 types ISO 9001, 14001, etc. 3 types Others PED H, Shipping Register, etc. 37 types Winner of National Quality Management Convention Maximization of Leveraging experienced technicians of the highest level in their industrial fields, DHIC provides the best products DHIC has the distinction of winning the Presidential Golden Award for 10 consecutive years, most and service in areas of business activity. Through continuous preventive quality control and quality innovation, DHIC recently in the 45th 2019 National Quality Management Convention held by the MOTIE and the Customer Satisfaction maintains world class competency in engineering and product manufacturing. KATS. through Quality Control CSR FOCUS AREAS The Production Equipment Engineering Team of DHIC selected the activity theme as ‘The Reduction of Cost and Standby Time through the Improvement of the Steam Generator Manufacturing Process’; and established Reinforcement of Competency in Quality Based on Quality Meister its measure to conduct the activity of standardization. The team showed the performance of successful postThe Human Resources Development Services of Korea and the Korean Standards Association have management. Most importantly, the team has improved the quality of and increased customers’ trust in the designated Meister technicians who retain the highest-level techniques in various industrial fields. steam generator manufacturing process. As of 2020, DHIC has 28 national quality meisters and 14 Korean meisters. With access to meisters in the areas of can welding, processing, non-destructive processing, steel making, and casting & molding, DHIC provides the highest-level products and services in these areas. DHIC has composed the Meister Consultation Group to transfer skills from meisters to general technicians, with a particular focus on training talented core personnel. Through technical support for partner companies, DHIC fosters mutual growth to strengthen the competitiveness of the value chain. CSR FOUNDATION Preventive Quality Control DHIC has systematized preventive quality control throughout the industrial process – from the inventories of necessary materials for product manufacturing through to after-production shipping. Shipped-in materials are tested and analyzed by DHIC laboratories before they are sent for use in production. Only strictly-verified and approved materials are sent to the production field. DHIC carries out joint inspection of entire production and quality before shipping, such as preventive quality monitoring for the production process. DHIC has made an effort to establish a preventive quality management culture centered on the field. Recently, DHIC launched the Doosan Quality Control System to manage digital quality information and documents; and established a system for preventive quality management. Based on this, DHIC has digitized quality control information throughout the industrial process, from inspection plan to inspection results. 2019 Integrated Report of Winning the Presidential Golden Award for 10 Consecutive Years in the 45th National Quality Management Convention APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 034 035 Fostering Healthy Corporate Fostering Healthy Doosan has a goal of creating ‘Proud Doosan’ in the world. ‘Proud Doosan’ means that all stakeholders, including Core Issues COMPAMY OVERVIEW employees, feel proud of Doosan and have self-respect for themselves as Doosan stakeholders. DHIC has conducted Organizational Culture various activities to understand the needs of employees and foster a healthy organizational culture. Culture and Talented Personnel Implementation of ‘Open Communication Survey’ The ‘Open Communication Survey’ was launched in April 2018. Through this survey, the executive group listens to and directly responds to the questions and suggestions of employees. The Recognizing that the employees embody the heart of an enterprise, DHIC has been making efforts to foster an insurvey began in April, 2018 and has been conducted once every two months. Survey is conducted 03. house culture where all the employees are happy. In particular, DHIC conducts various activities to internalize the every two months. To date, 3,600 questions and suggestions have been received and the survey has been Doosan Credo which sets forth the goal and core values of Doosan. DHIC has introduced a Smart Office in order to established as the key communication channel between employees and company executives. The survey has improve the work environment for the employees. DHIC also aims to enhance the satisfaction of employees through become a method to address issues of concern and interest raised by employees. In addition, it has been increased and improved communication. In 2019, DHIC collected opinions from 2,521 employees via an ‘Open utilized to actively share the business status and company strategies. Constructive suggestions and ideas Communication Survey’ and used the results to improve various in-house systems. raised by employees are actively reflected to refine systems. Through the ‘Open Communication Survey’ DHIC has improved the work environment and maintained the Work & Life Balance of employees. BUSINESS STRATEGY Total Participants Questions Suggestions Systems Introduced by Survey* ‘Casual Days’ introduced ‘1/4 Day Off System’ introduced to improve domestic & overseas field workers’ conditions 2,521 Employees 1,770 cases 1,865 cases Improvement of Congratulation & Condolence Support System ‘Flexible Working Hour System’ introduced to take care of families Internalization of The Doosan Credo is the managerial philosophy which has guided Doosan’s successful business activity over the past *Accumulated Performance from April 2018 to the end of 2019 100 years. DHIC conducts various activities to disseminate and internalize the Doosan Credo. Doosan Credo Culture CSR FOCUS AREAS Operation of Team Up Program CA Operation To foster performance enhancement, mutual understanding, and improved communication by each DHIC’s CA(Change Agent) is a team composed of outstanding, talented personnel who have been team unit, DHIC has been operating a ‘Team Up Program.’ The aim is to align common team goals recommended by executives. Equipped with a deep understanding of the Doosan Credo, CA carries and individual team member goals to reinforce collaboration. Birkman Diagnosis tools are applied out the core role of establishing an organizational culture based on the Doosan Credo. CA keeps so that individuals can understand his/her own characteristics and team dynamics. Ultimately, the aim is to an eye on every corner of the organization and listens to the needs of employees. They contribute to fostering reach consensus on the team goal, strengthen teamwork through mutual understanding, and change ways of a healthier organization by serving as a regular channel for communication between the management and working based on the strengths of teams and individual employees. executives. Moreover, the CA directly participates in the resolution process of diverse issues in the organization DHIC prioritizes implementation of this program for new teams, merged teams, or teams that need to enhance and carries out a core role of establishing the organization culture based on Doosan Credo. collaboration. DHIC is scheduled to expand this program gradually. CSR FOUNDATION Team up Program CA Meeting Improvement of Working Environment DHIC has been making efforts to create an environment that enables employees to demonstrate Fostering DHIC implements several education courses to foster talented personnel. For example, there is an Academy for each 2019 Integrated Report of their capabilities freely, and to achieve Work & Life Balance. DHIC operates various systems to job to strengthen job competency; the WIN Academy to strengthen negotiation competency for successful project Talented Personnel increase work efficiency, including ‘PC Off System’ which establishes a 52-hour work week. DHIC order intake and implementation and the Technology Management School to strengthen technical competency. also has in place a code of conduct on ‘Desirable Report Culture by Doosan People’ which aims to establish a APPENDIX reporting culture which is fit-for-purpose and free from formalities. For example, the system limits the use of Operation of WIN Academy PowerPoint presentations to prevent unnecessary and burdensome use. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction In order to ensure successful project order intake and implementation, DHIC operates a program to strengthen negotiation competency. The program is composed of three modules: (i) strategic understanding of negotiation designed to meet in-house negotiation needs; (ii) creative negotiation methods; and (iii) responding to claim situations. The WIN Academy program has strengthened employee competency in the areas of marketing, project management, procurement and design. The program covers Win-Win negotiation, negotiation psychology, the principle of persuasion, and EPC Case Study. 036 037 Upgraded Safety Management Core Issues Elimination of Field Risk Factors through 9-Theme Inspection COMPAMY OVERVIEW Through case analysis of all safety accidents at construction sites, DHIC has identified common risk for Employees and Partners types and factors. To eliminate risk types that cause major safety accidents, DHIC has selected 9 core themes. Around these 9 defined themes, DHIC and managers of partner companies conduct field safety inspections with the aim of eliminating all risk types. Theme inspections are theme-by-theme, with one week dedicated to each theme. In 2019, a total of 4,149 risk factors for safety accidents were discovered; and activities were conducted to eliminate these risk factors. The reinforcement of field safety management is an area of business management which requires special 04. management as it is directly connected to the life and safety of employees. DHIC has taken steps to systematically Major Themes of 9-Theme manage and reinforce field safety management. DHIC eliminates field safety risks through the MSLT(Management 1. Installation on Life Line for Fall Prevention & Inspection 5. Inspection on Fulfillment of Work Schedule Safety Leadership Tour) led by executives and managers and the 9-Theme Inspection. DHIC has been making on Safety Hook 6. Inspection on Sling(wire rope, chain sling, etc.) an effort to internalize safety management culture through the expansion of IoT-based education on safety & 2. Inspection on Installation Condition of Work Plate 7. Inspection on Lift Tools(shackle, clamp, etc.) health and EHS. In addition to the safety & health management for employees, DHIC endeavors to assure safety 3. Inspection on Portable Scaffold and Ladder 8. Inspection on Preparation of Structural Review and management by partner companies. DHIC plans to strengthen the safety & health management system continuously BUSINESS STRATEGY 4. Inspection on Abnormal Condition of Protection System Assembly Diagram before Work Start through upgraded systematic management in corresponding areas. for Construction Equipment 9. Review of Safety in Installation of Temporary Facility Discovered Total 4,149 Cases of Risk Element and Eliminated Corresponding Risk Elements Prevention of Safety The safe work instruction is a document which provides instructions on how to carry out safe works for utilization on construction sites. Previous safe work instructions were disseminated via printed copies or document files. DHIC has Accidents Based on developed and applied a mobile safe work instruction which can be shared directly with construction sites. Creation of Culture To prevent the occurrence of severe disaster and major accident, DHIC reinforces safety management around major Advanced Technology Workers and managers in the field are able to receive the mobile safe work instructions regardless of where they are risk processes. To enhance safety management culture, executives and managers have been voluntarily conducting to Prevent Safety Accident located. Thus, workers can always be informed and keep in mind how to carry out their work safely. In 2019, a total of management activities for severe risk elements on the basis of MLST(Management Safety Leadership Tour). In CSR FOCUS AREAS 4,317 cases of safe work instructions were written and utilized effectively. DHIC has plans to increase its utilization. addition, DHIC has been taking steps to prevent safety accidents in the field, including the introduction of various systems to eliminate the causes of safety accident in the field. Management of Safety Accident Risk Factors Based on MSLT Establishment of DHIC reinforces the management of safety and health for partner companies as well as its own employees. In particular, to improve the level of safety and health management in partner companies, DHIC implements a Win-Win To manage risk at worksites of manufacturing, construction, and service, executives and field System to Enhance managers have been operating MSLT(Management Safety Leadership Tour) to enhance safety. Cooperation Program which evaluates risk levels and provides technology and education. the Safety of Employees In 2019, DHIC conducted discovery and improvement activities for safety and health risk causes in worksites targeting In 2019, targeting high-risk construction sites, a total of 1,156 MLSTs were implemented. The in Partner Companies 53 partner companies through the Win-Win Cooperation Program. In addition, targeting 21 partner companies, DHIC corresponding activity consists of various programs for the safety management. Through MSLT, DHIC executives are able to identify field safety challenges and risk factors and then use that information to enhance the selected risk processes and provided field feedback on observed risky behavior(of workers) and risk elements. effectiveness of safety management activities. DHIC conducted other activities to support partner companies to establish systems for autonomous safety management. For example, DHIC assisted 24 partner companies to maintain KOSHA 18001 and OSHAS 18001 certifications to establish the independent management system for safety and health. DHIC has also conducted Major Programs in MSLT training to strengthen the safety and health management competency of presidents and managing supervisors of CSR FOUNDATION partner companies. Executives Field Sites Prevention & Role of Voluntary EHS by Employees Check Fulfilled Condition of TBM(Check safety work binder) Discovery & Elimination of EHS Risk in Business Sites Check the compliance of Golden Time & 9-Theme Inspection & Confirmation of Suggestions from Field Check Fulfilled Result of Daytime Site Cleaning Day Check the Compliance of Golden Safety Rules 2019 Integrated Report of APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 038 039 Bongdam Songsan MSLT Mobile Safe Work Instructions Contribution to Local Communities Volunteer Group The volunteer group for career education is a professional volunteer group which consists of the job training Core Issues COMPAMY OVERVIEW consortium project group, the Meister Consultation Committee, and employees from relevant departments which for Career Education operate the ‘My Dream Career & Engineering Experience Class.’ ‘My Dream Career & Engineer Experience Class’ through Talent Sharing targets youth who lack the opportunity to explore and experience in accordance with the policy of free semester system in middle school implemented by the Ministry of Education. My Dream Youth Career Experience Class DHIC believes that an enterprise grows together with the local communities. Thus, DHIC seeks to grow together with This program encourages and supports youth to consider and plan for their own careers earlier in 05. the local communities where it conducts business activities. For example, employees provided voluntary services to life. In accordance with the enactment of the free semester system in middle school, DHIC has been share their own talents, technical skills, and knowledge with communities. These efforts yielded positive societal implementing this program for middle school students in Changwon City(under a MOU with the outcomes, such as improvement of the housing environment of vulnerable people; promotion of safety culture within Changwon Office of Education). The program is comprised of 3-stages: (i) explore; (ii) experience; (iii) design. the local communities; protection of youth; and opportunities for career education. DHIC plans to seek solutions for Since its launch in 2015 through 2019, 346 students from 17 middle schools have completed the course. In various problems together with local communities; and continuously promote social contribution. 2019, targeting 80 students in 4 middles schools, DHIC provided more than 20 experience activities to introduce students to prospective occupations such as drone operator, coding professional, Youtuber, and psychological BUSINESS STRATEGY counselor. My Dream Youths Engineer Experience Class This experiential education program utilizes DHIC core business(engineering) characteristics and competency to foster talented youth in Natural Science and Engineering. The program consists of a special career lecture by a Meister(who represents the talented personnel of DHIC); a field trip to a factory where actual products are manufactured; and experience of working with an engineer. Through this program, youth are able to experience the actual duties of engineers, such as engineering design, processing, and assembly. Technical Staff The volunteer service group for technology consists of professionals in electricity, system operation, and maintenance Since the program launch in 2017, the number of participating schools has increased annually. In 2019, 936 of the company. It is the first professional volunteer service group organized voluntarily to share the talents of students in 16 middle schools of Changwon City visited the company and participated in the program. As of Volunteer Group employees. In 2007, it repaired the town hall and houses of underprivileged elderly people in Buk-myeon village 2019, a total of 1,703 have participated in the program. CSR FOCUS AREAS of Changwon City. This DHIC volunteer service group has expanded their contributions to target the alienated social classes, farming villages, and a children welfare centers. DHIC regularly implements a clean house program specialized in house repair and environmental improvement, such as inspection and repair of electrical facilities, papering walls, replacement of flooring, and painting. One thousand and eleven(1,011) volunteers have participated over the last 13 years in over 200 activities benefiting 46 children welfare centers, 13 social welfare centers, 108 houses in farming villages, and 33 vulnerable households. DHIC has been recognized for its consistent contributions to local society. Volunteer Group for This group is a representative talent sharing volunteer service group that utilizes human resources and material resources such as EHS professional manpower and fire fighters to bolster national safety awareness and prevent Promoting Safety disasters and accidents, something that is being pursued in parallel with the government's campaign to promote Design Experience through Engineer Experience Class Field Trip to Factory through Engineer Experience Class safety. CSR FOUNDATION This volunteer service group has conducted training on the theory of environmental safety targeting children’s welfare centers since 2011. It has now been reorganized as the safety promoting volunteer group and has expanded training to participants and children in social welfare centers and the underprivileged. This service group provides training that is professional and practical, focusing education mainly on disaster response, fire drill, and CPR. Youths Hazardous The Youth Hazardous Environment Surveillance Group was launched in 2000 as part of the efforts to create a safe and healthy society and provide protection to youngsters. The group has focused on the following issues: safe Since 2017, through 8 sessions, 615 people have completed the course, including 437 in children’s welfare centers, Environment 126 in social welfare centers, and 52 multicultural households. Participants have commented favorably on their transportation to school for children; campaign for the eradication of drinking and driving together with Changwon Surveillance Group City, Changwon Local Prosecutor’s Office, and Changwon police department; and various campaigns for youth training experiences. protection(e.g., prohibition of employment of youth in entertainment outlets, prohibition of sale of liquor to youth) jointly with Changwon Public Health Center and Changwon YMCA. Over the past 20 years, the group has implemented a total of 504 activities with a total of 4,908 participants. 2019 Integrated Report of APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 040 041 Safety Experience Education for Elementary Students by Volunteer Group for Safety Promotion Creation of Social Value by DHIC Creation of Social Value by DHIC COMPAMY OVERVIEW Preparation of Based on the commitment of the executive group to create social value, DHIC has established a CSR Committee System Upgrade to DHIC aims to understand its contribution to social value not only in terms of the financial value of projects but also under the Board of Directors. DHIC CEO serves as the chairman of the CSR Committee. The CSR Committee consists with regard to social and environmental impacts of business activities. For this purpose, DHIC has been upgrading Governance to Create Measure Social Value of three divisions: (i) environment; (ii) society; (iii) and governance. and the CSR Committee has conducted in-depth the system to convert social and environmental impacts to financial value. The resulting value computed through the Social Value discussions regarding social responsibility and management. measurement of social value is defined as the social value created by DHIC. Measurements of social value shall be BUSINESS STRATEGY utilized as a reference to business activities of DHIC. DHIC will expand those business activities with positive effect continuously and seek to reduce the negative effect caused by other business activities. Composition of CSR Committee Items to Measure Social Value Classification Major Items of Social Value Chairman · Contribute to economy · Effect of indirect contribution to economy through salary and through employment employment provided to employees · Support mutual growth · Amount to purchase and amount to support mutual growth of Positive Effect Advisory Group Coordinator with partnership partnership companies companies · Amount paid for social contribution & social value created Financial / Strategy and Innovation Credo/HRD Team · Support local society through social contribution / Legal Officer · Resources used through business activities & emission of · Environmental effect CSR FOCUS AREAS Negative Effect greenhouse gas Division ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE/ · Safety accident ECONOMIC · Social cost through the occurrence of safety accidents Champion Management Officer HR Officer Purchase Officer Composition · EHS · HR · IR · Climate Change · Social Contribution · Legal Affairs · GreenTech · Mutual Growth Measurement Result of Social Value · Purchase Measured social value of DHIC has been computed by the sum of values with positive impact from business activities and the sum of values of negative impact from business activities. DHIC tried to reflect comprehensive social and environmental causes, but due to the limitation of survey on some data, this is a limited measure of social value. DHIC calculates that it created social value of 659.1 billion won in total in 2019. Major Strategy Realization of Social Value Based on New Growth Project Portfolio DHIC is scheduled to reorganize the core business structure drastically as a professional energy company. With a to Create Social Value CSR FOUNDATION project portfolio focusing on gas and new renewable energy, DHIC will be reinvigorated as a leading enterprise that creates social value through its core business. DHIC’s core business – technologies that maximize energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas – will contribute to making a clean earth. VALUE OF SOCIAL VALUE ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE INDIRECT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Realization of Social Value through Upgrading CSR Management Dividends to Stockholders Welfare and Employment for Employees Effect of Greenhouse Gas For effective management of social responsibility, DHIC has been upgrading the CSR management system. In particular, DHIC has identified and systematically addressed the following major CSR priorities: reduction of Contribution to Partnership Companies Effect of Industrial Water Investors’ Interest environmental impact through business activities; enhancement of employees’ safety and health through the Investment in Local Communities Effect of Waste reinforcement of field safety management; and contribution to local society. Governmental Tax Effect of Safety Accident Effect of Air Quality 2019 Integrated Report of Fulfillment of Socially Responsible Management Based on UN SDGs The UN General Assembly adopted the Sustainable Development Goals(UN SDGs) as an international commitment to sustainable development. UN SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 detailed sub goals covering sustainable management +221.6 billion won +453.4 billion won -15.9 billion won APPENDIX of the economy, society, and environment. In order to contribute practically and concretely to fulfillment of UN SDGs, DHIC prioritizes and systematically implements activities related to 5 of the 17 goals: water, energy, climate change, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction health, and education. Total 659.1 billion won 042 043 CSR Aligned with UN SDGs Implementation Status of 2030 Commitment COMPAMY OVERVIEW DHIC has been implementing activities to accomplish goals since it adopted SDGs Commitment in 2017. By 2019, DHIC was scheduled to establish an activity plan to monitor and accomplish the goals, including CSR Aligned with UN SDGs confirmation of implementation performance and accomplishment rates for each goal. In particular, DHIC will raise the access guarantee to sustainable and modern energy through the expansion of business activities to supply sustainable energy together with the business conversion focusing on gas turbines and new renewable Among the 17 UN SDGs, DHIC has decided to focus on five core areas(water, energy, response to climate change, energy. health, and education) in order to fulfill the company's CSR obligations as envisioned by the SDGs. DHIC’s core business is directly relevant to the SDG goals on water and energy. DHIC’s social contribution is to expand the reserved quantity of water resources for regions with severely depleted water resources and to raise the accessibility Creation of Social Value through Implementation of SDGs of reliable and sustainable energy. In addition, DHIC makes social contributions in the areas of health(reinforcement DHIC sets for th in the table below its per formance towards fulfilling each target SDG of medical conditions), education(training of talented personnel based on the characteristics of each country and the commitment(implementation performance), social effect(outcome), and social value(valuation). Social effect demand of local society), and climate change(voluntary reduction of greenhouse gas in line with national reduction has been classified to the production of clean water, the supply of energy, the reduction of greenhouse gas, goals). the improvement of health level through medical support, and the contribution to the development of local BUSINESS STRATEGY society through high-quality education. The social effect from the promotion performance has been computed by political numeric values to convert them to financial values. As of the 2016 General Report, the total social value created by DHIC was estimated at about 1578.9 billion won(over the past three years). *Measured promotional performance and social value are current accumulated numerical values in 2019 Link to SDGs Commitments Promotion Performance(Output) Social Effect(Output) Social Value(Valuation) Commitment 1 SDG 6. Clean Water & Sanitation By 2030, through the Water Project, increase Based on the technology of ocean · Increased reserved quantity of water Annual Water Supply by Ocean Desalination Plant Guarantee usability of water and sanitary the reserved quantity of water resources desalination, the supply of water resources resources to Arabian Peninsula under Construction of DHIC x Social Value for each 1 ton of Water Increased & Reserved Quantity of Water facility and sustainable management in the region of Arabian Peninsula by more than to Arabian Peninsula through the production of water (Average fee of drinking water per 1 ton in 370 cities in the world) CSR FOCUS AREAS Resources for all people 10% from BAU level(2 billion tons). and expand 1,275,204,431 tons · Supplied sustainable living water to = 1,566.9 billion won 6.1/6.3 the supply of water resources continuously to local residents in Arabian Peninsula regions of the world in shortage of water. Accomplished 64% of the goal by the year 2030 Commitment 2 SDG 7. Sustainable Energy By 2030, increase the supply of power generation Energy supply based on the technology of · Supplied energy to local society Electric Power Supply by Energy Power Plant of DHIC Guarantee the access to reliable, sustainable to new markets throughout the world with power generation of sustainable energy, through power generation using x Social Value of 1MW Electricity(Average fee of 1MW electricity Guaranteed Access to Sustainable Energy and modern energy with optimum price high-efficient eco-friendly power generation 5.9GW sustainable energy for household in major 28 countries in OECD) to all people technology comprising more than 6%(40GW) · Strengthened the access guarantee to = 1.3 billion won 7.1/7.2/7.3 of BAU level; and contribute to the diversification of Accomplished 15% of the goal by the year 2030 energy through the provision of energy mix through the enhancement of high-efficient power generation technology energy technology such as high-efficient gas turbine, wind power generation, and ESS. CSR FOUNDATION Commitment 3 SDG 13. Climate Change & Action By 2030, reduce the emission of greenhouse In 2019, reduction of greenhouse gas · Reduced environmental effect through Reduction Amount of Greenhouse Gas from BAU level x Social Value Implement emergency action in response to gas generated during the process of businesses from BAU level the reduction in the emission of for each 1 ton of Greenhouse Gas(Korean Energy Economics Institute Reduction in Emission of Greenhouse Gas climate change and its effect in Korea by 20%(70 thousand tons) from BAU level; 48,358 tons(16% reduction to BAU) greenhouse gas study estimate of social cost of carbon) 13.1 and develop greenhouse gas reduction technology · Contributed to the reduction in = 3.9 billion won to respond to climate change continuously. Accomplished 99% of the goal by the year 2030 the greenhouse effect, prevented *BAU 300 thousand tons in 2019 global warming Commitment 4 SDG 3. Health & Welfare By 2030, supply basic medicines to 80 thousand Medical support · Improved the level of health in Number of Beneficiaries x Social Value to Create Expanded Prevention & Guarantee healthy life and enhance welfare residents of alienated social class in Vietnam and 9,368 people underdeveloped areas and the Supported Medicines Treatment of Diseases for all ages India; and support local medical services developing countries (Cost to pay to purchase retail medicines in OECD) 3.4 to contribute to improvement of the world health level. Accomplished 9% of the goal by the year 2030 · Provided basic medicines for = 6.5 billion won 2019 Integrated Report of alienated social class Commitment 5 SDG 4. High Quality Education By 2030, provide for each growth stage an opportunity of Provided the opportunity for · Contributed to the development of local Number of Beneficiaries x Social Value of Education Program APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Guarantee comprehensive high-quality customized education and career experience educational support & career experience society through high-quality education (Direct support of scholarship, local children centers and convenience Training of Local Talented Personnel education with equal opportunity and for 50 thousand children and youths in alienated 9,329 people · Provided various information & experience provided to create the support of reference books, Social Value of enhance the opportunity of lifetime learning social class through the representative social for future generation to select the career Career Experience Education Program) to all people contribution program, ‘Young Adult Energy Project.’ Accomplished 19% of the goal by the year 2030 = 300 million won 4.4 044 Total Sum 1,578.9 billion won 045 CSR FOUNDATION In order to raise midto long-term value, DHIC has making efforts to grow continuously through collaboration with stakeholders with whom DHIC has established a long-term win-win relationship, while taking on prior and post responsibilities to support major stakeholders. Governance DHIC has taken various steps to advance the governance structure. In order to activate the governance structure A Grade Acquired A-Grade in 2019 COMPAMY OVERVIEW based on outside directors, DHIC has maintained a majority of outside directors. For governance activities based Structure for 8 consecutive years in ESG assessment by KCGS on the committee, DHIC has strengthened institutional fairness and prepared a foundation for transparent management of an enterprise. POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS OPERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS LEADERSHIP & ACCOUNTABILITY ACTIVATION OF ELECTRONIC VOTING SYSTEM & ∤ The Board of Directors operates the governance based on the 4 operation ∤ When an important management issue arises, including economic, ∤ To check and balance between in-house management and outside WRITTEN BALLOT BUSINESS STRATEGY principles of responsible leadership, efficient operation, fair salary, and environmental and social issues, the Board of Directors shares the directors, 4 outside directors are appointed which is 57% of entire ∤ The electronic voting system enables shareholders to exercise the their stakeholder-centered. corresponding matter and seeks a solution. membership of the Board of Directors. voting rights online(e.g., via computer or smartphone) without direct ∤ For fairness in the operation of the Board of Directors, the voting right ∤ According to the Articles of Association, for fast and efficient decision∤ F airness and transparency are enhanced as outside directors participation in the general meetings of shareholders. shall be restricted to directors with special interest regarding the vote making, a committee is installed to operate inside the Board of Directors. are appointed in the general meetings of shareholders through ∤ To extend shareholder’s right, DHIC has introduced the Proxy Solicitation by the Board of Directors. In principle, the vote of the Board of Directors ∤ To protect the right of shareholders and stakeholders, information on the recommendation by the Recommendation Committee for Outside Director and 2017 Electronic Voting Proxy Statement System and implemented the shall be the majority of directors in presence and majority of directors in composition and operation status of the Board of Directors is disclosed Candidate. written ballot. attendance. through the company’s website, the business report, and the governance ∤ To help outside directors improve their understanding of the company ∤ It is possible to hold a meeting when more than one third of registered structure report. and secure expertise, the presentation of company overview and the Result from the Implementation of Electronic Voting System directors jointly specify the purpose of a meeting and the desired date to headquarters & Changwon plant Shop Tour are conducted for newly Status of Committee inside Board of Directors Number of Stocks Participated in Electronic Voting(Unit: Stock) convene the meeting, and request that the meeting be convened. appointed outside directors. Employee Stock Foreigners ∤ During July 8 and 9 in 2019, all outside directors visited Changwon Institutional Investor Ownership Association 8.1% Recommendation Committee for Outside Director Candidate headquarter and participated in the presentation of major products, plant 1,207,030 8.1% 7.5% Doosan Corporation status and facilities to increase the understanding of the company. CSR FOCUS AREAS Recommend a candidate for outside director appointed 34.4% in the general meetings of shareholders Individual & Others Status of Convening Board of Directors 41.9% 1,000,211 Audit Committee Classification 2017 2018 2019 Carry out audit for the accounting and works of the company Number of Times to Convene Stock Distribution Status 9 11 11 the Board of Directors at The End of 2019 Internal Transaction Committee Status of Outside Directors in Presence COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Carry out the evaluation & approval of the internal transaction with a person of special relation ∤ As of March 2020, the Board of Directors is composed of a total of 7 Classification 2017 2018 2019 directors, of which 3 are inside directors and 4 are outside directors. 454,000 Attendance of 97.1 97.8 95.5 ∤ In order to raise the efficiency of managerial judgment and to realize Outside Directors(%) responsible business management, CEO serves as the chairman of the CSR GOVERNANCE CSR FOUNDATION Board of Directors. To guarantee the role of check and balance and to raise 260,000 the transparency of the Board of Directors, an independent senior outside ∤ The Board of Directors operates a separate CSR Committee to manage sustainable management and social value creation. REMUNERATION director is appointed. ∤ The CEO shall serve as the chairman of the CSR Committee. The CSR ∤ Salaries for outside directors and inside directors are paid within the ∤ At the time of appointing the directors, DHIC strives to form a board of Committee is comprised of three divisions: (i) environment; (ii) society; limit of directors' remuneration approved by the general meetings of directors in consideration of various perspectives, including gender, (iii) and governance structure. This will facilitate prompt handling of issues shareholders. industrial experience, religion, major, race, disability, origin and political 2017. 03 2018. 03 2019. 03 2020. 03 and decision-making. ∤ Information about individual officer salaries, including that of nonorientation, along with independence and expertise. General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders executive directors and the CEO, are disclosed through the business Current Composition of Board of Directors Composition of CSR Committee report. To Entire Voting Rights(Unit: %) Position Name Major Career 1.14 (Currently) Chairman & CEO of DHIC 2019 Integrated Report of Park Geewon (Currently) CEO(Chairman of Board of Directors) Chairman RELATIONSHIP WITH SHAREHOLDERS Inside (Currently) Head of Management in DHIC / President & CEO Jung Yeonin Director (Former) Head of Doosan Vina ∤ To protect the right of minority shareholders, the rights of independent 0.77 APPENDIX Choi Currently) Head of Financial Management in DHIC/ and minority shareholder are recognized under the relevant laws such as Executive Vice President & CEO Advisory Group Coordinator Hyounghee (Former) Executive Vice President of Doosan Infracore Commercial Act. (Currently) Chair Professor in Korea University Officers of Finance/ ∤ T he general meetings of shareholders is held annually to report Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Credo/HRD Team Kim Dongsoo1 (Currently) Head of Institute for Future growth Strategic Innovation/Legal Affairs 0.38 (Former) Member of Fairtrade Committee the business management status and listen to opinions of minority 0.33 (Currently) Professor of Graduate School of Management in Seoul National University shareholders. Nam Ickhyun (Former) Director of Graduate School of Management ∤ An electronic voting system was introduced from 2017 to protect the voting Outside in Seoul National University Division GOVERNANCE/ Director ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL (Former) Director of Policy in the Executive Office ECONOMIC right of minority shareholders. of the President Kim Daeki (Former) Secretary to Economic Policy Champion Management Officer HR Officer Purchase Officer ∤ M ajor information regarding business management is disclosed 2017. 03 2018. 03 2019. 03 2020. 03 in the Executive Office of the President transparently through various communication channels such as the General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting (Currently) Lawyer in Kim & Jang Law Firm Composition · EHS · HR · IR of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders of Shareholders 048 Lee Junho (Former) Judge at Seoul District Court · Climate Change · Social Contribution · Legal Affairs Corporate Disclosure System and the company’s website. · GreenTech · Mutual Growth 049 · Purchase 1. Senior Outside Director Ethical DHIC has been creating a corporate culture based on ethical responsibility such as honesty, transparency, and ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE COMPAMY OVERVIEW fairness throughout management activities. Around the activity based on the principle and strategy of ethical Management management, DHIC has been strengthening a company-wide system to prevent the risk of ethical management and making the best effort to prevent unethical action and corruption in the supply network by employee through the systematization of ethical management system. INTERNALIZATION OF ETHICAL MANAGEMENT PARTNER COMPANIES ∤ An ethics education has been implemented for employees of partner In-House Employees companies to introduce the DHIC Code of Conduct and provide guidance ∤E  thics education has been implemented for all employees, including new on how to report violations. and career employees. ∤A  new provision has been adopted to assess the risk of corruption of new POLICY & STRATEGY ∤ A dditional ethics education has been implemented for each job DIHC partner companies. group(Conduct ethics education that considers situations and circumstances, such as education to prohibit illegal solicitation and Support to ethical management and prevention unfair trade to Partner Companies IMPLEMENTATION PRINCIPLE COMPOSITION OF RESEARCH SECURITY & ETHICS COMMITTEE bribery as set forth in the Anti-Graft Law). ∤ In order to strengthen the observation of the Anti-Graft Law that prohibits Provisions in the Code of Conduct strictly prohibit bribery of ∤ T hrough compliance with laws and principles and fair business ∤ The technical competitiveness of DHIC has increased its value, and thus BUSINESS STRATEGY illegal solicitation and bribery, a self-administered check list has been trading partners by DHIC partner companies operations, DHIC conducts ethical management activities based on a so has the significance of research security to prevent misconduct and vision of becoming a leading ethical enterprise with respect and pride. technology leakage. prepared and distributed to employees. ∤ A Research Security & Ethics Committee has been established – with ∤ In order to respond preemptively to unfair transactions, training is provided to marketing employees to prevent collusion. Addition of an article A newly-adopted IMPLEMENTATION SYSTEM the CTO(Chief Technology Officer) serving as the chairman – to secure of compliance with provision to assess Training on fair transaction Distribution of the Code ∤ DHIC established the basic principle of job performance through the research ethics and reinforce research security. the Code of Conduct the risk of corruption & subcontract law for of Conduct of DHIC to every DHIC contract of new DIHC partner partner companies. to partner companies. ∤ The Research Security & Ethics Committee is fostering a transparent R&D Global Business Sites with partner companies. companies. Group-Level Code of Conduct, which was adopted in 2002 and recently atmosphere and seeks to prevent misconduct in research. ∤ Ethics education has been implemented for all employees in overseas revised in December 2019. Through the Code of Conduct, ethical subsidiary companies in India, Vietnam, and Europe. management targets and is applied to all employees who are active in ∤ To manage ethics risk in global business sites, compliance units have domestic and overseas business sites. DHIC also recommends that the Implementation Direction for Research Security & Ethics supply network of partner companies observes the Code of Conduct. been established in overseas subsidiary companies; and compliance REPORTING AND MONITORING units regularly communicate and collaborate to share knowledge and ∤D  HIC operates a cyber report center and an internal report box to facilitate ∤ To comply with the Code of Conduct throughout its supply network, strengthen the ethics compliance competency of subsidiary companies. internal and external reporting about the violation of ethics. DHIC has proceed with an Oath of Compliance with the Code of Conduct Establishment of ∤ To prohibit illegal acts and manipulation of laws in the supply chain, a ∤D  HIC has introduced an internal reporting system operated by a third party for partner companies. To prevent corruption by overseas agents, DHIC CSR FOCUS AREAS Governance & Reinforcement compliance regulation is specified in DHIC contracts with agencies that for overseas subsidiaries to report violation of ethics. manages third-party anti-corruption risks by linking ethical management of Operation System INSTITUTION represent the local works of overseas projects. ∤ The inner report system of overseas subsidiaries has been in service with to the supply chain operating system, such as strengthening Compliance Regulations under standard contract conditions. 36 languages to secure the high access by stakeholders Status of Ethics Education Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 RESEARCH SECURITY & IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY ETHICS COMMITTEE AUTONOMOUS EXPORT MANAGEMENT OF Education Target People 6,969 6,611 5,624 ∤ Based on the commitment of executives to ethical management, DHIC STRATEGIC MATERIALS Education Completed People 6,701 6,404 5,318 ∤ DHIC has been recognized by MOTIE for its excellent fulfillment and has established anti-corruption implementation infrastructure on the basis of the Code of Conduct, the Cyber Report System, and the operation Completion Rate % 96 97 95 observance of the autonomous export management of strategic materials; organization. and has maintained the highest class certification of triple A since INSPECTION EDUCATION *The performance of enrolling the ethics education includes the employees of ∤ Based on the company-wide system, DHIC has established a PDCA(Planoverseas subsidiary companies receiving it for the first time in April 2014. Do-Check-Action) virtuous cycle to enhance ethical conscience of ∤ DHIC has received various benefits for special cases, such as the Strengthen Research Security & Change Mindsets & exemption of the assessment for export permit in those countries under employees and to prevent unethical conduct. CSR FOUNDATION Ethics and Verification of Performance Prevent Misconduct Status of Unfair Transaction Education Indicators for Each R&D Stage the international export control system(including the U.K and the U.S). Classification Unit 2017 2018 2019 ∤ The acquisition of the highest class for the Compliance Program(CP) was Implementation Strategy of Ethical Management Number of Employees a company-wide accomplishment. DHIC continuously pursue systematic People 2,654 2,730 1,956 Participating in Education VISION fulfillment and compliance of autonomous export management. PREPARATION OF A PROCEDURE FOR AN OATH OF COMPLIANCE TO THE CODE OF CONDUCT BY SUPPLY NETWORK Certificate of ‘Triple A’ in Compliance Program(CP) ∤ According to the new system of an Oath of Compliance for the Code of Conduct launched on January 2020, all DHIC partner companies have an Become a leading ethical enterprise with respect and obligation to sign an Oath of Compliance for the Code of Conduct in the pride through compliance with laws and principles and 2019 Integrated Report of bid procedure. fair business operations. APPENDIX IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Building the right way to increase the value of DHIC with the technology to increase the value of the earth Enhancement of Ethical Establishment of Establishment of Corporate Conscience & Reinforcement Ethical Management Culture in which Ethical of Preventive Activity Infrastructure Compliance is the Normal 050 051 Green Based on DHIC's foundational philosophy of advanced green management centered on people and nature, DIHC Status of Violation of Environmental Law COMPAMY OVERVIEW endeavors to reduce environmental impact of management activities. DHIC aims to establish an integrated system for ZERO Management Regarding environmental laws, DHIC has had risk management; expand distribution of green technology; and reduce energy to conduct relevant activities. In 2019, no violation, fine, conflict resolution, or debt related to the environment over the past three years. DHIC made an effort to minimize the environmental impact generated by business sites by drastically expanding investment in the area of environment. POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE IMPLEMENTATION SYSTEM ESTABLISH INTEGRATED ENERGY SYSTEM FOR EACH STAGE MINIMIZATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Activities to Reduce Fine Dust at Business Sites ∤ DHIC implements green management under the COO(Chief Operation ∤ DHIC has been developing an integrated energy system for each stage IN BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ∤ DHIC has continued to implement activities to reduce fine dust through BUSINESS STRATEGY Officer). Green management activities are implemented across the entire based on the energy utilization efficiency and big data under factory load. the conclusion of an agreement on Fine Dust Reduction(until 2024) with value chain, including through a separate EHS consultation group with In 2019, DHIC combined ICT technology with the energy consumption the Office of South Gyeongsang Province. Activity for Greenhouse Gas Reduction partner companies. structure and developed a predictive model. ∤ DHIC has adjusted and shortened work hours for processes where fine ∤ DHIC has implemented two types of greenhouse gas reduction activities: (i) ∤ In order to accomplish the ‘Global Top-Tier Energy & Environment,’ DHIC ∤ Based on the established system, DHIC expects to reduce 2.3 billion dust is generated; and conducts continuous real-time monitoring between energy efficiency; (ii) procurement of Certified Emissions Reduction(CER) implements green management based on three strategies: (i) Preemptive won of annual energy costs and to reduce the emission of 8,500 tons of the headquarters and domestic construction fields. through external projects. Risk Management; (ii) Establishment of Integrated Energy/Environment greenhouse gas. ∤ DHIC has identified the trend of governmental detail instruction to respond ∤ DHIC has improved processes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at System; (iii) Performance Creation through Expanded Distribution of Green ∤ In collaboration with South Gyeongsang Province and a relevant agency of in advance. DHIC has reflected the eco-friendly condition at the time of business sites and factory facilities. Technology. Korea Energy Agency, DHIC transferred relevant knowhow to SMEs in the replacing aged facilities and established the long-term countermeasure ∤ DHIC has analyzed the fragmented risk cause and scenario of climate province. for find dust. change to estimate the emission of greenhouse gas and measure the level Implementation Unit ∤ DHIC improved the operation of large size high-pressure boiler to reduce of financial burden based on the estimation. 350 million won of fuel cost and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Management Activities for Water Pollutants ∤ DHIC has considered the cost and convenience of a CER transaction, ∤ D HIC has established a Rain Water Recycling System which can CEO deduced the priority for each countermeasure, and reflected this in fundamentally stop the leakage of hazardous substances by combining an management decision-making. CSR FOCUS AREAS independent water treatment technology. COO ∤ DHIC has delivered professional education on energy control and Certified Initiative to Establish Energy Integrated System ∤ The corresponding system recycles rain water normally and recovers entire Emissions Reduction targeting the person in charge of each BG Plant. By hazardous substances in emergency situations. EHS targeting management, DHIC aims to strengthen internal competency in ∤ The water processed through in-house waste treatment plant is purified order to achieve the goal of shared amount of carbon emission for each BG. EHS Consultation Group additionally at the local government water recovery center to minimize the with Partner Companies 3 Le ve l risk of water pollution at nearby streams. Generate Profit based on Certified PLANT EPC BG EHS NUCLEAR POWER BG EHS POWER SERVICE BG EHS Emissions Reduction(Carbon Credits) Stage 1(~2017) Domestic Construction and Project Field Sites EHS Officer EHS Officer 2 145,000 tons Capability of Waste Treatment Plant to about 2.7 billion won Le ve l Established an integrated control system for cooling Process Inflow Waste and heating supply. Overseas Construction and Project Field Sites ∤ Reduced 7.4 hundred million won in energy cost; and reduced the emission of 1,736t CO2 eq since complete (2017 – 2019) About 400 tons(Daily average) establishment in 2017. 1,590 tons(Maximum treatment capacity) Green Management Vision House Secured Certified Emissions Reduction of about 90 thousand tons until 2023 CSR FOUNDATION (Physical and chemical treatment process of 1 through the CDM project for overseas supply of cook stoves Le ve Stage 2 – Stage 3(~2020) condensation-deposit-filtering) l Establish an integrated control system for steam, VISION Global Top Tier Player in Energy & Environment pressurized air, and water Establish an integrated control system Management Activities for Air Pollutants for electricity and city gas Establish an advanced and scientific people/nature-oriented ∤ A real-time remote control is available by attaching ∤ In order to check for generation of pollutants in the manufacturing process, MISSION green management system andsupport sustainable growth as a top-tier solution Strict Management of 17 Water Pollutants partner to add synergy to the achievements in energy and environment a sensor and a control device for each energy source. DHIC conducts periodic inspections on the level of pollution and monitors Compared to the legal limit for treated water This energy control system maximizes efficiency through automatic connection with manufacturing. changes in environmental impact around business sites. Strict Management within ∤ For transparent information disclosure, DHIC discloses the measured 30% Disseminate green Put in place integrated STRATEGIC Proactive technology to improve concentration of air pollutants discharged from company facilities to the energy and environment GOAL Risk Management system and process energy and environment performance HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM website of the Korea Environment Corporation.(Limited to facilities that have installed TMS) 2019 Integrated Report of ∤ DHIC has established a digitized management system for entire cycle ∤ Through the installation and operation of environmental facilities, such as management of chemicals, from the purchase of chemicals to their use. air and water discharge systems, DHIC was able to acquire environmental Business Sites of Overseas Subsidiaries with Certified Management System ∤ DHIC has established the DCIS(Doosan Chemical Information System) APPENDIX RESPONSE SYSTEM FOR CLIMATE CHANGE liability insurance(30 billion won insured limit) will compensate for based on relevant laws(Chemical Substances Control Act, Occupational U.K(Doosan Babcock) ISO 14001, ISO 14064 ∤ DHIC has established a response system for climate change based on the physical or property damages inflicted on third parties. Safety and Health Act, Act on the Safety Control of Hazardous Substances). Czech(Doosan Skoda Power ISO 14001 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction application of new renewable energy and new technology. ∤ By entering the material health information of chemicals into the ∤ DHIC has established a goal of 20% reduction compared to BAU(Business database, DHIC enables users to access the latest information safely. Vietnam(Doosan VINA) ISO 14001 Investment for Reducing Emission of as Usual)* by the year 2030. ∤ In accordance with the Act on the Registration and Evaluation, etc. of Air Pollutants Romania(Doosan IMGB) ISO 14001 ∤ DHIC has established an integrated energy system at the company-wide Total 2.2 Billion Won Chemical Substances, DHIC has developed the complete preliminary level to accomplish the corresponding BAU goal. *As of the end of year 2019 report in 2019, and plans sequential registration by 2030 for a total of 21 (Three Facilities of Discharging Pollutants) *BAU: Expected amount of greenhouse gas discharged when a normal management activity chemicals(which are imported in volumes exceeding 1 ton). is implemented without any reduction activity of greenhouse gas. 052 053 ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE Management of Biodiversity COMPAMY OVERVIEW No. of Region Project List Management Area in Priority Species in Details of Species in Management Remarks Management MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES FOR WASTES STRENGTHEN MANAGEMENT OF ∤ DHIC has rejected simple incineration and landfill for all wastes discharged ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ON LOCAL SOCIETY Saudi Arabia Fadhili Combined Heat and Power Plant Soil: Sand Sea 1 Amphibia: spiny-tailed Lizard classified as VU from the company and instead pursues the waste management strategy of No effect on animal and plants in management target on ESIA, but list for 25 species of Saudi Arabia Shoaiba RO Wetland X plants in entire region of Saudi Arabia expanding recycling and/or reducing the discharge amount fundamentally. Purification Activities for Environment of Masan Bay ∤ In accordance with the enactment of the Basic Resource Circulation Law, ∤ For the past 13 years, on Ocean Day, DHIC has conducted environment Turtle, whale, dolphin, fox, lizard(35), gazelle, camel, goat, bird(94 species Oman Sharqiyah Water: Red Sea 9 DHIC accomplished the goal of 5.9% usage outcome of scrap irons in including eagle & seagull) purification activities to improve water quality and preserve the ocean 2019(Exceeded accomplishment 5%pt) environment at Masan Bay. Types of ecosystem identified in EIA as below, but no type of management target of plants in Vietnam Song Hau 1 TPP Water: Sea X EIA Report. No mention about the management targets of animals and fish(154). No precious ∤ In 2019, 20 company employees, 150 people from Sungsan District Office plant species in the Red Book of Vietnam and the IUCN(Refer to data) animals(53), fish(35). Excellent Case of Recycling of Construction Wastes from Construction Site of Changwon City, and various private groups worked together to collect Types of ecosystem identified in EIA as below, but no type of management target of plants in and remove 30 tons of wastes(such as waste fishnet, buoys and waste EIA Report. No mention about the management targets for plants(References). No mention of In accordance with the law enacted to promote recycling and optimum eco-friendly India Obra C Soil: Agricultural land X BUSINESS STRATEGY animals and plants that correspond to IUCN Risk of Extinction Plants(255), Animals(287), treatment of construction wastes, DHIC utilized aggregate wastewater sludge for soil ropes) from the ocean. Fish(21). material in the method to discharge through previous service company in compliance with the the legal recycling standard. This led to a cost reduction of 1.5 billion won India Jawaharpur Water: River, canal X No mention of management target for plants in EIA Report. through the recycling of 30,845 tons. There are no endangered species in the project site but Ben En national park is 40km away from Nghi son 2 TPP project to the north west. Ben En national park is an important habitat 2019 Vietnam Nghi Son2 Soil: Soil Forest, Jungle X for mammals of Vietnam; the habitat of 20 species is listed in the Red List of IUCN under Added Constant Improvement of Waste Recycling Rate threatened species in 1996. Ben En national park has at least 737 plants, 64 animals, 194 birds, 30 amphibian and 58 fish species, high diversification. 77.1% → 91.4% Saudi Arabia Ras Al khair Water: Rihand River, Son River 16 16 species of CR(Critically Endangered), 33 species of EN(Endangered), 107 species of 2019 (2010) (2019) VU(Vulnerable), 4 species of birds, 11 species of fish, and 1 species of reptiles among CR Added National Road Construction Office for Soil: Agricultural land or 5 Buzzard, kestrel, Chinese Sparrowhawk, Eurasian Sparrowhawk, mandarin duck Changwon Dongeup Gimhae Hanlim Non-agricultural land Reduction of Generated Waste after Improvement of Construction Office for Unit 1 and Waste Treatment Method in Changwon Plant 4 Otter, kestrel, mandarin duck, whooper swan Unit 2 Samcheok Green Power About 500 tons(Annual) CSR FOCUS AREAS Construction Office Soil: Sand 6 Leopard Cat, mandarin duck, Eurasian Sparrowhawk, eagle, kestrel for Changnyeong-Miryang Highway (Recycling after sorting refractories used in the electric furnace process) Construction Office for Unit 5 and Unit 6 Water: Arabian Gulf 55 Conger eel, horse mackerel, rockfish, thornback ray Shinkori Nuclear Power Plants 0 Mentioned the management of land animals, land plants, land and water organisms, species Disposal Charges for Wastes Construction Office for the road of legal protection in the environment impact assessment: leopard cat(13), eagle, kestrel(42), 8 from Domestic Construction Sites between Jeokseong and Duil salamander(13), macromia daimoji okumura(24), common Korean bitterling, Korean spotted barbel, gobiobotia macrocephala(9) Zero Accomplished Mentioned the management in land animals, land plants, land and water organisms, and (2019) Construction Office for Bongdam-Songsan species of legal protection in the environment impact assessment: leopard cat, mandarin Wetland 12 Highway duck, goshawk, Chinese sparrowhawk, kestrel, eagle owl, black-capped kingfisher, salamander, narrow mouth frog, Korean frog, yellow-spotted snake, sharpbelly Species of legal protection in environmental impact assessment: Otter, leopard cat, Construction Office for Hamyang2019 Soil, Sky 11 whooper swan, mandarin duck, eagle, Korean buzzard, kestrel, scops owl, long-billed plover, EDUCATION FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGER Changnyeong Highway gobiobotia naktongensis, Microphysogobio koreensis Added ∤ DHIC delivers competency education for environmental managers at 2019 Masan Bay Environment Sanitation Activity Domestic CSR FOUNDATION Construction Office for Samcheok 2019 Water 4 Animals: Small size birds and mammals such as chipmunk, squirrel, great tit, woodpecker construction sites. In 2019, the education was conducted for 23 persons in Thermal Power Plant Added charge of environmental management. Management of Biodiversity Construction Office for the land development Soil, Water 5 Otter, leopard cat, scarlet dwarf, kestrel, long-billed plover 2019 ∤ D HIC has been implementing OJT(On-the-Job Training) for new of Ulsan Down 2 Land Development Added ∤ DHIC implements a survey to identify the diversity of organisms in the environmental managers at construction sites. In 2019, DHIC conducted local ecosystem before the initiation of a project. ∤ Land under Transmission lines training for new environmental managers based on practical cases of field of cableway in No. 70 ∤ In order to preserve the ecosystem and minimize environmental changes transmission tower Siberian ginseng, leopard cat, marten, mountain goat, flying squirrel, Chinese sparrowhawk, environmental management and environmental laws. Construction Office for Shamcheok Thermal Power Plant T/L ∤ Noise vibration of X Eurasian Sparrowhawk, goshawk, kestrel, Eurasian hobby, eagle owl, otter, mandarin duck, 2019 Added from the construction stage, DHIC conducts monitoring of atmosphere, entire planned line long-billed plover, Eurasian minnow, cottus hangiongensis ∤ To establish the environmental management system, such as EHS ∤ Nonpoint pollution water quality, soil, noise and vibration. DHIC shares the relevant results in entire planned line Management System(ISO 14001), DHIC has established an annual with the client to carry out systematic management. environmental management plan and delivers competency education Mentioned of the management in plants, land animals, land and water organism, and species ∤ In 2019, in the local areas where DHIC implemented 20 projects, DHIC of legal protection in the environment impact assessment environmental managers based on excellent cases. 2019 Integrated Report of 1) Local survey(7 species) : Leopard cat, mandarin duck, bean goose, white-tailed sea eagle, identified a total of 175 species. Road Expansion Construction hen harrier, Chinese sparrowhawk, Eurasian hobby, white-naped Crane, 2019 Soil, Water 22 for Galcheon-Gasoo Eurasian Sparrowhawk, kestrel, long-billed plover, cuckoo, scops owl Added 2) Literature Survey(15 Species) : leopard cat, bean goose, mandarin duck, osprey, hen harrier, Chinese sparrowhawk, Eurasian Sparrowhawk, kestrel, Eurasian hobby, white-naped Crane, long-billed plover, cuckoo, scops owl, narrow mouth frog APPENDIX Species of legal protection in environmental impact assessment: copper-winged bat, otter, Construction Office for Sejong-Ansung flying squirrel, leopard cat, eagle, goshawk, Eurasian hobby, eagle owl, long-billed plover, 2019 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Soil, Water 17 Highway Chinese goose, golden frog, narrow mouth frog, diving beetle, mandarin duck, kestrel, Added brown hawk owl, scops owl Competency Education for Environmental Management at Construction Sites 054 055 Safety & Health The area of safety management is very important to business management as it is directly connected to COMPAMY OVERVIEW employees and stakeholders of DHIC. DHIC has adopted the major management goals of: preventing critical disasters; managing high-risk worksites and processes; improving safety management competency of partner companies; and implementing systematic management with a responsible attitude. In 2019, DHIC conducted a complete enumeration of safety accidents around major business sites, analyzed the cause of safety accidents, and focused on identifying ways to remove risk factors of safety accidents. POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE IMPLEMENTATION SYSTEM Vision House REINFORCEMENT OF FIELD SAFETY MANAGEMENT Inspection of Unsafe Actions Among Basic Causes of Safety Accidents ∤ DHIC has appointed a person in charge of general safety & health under ∤ From the result of safety accidents at Changwon Plant, about more than BUSINESS STRATEGY VISION the CEO and composed an Industrial Safety & Health Committee to 80% were caused by unsafe actions of workers. Advanced Management of High-Risk Process deliberate and decide major matters regarding industrial safety & health. ∤ To control the unsafe actions of workers, DHIC has taken videos of high∤ DHIC has selected 5 types of critical disasters and 10 core inspection ∤ The Industrial Safety & Health Committee consists of an equal number of risk work processes, identified risks related to workers’ actions, and themes for Changwon Plant, including high fall, heavy object compression, employees and users; and conducts planning and inspection of various endeavored to eliminate such unsafe actions. Created No-Disaster & Eco-Friendly Business Site electric shock, heavy equipment accident, fire and explosion, and activities in relation to safety & health of employees. ∤ DHIC  has conducted an effort to improve the process of accident survey to systematized management of these risks. ∤ The committee conducts safety & health management activities on the prevent the reoccurrence of same or similar accidents. ∤ DHIC has conducted 3 cycles of inspection on aged facilities and GOAL basis of ISO 45001(the switch from OHSAS 18001 was completed in 2019). equipment on a company-wide level and minimized blind spots related to The committee also aims to enhance the management of safety & health Implementation of Operation Qualification System Accomplish Zero Critical Accident risk factors through such company-wide inspection. for employees of partner companies – through a separate safety & health to Prevent Critical Accidents ∤ In case of hazardous risk facilities(e.g., crane) that cause critical disaster, consultation group which supports partner companies to prevent the ∤ For Changwon Plant, DHIC operates an operation qualification system CORE PROMOTION DHIC has secured the safety of the facilities through special precision occurrence of industrial disasters. STRATEGY for operators of cranes or forklifts that are deployed for transportation or Focus on Participation by Focus on Improvement diagnosis of a non-destructive test on the part of concentrated stress. Focus on the Prevention of Workers & Improved Ability of of Operation Level of unloading of heavy objects which may cause critical accidents. ‘Critical Disaster’ Execution Partnership Companies ∤ The operator must complete the qualification program for operation. The Promotion Organization CSR FOCUS AREAS operation qualification system consists of education on professional Remove Unstable Condition/Eliminate Unsafe Action theory and practical application. CEO ∤ A regulation has been specified for failed applicants to retake the education and the test. Business Sites of Overseas Subsidiaries with Certificates of Safety & Health Management System MANUFACTURING AREA SERVICE AREA CONSTRUCTION AREA Strengthen Safety & Health Management by Partner Companies U.K(Doosan Babcock) ISO 45001 ∤ DHIC has implemented a Win-Win Cooperation Program for Safety & Health Czech(Doosan Skoda Power) OHSAS 18001 targeting 53 partner companies to discover and improve the risk causes Person in Charge of General Safety inside Changwon Plant. & Health Management Vietnam(Doosan VINA) OHSAS 18001 Inspection on Theme of 5 Critical Disaster Types BG EHS Team BG EHS Team ∤ Targeting high-risk processes, DHIC provides field feedback regarding Changwon Headquarter & Plant Romania(Doosan IMGB) OHSAS 18001 unsafe actions after observing the entire process of works. This has been General Inspection on Safety Accident & Analysis on Generation Causes(As of 2019) Germany(Doosan Lentjes) OHSAS 18001 implemented in 21 partner companies. ∤ Some partner companies have received the benefit of reduction in Person in Charge of Person in Charge of *As of the end of year 2019 Direct 52% 88 out of 170 CSR FOUNDATION General Safety & Health Management General Safety & Health Management Business Sites occupational health and safety insurance based on certification of risk Industrial Safety & Health Committee BG EHS Team Service Field Construction Field Office Partnership Companies 58% 31 out of 53 assessment. 22 partner companies maintain KOSHA 18001, 2 partner companies maintain OSHAS 18001. IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY ∤ DHIC supports partner companies to establish autonomous safety 9 Representing Themes of Safety Accident ∤ Based on the scientific safety & health management system, DHIC has management systems, including by training partner company CEOs and Industrial Safety & Industrial Safety & BG EHS Team BG EHS Team Health Committee Health Committee continuously discovered the causes of hazardous risk in the field and 9 themes are selected repeatedly after one cycle. Major themes are as follows management supervisors on safety & health management competency. focused on the prevention of critical disasters. (Conduct theme inspection for a week with one theme) ∤ DHIC strives to improve safety & health management competency, as Install a lifeline to prevent Inspect the installed condition of work plate the fall & inspect the wire rope Person in Charge of Safety & Health Supervisor Supervisor well as disseminate a culture of safety, throughout the value chain of Inspect abnormal condition of protection system headquarter, business sites, and partner companies. Inspect portable scaffold and ladder of construction equipment Plant(Team) General Manager Field Officer Construction Manager ∤ DHIC has identified the safety & health risks for each business area and 2019 Integrated Report of Inspect the fulfillment of work schedule Inspect slings(wire rope, chain sling) each country; and implemented effective management activities from the Inspect the preparation of structural review and Inspect lift tools(shackle, clamp) assembly diagram before Work Start initial stage of the project. Inspect the safety in the installation of APPENDIX temporary facility Supervisor EXPRESSION OF COMMITMENT TO Status of Accomplishment Zero Disaster Hours in Overseas Business Sites Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Head of Part SAFETY & HEALTH OF EXECUTIVES AND MANAGERS Classification Unit 2019 India Jawaharpur Hour 15 million ∤ DHIC implements regular MSLTs(Management Safety Leadership Tours) for India Obra C Hour 15 million executives and managers to disseminate a culture of safety and to identify Kuwait Doha RO Hour 9 million Supervisor risks, dangerous processes, and difficulties in the field. Vietnam Vinh Tan 4 Ext Hour 5 million ∤ Based on MLST, DHIC has intensively managed critical risk factors by Vietnam Nghi Son 2 Hour 5 million General/Senior Officer Intensive Management in High-Risk Process of Partnership Companies making weekly reports to the executives regarding safety activities and ∤ DHIC received an award for EHS Excellent Management from a client(EVN) for Vinh Tan 4 Ext. 056 high risk work (July 2019). ∤ According to the revocation of enactment instruction of Zero-Disaster Movement by the 057 government since 2018, there has been no outcome of domestic zero-disaster. ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE COMPAMY OVERVIEW INTERNALIZED CULTURE OF EMPHASIS ON SAFETY & HEALTH Reinforcement of Safety & Health Inspections During Vulnerable Periods REINFORCEMENT OF HEALTH MANAGEMENT Management of Patients with Musculoskeletal Disease ∤ DHIC has implemented safety checklists targeting new year’s day, fall FOR EMPLOYEES ∤D  HIC has minimized the occurrence of musculoskeletal disease across the harvest holiday, summer & winter vacations, peak process and high-risk company following the implementation of a preventive program. Evaluation on EHS Performances worksites. ∤ In 2019 DHIC conducted an evaluation on the distribution and severity ∤ DHIC has continued the development of a safety & health culture through Healthcare Program for Each Employment Period of musculoskeletal diseases within the company. DHIC subsequently the implementation of zero incident rewards across the Changwon ∤ DHIC provides a lifetime health program according to the age from the implemented recommendations on the lifting and handling of heavy Plant, the in-house partnership company, the EHS Internal Audit and the Safety & Health Special Inspection Implemented employment to the retirement of employees. loads. evaluation of management activities by partnership companies. in Vulnerable Periods ∤ DHIC conducts pre-employment health checkups for new employees. ∤ Employees displaying symptoms of musculoskeletal disease are entitled ∤ DHIC has evaluated EHS activities and implemented the EHS award for outstanding performance. 25 Times General health checkups are offered to employees over the age of 35(and their spouses) if they have worked with the company for more than five to and physical therapy under the supervision of trained physicians. (As of the year 2019 targeting construction sites) ∤ DHIC has implemented aqua aerobics classes using the in-house ∤ Following the EHS assessment, all field employees, managers of years. swimming pool. In 2019, 65 employees participated in the program. BUSINESS STRATEGY partnership companies and workers are now actively participating. ∤ DHIC has an agreement with 5 general hospitals in Seoul and Pusan to ∤ In departments which are particularly at risk from musculoskeletal ∤ While targeting domestic and overseas construction sites, DHIC has provide medical treatment for employees and their families. The company disease, DHIC has introduced a workplace stretching program. carried out a total of 45 EHS assessments which is reflected in the has furthermore reached an agreement with 14 local clinics for the performance evaluation. PREPARATION OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE SYSTEM & provision of orthopedic and dentistry services. EXPANSION OF TRAINING ∤ In order to relieve the burden of personal medical expenses DHIC will provide up to 20 million won per person to assist with costs incurred during surgery or medical procedures. This benefit is applicable to Implementation of Emergency Response Training employees and their families.. ∤ DHIC has devised detailed response measures for a range of emergency situations. ㆍHealth Diagnosis before Job Arrangement(Technical position) ∤ DHIC has produced case study videos such as building evacuation tips ㆍHepatitis A Vaccine(First, Second) ㆍSeasonal Flu Vaccine(Every year) for emergency situations, how to respond to an earthquake, firefighting New Employees ㆍAcquisition of qualification to apply the support of surgery facility guidance and usage. DHIC has used this video as educational (Self, spouse, children) ㆍMedical services through agreements with general hospitals material. Musculoskeletal System Management Program – Aqua Aerobic CSR FOCUS AREAS ㆍComplete first aid training ∤ The response & rescue facility has implemented more than 60 emergency drills around sites and office buildings. 1 Year ㆍImplementation of regular health checkups ㆍOffice work: General health checkup(once every 2 years) in Employment ㆍTechnical position: Special + General health checkup(every year) Medical Treatment Program through Psychology Consultation DHIC’s Plant EPC BG ‘2019 EHS Awards’ Expansion of Fire Response & Rescue Facilities ∤D  HIC has installed and operates a general consultation center(MISODAM) ∤ DHIC has installed rescue towels for fire escape in office building and ㆍEHS training before business trips or relocation in the company to relieve stress and provide consultation services to Expansion of EHS Education dormitory and supported the smooth escape plan when fire breaks out. ㆍInsurance for employees travelling overseas employees. ㆍVaccine for endemic and infectious disease Overseas ∤ To ensure an equitable level of service to both employees and their ∤ Targeting executives and plant managers, DHIC has implemented a ∤ DHIC has upgraded automated fire detection system which detects the fire Business Trip or ㆍSubscription to SOS service ㆍProvision of a guide for overseas safe living leadership education program to increase management competency in automatically and tells it to the fire prevention center in real-time targeting Dispatching ㆍOperation of a hotline for in-house clinics families, an external consultation center is also utilized. EHS risk. entire area of Changwon Plant. ㆍMedical support service at overseas workplaces ∤ DHIC has implemented safety psychology training for supervisors at Changwon Plant. This has been conducted by an external professional Monitoring Overseas Dispatched Employees ㆍUse of General Consultation Center(MISODAM) lecturer. ∤ DHIC has established a real-time system for centrally monitoring issues at ㆍUse of in-house clinics ∤ DHIC has produced a safety video to improve employee awareness. overseas sites. On Duty ㆍSupport of medical expenses(surgery fee) CSR FOUNDATION ㆍInterconnection service of medical treatment in general hospital and clinics ∤ D HIC has installed safety training facilities on all domestic and ∤ DHIC has prepared a risk management process for evacuating overseas ㆍParticipation in Stop Smoking Classes and Aqua Aerobics ㆍSupport of a low sodium diet overseas construction sites and expanded training to cover the entire workers and their families during emergency situations such as war and 754 consultations were conducted through the MISODAM consultation center(as of 2019) workforce(Continued from 2016). epidemics. ∤ DHIC has trained professional lecturers to deliver the exact method to use ∤ DHIC has installed satellite phones at work sites to ensure contact and 5 Years ㆍImplementation of general health checkups in Employment ㆍPrioritizing employees over the age of 35 the safety experience facilities. coordination during emergency situations(such as recent instability in the Operation of In-house Annexed Clinics ∤ In the case of Samcheok Thermal Power Plant(Giant Plant), a high-tech Middle East region). 20 Years in ㆍImplementation of specific health checks(includingcardiovascular and cancer) ∤ DHIC has been operating in-house annexed clinics with doctors, nurses, safety education center that combines various educational contents and Employment ㆍPrioritizing employees over the age of 45. physical therapists and exercise trainers to provide a one-stop medical IT technology is installed. And safety education for workers is provided to treatment facility. After Retirement ㆍSupport for discounted health checkups ensure safety. (for 3 years) ∤ DHIC provides annual flu vaccines for employees and their families and employees of partnership companies. In 2019, DHIC provided vaccines for 2019 Integrated Report of Status of Education for EHS Managers 25 thousand people. Management Performance of Disease in Musculoskeletal System ∤ DHIC provides vaccinations for prevalent endemic diseases(Malaria, ∤4  0 people including executives, team leaders and site managers have completed (Unit: People) Typhoid Fever, Yellow Fever) in each country in which it operates. DHIC APPENDIX leadership education workshop in health & safety. 65 57 evaluates the capacities of in-house clinics in overseas countries and ∤7  3 site managers of partnership companies have completed the workshop. ∤2  9 health managers and environmental managers have completed the workshop. provides EHS training and medical supplies as required. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 57 ∤4  35 domestic supervisors have completed the workshop. ∤ Medical personnel conduct regular overseas visits to workplaces with ∤ 1 ,096 people have completed the workshop from 9 overseas sites, global construction poor medical infrastructure to ensure an adequate level of healthcare is projects by Doosan’s partnership companies and EHS manpower. available. ∤ 1 22 domestic health and safety managers have completed the education. ∤D  HIC has implemented OJT for 25 new health & safety managers. 2017 2018 2019 058 ∤ Participants in the management program for a patient with musculoskeletal system disorder. ∤ From the analysis result of the effectiveness by utilizing the Visual Analogue Scale(VAS), 059 it showed the reduction effect of pain with more than 77% of participants in the program. Talent DHIC does not consider employees as instruments of performance but respects them as individual persons. ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE COMPAMY OVERVIEW DHIC is considerate to each individual of employees with sincere concern. DHIC has been expanding training Management to reinforce leadership and duty competency, as well as to foster talented personnel on both leadership and professional skills. DHIC also endeavors to foster a happy organization culture. REINFORCEMENT OF BASIC WORK COMPETENCE Technology Management Course ∤D  HIC has been operating the Technology Management School to improve the competency of employees in technical duties. Upgrade the System of Work Education ∤ DHIC has delivered the business cycle and accounting knowledge that ∤ To improve the competence of all employees, DHIC has been operating built the value of the company and conducted the leadership education academies for duties based on the value chain. POLICY & STRATEGY ∤E  ach academy consists of a 3-stage learning system of Basic ▸ Advanced that led to development of a communication culture. ∤ DHIC has implemented education for 1,575 people through 58 sessions ▸ Expert based on the required competency for each position or year(s) of since 2014. work. IMPLEMENTATION SYSTEM Doosan People ∤E  mployees can select the required education for each level. ∤ Based on Doosan Credo, DHIC defines the development of experts with ∤ To provide education based on practical learning. Employees actively BUSINESS STRATEGY natural competitiveness as a core goal of talented personnel management. participate in classes to expand their professional knowledge in an Unity Incessantly Rising applicable manner. CREATION OF A HAPPY WORKPLACE FOR EMPLOYEES ∤ DHIC has developed quantitative personnel management based on the Eye Level Human Resources Information System(HRIS). ∤ To encourage high-quality in-house lecturers DHIC provides employees an ∤ Based on the HRIS(Human Resource Information System), DHIC has opportunity to earn a payment for each class they conduct. Retirement Support Program conducted competency assessments on 6,200 domestic employees and Sincere Concern Priority and ∤ DHIC has been operating a customized retirement support program & Fostering Concentration 6,000 overseas employees and established a Global One System fostering Expanding Training to Negotiation Skills targeting employees before their retirement and supporting them in their management, education and employment. ∤ To continue the successful reception and implementation of PJT post-retirement plans. ∤ DHIC has strengthened collection and analysis of human resources data to orders, DHIC has developed and operates the WIN(Winning Intelligent ∤ The program consists of basic and intensive courses. DHIC provides support strategic decision making according to the nature of business. Open Tenacious Negotiation) process to strengthen Win-Win Negotiations. tailored information through consultation in the year of retirement. Communication Implementation ∤ To assist with the teaching of negotiation principles DHIC has designed an education program which utilizes participation and case studies. Club Activity Support IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY ∤ For the purpose of using concept and terminologies of negotiation ∤ DHIC supports club activities for the work-life balance of employees and ∤ Employees are our most valuable assets and are essential for the growth PRINCIPLES TO SELECT TALENTED PERSONNEL smoothly for the nature of works and communication in the company with developed club activities in diverse areas such as sports, hobbies and and development of the company. DHIC has developed a well-balanced ∤ In order to employ talented personnel, DHIC conducts strict screening CSR FOCUS AREAS the same language, DHIC has continued the education for all employees self-development. strategy to foster talented personnel on an equal opportunities basis. processes for new employees. of duties to contribute to the enhancement of successful project and its ∤2  ,000 employees have joined 50 clubs in Changwon, Seoul and Yongin. ∤ DHIC encourages professional development within the workplace. ∤ DHIC is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate on the profitability. grounds of education, age, gender, ethnicity or nationality. In-House College DOOSAN’S IMAGE OF TALENTED PERSONNEL, ∤ For the self-development and growth of employees in technology, DHIC ‘DOOSAN PEOPLE’ has been operating an Energy Convergence Engineering College in ∤ Doosan’s talented personnel, ‘Doosan People’ refers to all employees PRINCIPLES TO EVALUATE TALENTED PERSONNEL EXPANSION OF EDUCATION IN TECHNOLOGY cooperation with Changwon University. who practically contribute to furthering the organization and continually ∤ DHIC operates an evaluation system based on the long-term development ∤ Employees of DHIS who wish to enroll can apply to the courses as developing their abilities. of individual employees. freshmen or transferring students and use their free time to learn and ∤ Doosan People is a person who makes much account of Doosan's ∤ Identifying strengths and development needs of substrate characteristics Consortium Education acquire an undergraduate degree in Engineering. fundamental values and image of talented personnel and practices them that correspond to the Doosan's talented personnel, conducting ∤ To improve the technical competency of power generation clients, partner ∤ To date, 106 employees have graduated and 18 employees are enrolled in as an act. fact-based evaluations and establishing detailed human resources companies, and employees, DHIC delivers education to a national human the freshmen course. development plans based on them. resources consortium. ∤ DHIC has led the mutual growth of clients and partner companies and CSR FOUNDATION ∤ DHIC has implemented quantitative management based on the company’s Human Resources Information System(HRIS). realized the improvement of overall productivity through the technical improvement of its employees. ∤I n 2019 DHIC delivered education to a national human resources ESTABLISHMENT OF A SOUND LABOR-MANAGEMENT CULTURE Human Resources Development Strategy development consortium of 512 people, including 131 people power ∤ Based on mutual trust between labor and management, DHIC has generation clients and 253 employees. established a stable labor-management relationship. ∤ DHIC has concluded a no-conflict group agreement for 14 consecutive Meister System years. ∤ DHIC has selected and fostered in-house Meisters to transfer knowledge ∤ Through conference organizations between labor and management such accumulated through long-term experience. as a negotiation group, a labor-management council and an institutional Doosan Leadership College Doosan Professional College improvement committee, DHIC provides an opportunity for employees to ∤ Since 2014, 18 Meisters have been designated to implement various 2019 Integrated Report of “Foster Leaders who Epitomize “Foster Experts Equipped with production improvements such as technology transfer and standardization participate freely in the course of decision making. the Doosan Credo” Natural Competitiveness” ∤D  HIC have been operating a systematic training process for employees to ∤D  HIC has provides communication opportunities for each BG to reflect the attain the role of Meister. opinions of employees on the operation of the company. APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 01 02 03 Negotiation of Expansion of Opportunities to All Employees Provision of Opportunity for Customized Education Development through Self-Learning in Each Growth Stage No-Conflict Labor-Management · DHIC focuses on further developing the skills of key leaders · DHIC has provides a book for efficient and systematic self-learning. while offering all employees an opportunity for fair growth. · DHIC considers individual capability for each position and · DHIC supports various self-learning approaches such as for 14 Consecutive Years · DHIC has strengthened a practical leadership education through provides the opportunity of a systematic education. a learning club and open courses for employees. the Doosan Credo. · DHIC has been supporting a prerequisite learning of (as of 2019) · DHIC has expanded management education to all employees. duty education in connection with education contents and 060 · DHIC has established a 3-stage learning system of basic, intensive and professional courses to improve competency. circulating arrangement composed by the level of capability of a target for education. 061 Business Social requirements in relation to the human rights aspects of international enterprises are of increasing COMPAMY OVERVIEW importance. DHIC has prepared and implemented a system of human rights risk management across the Management for company. All members and stakeholders have the right to dignity and value and DHIC has been made the best effort to respect and protect these rights. Human Rights POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE IMPLEMENTATION UNIT HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT ON HUMAN RIGHT IMPLEMENTATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS EDUCATION ∤ DHIC has promoted the activity of human right business management on ∤ The human rights policy specifies basic human rights which are secured ∤ DHIC has proceeded with the regular assessment of effect on the human ∤ To prevent human rights violations, DHIC has implemented basic human BUSINESS STRATEGY the basis of the Human Rights Committee. regardless of origin, religion, gender, ethnicity or other conditions. right targeting employees of the headquarter. rights education for all employees on domestic and overseas business ∤ The Human Rights Committee employs an in-house assistant to advise the ∤ DHIC, as a member of the UN Global Compact, observes 10 principles of ∤ DHIC has implemented the assessment of effect on the human right sites. human resources and business departments in the planning, operation, the Global Compact regarding human rights, labor, environment and antipreemptively targeting the place of high human right risk among overseas ∤ To minimize human rights risk on overseas business sites, DHIC has and guidance on activities at a company-wide level. corruption businesses. conducted global human rights education before dispatching employees. ∤ The Human Rights Committee conducts prompt review and response ∤ Based on the human rights principle recognized internationally such ∤D  HIC has established a mid to long term plan to conduct the assessment ∤ In 2020, DHIC is scheduled to promote human rights education for major through immediate reports of human rights issues. as ‘The Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ and ‘The UN Guiding of effect on the human right by expanding the evaluation range to entire partnership companies and additional education in human rights for Principles on Business and Human Rights’, DHIC respects the human overseas businesses and partnership companies. leaders. rights of employees of DHIC and all stakeholders who have a relationship in the management activities of the company. DHIC recommends the Assessment Rate of 2019 Human Rights Risk EFFORT TO EXPAND CULTURE OF RESPECT same level of human rights management to business partners and supply FOR HUMAN RIGHTS network. ∤ To expand the awareness of human rights in business management, DHIC Organization Chart of Human Right Committee has implemented rules and processes for the prevention of and action against harassment in the workplace and made a presentation for team CSR FOCUS AREAS leaders and executives. CEO ∤ DHIC has newly installed and operated a process to proceed the guide Employees Employees in for relevant institution and welfare in a package at the registration of in Headquarter Overseas Subsidiaries pregnancy by packaging maternal protection system. Counsel 100% 45% ∤ DHIC strictly prohibits child labor, employment of workers younger than the age of 18 and forced labor.(Immediate action for violations) Human A Man in Charge of Company-Wide Legal Affairs/IP Rights PROCESS TO HANDLE HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (Compliance assistant) ∤ DHIC is introducing processes to deal with the prevention and relief of human rights issues. Practices for Company-Wide ∤ Issues regarding human rights received through the internal report Human Right center have been handled through the process of factual investigation, confirmation and review by the business department and the companyCSR FOUNDATION Team Leader for Company-Wide Human Right wide Human Rights Committee. DUE DILIGENCE OF HUMAN RIGHTS ∤ In the process, DHIC strictly adheres to the principle of the confidentiality ∤D  HIC continues to conduct due diligence on human rights(DPSI : Doosan and protection for informants. Power System India) for overseas business sites by utilizing a human rights management checklist. Number of Official Report of Handling Conflicts Regarding Human Right NUCLEAR POWER PLANT EPC POWER SERVICE EACH DIVISION Due Diligence of Human Rights: Conducted the due diligence of human rights at DPSI(’19.07) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Nuclear Power HR Team Plant EPC HR Team Power Service HR Team Division HR Team DHIC surveyed and interviewed staff at two local DPSI Official Report of Handling 40 cases 14 cases 10 cases Conflicts subsidiaries in India regarding sexual harassment and 2019 Integrated Report of violations of the Code of Conduct. Number of Resolution 40 cases 14 cases 10 cases Resolution Rate 100% 100% 100% Survey: 47%(117 people) answered APPENDIX (Interview: 5 employees in HR Team and 5 local Korean workers) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 062 063 Mutual Growth Through a virtuous circle of partnership with partner companies, DHIC is strengthening our competitiveness. COMPAMY OVERVIEW DHIC fosters business competency of partner companies by supporting their overseas expansion, as well as by operating an academy and a CSR management system which evaluates partner companies on major issues such as environmental safety. POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE SUPPLY NETWORK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Purchase Status through Supply Network(100 million won) ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT FOR PARTNER COMPANIES UPGRADED CSR MANAGEMENT FOR SUPPLY NETWORK ∤ DHIC has adopted the 『CSR Guideline for Suppliers』(CSR Guideline) to Classification 2017 2018 2019 BUSINESS STRATEGY guide our relations with suppliers and partner companies. Total Amount 25,582 22,592 23,459 Partner Company Support Outcomes Fair Trade Self-Compliance Program ∤ DHIC recommends all suppliers and partner companies to apply the written Republic of Korea 18,911 16,839 20,084 ∤ DHIC supported the Pre-Qualification process for 76 partner companies ∤ DHIC has established an exclusive unit to manage the fair trade selfguideline, which has been disclosed through various communication Japan 1,090 1,704 459 who trade with overseas companies; and helped them to achieve export compliance program, including a manager for self-compliance, a person in channels.(http://www.doosanheavy.com/kr/csr/guideline/) China 323 313 279 performance of 37 billion won. charge of self-compliance for each BG, and a department for fair trade self∤ This guideline has been prepared to align with the “Ten Principles of Saudi Arabia 518 1,328 313 ∤D  HIC supported in full the expenses of 4 partner companies to participate compliance. the United Nations Global Compact,” which covers human rights, labor, U.S.A 511 519 323 in the PowerGen International Exhibition in the U.S., through which they ∤ DHIC improved to the process for preemptively preventing violations of environment, and anti-corruption. Italy 1,032 142 207 secured export orders of 13.5 billion won to 47 overseas companies. laws and supplemented the computer system. Czech Republic 868 1 162 ∤ DHIC has an established quality assurance system and which enables ∤D  HIC focuses on delivering Mindset Education to employees that manage Major Contents of CSR Guideline for Partner Companies Germany 594 571 452 it to instruct and evaluate partner companies according to the items in relationships with partner companies in order to foster mutual growth and Romania 260 360 225 transaction. DHIC has acquired certificates of ASME, KEPIC and ISO from ensure fair trade. DHIC also investigates cases of unfair trade experienced Human Rights Health & safety, labor conditions & wages, etc. Others 1,475 815 955 the relevant official, international agencies. by partner companies. ∤ In 2019, DHIC expended about 660 million won to support partner ∤ DHIC regularly inspects all company subcontracts in order to identify Labor Freedom of association, child labor, forced labor, etc. company production facilities. Fourteen(14) quality masters supported 2 violations of subcontract law; and implements self-corrective measures. CSR FOCUS AREAS Environment Environmental protection & pollution control PROMOTIONAL STRATEGY FOR MUTUAL GROWTH partner companies to improve the quality of their production. To prevent reoccurrence, DHIC disciplines and educates employees who ∤D  HIC’s has established a virtuous circle partnership system whereby all have violated fair trade principles. Anti-corruption Corruption prevention, law compliance. etc. partner companies can benefit from DHIC technology and business systems New Hire and On-the-Job Training to improve their management technical competency. ∤D  HIC implemented employment education for workers scheduled for hire Risk Management of Suppliers Conflict Minerals Conflict minerals, response status, etc. ∤ T hrough this virtuous circle partnership system, DHIC aims to contribute to through a national consortium for the development of human resources. ∤B  ased on annual trade performance, DHIC regularly assesses the general the mutual growth of DHIC and partner companies, as well as to growth of ∤ DHIC supported on-the-job training for partner company employees, competency of suppliers, including: Cost, Delivery, Quality, Collaboration, the local and national economy. including all education expenses and training allowances/wages. CSR, and Environmental Safety, and Corporate Financial Statements. DEFINITION AND SELECTION OF PARTNER COMPANIES ∤ In 2019, DHIC implemented on-the-job training for professional staff of Based on evaluation results, high-risk enterprises are excluded from being ∤ DHIC defines a partner company as a business entity that has maintained partner companies(186 people in 26 companies); and new hire education designated as partner companies for mutual growth. a long-term supply relationship and has consistently delivered on price, and hiring for 31 people in 16 companies. ∤ DHIC employees and appointed agencies and auditors visit partner DHIC’s Virtuous Circle Partnership System for Mutual Growth quality, and delivery date for strategic and cooperative items. company business sites to conduct these assessments. ∤ In compliance with selection standards set forth in the CSR Guideline, Operation of Academy for Partnership Companies ∤ By assigning points for compliance with the CSR Guideline and making DHIC evaluates the finance and governance structure of new partner ∤ To cultivate a network between DHIC and partner companies for mutual this a major element of evaluations, DHIC has cultivated awareness and CSR FOUNDATION companies, including through a credit assessment process. growth, DHIC annually operates an academy for partner companies. voluntary implementation of CSR by suppliers. ∤ Partner companies are selected through fair and transparent procedures. Companies that have caused social disturbances shall be prohibited from Growth Promotion + Enhanced Technical ∤ Through the academy, DHIC expanded information sharing(e.g., sharing benchmarking cases of advanced enterprises) to improve the performance Productivity of partner companies. registering as a new partner company. Doosan Heavy Industries Partnership Companies and Constructions Reinforcement of Communication Status of Suppliers(Number of Businesses) ∤ DHIC launched a DHIC Cooperation Body for mutual growth and mutual Classification 2017 2018 2019 communication. Total 12,834 13,255 13,603 Major Promotional Activities in the Area of Mutual Growth ∤ DHIC has been operating a Win-Win Call Center to respond to challenges Republic of Korea 10,639 10,996 11,305 and problems of partner companies. The exclusive department for mutual 2019 Integrated Report of Improving the Fundamental Competitiveness of Support for Overseas Expansion Japan 163 164 165 Partner Companies by Partner Companies growth is connected directly to solve those difficulties and problems China 135 148 154 ∤Operation of a support program to strengthen ∤ Joint Expansion to Overseas Construction Sites competitiveness ∤ Support process of obtaining PQ(Preimmediately. Saudi Arabia 107 119 121 ∤Operation of a management advisory group for Qualification) Approval of Overseas Clients ∤ Major challenges of partner companies are discussed through regular APPENDIX partner companies ∤ Support Participation in Overseas Exhibitions U.S.A 352 353 354 meetings and visits to partner companies by DHIC executives. ∤Project on improving EHS Safety & Health through ∤ Support Field Trips to Overseas Enterprises Italy 87 90 92 Mutual Cooperation ∤ In 2019, DHIC conducted 8 division meetings for each BG. 188 people Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction ∤Consortium of National Human Resources Project Reinforcement of Communications Czech Republic 11 12 13 ∤Performance-Sharing System ∤ Establishment and Regular Meetings of DHIC including CEO, purchasing executive and purchasing team leader visited Cooperation Committee Germany 288 294 300 Expansion of Direct Support to Partner Companies ∤ Increased CEO and executives visits to 74 partnership companies throughout the year. Romania 9 10 10 ∤Direct Support Fund without Interest for Partner Partner Companies Companies ∤ Operation of Win-Win Call Center Others 1,043 1,069 1,089 ∤Operation of Mutual Growth Fund(Combined ∤ Support Participation in Job Fair for Support) Partner Companies ∤Loans & Network Loans for Partner Companies ∤Mutual Partner Loan Invitation of DHIC Cultural Events and Support of Congratulations and Condolences 064 065 Quality DHIC prioritizes customer satisfaction and strives to create value for customers through high-quality, competitive COMPAMY OVERVIEW power generation and water projects. We have acquired world-class engineering competency and manufacturing Management capability through constant quality and supply chain innovation. DHIC has achieved maximum customer satisfaction through a quality assurance system which ensures the best quality from inventory of materials to product shipping. POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE POLICY ∤ DHIC has established the DQMS(Doosan Quality Management System) QUALITY INNOVATION ACTIVITIES CULTIVATION OF QUALITY MEISTERS ∤ DHIC has realized a quality management system based on a foundation which digitally manages quality information and documents, as well ∤ DHIC has introduced the work strategy of “First Time Right,” which ∤ DHIC has produced 28 national quality masters and 14 Korean masters, BUSINESS STRATEGY of Global Standards, as well as the commitment of DHIC’s CEO to quality as risk prevention. DHIC has digitized all quality information – from establishes a virtuous circle of work methods and tasks. and retains the highestlevel technicians, in the areas of can welding, management. inspection plan to assessment results. DQMS has raised the visibility of ∤ DHIC applies RCA* to identify and proactively prevent potential quality processing, non-destructive process, and steel making and casting. and fulfillment capability of the quality management process. failures in manufacturing. This system draws on past experiences and ∤ DHIC’s Meister Consultation Group, which is composed of masters, has DHIC Quality Management Policy weak points to deduce potential critical quality failures. fostered talented personnel through technique transfer and strengthened *RCA: Root Cause Analysis the competitiveness of partner companies. DHIC strives to acquire world-class power plant design, manufacturing, installation, and test drive capability in order to fulfill the management vision of being a ‘Global Leader in Power & Water’. Based on the highest quality competitiveness, DHIC has been leading Retained Highest-Level Technicians in the Areas of the markets for nuclear power, thermal power, desalination, and industrial plants. DHIC Can Welding, Processing, Non-Destructive Process, prioritizes management to contribute to achieving overall customer satisfaction and and Steel Making and Casting. creating value for customer. S Qu DHIC maintains a well-structured and systematic quality assurance system that meets EH al ity National Quality Masters: Korean Masters: Global Standards. This ensures that DHIC can provide quality products and services without defect – the quality that customers desire and deserve. All DHIC units and Global ∤ Secured Process Completeness 28 People 14 People employees of the company adhere to the provisions of the Quality Policy. Standards Visualization ∤ Preemptive Management *Accumulated as of the end of 2019 ∤ Safety Assurance CSR FOCUS AREAS ∤ Continuous Improvement IMPLEMENTATION SYSTEM Inve n Prog to r ress ∤ DHIC’s quality management system covers the the entire project process AWARD FROM NATIONAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT CONVENTION y – from the review of project contract to project warranty based on a ∤ DHIC received the Presidential Golden Award for ‘Reduction of Cost quality assurance manual which reflects international best practice and ACQUISITION OF QUALITY CERTIFICATES and Standby Time through the Improvement of the Steam Generator provides the detailed procedures and instructions necessary for project ∤ DHIC has acquired and maintains 60 official certificates from international Manufacturing Process’ implementation by employees. agencies in the areas of nuclear power, thermal power, wind power ∤D  HIC has realized quality improvements and secured customer trust in the QUALITY PREVENTION MANAGEMENT generation, and desalination. These certificates provide external manufacturing process of steam generators. Process duration has been Quality Assurance Program ∤ DHIC implements the ‘Quality Visualization’ system, which enables both validation of DHIC’s quality competitiveness; and enable DHIC to gain the shortened by 33.4% through strengthening welding materials through workers and managers to determine at a glance whether work processes trust of customers. heat treatment, all-in-one block manufacturing for hole cleaning, and the meet CTQ(Critical to Quality) standards. development of a step over program. DHIC has discovered and applies 11 cases, such as refraining from welding dissimilar Representative Certificates CSR FOUNDATION materials and ensuring uniform welding quality. DHIC encourages partner companies to apply these Best Practices in order to improve their quality management and productivity. Structure of Quality HSB Registration Services ∤ DHIC implements preventive quality monitoring for manufacturing Quality Policy Assurance Program 595 E. Swedesford Road Wayne, Pennsylvania 19087 Certificate of Registration processes, joint inspections of production and product quality prior to This is to certify that: Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction Co., Ltd. Head Office shipping, and site-based preventive quality activities. Level 1 22, Doosan volvo-ro, Seongsan-Gu, Changwon, Gyeongnam, Korea QAM for Project Has established and applied a Quality Management System for: Design/Development and Manufacture of ∤ To ensure the quality of purchased products, DHIC has reorganized CTQ for Power/New & Renewable Energy/ Industrial Plant Equipment Quality Assurance Plan Manufacture of Desalination Plant Equipment and Casting & Forging Products Proof has been furnished that the requirements according to 32 major items and established new management processes for each unit. QAM for Manufacturing ISO 9001:2015 Certificate Number: Q 314 are fulfilled. ∤ In order to conduct automated and digitized non-destructive testing, DHIC Initial Audit Date: May 26, 2000 has established and is applying on a trial basis a UT cooperative robotic Effective Date: May 26, 2018 Expiration Date: May 25, 2021 Revision Date: June 17, 2019 Level 2 Signed on behalf of HSB Registration Services system for rotors to certify safety. DHIC has also developed software for 2019 Integrated Report of Quality Management automatic evaluation of small caliber Tube Weld RT Film, which is now Certificate Number: Q 314 Page 1 of 2 Quality Management Procedure Procedure being applied on a trial basis. APPENDIX Level 3 45th National Quality Management Convention, 10 Consecutive Presidential Golden Awards Work Instruction, Detailed Instructions Process, Specification, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction etc. 066 ∤ Clockwise from right top, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, ASME Nuclear Power Main Components Manufacturing, KEPIC Nuclear Power Main Components Manufacturing, ASME The color scheme for welding parts(parent material)/welding bar/welder) helps identification 067 Boiler and Pressurized Container Manufacturing at a glance whether work meets the CTQ. Customer DHIC ensures customer satisfaction not just by responding to complaints, but through proactive efforts to COMPAMY OVERVIEW respect and listen to the opinions of customers, meet customers’ expectations, and provide exceptional value to Satisfaction customers. To continuously improve products, DHIC has expanded communication with customers based on the ‘CRM’(Customer Response Management) system, as well as through VOC response. POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT(CRM) LIFETIME MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLIED FACILITIES Reply to Technical Support Requests ∤ DHIC  management prioritizes customer service and strives to create value for ∤ The customer management process is classified into 4 stages: (i) business Number of Cases Received Annually Average Response Time(days) BUSINESS STRATEGY (Recent 7 years, cases) customers. & marketing; (ii) manufacturing, installation & test drive; (iii) post Remote Monitoring Service for Power Plant ∤D HIC’s customer service system includes activities such as regular surveys of management(A/S); and (iv) improvement & after-marketing. 331 330 11.8 ∤ Based on ICT(Information and Communication Technology), DHIC has 310 286 274 customer satisfaction; lifetime customer support for DHIC-supplied facilities, ∤ Complaints that arise at each stage of CRM are managed systematically established a remote surveillance system which can monitor the operation 8.2 7.4 7.0 materials, and equipment; and operation of a technical support center for according to the CRM manual. data of power plants in real-time. client companies. 159 4.6 ∤ DHIC opens a Remote Monitoring Service Center(RMSC) to monitor 3.6 91 3.3 ESTABLISHMENT OF CUSTOMER MANAGEMENT PROCEDURE operation information in real-time and monitor for abnormalities through Activities to Improve Customer Satisfaction ∤D  HIC has prepared and implements the ‘Customer Management Procedure’ its regular support operation system. DHIC also helps prevent accidents in to reflect and respond to customer requirements. advance by providing this information to customers. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ∤D  HIC has established sub-procedures, such as the ‘Customer Inquiry & ∤ Regular survey of the level of customer satisfaction Survey on (interview-based) Complaints Handling Procedure’ for efficient and customer-focused handling Lifetime Management of Supplied Facilities of Materials and Equipment ∤ About 12 days taken in 2013 ▸ Shortened to 3.6 days in 2019 Customer ∤ Annual survey of customer satisfaction(domestic & overseas) ∤ Average reply days in 2019 increased slightly due to the increased number of cases for of inquiries and complaints in order to enhance customer satisfaction. ∤ DHIC has enhanced customer management and generated additional Satisfaction ∤ Ongoing collection of VOC & implementation of feedback reviewing facility improvements profit through ongoing technical support targeting not only DHIC-supplied Customer Relationship Management(CRM) facilities but also facilities supplied by overseas business companies after CSR FOCUS AREAS Classification Activity Details the end of warranty periods. Field Trip Program for Stakeholders Lifetime ∤ DHIC leverages performance diagnosis technology to support rational, ∤ Prompt provision of support teams when power generation halts Step 1. ∤ Various customer support ∤ DHIC invites new employees and career employees of client companies Management efficient operation of aged power generation facilities. ∤ Lifetime management of supplied facilities Business & Marketing ∤C  onstant VOC management of Supplied to participate in field trips to visit DHIC technology development and ∤ Remote monitoring service for power plants ∤E  stablishment of CS standard work criteria Facilities manufacturing facilities. ∤P  AM(Pro-Active Marketing) activities ∤ Technology exchanges & seminars Material & Equipment Supply through Technical Support ∤ I n 2019, DHIC organized 2 field trips for a combined total of 99 ∤ Survey of customer satisfaction(annual, regular) participants. Classification 2017 2018 2019 Technical ∤ Online technical support Step 2. ∤ Manufacturing(Design & Engineering) Support Center ∤ Operation of call center for Power Manufacturing, Installation ∤ Installation(Quality & Delivery) Field Technical Support(case) 14 22 11 Establishment of VOC Response System ∤ Trend analysis and feedback of technical support requested & Test Drive ∤ Test Drive(Performance & SPEC) Generation ∤ DHIC provides prompt responses and reliable data when customers by each client company Profit Creation 2 3 8 Group Company Step 3. ∤ Operation of strategic warranty system (case/price) (about 10.8 billion) (about 25 billion) (about 12 billion) request technical support via the DHIC website. Post Management(A/S) ∤ Establishment of overseas warranty work system ∤ Since 2019, in order to provide better service, DHIC has improved the ∤ Creation of new business opportunities through system for customers to select customer service agent directly via the Technical ∤ Visiting technology exchange lifetime management of facilities CSR FOUNDATION Cooperation ∤ Technical cooperation agreements ∤ Operation of technical support center for website. Based on customer service satisfaction evaluations in 2019, this with Client with power generation companies power generation group companies service obtained 9.5 points out of a total of 10 points(10 = perfect service). Companies ∤ Factory field trips through the invitation of client companies ∤ Prompt response to power generation interruptions EXPANSION OF COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS ∤ DHIC provides information regarding problems in advance to operate the Step 4. ∤ Reflection of feedback call center for emergency request through the phone and the technical Customer Communication via Visits and Technology Exchange After Marketing ∤ Discovery of business opportunities through support at the field when the emergency situation occurs at client Establishment business support for client companies ∤D  HIC visits client companies directly and provides information about new ∤ Customer Management Procedure companies. ∤ Management of database for each region and customer of Customer ∤ Customer Inquiry & Complaint Handling Procedure technology developments and facility improvements. Additionally, DHIC Management ∤ Creation of new business opportunities through ∤ Customer Satisfaction Survey Procedure lifetime management of facilities operates the ‘Technology Exchange for Communication’ to solicit opinions Procedure Customer Satisfaction Survey ∤ Implementation technical cooperation agreements of client companies and share data about power generation operations. with power generation companies ∤ In order to provide better service to customers, DHIC engaged an external ∤D  HIC facilitates active participation and discussion by client companies in professional agency to conduct a survey to assess customer satisfaction the technology exchanges, rather than convening seminar-type events. 2019 Integrated Report of with products and services provided by DHIC. ∤ DHIC also conducted an on-line survey and interviews to solicit customers’ Current Status of Technology Exchange opinions. APPENDIX Classification 2017 2018 2019 ∤ S ince 2019, DHIC has expanded surveys of overseas customers’ satisfaction. Current Status of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 14 12 22 Technology Exchange Survey Results of Customer Satisfaction Classification 2017 2018 2019 Results of Domestic Customer 82.1 points 83.3 points Satisfaction Surveys Results of Overseas Customer 94.1 points Satisfaction Surveys 068 069 Information As enterprises are increasingly targeted by cyberattacks, cyber terror, and hacking, DHIC is paying greater ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE COMPAMY OVERVIEW attention to information protection. DHIC has been testing the application of AI/Machine Running Technology Security to enhance enterprise information security management. DHIC is preemptively responding to growing securityrelated risks by automating the work process for information security management. UPGRADED RESPONSE TO CYBERATTACKS INTERNALIZATION OF INFORMATION SECURITY CULTURE Establishment of Information Security Management System In-House Employees ∤ Threat Intelligence(TI) pursues an ‘Offensive Security’ strategy based on ∤ DHIC conducts annual online education for all employees, as well as analysis of big data. DHIC leverages TI technology for information security specialized offline security education for persons-in-charge of security POLICY & STRATEGY management. for all departments(e.g., human resources, finance, IT). In the event of ∤ DHIC has established and applies the Korea threat intelligence system information security policy changes, or when internal or external security of C-TAS(Cyber Threat Analysis and Sharing) in cooperation with Doosan issues arise, DHIC provides updates via the in-house portal or e-mail. ORGANIZATION INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT STRATEGY Group and KISA(Korea Internet Service Association). ∤ To protect company assets from internal and external security threats, ∤U  sing these system, DHIC systematically collects cyber threat information. Partner Companies BUSINESS STRATEGY DHIC’s Security Audit Team(supervised by the Chief Information Security The collected data is analyzed comprehensively; and the resulting ∤ To help partner companies guard against rapidly-increasing SCAM Preventive Handling of Information Security Incidents Officer, CISO) implements a company-wide information security plan and information is shared between relevant agencies and used to prevent incidents, DHIC provides SCAM education materials to the management ∤ In order to prevent cyber attack-related damages, e.g., paralysis of work an information system audit. external invasive threats to DHIC. departments of partner companies. systems, leakage of confidential business information, financial losses, DHIC has introduced an upgraded, professional information security Cyber Threat Intelligence Architecture Progress of Virus Detection Case in DHIC INFORMATION SECURITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM protection system which aims to both prevent and respond effectively to security incidents. ∤ DHIC has established an information security management system based ∤ DHIC is increasing information security management through measures on ISO 27001 international security protection standards. Virus Detection Case Internal Integrated Security Control such as enhancing the security of vulnerable work systems and applying ∤ DHIC has provided information security management policy to overseas SCAM* verification program. Malignant Code Malignant Domain/IP Vulnerable Points subsidiary companies – to guide subsidiary companies as they establish *SCAM: C  rime which involves hacking email information of an enterprise and using it Information information security management policies which conform to local Collection to obtain illegal transaction payments. conditions and concerns. Internal Threat Intelligence ∤ Based on the information security management systems adopted by DHIC Protection of Confidential/Core Business Technology Information on Unknown Threats Information on Known Threats CSR FOCUS AREAS 2017 2018 2019 and Doosan Group, DHIC conducts 24-hour monitoring to detect cyber ∤ In order to protect the company’s confidential and core technology, DHIC attack attempts and applies information security solutions based on has been reinforcing management procedures. In particular, DHIC is Information Information Outcomes of Establishment of Threat Intelligence System incident analysis. Collection Sharing cooperating with the national government to protect DHIC technologies which are designated as ‘national core technology’ and/or ‘national 15% reduction in the number of cases of PC Virus experienced Internal Threat Intelligence DHIC’s Information Security Management System defense industry technology.’ by employees KISA C-TAS 48 times enhanced speed to block PC Virus Analysis & Sharing System for Cyber Threat Information Internal Information System Audits & Security Incident Investigations 01. ∤ In order to protect company assets and secure data integrity, DHIC Security Policy & implements information system audits. Prevention of Imposter Scam-Related Damage for Clients Strategy ∤ Since the introduction of the Threat Intelligence system in 2019, DHIC has ∤ DHIC has also supplemented the post-trace investigation system to ∤ DHIC proactively prevents security incidents through security education completely automated the information security management system – on ‘Impostor Scams’ for partner companies. DHIC targets persons and block leakage of important company information. DHIC enforces a data 02. from the detection of security threats to taking actions to block threats. departments in charge of purchasing; and encourages them to adopt Security monitoring and distribution procedure and identifies potential paths(other Prevention System Through these efforts, DHIC has enhanced the efficiency of information tailored alert programs for impostor scam email(‘SCAM Filters’). than the normal distribution path) could bypass the security system. CSR FOUNDATION security management through reduction of human inputs. ∤ Currently, DHIC is working to continuously improve security threat 03. Reinforcement of Security Awareness Alert Program for Impostor Scam Email(SCAM) Reinforced detection. In particular, DHIC has established an information security Awareness of Security ∤ DHIC delivers online & offline security education to reinforce awareness of management system based on AI/Machine Running Technology; and ∤ The program detects the characteristics of scam emails, i.e., emails in which information security – targeting all employees at domestic and overseas plans to connect this technology to the existing Threat Intelligence system. criminals partially change user email addresses and use that to send emails to send business sites. 04. emails to email addresses previously emailed by the original users. When detected, Facility Security ∤ DHIC provides specialized, professional security education to designated SCAM warning windows pop up so that the user can cancel sending the scam emails. Core Information Security Management Activities staff in charge of security for each department(e.g., human resources, ∤ SCAM programs can also block emails received from fake senders. finance, IT, etc.). Classification Major Work Areas 05. Hacking Detection ∤ 24X365 monitoring on security event Protection of Confidential/ aCore Business Technology Monitoring ∤ Report of the symptom of invasion(E-Mail) 2019 Integrated Report of 1. M  ajor Function – 2. Major Function ∤ Analysis of cause and damage from hacking incident Detection of Impostor Scam Email Alert & Report Invasion Incident ∤ Support the recovery from invasion & adopt measures to 06. Abnormality Detection & Action Support prevent recurrence APPENDIX Incident Response ∤ Cooperative actions with external agencies(KISA, KCSC) ∤ Daily inspection report of the operation status of Report information security management system Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction ∤ Emergency reports, such as report of invasion incidents Domestic & Overseas 07. Field Sites and ∤ 24X365 response to information security inquiries Help Desk Overseas Subsidiaries ∤ Response to inquiries of various security issues 070 071 Social DHIC strives to uphold Doosan’s identity of a socially-responsible enterprise which contributes to the local COMPAMY OVERVIEW community. DHIC plans to increase efficiency and competency of the social contribution program through the Contribution reorganization of social volunteer groups and refinement of various social contribution activities. In particular, DHIC’s social contribution policy aims to meet local community needs, such as career education and urban recreation, and contribute to the overall development of the local community. POLICY & STRATEGY ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE IMPLEMENTATION SYSTEM Social Contribution Committee PROGRAM TO FOSTER TALENTED PERSONNEL Theme Program for Local Children Center ∤ DHIC operates a Social Contribution Committee which oversees the ∤A  particular focus area for DHIC is to foster future talent in accordance with ∤ Targeting 76 affiliated local children centers in the Seoul and Changwon BUSINESS STRATEGY appropriateness of social contribution programs and activities, as well as Doosan Group’s management philosophy for fostering talented personnel. areas, DHIC has been organizing educational activities around 10 themes: Implementation Strategy the transparency of donations. ∤A  s the engineering industry employees many engineering graduates, DHIC history field trip, ecological experience, wooden craft, handicraft, cooking ∤ To achieve the goal of enhancing local community development and ∤ S taff from relevant departments serve as members of the Social focuses on fostering talented personnel in the fields of Natural Science & class, education of society, science, and history. enterprise value, DHIC adheres to three principles: Business Orientation; Contribution Committee. Led by a Chairman, the Social Contribution Engineering. Thus, this social contribution program is directly connected ∤ In 2019, DHIC contributed to the social and emotional development of 1,243 Community Focus; and Employee Engagement. Specifically, DHIC Committee reviews and ensures that DHIC donations are appropriate for to DHIC’s core business. vulnerable children through a total of 96 activities implemented by social implements three key streams of activity: fostering talented personnel; and benefit the targeted local community. volunteer groups. supporting vulnerable social groups; and working closely with local ∤ T he Social Contribution Committee deliberates on not only the communities on activities to meet their social needs. Key Achievements in 2019 of Program transparency and appropriateness of donations, but also ensures that the to Foster Talented Personnel purpose and nature of donations conform to company social contribution Operation of Social Volunteer Groups strategy. Local Children’s Center Program ∤ 4,600 employees – or 77% of all employees – have participated in DHIC social volunteer groups; and through these groups, engaged with and Targeting 1,243 Children contributed to meeting the needs of vulnerable neighbors in and around Organization Chart of Social Contribution Committee Changwon and Seoul. Doosan Recruitment of Students for Technical Jobs CSR FOCUS AREAS ∤ DHIC’s social volunteer groups utilize the professional skills and talent of 15 people Chairman employees to contribute to the local community. There are social volunteer Chairman of groups for technical, promoting safety, career education, and youth CSR Committee* Matchmaking Unemployed Technical Training Students with Partner Companies environmental hazard monitoring. 31 people Policy to Support Social Contribution CFO LEGAL AFFAIRS OFFICER CSR OFFICER ∤ To foster social contribution by company employees, DHIC has introduced policies related to matching grants, weekly voluntary service, computer *CEO Youth Energy Project system, and recognition of excellent volunteers. Local Children Center Theme Program(“History Field Trip”) ∤ The Young Adult Energy Project is a social contribution program of DHIC ∤ D HIC has an agreement in place with company Saemaeul Credit that supports promising young adults to become balanced, talented and Cooperatives to award excellent volunteers. For example, Saemaeul independent professionals with a diverse range capabilities. Operation of ‘Doosan Class’(Industry-Academic Cooperation) Credit Cooperatives offer various gifts to volunteers based on the annual ∤ The Youth Energy Project provides customized activities for each growth ∤ DHIC cultivates engineering manpower through the operation of ‘Doosan voluntary services that they provide. CSR FOUNDATION stage of talented personnel. Class’ – and example of industry-academic cooperation. ∤ DHIC has concluded industry-academy cooperation agreements with Major Programs of Youth Energy Project Changwon Machine Technical High School, Pusan Automobile Technical High School, Sudo Electricity Technical High School; and through these Implementation Strategy for Social Contribution programs, provides technology education customized to DHIC human ∤ Local Children’s Center Program ∤ Covering Private Academy Expenses for Low Income resource needs. Elementary Vulnerable Students Students Focus Areas ∤ Providing Reference Books through Love Sharing Campaign Provision of Reference Books to Children’s Welfare Centers ∤ Supporting KkumKkumTa Orchestra Local Community Education Fostering ∤ DHIC provides reference books to 82 children’s welfare centers for the to Foster Talented Personnel Talented Personnel in Natural Science & Engineering purpose of enhancing the practical learning ability of vulnerable children. ∤ MY Dream Youths Career/Engineer Experience Class 2019 Integrated Report of YEE EN GA GE ME Management Philosophy Centered on EM PLO NT ∤ In 2019, DHIC provided 11,742 reference books to 2,114 beneficiary Talented Personnel ∤ Providing School Uniforms through Love Sharing Campaign Middle School children. Since 2011, DHIC has provided a total of 80 thousand reference Leveraging DHIC Engineering Expertise ITY FOCU ∤ Covering Private Academy Expenses for Low Income M M UN SE Students CO D Vulnerable Students books. APPENDIX ∤ Providing Reference Books through Love Sharing Campaign Improvement in future Doosan Young Adult competitiveness of Youth DreamUP Project Community High School ∤ Operation of Doosan Meister(Specialized) High School Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Energy Project the community and ∤ For  youth with talent and aptitude who are not able to pursue their dreams company value Blueprint Students (Doosan Class) Su pp ort due to economic circumstances, DHIC implements the ‘Youth DreamUP ity ing un t Gro Vuln Project’ under the supervision of Green Umbrella Children Foundation. Comm men e up era College gag s ble ∤ Scholarships for college students from Children Foster Care Center En Su Students ∤U nder this project, DHIC support 5 students to cultivate their talent in the asa pp ort Are Are sic Ba as following sports: archery(1); shooting(2); Taekwondo(1); and softball(1). Improve Quality of Life and Resolution and Prevention of Sustain Growth through Social Issues through Community Engagement Supporting Alienated Social Class Expansion of Local Community Network Expansion of Support for Vulnerable Groups 072 Support Economic and Social Growth Contribution to the Resolution of Social Issues 073 ACTIVITY & PERFORMANCE COMPAMY OVERVIEW PROGRAM TO SUPPORT VULNERABLE GROUPS DASARANG DREAM Helping Hands: One Enterprise,Seven Farming Villagess Wall Painting for Environmental Improvement ∤ DHIC implements social contribution activities to improve quality of life ∤ DHIC, together with the Korea Red Cross and the Governor of South ∤ DHIC has established relationships with 7 farming villages, including ∤ To foster safe living environments for women, children and youth and for vulnerable people in our local community, including children, youth, Gyeongsang Province, has implemented the DASARANG Dream program to Changwon Guisan, Gosung Janggi, and Haman Misan, etc. DHIC annually to prevent crimes, DHIC – together with Changwon City and Changwon elderly, and disabled. support vulnerable since 2011. provides helping hands to these villages during the farming and harvest Police Department operates a wall painting program in underdeveloped ∤ DHIC has broadened the range of beneficiaries in order to support a more ∤ Through this program, DHIC has carried out voluntary services to purchase, seasons. residential areas and areas vulnerable to crime. diverse range of vulnerable people who are left behind by welfare policy. pack and deliver daily necessities from social enterprises. Purchased ∤ In 2019, approximately 450 volunteers(DHIC employees and members ∤ In 2019, DHIC created wall paths at Seorae Elementary School at Seocho-gu goods have been delivered to 300 vulnerable households within the of Changwon Voluntary Service Association) provided helping hands to in Seoul, Bongsan Village at Woongnam-dong in Changwon, Angok-dong in Key Achievements in 2019 of Program to Support Vulnerable Groups region. partner farming villages during the fall harvest. Jinhae, and Jayeo Village at Dong-eup. ∤ Through this program, DHIC regularly delivers snacks to company-affiliated Support provided to 10 social welfare centers targeting elderly, children’s welfare centers. children and youths BUSINESS STRATEGY Improvement of psychological and mental health index of 1 65 participants(in 8 programs) from 49% to 63%. LOCAL COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT ∤ D HIC implements social contribution in close contact with local stakeholders in order to thrive together with the local community. Social Welfare Center Connection Program ∤ DHIC has expanded its local community cooperation network to include ∤ DHIC implements a social contribution program together with selected stakeholders from local government, NGOs, social welfare agencies, and social welfare centers. These social welfare centers serve as the contact farming villages. point with vulnerable groups; assess the needs of such groups; and organize social contribution activities in which employees can participate. Key Achievements in 2019 for Local Community Engagement Program ∤ DHIC has been operating a joint program together with 10 social welfare centers(6 in Changwon and 4 in Seoul). The joint program aims to enhance A total of 335 people participated in 49 DHIC volunteer the emotional well-being and sociability of vulnerable youth, elderly, talent-sharing activities in Changwon City. disabled, and multi-cultural households. DHIC has contributed to increasing incomes for 100 farming Helping Hands: One Enterprise, Seven Farming Villages Painted Wall in Bongsan Village, Woongnam-dong in Changwon City CSR FOCUS AREAS households(a total increase of about total 37 million won) through farm exchange activities in 11 villages. Fire Prevention Education by Volunteer Group for Promoting Safety ∤ The Volunteer Group for Promoting Safety was launched in 2017 to expand DHIC safety culture to the local community. The group is composed of Love Sharing Campaign: Kimchi Making employees specialized in the areas of disaster response, fire prevention, ∤ DHIC implements an annual Love Sharing Campaign of Kimchi Making health, and sanitation. together with the local community. ∤ DHIC has an agreement with Changwon City to provide safety culture ∤ In 2019, the event will be held at the Changwon headquarter with about education two times per year to children’s welfare centers and social 400 people including the Civil Servant Family Social Volunteer Groups, the welfare centers in the city. Volunteering Korea, the Multicultural Family DANURI Volunteer Group, and ∤ These education sessions cover both theory and practical action tips, partner companies. including emergency treatment during disaster situations of fire and ∤ DHIC delivered 5,000 heads of Kimchi made during the event to a total of earthquake and how to use/administer fire extinguishers, and fire 3,000 people in children’s welfare centers, social welfare centers, and multiCSR FOUNDATION Program to Connect Social Welfare Centers with Local Communities hydrants, CPR, and AED(Automatic External Defibrillator). culture households. Clean House ∤ DHIC has composed the Technical Staff Volunteer Group through which employees can share their knowledge and skills. ∤ Through this volunteer group, DHIC has implemented activities to improve living conditions for vulnerable groups, farming villages, and children’s welfare centers. E.g., electric facility inspection, wall papering, painting. 2019 Integrated Report of APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CPR Education by Volunteer Group for Promoting Safety Love Sharing Campaign: Kimchi Making Event 074 Clean House for Senior Welfare Center 075 Doosan Day of Community Service ‘Doosan Day of Community Service’ is a hallmark social contribution program of Doosan Group. On this day, employees in various locations throughout the world (Korea, U.S., Europe, Middle East) provide community service to their nearby local communities. In 2019, DHIC completed its mission to the community as a corporate citizen, with 1,694 employees from 23 workplaces in 8 countries participating in 55 activities. DHIC in Korea(Seoul, Changwon) Appendix 35 activities, including: Clean Changwon(Seocho) with Doosan, Making Furniture of Happiness, Clean House, Renovating Farming Villages, and Wall Painting for Enhancing Community Safety Doosan Babcock, Doosan Enpure in U.K Doosan Lentjes in Germany Doosan Vina in Vietnam Renovating social welfare centers, children welfare centers, Renovating elementary schools and facilities for disabled; Renovation of affiliated elementary schools and community parks; and providing food and drinks and providing volunteer services at a foodbank through a foodbank 2019 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Power System India Doosan Power System Arabia in Saudi Arabia Doosan HF Controls, GridTech, DTS in the U.S Renovation of affiliated elementary schools; and Middle East O.C Environmental sanitation in various regions; improving sanitation for local community Environmental sanitation in various regions removal of hazardous plants; providing volunteer services at a foodbank 076 077 Communication with Stakeholders Participation by Stakeholders COMPAMY OVERVIEW Classification System & Communication Channel Identification of Stakeholders’ Concerns Through Materiality Assessment DHIC defines the following major stakeholder groups: shareholders; customers; employees; partner companies; local community; government; DHIC conducts an annual materiality assessment to identify issues of significant concern to stakeholders, as well as major issues which could have a and competitor companies. DHIC actively communicates with these different stakeholder groups through various communication channels; and large impact on business performance. DHIC discloses results through a general report; and considers stakeholder concerns in the decision-making considers stakeholder feedback to enhance company management. and management process. The issues identified through the materiality assessment have been diligently disclosed via DHIC’s general reports. Survey Result of Customer Satisfaction BUSINESS STRATEGY Group Definition Communication Channel Times of Group Definition Communication Channel Times of STEP.1 STEP.2 STEP.3 STEP.4 Operation Operation Share Doosan Inc., IR Regular Partnership Primary Once Representative Consultation Group holders Foreign investor, Companies Secondary per month Institutional Conference As necessary Issue Areas for Identification of investor, Mutual Growth Conference Once per year Issue Analysis Materiality Assessment Minority shareholder Overseas NDR(Non-Deal Roadshow) As necessary Sustainable Management Core Issues Meeting for the Mutual Growth of Every quarter Primary Partner Companies Customers Domestic public Road show As necessary power generation Meeting for the Mutual Growth of company, Once per year Technology presentation As necessary Secondary Partner Companies DHIC has reviewed various global standards For each of these established issue areas, Based on general analysis results for Based on the materiality assessment, Domestic private power generation – including GRI Standards, ISO 26000, DHIC reviewed and analyzed media each issue, DHIC conducts materiality DHIC has identified a total of 10 core issues company, VOC(Voice of Customer) Permanent DHIC Operation Committee As necessary Overseas client DJSI, and UNGC – and through such review research, industry benchmarking, assessments for each issue that in the areas of economy, society and Safety education for private power Cooperative Operation Committee Semi-annual established a total of 23 issue areas internal data, and surveys of internal and concern stakeholders and/or has environment; and established If taken place generation company for sustainable management of DHIC. external stakeholders. This information potential business impact. reporting protocols, including range, Government Government, Mutual Growth Committee Frequent Technology exchange & seminar Frequent Local government, was then used to identify sustainable boundary and period. Related agencies management activities for DHIC in 2019, Technology Support Center(Online) Permanent SMEs Agriculture & Frequent Fishery Cooperation Foundation as well issues of concern of stakeholders. CSR FOCUS AREAS Emergency action team & call center Permanent Fair Trade Committee As necessary for power generation interruptions Customer Satisfaction Survey Once a year FKILSC As necessary Employees Employees 4 times Selected Core Issues in 2019 Core Issue Mapping Industry Safety & Health Committee KEITI As necessary in Headquarter, per year Employees in overseas branch Once per Safety & Health Innovation 16 times Labor-Management Consultation Impact offices, quarter Leader Forum per year Major Core Issues Contents in General Report Employees of 02 overseas Education for employee(s) dispatched Once Once per week PSM Consultation subsidiaries to overseas field sites every quarter · Creation of economic performance & Business Strategy 01 Fine Dust Reduction 4 times Enhancement of financial stability · Strengthened new growth portfolio Practical education for safety & health Once per year 07 Voluntary Agreement per year · Procurement of new growth engine · Strengthened business competitiveness 03 Management Status Presentation Every quarter · Expansion of R&D investment Changwon Sustainable Once per year Development Consultation CTO Meeting Frequent GyeongNam Climate · Reduction of greenhouse gas and Focused Areas of CSR Semi-annual More than 10 Environment Network energy consumption · Reduction of environmental impact Technology Support Center(Online) times per year · Development of eco-friendly product from business activities CSR FOUNDATION Policy Advisory Committee Once for Maritime Police per month and service Consultative groups of Once per Social Volunteer Group month 04 Fire Prevention Development Once Local Local residents, Joint programs with social welfare Consultation per month · Realization of best quality management & Focused Areas of CSR 05 Monthly Community Schools, center & local children welfare center Maximization of customer satisfaction · Advancement of quality management 06 Research Once per year, GyeongNam Province & Changwon City institutions, frequent Doosan Day of Community Service Once per year NGOs Competitive Manufacturer of Construction Safety Department Every quarter · Realization of safe work environment Focused Areas of CSR Consultative groups of Once Companies Power Generation Heads Consultation DHIC's Social Volunteer Group per month · Recruitment of core talented personnel & · Realization of healthy organization culture Facility, Desalination Construction Safety Hands-on Reinforcement of employees competency · Reinforcement of field safety management DHIC Communication Consultation Every quarter Company, Water Workers Consultation · Realization of organization culture for Committee with Local Twice per year Treatment Plant Community(Woongnam-dong) healthy work environment Health Managers Consultation Every quarter Social contribution-related 09 08 Frequent, Leader’s Meeting for Chairmen of agencies(GyeongNam Province, · Enhancement of social contributions Focused Areas of CSR as necessary 10 2019 Integrated Report of Changwon City, beneficiary agency) Construction Companies for Safety & Once per year Health to tleverage core business competencies · Contribution to local community Workshop for persons-in-charge of through talent sharing social contribution from enterprises Once per year Executives and General Managers’ Every quarter Relevance in GyeongNam Province Meeting for Safety & Health APPENDIX Consultation Committee for Frequent, Anti-Terrorist Consultation of Twice per year 01. Creation of Economic Performances & Enhancement of Financial Stability Local Community Contribution as necessary Overseas Construction Association 02. Realization of Safe Working Environment Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Ocean Plant Design Study Group Twice per year Technology Exchange Group Once per year 03. Recruitment of Core Talented Personnel & Reinforcement of Employees’ Competency 04. Procurement of New Growth Engine (Business diversification, new market advancement, etc) 05. Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emission and Energy Consumption 06. Realization of Best Quality Management & Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction 07. Realization of Organization Culture for Healthy Work Environment 08. Enhancement of social Contribution Activities to Leverage Core Business Competencies 09. Expansion of R&D Investment 078 10. Development of Eco-Friendly Products and Services 079 Performance Summary COMPAMY OVERVIEW ECONOMY Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 56th Report as of December 31, 2018 57th Report as of December 31, 2019 DOOSAN HEAVY INDUSTRIES & CONSTRUCTIONS AND SUBSIDIARIES (Unit: won) (Unit: won) Subjects End of 57th Report End of 56th Report Subjects End of 57th Report End of 56th Report Assets 5. Advances Received 87,362,541,801 80,537,056,518 BUSINESS STRATEGY I. Current Assets 9,351,607,736,629 9,782,244,096,431 6. Excessively-Charged Construction 1,461,856,470,698 1,236,549,335,742 1. Cash & Cashable Assets 1,441,280,687,215 2,075,328,693,318 7. Deposits 40,505,367,389 36,879,557,787 2. Short-Term Finance 268,320,160,761 392,294,778,458 8. Accrued Expenses 664,011,536,281 592,800,027,139 3. Short-Term Investment Security 79,279,692,390 35,673,839,601 9. Net Corporate Tax Liability 30,974,465,576 29,347,652,878 4. Accounts Receivable 2,092,822,360,607 2,112,062,463,001 10. Current Maturities of Long-Term Liability 3,265,484,739,353 2,049,828,436,541 5. Unclaimed Construction 1,761,026,139,486 1,917,549,497,427 11. Derivatives Evaluation Liability 73,076,096,327 39,356,944,771 6. Outstanding Balance 470,874,496,975 305,858,455,081 12. Confirmed Contract Liability 11,024,583,351 5,026,505,231 7. Prepayment 466,574,020,089 446,105,194,520 13. Estimated Liability 390,543,375,151 390,543,375,151 8. Prepaid Expenses 121,764,332,600 152,773,582,677 14. Current Lease Liability 80,788,294,005 9. Short-Term Loan 85,498,883,370 115,051,807,262 15. Other Current Liabilities 448,538,017,113 292,028,113,707 10. Derivatives Evaluation Assets 35,066,050,494 21,477,357,030 II. Non-Current Liabilities 4,834,034,235,336 7,091,870,561,376 CSR FOCUS AREAS 11. Binding Contract Assets 25,785,207,028 9,022,592,449 1. Private Loan 846,834,779,773 2,053,032,588,038 12. Inventory Assets 2,201,708,429,106 1,891,576,145,991 2. Long-Term Loan Payable 1,697,982,898,672 3,043,437,044,686 13. Other Current Assets 301,607,276,508 307,469,689,616 3. Long-Term Securitized Liability 292,290,321,272 248,788,085,785 . Non-Current Assets 15,457,641,444,550 15,032,667,467,135 4. Long-Term Accounts Payable 14,995,488,666 30,921,614,985 1. Long-Term Finance 2,548,786,446 5,201,067,000 5. Net Defined Benefit Liability 674,264,222,128 611,283,884,965 2. Long-Term Investment Security 201,487,575,568 197,745,438,521 6. Deposit Security 270,661,690,028 217,455,797,942 3. Investments by Related Enterprises and Joint Enterprises 155,757,265,633 100,927,082,338 7. Derivatives Evaluation Liability 57,061,984,079 48,643,743,663 4. Unclaimed Construction 102,739,503,644 8. Confirmed Contract Liability 13,228,719,317 22,221,330,722 5. Long-Term Loan 706,816,256,036 717,958,268,334 9. Deferred Corporate Tax Liability 331,502,786,410 373,209,052,064 6. Tangible Assets 5,921,531,734,148 6,414,487,023,034 10. Estimated Liability 322,995,953,618 233,563,821,406 CSR FOUNDATION 7. Intangible Assets 7,031,885,767,946 6,683,116,364,942 11. Non-Current Lease Liability 175,749,643,381 8. Real Estate Investments 498,211,016,067 26,484,941,678 12. Other Non-Current Liabilities 136,465,747,991 209,313,597,120 9. Derivatives Evaluation Assets 17,011,219,245 21,777,431,040 Total Liability 18,607,256,196,356 18,596,482,003,126 10. Binding Contract Assets 18,149,165,186 14,695,425,682 Capital 11. Security Deposit 348,345,632,651 326,955,808,824 Controlling Company Proprietor’s Equity 2,562,136,568,811 2,804,847,577,636 12. Deferred Tax Assets 401,285,168,759 459,502,962,385 1. Capital 1,075,255,425,000 650,255,065,000 13. Other Non-Current Assets 51,872,353,221 63,815,653,357 2. Capital Surplus 1,762,628,456,797 1,678,913,750,186 Total Assets 24,809,249,181,179 24,814,911,563,566 3. Other Capital 48,935,313,897 (55,947,752,410) 2019 Integrated Report of Liabilities 4. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 649,530,462,196 680,535,131,925 I. Current Liabilities 13,773,221,961,020 11,504,611,441,750 5. Deficit (974,213,089,079) (148,908,617,065) APPENDIX 1. Purchase Liability 2,532,417,863,903 3,082,932,725,599 II. Non-Controlling Interest 3,639,856,416,012 3,413,581,982,804 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 2. Short-Term Loan 3,767,270,248,235 2,840,071,599,658 Total Capital 6,201,992,984,823 6,218,429,560,440 3. Securitized Liability 381,573,986,887 491,371,402,314 Total Liability & Capital 24,809,249,181,179 24,814,911,563,566 4. Accounts Payable 537,794,374,950 539,550,236,467 080 081 Performance Summary Performance Summary COMPAMY OVERVIEW ECONOMY SOCIETY R&D INVESTMENT (Unit: one hundred million won, %) STATUS OF EMPLOYEES (Unit: people) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 R&E Investment cost 2,241 2,338 2,391 Total number of employees1 7,610 7,294 6,721 BUSINESS STRATEGY R&D cost ratio to sales amount* 5.2 5.7 6.5 Male 6,626 6,376 5,711 Permanent worker *Computed by the standard of the headquarter of DHIC Female 268 213 197 Number of employees by gender *Investment cost has been corrected in 2018(Corrected due to simple wrong typing) according to the employment contract Male 624 622 697 Contract worker Female 92 83 116 SALARY FOR NEW EMPLOYEE TO LEGAL MINIMUM WAGE (Unit: %) Domestic 7,080 6,781 6,249 By country Classification 2017 2018 2019 Overseas 530 513 472 New male employee 205 176 160 Disabled 137 141 130 Diversity of Employment New female employee 205 176 160 National Merit 164 167 153 *Base minimum wage(2019 minimum hour wage: 8,350 won/2018 minimum hour wage: 7,530 won /2017 minimum hour wage: 6,470 won) 1. In reference to the end of year, the contract worker includes BG contract worker and field worker. Supervisor, advisor, outside directors and CEO and dispatching position are excluded. *Standard for domestic businesses (In reference to employee under the business report) CSR FOCUS AREAS BASE SALARY FOR FEMALE TO MALE & COMPENSATION RATIO (Unit: %) NEW HIRING & TRANSFERRING (Unit: people, %) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Base salary for female to male & compensation ratio 100 100 100 Total 435 364 350 *Standard of entire businesses including global businesses By Gender(Male) 390 330 278 By Gender(Female) 45 34 72 Number of Newly Hired Manpower1 By Age(Younger than 30 years old) 289 68 78 SUPPLY NETWORK STATUS & PURCHASED AMOUNT (Unit: No. of companies, one hundred million won, %) By Age(30 to 50 years old) 71 214 215 Classification 2017 2018 2019 By Age(over 50 years old) 75 82 57 Domestic 10,639 10,996 11,305 Total 558 1,047 737 Number of Partnership Companies Overseas 2,195 2,259 2,298 By Gender(Male) 502 949 683 CSR FOUNDATION Total 12,834 13,255 13,603 By Gender(Female) 56 98 54 Domestic 18,911 16,839 20,084 Number of Transferred Manpower2 By Age(Younger than 30 years old) 262 150 46 Purchased Amount by Partnership Overseas 6,671 5,753 3,375 Companies By Age(30 to 50 years old) 62 578 384 Total 25,582 22,592 23,459 By Age(over 50 years old) 234 319 307 Purchase Ratio by Domestic Suppliers 74 75 86 Transfer Rate(Permanent workers) 8.1 15.9 12.5 *Computed by the standard of the headquarter of DHIC 1.  The number of newly hired manpower in 2018 was partly corrected(Correction due to simple wrong typing) 2.  Due to changed computation standard for the number of transferred manpower(Including retired, voluntary transfer, and transfer to subsidiary company), the data for three years has been corrected and disclosed. STATUS OF EXPENSES BY INDUSTRIAL ASSOCIATIONS (Unit: one million won) 1., 2. In reference to the end of year, the contract worker includes BG contract worker and field worker. Supervisor, advisor, outside directors and CEO and dispatching position are excluded. 2019 Integrated Report of (In reference to employee under the business report) Classification 2017 2018 2019 *The number of employees has increased due to the transfer of affiliates(About 250 people) in 2018. GyeongNam Social Economic GyeongNam Social Economic Large & SMEs Cooperation Donator Support Center(Foundation) Support Center(Foundation) Foundation & others APPENDIX & others & others RATIO OF WORKER APPLIED BY COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT (Unit: people, %) Amount 8,699 652 512 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction *No donation record for political organization and lobbyist Classification 2017 2018 2019 Number of Workers for Membership 4,004 3,550 2,902 Number of Memberships in Labor Union, Labor-Management Committee 2,166 2,055 1,893 Ratio of Membership in Labor Union, Labor-Management Committee 54 58 65 082 083 COMPAMY OVERVIEW EDUCATION FOR EMPLOYEES (Unit: hours) STATUS OF INTERNAL REPORT OF ETHICAL MANAGEMENT (Unit: cases) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Male 58.0 11.7 11.4 Domestic 40 21 24 BUSINESS STRATEGY Female 128.0 22.7 4.3 Overseas 0 11 9 Average Education Hours per Person Office Work 15.5 11.7 Total 40 32 33 Technical Work 5.4 7.6 * Separate management of education hour per person by job group since 2018 LEGAL ACTION FOR UNFAIR TRANSACTION (Unit: cases) Classification 2017 2018 2019 RATIO OF EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVE THE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION (Unit: %) Number of legal actions 2 0 0 Classification 2017 2018 2019 *The fine due to two cases of unfair transaction in 2017 was 10 million 600 thousand won. There was no other non-financial sanction and lawsuit Office Work 100 100 100 Technical Work 100 100 100 LEGAL ACTIONS FOR CORRUPTION (Unit: cases) Classification 2017 2018 2019 CSR FOCUS AREAS STATUS OF MATERNITY LEAVE (Unit: people, %) Number of legal actions 0 0 0 Classification 2017 2018 2019 *Neither fine nor penalty for three years Male 1,755 1,799 1,837 Number of employees who have the right to receive maternity leave1 Female 49 57 69 CORRECTIVE ACTIONS FOR DISCRIMINATION (Unit: cases) Male 8 25 40 Number of employees who Classification 2017 2018 2019 have used maternity leave2 Female 19 16 23 Number of reports of discrimination 12 7 5 Male 5 17 32 Number of employees who have returned Number of confirmed facts and actions 12 7 5 to work after maternity leave3 Female 17 21 9 *The company retains the system to report discrimination and strictly observes the protection of informants. Number of employees for 12 months Male 0 5 14 continuous work after they have returned to work from maternity leave4 Female 14 15 13 CSR FOUNDATION PARTICIPATION IN LOCAL COMMUNITY, EFFECT EVALUATION (Unit: %) Ratio of employees for 12 months Male 0 100 82 continuous work after they have returned Classification 2017 2018 2019 to work from maternity leave5 Female 93 88 62 Business site which operates the program to develop local community 30 30 30 1. Male & female workers with children younger than 8 years old Business site which operates the program to develop local community 2. Number of people who started maternity leave in reference year 30 30 30 considering the requirements of stakeholders 3. Number of people who returned after the maternity leave in reference year Business site which operates the advisory committee and process 4. Among employees who returned to work during the period of previous report, the number of employees who were in duty of working at the end of reference year. 30 30 30 for wide local community including vulnerable social class 5. Maintenance rate = (Employees who maintained 12-months work after they had returned to work in reference year / Employees who returned to work during the period of Business site which operates the official process to handle difficulties of local community 100 100 100 previous report) X 100 *Due to the changed reference date to compute the maternity leave, the data for three years have been disclosed. PARTICIPATION IN VOLUNTARY SERVICE ACTIVITIES (Unit: cases, people, %, hours) 2019 Integrated Report of CONFIRMED CORRUPTION CASES & ITS COUNTERMEASURE (Unit: cases) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Number of Activities 501 363 302 APPENDIX Number of confirmed corruptions* 4 2 5 Number of Participants 3,633 2,790 1,580 Number of disciplinary actions(Layoff, Suspension, etc.) 2 3 5 Participation by Employees Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Participation Rate 53 42 25 Number of contracts that are either terminated or not renewed 2 1 0 with business partner due to corruption Total Hours of Voluntary Service 29,250 20,691 12,016 * Exclude duplicated cases of workers and partnership companies with the data which include the corruption cases of partnership companies Period of Voluntary Service Hours of Voluntary Service per One Person 5.13 3.11 1.87 084 085 COMPAMY OVERVIEW EXPENSES FOR SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION (Unit: one hundred million won) SAFETY & HEALTH OF EMPLOYEES (Unit: LTIR, ODR, LWSR, cases) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Cash 88.9 8.4 6.6 Domestic 0.18 0.15 0.16 BUSINESS STRATEGY 1 Goods 0.8 0.4 0.4 LTIR Overseas 0 0 0 Amount of Expenses Operation cost 1.2 0.5 0.5 Total 0.12 0.10 0.10 Total 90.9 9.3 7.5 Domestic 0.06 0.25 0.20 Charitable Donation 16.2 0.3 0.1 ODR2 Overseas 0 0 0 Employees Details of Expenses Investment in local community 67.5 8.9 7.4 Total 0.04 0.17 0.13 Others 7.2 0.1 0 LWSR3 Domestic 32.66 43.24 25.10 Fostering talented personnel 35.9 7.1 6.0 Domestic 13 10 10 Territories of Activities Supporting alienated social class 21.4 0.5 0.2 Number of disasters Overseas 0 0 0 Close contact type with local areas 33.6 1.7 1.3 Total 13 10 10 Domestic 0.09 0.19 0.26 LTIR Overseas 0.01 0.00 0.00 CSR FOCUS AREAS MAJOR NEGATIVE SOCIAL EFFECT IN SUPPLY NETWORK AND ITS CORRECTIVE ACTIONS (Unit: numbers, %) Total 0.03 0.04 0.06 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Partnership LWSR Domestic 3.22 7.36 24.77 Companies Number of partnership companies in progress of social effect evaluation 324 376 148 Domestic 5 11 24 Number of partnership companies 0 0 0 which have been confirmed of actual & potential negative social effect Number of disasters Overseas 1 1 0 Ratio of partnership companies which have taken consultation 100 100 100 for the improvement from the result of evaluation Total 6 12 24 Number of disciplinary actions for partnership companies* 2 0 1 1. LTIR(Lost Time Incident Rate), U.S. OSHA(Work loss rate by the standard of Occupational Safety & Health Administration) = (Total number of suspended works/Total work hours) x 200,000 2. *The disciplinary action for partnership company, according to the specified DHIC’s Differentiation Procedure for Partnership Companies, means the issue to implement the deliberation of ODR(Occupational Disease Rate) = (Number of Occupational disease and Patients related with occupation/Total work hours) x 200,000 3. disciplinary action by the Mutual Growth Promotion Committee. LWSR(Lost Workday Severity Rate) = (Total loss of workdays/Total work hours) x 200,000 *The computation standard of ‘’Disciplinary Action for Partnership Company’ was changed in 2019 so that the data of disciplinary cases of partnership companies for three years *LTIR, ODR, and number of disasters follow the computation standard of all domestic and overseas business sites. LWSR follows the computation standard of all domestic business sites have been corrected and disclosed. PRODUCT SAFETY (Unit: cases, numbers, won) CSR FOUNDATION NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS OF WHICH THE VIOLATION OF CUSTOMER’S PRIVACY AND THE LOSS OF CUSTOMER’S INFORMATION HAS BEEN PROVED (Unit: cases) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Number of occurred issues of safety related recall 0 0 0 Number of leakages, theft, and loss of customers’ data and related complaints 0 0 0 Total number of products returned due to the occurred issues of safety related recall 0 0 0 Amount of financial sanctions in relation to product safety(Penalty, Fine, etc.) 0 0 0 2019 Integrated Report of APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 086 087 Performance Summary COMPAMY OVERVIEW ENVIRONMENT *Environmental data have been collected by the standard of the headquarter of DHIC REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION (Unit: TJ) RECYCLING OF RAW MATERIALS (Unit: tons. %) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Introduction of high-efficient facility 37 29 38 Recovered iron 70,527 59,418 64,462 BUSINESS STRATEGY Total 37 29 38 Chip 11,471 10,226 11,478 Ratio of Using Recycled Raw Materials 38 35 35 USE OF ENERGY *Due to the change in Environmental Data Computation Standard(Standard of DHIC’s Headquarter, Data from construction field excluded), the data for three years have been corrected and disclosed Classification 2017 2018 2019 QUANTITY TO TAKE FOR EACH SUPPLY SOURCE (Unit: tons) Fossil fuel Unit: MWh 505,841 457,897 469,466 Electricity Unit: MWh 297,688 304,583 299,913 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Total Unit: MWh 803,529 762,480 769,379 Surface layer water Use of Energy Unit: TJ 5,026 4,577 4,708 Underground water 98,509 1,627 Cost of Energy Unit: One million won 61,117 57,239 60,310 Rain water 40,000 Reduction of Cost Unit: One million won 27,200 27,900 2,415 Wastewater entered from other business sites CSR FOCUS AREAS Water system or other water supply system 1,580,307 1,229,625 1,201,208 *Due to the change in Environmental Data Computation Standard(Standard of DHIC’s Headquarter, Data from construction field excluded), the data for three years have been corrected and disclosed Total 1,718,816 1,229,625 1,202,835 TOTAL EXPENSES FOR ENVIRONMENT (Unit: one million won) *Due to changed computation standard for domestic environmental data(Standard of DHIC’s Headquarter, Data from construction field excluded), the date for three years have been corrected and disclosed Classification 2017 2018 2019 Amount of environmental investment 1,900 2,815 2,200 RECYCLING AND REUSE OF WATER (Unit: tons) Expense of cosigned waste treatment* 1,092 1,047 1,759 Classification 2017 2018 2019 Profit from waste disposal 649 911 805 Quantity of Recycled Water 25,900 Atmospheric environment 639 440 335 Water quality environment 217 203 297 EMISSION OF GREENHOUSE GAS (Unit: 1,000 t CO2eq) Other expenses 30 25 21 CSR FOUNDATION Classification 2017 2018 2019 *Increased cost of landfill in 2019 due to insufficient landfill treatment facility Direct Emission of Greenhouse Gas(scope 1) 117.8 105.5 108.7 Indirect Emission of Greenhouse Gas(scope 2) 139.4 138.1 142.9 USE OF RAW MATERIALS (Unit: tons) Total 257.2 243.6 251.6 Classification 2017 2018 2019 *Some data of the emission amount of greenhouse gas were corrected in 2017 and 2018(Corrected due to simple wrong typing) Scrap iron 114,308 110,574 120,300 Recovered iron 70,527 59,418 64,462 Chip 11,471 10,226 11,478 2019 Integrated Report of Nonrenewable raw materials Alloy steel 6,369 5,952 6,256 Quicklime 7,412 6,997 7,742 Fluorspar 949 404 874 APPENDIX Lump coal 4,601 4,370 4,697 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Rebar Renewable raw materials Concrete Total 215,637 197,941 215,809 *Due to the change in Environmental Data Computation Standard(Standard of DHIC’s Headquarter, Data from construction field excluded), the data for three years have been corrected and disclosed 088 089 COMPAMY OVERVIEW DISCHARGED SUBSTANCES TO ATMOSPHERE (Unit: tons) WASTEWATER & RAIN WATER DISCHARGE (Unit: tons, mg/l) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Classification 2017 2018 2019 NOx Emission Amount 0 0 0 Deokdong Water Deokdong Water Deokdong Water Name of Final Discharge Place for Wastewater Regeneration Center Regeneration Center Regeneration Center Physical & Chemical Physical & Chemical Physical & Chemical BUSINESS STRATEGY SOx Emission Amount 0 0 0 Treatment Method for wastewater Treatment Treatment Treatment VOC(Volatile Organic Compound) Discharge Amount 9.4 23.8 32.4 Discharged Amount of Wastewater(A) 191,985 131,513 144,348 HAP(Hazardous Atmosphere Pollutants) Discharge Amount 0 0 0 Name of Final Discharge Place for Rain Water Masan Bay, etc Masan Bay, etc Masan Bay, etc PM(Particulate Matter) Discharge Amount 30.1 22 12.0 Treatment Method for wastewater Silt Protector, etc Silt Protector, etc Silt Protector, etc Discharged Amount of Rain Water(B) 1,695,328 2,906,139 3,059,804 Total Discharged Amount of Wastewater & Rain Water(A) +(B) 1,887,313 3,037,652 3,204,152 COD 12.4 9.6 9.9 WASTE DISCHARGE (Unit: tons, %) SS 5.7 3.1 3.8 2017 2018 2019 N-H 1.2 1.1 1.0 Water Quality of Recycling(Recycle rate) 719(17.8) 762(13.5) 608(15.7) Discharged Wastewater Fe 0.2 0.1 0.1 Fertilization T-N 3.9 2.7 1.6 Incineration 373 430 CSR FOCUS AREAS T-P 0.2 0.0 0.2 Hazardous Wastes(Designated) Landfill 2,944 4,849 2,813 COD 3.4 3.1 3.1 Others 9 SS 1.3 1.7 1.9 Water Quality of Discharged Rain Water T-N 2.2 0.3 0.9 Total 4,044 5,611 3,851 T-P 0.1 0.1 0.0 Recycling 52,923 47,969 50,732 *Due to changed computation standard for domestic environmental data(Standard of DHIC’s Headquarter, Data from construction field excluded), the date for three years have been corrected and Fertilization disclosed Incineration 1 838 General Wastes Landfill 11,401 3,081 742 HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS DISCHARGE (Unit: numbers, tons) Field Storage Classification 2017 2018 2019 Others 19,839 Number of Substances 2 2 3 Total 84,164 51,050 52,312 CSR FOUNDATION Use Amount of Hazardous Chemicals 195.0 190.1 229.1 *Due to changed computation standard for domestic environmental data(Standard of DHIC’s Headquarter, Data from construction field excluded), the data for three years have been corrected *No hazardous chemicals discharged outside from 2017 to 2019 and disclosed PURCHASING ECO-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS (Unit; one million won) Classification 2017 2018 2019 Purchased Amount 9,756 8,841 22,737 2019 Integrated Report of APPENDIX Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 090 091 Risk Management Human Rights Policy COMPAMY OVERVIEW There is a growing uncertainty in the global society, with the volatility of the global economy intensifying. To address this, DHIC has established an integrated risk management system that analyzes risk factors which may arise during business operation. DHIC classifies risks into Financial Risk, DHIC respects the human rights of employees, as well as all DHIC stakeholders(as previously defined). DHIC recommends partner companies Business Risk, and Compliance & CSR Risk. Each risk is managed by a dedicated department. to manage human right management at the same level – targeting third parties of partner companies. DHIC demands adherence to human rights standards by partner companies and major business partners; and monitors their compliance. DHIC, as a member of the UN Global Compact, complies with the ‘Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact,’ covering human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. DHIC has proclaimed official support for and makes best efforts to observe other internationallyIntegrated Risk Management System Compliance & CSR Risks recognized human right principles, including ‘The Universal Declaration of Human Rights,’ ‘The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human DHIC has classified risks into Financial Risk, Business Risk, and DHIC categorizes various legal and non-financial risks related to the Rights,’ and the ‘Ruggie Framework.’ environment, safety, human rights, and local community as Compliance BUSINESS STRATEGY Compliance and CSR Risk. DHIC has appointed a unit and executives dedicated to monitoring potential causes for each category of risk. & CSR risks. Around the department in charge of each risk, DHIC has DHIC has established and implements a human right management system(as outlined below) to prevent the violation of human rights which These units regularly report any issues directly to the CEO. For risks that established a management system for immediate response while may occur during business operations. DHIC makes best efforts to prevent violations of human rights. DHIC strives to become an enterprise significantly affect the company, the Board of Directors makes final concurrently operating the CSR Committee for decision-making after that grows mutually with society. decisions. Four outside directors are appointed as risk professionals sufficient discussion. for each risk area. These risk directors deliver relevant education to support risk-related decision-making by the Board of Directors —in consideration of and accordance with relevant economic, business, Risk Analysis Non-Discrimination of Employment and Protection of Human Rights and Environmental Right of environmental, and other laws. DHIC conducts simulation of operation profit and loss for each stage Guarantee of Freedom of Association and Negotiation Local Residents of project implementation to analyze business opportunity and risk. DHIC does not discriminate based on gender, religion, disability, age, In conducting business operations, DHIC respects the right to life, the Through a standardized checklist, DHIC analyzes business impacts social position, and/or region of origin. DHIC also acknowledges the freedom of movement, the right to safety, and property ownership CEO CSR FOCUS AREAS and response measures. Analysis results are reported to the CEO every freedom of association and negotiation of workers; and does not rights of local residents. In addition, DHIC maintains the principle of month. prevent or otherwise discourage the activities of labor unions. preventive action regarding environmental issues, and thus aims to Person in Charge HEAD OF FINANCIAL HEAD OF STRATEGY & HEAD OF MANAGEMENT INNOVATION MANAGEMENT prevent or relieve serious environmental damages and disasters. DHIC Risk Types COMPLIANCE & Finance Proceed with the sensitivity analysis for each scenario such as expenses, Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor will establish and fulfill a plan to control such actions. FINANCIAL RISK BUSINESS RISK cash flow, and taxation. CSR RISK DHIC prohibits any type of forced labor in its business activities. DHIC · Accounting · New Market/Business · Climate Change Environment Establish mid to long term roadmap and emergency response system for observes the minimum age of employment designated by the country in Protection of Customers’ Human Rights · Environmental Pollution risks such as greenhouse gas emission and insufficient water, etc. · Public Notice · R&D · Safety & Health which business activities are taking place. When DHIC discovers cases DHIC complies with legal standards regarding design, manufacturing, · Liquidity/Credit · Mutual Growth Identify risk elements for each major stage and establish response of employment of underage persons(non-compliance with the minimum and marking of products in order to protect the life and health of · Foreign Exchange/ · Quality Others measures utilizing Quality Gate System such as risk, human right and Interest Rate · Customer ethical management which may affect the project implementation age of employment designated by the law of the host country), DHIC customers from any harm due to defective products. If any damage · HR · Information Security takes immediate remedial action to put an end to all illegal labor occurs due to a DHIC product, DHIC will notify customers of the risk practices that cause damage to human dignity. and promptly accept returns of the corresponding product. In addition, DHIC respects the private life of customers; and thus takes necessary CSR FOUNDATION Financial Risk Company-Wide Risk Management Culture DHIC is committed to minimizing financial risks associated with Guarantee of Industrial Safety and actions to ensure the security of personal information collected by the DHIC expands company-wide risk management culture and prevents factors such as accounting, finance, finance, intellectual property, Responsible Management of Supply Network company. recurrence of risk failures by deliveringin-house education on and disclosure. As a global enterprise, DHIC has established ‘Foreign DHIC maintains a safe work environment and observes all laws and management principles and processes related to each risk type. In Exchange Management Instruction’ to eliminate the risk of foreign regulations related to environment, health and safety applicable to addition, DHIC adjusts financial compensation to employees(under the business sites. DHIC implements separate safety and health measures DHIC has opened a Cyber Report Center(https://ethicshelpline. exchange rate fluctuation. DHIC analyzes financial risks as predicted CEO level) based on evaluation of risk improvement and performance. for pregnant women, disabled persons, and other vulnerable workers. doosan.com/) on its website. Human rights issues related to DHIC by business operations; and actively actively manages financial risk DHIC has established a policy and guideline of CSR Risk Management business activities can be reported confidentiality via this prompt according to a response strategy. Such contents are transparently for Suppliers; and conducts regular inspections to monitor compliance and fair system. DHIC strives to lead and the industry with regard to reported to stakeholders to enhance the credit rating of the company. observation of human rights principles as part of its vision of “Proud 2019 Integrated Report of by all business partners. In addition, DHIC halts supply network Doosan in the World.” Business Risk transactions that violate human rights. DHIC recognizes risks related to new markets, projects and R&D APPENDIX as business risks. DHIC seeks business stability by establishing a proactive response system encompassing risk factors at all stages Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction of the project, from raw material procurement to product and service provision to follow-up management. DHIC recognizes business risks for domestic and overseas market environments in advance and manages risks based on clear response criteria and procedures. 092 093 Independent Auditors’ Report COMPAMY OVERVIEW To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, • For selected samples, inspecting related documents whether of recoverability of due from customers for contract work Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. cost of goods manufactured(including material costs, outsourced • Inquiries and inspection of documents to assess payment terms, construction costs and other expenses) are attributed to appropriate penalty for delay, delivery time, and other obligations of contracts for 1. Recognition of revenue including the input method project the due from customer for contract work increased significantly Opinion As described in the Note 2 to the separate financial statements, • Testing journal entries of cost transferred between projects to • Inquiries of long-term due from customers for contract work and BUSINESS STRATEGY We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Doosan the Group recognizes its revenue when the control of products and understand the reason of transfer and whether appropriate approval inspection of documents to evaluate the reasonableness of the cause Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries(“the services is transferred to the customers. Therefore, the Group estimates was obtained • Considering current status of billing and collection of due from Group”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial percentage of completion of performance obligation satisfied over time • Site visits for selected on-going construction sites and sites have customers for contract work for each major projects position as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, the consolidated by using the input method and recognizes revenue over time depending equipment under construction • For the projects with bad debt allowance reserved over trade statements of loss and other comprehensive loss, changes in equity on progress. For performance obligations satisfied at a point of time, • Recalculation of the percentage-of-completion independently for each receivables assessed whether an allowance is reserved for unbilled and cash flows for the years then ended, and notes, comprising the Group recognizes revenue when the product is delivered to and project accounts receivable and inspected documents significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. accepted by the customer. • For selected samples, inspection of documents(change order, official • Retrieving external confirmation letters from major customers and In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements As the amount of revenue recognized over time using the input method letter and others) to test changes in contract price reviewing legal opinion provided by external counsels present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial depends on the measured percentage of-completion, management’s • Examined the contractual delivery date with the expected delivery position of the Group as of December 31, 2019 and 2018, and its judgment is involved in determining the method of measuring progress, date as of year-end. For those which the contractual delivery date has consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for estimating total contract cost and changes in construction. In addition, passed, inquired of the basis, performed analytical review and agreed 3. Impairment of goodwill CSR FOCUS AREAS the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial there is an inherent risk in revenue such as overstatement of unit to underlying documents As described in the Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Reporting Standards(“K-IFRS”). sales price and manipulation of revenue through fictitious customers • Retrospective review for liquidated damages estimated at the end of Group conducts an annual impairment test for goodwill and compares as revenue is one of the major performance indicators of the Group. the prior period the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit containing goodwill Basis for Opinion Therefore, as there is a risk of overstatement of revenue due to an error • Assessing the appropriateness of the estimation of penalty for delay with the recoverable amount calculated as the value-in-use which is the We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on in judgment or intent, we have identified the recognition of revenue as at the end of current period present value of estimated future cash flows, to determine whether it is Auditing(“KSAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are a key audit matter. • Evaluation and tests of internal controls adequacy related to product impaired or not. further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of sales In estimating the discounted cash flows, significant judgment of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are The following audit procedures were performed regarding the revenue • Inspection of purchase order, invoice, bill of lading for selected sales management is involved including long-term sales growth rate and independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements recognized using the input method. transactions in current period to agree with the substance of recorded discount rates applied to cash flow projections. Therefore, we identified that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements sales transactions the impairment for goodwill as a key audit matter as certain key in Republic of Korea, and we have fulfilled our other ethical • Assessing whether revenue is recognized in appropriate period by assumptions on which management has based cash flow projections responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that • Evaluation and tests of internal controls related to the determination inspecting delivery acceptance notes signed by customers and bill of such as growth rate and discount rates are included, are subject to CSR FOUNDATION the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to and modification of estimated total contract cost, changes in contract lading documents for selected sales transactions management bias. provide a basis for our opinion. terms • For major projects completed during the current year, retrospective The following audit procedures were performed regarding impairment Material Uncertainty on the Ability to Continue as a Going Concern review by comparing the actual cost incurred during the current year 2. Recoverability of due from customers for contract work of goodwill. We draw attention to Note 38 of the consolidated financial statements. and construction cost estimated at the end of the prior year As described in the Note 2 to the separate financial statements, the As discussed in Note 38 to the consolidated financial statements, • Inquiries and inspection of documents for projects with significant Group calculates expected credit losses(“ECLs”) based on the expected the Group has incurred a net loss of W104,367 million for the year changes in estimated total contract cost life of the ECLs and evaluates the recoverability of due from customers • Evaluating and testing of internal controls related to impairment test ended December 31, 2019 and, as of that date, the Group’s total • Comparison between estimated total contract cost used in revenue for contract work. for goodwill current borrowings were W7,414,329 million and total current liabilities recognition and that of site department for major projects In calculating ECLs, management’s judgment is involved due to • Inquiries and assessment of valuation model used by the Group 2019 Integrated Report of exceeded its total current assets by W4,421,614 million. These • Comparison of estimated total contract cost with those of other similar uncertainty over the collection of due from customers for contract work • Understanding future cash flows and testing whether the estimated conditions, along with other matters as set forth in Note 38 to the projects from delayed payment of the owner, changes in conditions or claims future cash flows corresponds to business plan approved by the APPENDIX consolidated financial statements indicate the existence of a material • Inquiries and analytical review of changes in the percentage-ofincurred. Therefore, we identified the assessment of the recoverability Group’s management uncertainty which may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to completion for each reporting period of due from customers for contract work as a key audit matter, given • Testing the appropriateness of major assumptions(discount rate, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continue as a going concern. Our opinion is not modified in respect of • For major projects, inquiries and inspection of documents if there there are risks of overstatement of due from customers for contract work growth rate and others) of the valuation model by comparing to this matter. were significant differences between the progress rate in the due to error or bias in judgment. benchmark of peer industry and past financial information of cash respective monthly progress reports received from customers and the generating unit(by using our internal valuation specialists) Key Audit Matters percentage-of-completion calculated based on cost The following audit procedures were performed regarding assessment • Evaluation of the sensitivity analysis results of the discount rate and Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, • For selected samples, inspection of documents to test the existence of the recoverability of due from customers for contract work. permanent growth rate presented by the Group to assess the impact were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial of cost of goods manufactured(including material costs, outsourced of changes in major assumptions on the impairment assessment(by 094 statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. These construction costs and other expenses) incurred during the current using our internal valuation specialists) 095 matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated year • Evaluation and testing of internal controls related to the assessment COMPAMY OVERVIEW 4. Assessment of provision for warranty As part of an audit in accordance with KSAs, we exercise professional We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among As described in the Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, • Evaluation of major inputs such as sales revenue and operating judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries(“DI”) segment of the expenses used to determine expected taxable income through We also: audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control Group provides customers with free warranty for a certain period of time comparison of recent business plans considering updated past that we identify during our audit. after the sale of the product, and reserves a provision for warranty by performance and industrial reports after the approval by the Board of BUSINESS STRATEGY estimating the expected warranty expenses. Directors • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the We also provide those charged with governance with a statement The performance obligation of the warranty is determined by the nature • Assessment of estimated taxable income based on management's consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding and scope of the free warranty provided by DI and various assumptions, midand long-term business plan(by using our internal valuation design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other including the warranty period and estimated warranty expense to incur specialists) and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, in the future. Therefore, we identified the assessment of provision • Assessment of tax adjustments for individual temporary differences provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material and where applicable, related safeguards. for warranty as a key audit matter as certain key assumptions on and the realization schedule(by using our internal tax specialists) misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from which management has based on involves significant judgment of error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, management. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. we determine those matters that were of most significance in the Other Matter • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period The following audit procedures were performed regarding assessment The procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters of provision for warranty. such consolidated financial statements may differ from those generally circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public CSR FOCUS AREAS accepted and applied in other countries. the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used in the we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report • Understanding accounting policy of recognition of provision for Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably warranty and testing of internal controls for the Consolidated Financial Statements reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such • Testing the accuracy of underlying data of major accounting estimates Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of by management. communication. used by management the consolidated financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS, and for • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going • Comparison and analysis of the basis of key assumptions used by such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent management in measuring provision for warranty with past actual the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or auditors’ report is Se Bong Hur. performance material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to • Performing independent recalculation of current balance of provision In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty for warranty at the end of the current year responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such CSR FOUNDATION using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 5. Assessment of realization of the deferred tax assets intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our As described in the Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, alternative but to do so. auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Doosan Engineering & Construction and its subsidiaries(“DEC”) Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. segment of the Group reviews the carrying amount of deferred tax Group’s financial reporting process. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the assets at the end of each reporting period. The carrying amount of consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, deferred tax assets is reduced if it is no longer probable that sufficient Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the taxable income will be generated to allow the recovery of all or part of Statements underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair the deferred tax assets. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the presentation. 2019 Integrated Report of Realization of deferred tax assets implies complexity as it requires consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial March, 20th, 2020 management’s judgment on the estimation of expected taxable income. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ information of the entities or business activities within the Group to APPENDIX Therefore, we identified the realization of deferred tax assets for DEC as report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are a key audit matter given that the estimation of expected taxable income assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction includes inherent uncertainty and involvement of significant judgment with KSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. of key variables such as sales and operating profit. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to The following audit procedures were performed regarding assessment influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these of realization of the deferred tax assets. consolidated financial statements. This report is effective as of March 20, 2020, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this 096 report, could havea material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that the above audit report has not been updated to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 097 Third Party’s Assurance Statement COMPAMY OVERVIEW To the Readers of 2019 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction: OUR CONCLUSION FOREWORD Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with Doosan Heavy Industries & Korea Management Registrar Inc.(hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction to verify the contents of its Construction on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and 2019 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction(Hereby referred to as “the Report”). Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the BUSINESS STRATEGY responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. the verification scope are not presented appropriately. SCOPE AND STANDARD · Inclusivity Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability performed a type2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS(2008) and SRV1000 from KMR Global Sustainability Committee as assurance Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in standards. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder Doosan Heavy the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. Industries & Construction left out during this procedure. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. · Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will CSR FOCUS AREAS influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels · GRI Standards Reporting Principles through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. · Universal Standards · Topic Specific Standards · Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, Management approach of Topic Specific Standards Labor/Management Relations : 402-1 actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Economic Performance : 201-1, 201-3 Occupational Health and Safety : 403-2 The assurance team could not find any evidence that Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues Indirect Economic Impacts : 203-1 Training and Education : 404-1 were inappropriately recorded in the Report. Anti-Corruption : 205-1, 205-3 Diversity and Equal Opportunity : 405-1 Anti-Competitive Behavior : 206-1 Child Labor : 408-1 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. Energy : 302-1, 302-2, 302-4 Forced or Compulsory Labor : 409-1 CSR FOUNDATION Water : 303-1 Human Rights Assessment : 412-1, 412-2 RECOMMENDATION FOR IMPROVEMENT Emissions : 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Customer Health and Safety : 416-1, 416-2 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and we recommend the following for continuous improvements. Environmental Compliance : 307-1 Socioeconomic Compliance : 419-1 Employment : 401-1, 401-3 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reported individual sustainable management topics in two sections – Policy & Strategy and Activity and Performance – and covered the business status, performance, and directions with consistency. We recommend that to improve sustainability, the company strengthen the report on qualitative performance of environment and safety topics, which are globally significant in the industry. This Report excludes data and information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, among report boundaries. OUR INDEPENDENCE With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s business 2019 Integrated Report of OUR APPROACH operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out APPENDIX an assurance engagement as follows: July, 15th, 2020 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction · Reviewed overall report · Reviewed materiality test process and methodology · Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets · Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities · Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 098 099 Environment Guideline SASB(Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) Index COMPAMY OVERVIEW Based on the People-Centric management philosophy and leveraging technology, DHIC aims to protect the earth and the environment. In this regard, Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics DHIC has established an environment guideline on the basis of Doosan Credo. This contains the company’s regulations related to environmental TOPIC Code Accounting Metric Page Remarks management and protection; and internal instructions for how DHIC can protect the environment together with employees, partner companies, (1) Total energy consumed 88 customers, and local communities. Based on this guideline, DHIC has implemented the below activities to reduce the environmental impact of business activities. Energy Management RT-EE-130a.1 (2) Percentage grid electricity N/A (3) Percentage renewable (1) Amount of hazardous waste generated 90 Environmental Management of Production and Business Sites Waste Management RT-EE-150a.1 BUSINESS STRATEGY For effective environmental management of production and business DHIC has established and implements a waste management instruction (2) Percentage recycled 90 facilities, DHIC has established 11 procedures of goal management, covering the entire waste management process from generation to final Hazardous Waste (1) Number of reportable spills 91 Management education & training, documents & records, and internal evaluation, etc., disposal. Through this instruction, DHIC defines application range, as well as 10 instructions related to environmental impact assessment, terminologies, and responsibilities and authorities for the generation, RT-EE-150a.2 (2) Aggregate quantity of reportable spills 91 atmospheric environment management, and waste management, etc. collection, disposal, and inspection of waste, as well as consigned (3) Quantity recovered 91 contract and monitoring. Guidelines are also provided regarding waste recycling. (1) Number of recalls issued 87 RT-EE-250a.1 Product Safety (2) Total units recalled 87 Selection and Continuous Evaluation of Suppliers/ Engineering and Maintenance RT-EE-250a.2 Total amount of monetary losses as a result of 87 legal proceedings associated with product safety Subcontractors/Service Providers DHIC has established an environmental manual in order to minimize the Percentage of products by revenue that contain IEC 62474 declarable RT-EE-410a.1 N/A CSR FOCUS AREAS DHIC conducts regular(twice per year) evaluation of EHS management of occurrence of environmental pollution when operating, maintaining, and substances partner companies. Evaluation results are utilized to provide incentives repairing power plants installed by DHIC. The aim is to fundamentally Product Lifecycle RT-EE-410a.2 Percentage of eligible products, by revenue, that meet ENERGY STARⓇ criteria N/A Management to and impose penalties on partner companies. In addition, DHIC delivers prevent environmental pollution due to abnormal operation. This manual Revenue from renewable energy-related and regular education to partner companies regarding EHS(and particularly – which is adapted to the characteristics of each power plant – helps DHIC RT-EE-410a.3 N/A energy efficiency-related products environmental) standards and laws. Through such education – which minimize environmental impacts related to operation of power plants. Description of the management of risks associated Materials Sourcing RT-EE-440a.1 with the use of critical materials is delivered through the consultation committee comprised of partner company chairs —DHIC reduces EHS(particularly environmental) risk (1) Corruption and bribery 50-51, 64 throughout its entire supply network. RT-EE-510a.1 (2) Anti-competitive behavior 50-51, 64 Business Ethics Total amount of monetary losses as a result of RT-EE-510a.2 85 legal proceedings associated with bribery or corruption Development of Products and Services New Project Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings associated RT-EE-510a.3 85 with anticompetitive behavior regulations DHIC acknowledges both the crisis and opportunity presented by climate DHIC develops a Project Environment Plan which sets forth detailed CSR FOUNDATION change and other diverse related environmental issues. Accordingly, methods of environmental management before launching a new DHIC actively pursues R&D to develop products and services which can project. The Project Environment Plan covers project policies related Activity Metrics minimize environmental impacts of DHIC business activities. to water supply and waste discharge requirements, hazard substance Code Accounting Metric Page Remarks management, and air pollution control. RT-EE-000.A Number of units produced by product category RT-EE-000.B Number of employees 83 Logistics Preliminary Due Diligence at Acquisition to Merger DHIC provides instructions to minimize environmental pollution which DHIC identifies environmental risk by conducting preliminary due 2019 Integrated Report of may occur during transportation. DHIC has established and implements diligence on companies before acquisition and merger. Major evaluation best practice work standards for each stage – quotation, preliminary items include: pollution of soil and underground water, asbestos, survey for transportation, selection of transportation company for contract hazardous chemicals, environmental pollution prevention facility, and APPENDIX to the local transportation(Land, Barge, Aviation, etc.), unloading, and greenhouse gas management. The evaluation results are considered as Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction insurance. an important factor at the time of acquisition and merger. 100 101 GRI Content Index COMPAMY OVERVIEW UNIVERSAL STANDARDS(GRI 100) Topic Specific Standards ECONOMIC STANDARDS(GRI 200) TOPIC No. Standard Page Remarks 102-1 Name of organization 1 TOPIC No. Standard Item Page Remarks 102-2 Representing brand, products & services 10-29 201-1 Direct creation & distribution of economic value 80-81 102-3 Location of headquarter 4 Economic Performances Disclosed in 201-3 Defined benefit pension liability & other retirement plans of an organization the business report 102-4 Locations of business sites 4-5 Indirect Economic Impact 203-1 Infrastructure investment & service support for public benefit 42-45 Disclosed in 102-5 Characteristics of owned structure & legal type the business report Anti-corruption 205-3 Risk evaluation of corruption at business sites 50-51, 84 102-6 Report of target market 4-5 Unfair Business Practices 206-1 Cases of confirmed corruption and related countermeasures 85 Organization Outline 102-7 Size of organization 4-5 BUSINESS STRATEGY 102-8 Information about employees and workers 60-61, 83 102-9 Explanation of organization’s supply network 64-65 Size and structure of organization or supply network, critical change ENVIRONMENT STANDARDS(GRI 300) 102-10 No significant change in ownership structure 102-11 Explanation of prior prevention principle & access method 92 TOPIC No. Standard Item Page Remarks 102-12 External initiatives 44-45, 104 302-1 Consumption of energy inside of the organization 88 Energy Status of membership acquisition of association and national and international policy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 88 101-13 104 organizations Proclamation by a top decision maker of the organization’s strategy Water 303-1 Quantity taken from each supply source 89 102-14 2-3 Strategy regarding sustainability 305-1 Direct emission amount of greenhouse gas(Scope 1) 89 102-15 Major elements of impact, risk, and opportunity 79 Emission to Air 305-2 Indirect emission amount of greenhouse gas(Scope 2) 89 Values, principles, and standards of the organization’s behavioral norms, 102-16 50-51 such as code of conduct and code of ethics No violation of law and Ethics & Integrity Environment Compliance 307-1 Violation of environmental law & regulations Internal & external advisory mechanism regarding the observation of ethics and regulation for three years 102-17 50-51 laws and the integrity of the organization 102-18 Structure of organization’s governance including the committee of highest governance 48-49 CSR FOCUS AREAS Procedure established by the highest governance level to entrust authority over economic, 102-19 48-49 environmental, and social issues to high-ranking and other employees Report if an executive level personnel in the organization has been appointed or report SOCIAL STANDARDS(GRI 400) 102-20 42-43 the personnel who takes responsibility for economic, environmental, and social issues Process for stakeholders to discuss economic, environmental and social issues TOPIC No. Standard Item Page Remarks 102-21 78 with the highest governance level 102-22 Composition of the highest governance level and its committee 48-49 401-1 New employment & transfer 83 Employment Report if the chairman of the highest governance level also assume the position of 401-3 Parental leave of absence 84 102-23 48-49 an executive officer Disasters on site, disease types, occurrence rate, ratio of days of leave of absence, Labor Safety & Health 403-2 87 102-24 Procedure to appoint and apply by the highest governance and its subcommittee 48-49 ratio of absence from work, number of work-related deaths Role of the highest governance level and high-ranking officers in developing, approving Education & Training 404-1 Average hours of education for each employee 83 102-26 and improving purpose, value or mission, strategy, policy and goal of the organization 42-43 Governance Structure in relation to economic, environmental and social issues Diversity & Equal 405-1 Governance & Diversification of Employees 83 Opportunity Action to develop and strengthen common knowledge of economic, environmental 102-27 42-43 412-1 Business sites for review of or evaluation on human rights 62-63 and social issues by the highest governance level Evaluation on Human Role of the highest governance level which identifies and manages economic, Right 412-2 Education for employees on human rights policies and procedures 62-63 120-29 48-49 environmental, and social impacts, including costs and opportunities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management procedure 48-49 Local Communities 413-1 assessments, and development programs 72-76, 85 CSR FOUNDATION Frequency of review of economic, environmental, and social impact, including crisis Safety & Health of No violation of law and 120-31 48-49 416-2 Cases of violation product/service health & safety regulations and opportunity, by the highest decision-making unit Customers regulation for three years 120-33 Procedure to report important matters to the highest governance level 48-49 Social, Economic Disclosed in 419-1 Violations of social and economic laws and restrictions Compliances the business report Nature of important matters to be reported to the highest governance level; 120-34 48-49 and system for handling and resolving reports 120-35 Compensation policy for the highest decision-making unit and high-ranking executives 48-49 120-36 Procedure & standard to determine salaries 48-49 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 78 102-41 Elements of major impact, risk, and opportunity 83 Participation by 102-42 Standards to identify and select stakeholders 78-79 Stakeholders 102-43 Methods of facilitating participation by stakeholders 78-79 2019 Integrated Report of 102-44 Response methods & results related to critical issues 78-79 Subsidiary companies and joint investment companies to be included in Disclosed in 102-45 consolidated financial statement(or equivalent document) of the organization the business report 102-46 Process to define the contents of the report About this report APPENDIX 102-47 List of material subjects identified in the content defining process. 79 102-48 Effect of redescription of information provided in previous report and its reason About this report Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 102-49 Reporting period About this report 102-50 Critical changes from previous reporting period regarding scope and subject boundaries About this report Introduction to Report 102-51 Date of latest report About this report 102-52 Report cycle About this report 102-53 Provision of an inquirer of report and relevant contents About this report 102-54 Method of ‘In Accordance With’ selected by the organization About this report 102 102-55 GRI Index report 102-103 102-56 External verification 98-99 103 UN Global Compact As a member of the UN Global Compact since 2014, DHIC complies with the ‘Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact,’ which covers human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. DHIC has adopted international standards on sociallyresponsible management and confirms its commitment to becoming a leading global enterprise – as well as a model enterprise for the Republic Korea –for sustainable socially-responsible business operations.. 10 Principles Page Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 62-63, 93 Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 62-63 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 62-63 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 62-64 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 62-64 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 62-63 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 44-45, 52-55 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 52-55, 100 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 52-55, 100 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 50-51 Membership Status Standard Items Korea Foundation for Cooperation of Large&Small Business, Rural Affairs, Korea Technology Finance Corporation, Korea Credit Guarantee Fund, Gyeongnam Center for Social Economy and Entrepreneurs, Gyeongnam Creative Economy Innovation Center, Korea New & Renewable Energy, National Academy of Engineering of Korea, Korean Federation of Science and Technology Society, Korea Management Association, Korea International Trade Association, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Common Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea Society of Combustion, Korea Plant Industries Association, Machinery Financial Cooperative, Korea Enterprises Federation, World Energy Council in Korea, Korea-Arab Society, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Korea Fair Competition Federation, UNGC(UN Global Compact) in Korea, Marine Rescue & Salvage Association Korea Institute of Electrical Engineers, Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers, Korea Electric Association, Korea Association of Machinery Industry, Power Generation Korea Wind Energy Industry Association, Korea Wind Association, EPRI(Power Generation Research Center in U.S)-WRTC www.doosanheavy.com Korea Radioactive Waste Society, Korea Nuclear Equipment Advancement Association, Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korean Nuclear Society, Nuclear Power Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation, World Nuclear Association, Women in Nuclear Korea Headquarters Welding Korea Welding Joining Society 22, Doosan Volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do Tel. 82-55-278-6114 Construction Association of Korea, Korea Housing Builders Association, Korea Federation of Construction Contractors, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, EPC Korea Information & Communication Contractors Association, International Contractors Association of Korea, Korea Mechanical Construction Contractors Association, PEA(Plant Engineering Association) Seoul Office 465, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul 2019 Integrated Report of Casting & Molding Korean Institute of Metals and Materials, Korea Foundry Society, Korea Iron & Steel Association Tel. 82-2-513-6365 Quality Korea Standards Association, Korea Foundation of Quality Designed by MOC Communication Co., Ltd Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction C020979 104 Printed by a company with FSCTM Chain of Custody certification(Certification no.: C020979). We use paper certified by FSCTM(Forest Stewardship Council®) that is only attached to 105 products using wood produced in forests developed and managed in an eco-friendly manner.
