SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NR INSTANT PRODUCE 2PCL. WELCOME In this report, NR Instant Produce Public Company Limited (NRF) describes our effort, progress and plans in relation to sustainability development and global compact. All information in this report covers the performance and operation in 2019. CONTENT 03 05 Message from CEO Organization profile 18 25 Corporate Human rights & governance labour 29 35 Environment Sustainability approach 3 Message from CEO 4 Message from CEO Dear Stakeholders, As NR Instant Produce Public Company Limited (NRF) approaches its 30th anniversary, I am passionate to make our products better in a sustainable way. Sustainable value chain is one of the key things for 2019. This is time for a lot of change, and it is time for NRF to give greater services with the belief that with sustainability we win. Dan Pathomvanich 5 In 2019 It is clear to me that the We are NRF recognize and world changes fast specially the way embrace this responsibility to help drive consumers consider buying products. this change. Over the past two years we They tend to choose products that not have undertaken an effort to change our only taste good but also have a good approach to supply chain and story to tell. We see the trend and with transforming it from one predominately my passion in sustainability I believe NRF focused on quality and price towards an sustainability story will give great approach of engagement, investment experiences to our customers. Our and partnership. Our vision is to make sustainability story is not only about how the world most sustainable one SKU at a we help our farmers, but we take time as we believe that every product UNSDGs seriously as this year we adopt that we make helps those that have been 12 goals and we are ready to move left behind. Our strategy says it all ‘To forward with our stakeholders to do compete based on sustainability’ more in 2019. We are looking forward to As we made the transformation. participating in engaging discussions We did change lives of our producers and with all of our stakeholders on how we our farmers have a better life they make can build a better framework to serve more than average after joining our our customers. contract farming earlier this year. It is proven that we are on the right track we have saved farmers lives and we will save more not just farmers but this world too by launching NRF Carbon footprint and Carbon neutral project in 2019 to make sure we will be a part of making a better world to live in. Without purpose no company can hope to achieve its mission of producing products for humanity. The complexity of ensuring that a product is produced with loyalty to our customers and its raw materials are produced with care requires a new model for sustainability and corporate governance. It requires a true commitment to do what is right and to persevere despite the multiple challenges. Sincerely, Dan Pathomvanich 6 ORGANIZATION PROFILE 7 About NRF NR Instant Produce Public Company Limited (NRF) is a leading southeast Asian food manufacturer and distributor based in Thailand and producing its own signature brands, private label products and co-packing lines. From the humble beginnings of a small shophouse factory, the company has developed into an international multimillion-dollar business, with a successful single-minded strategy to produce high quality, affordable goods that people want. Now established in a 10,000 sq. m. high-tech manufacturing facility in Samut Sakhon, NRF now employs over 500 people and continues a long tradition of endeavouring to improve the quality of life within the local community. Now under the new ownership of Hatton Capital Partners, a Hong Kong-based investment organization highly committed to the food and agricultural industries, NRF is confident that this new funding opportunity will provide the means for sustained growth in the future. 8 What we do? Thailand is a land of rich culture, fertile soils, favorable climes and a nation that possesses a profound knowledge and enjoyment of good food; food that is unique, delicious, nutritious and healthy. These qualities form the basis of the company’s beliefs – a desire to “make sustainable food experiences enjoyable, while raising the quality of life around the world”. With an impressive 10,000 sq. m. of manufacturing space at the state-of-the-art factory premises, and processing and production equipment second to none, NRF currently produce over 1,100 SKU’s in seven market sectors, exporting to more than 25 countries. 9 The company’s brands are established, highly regarded, market leaders in Thailand and are proving highly successful in many other countries. Their success is based on an unwavering commitment to innovation, the finest raw ingredients, and strong marketing support. NRF has, for many years, worked closely with its partners in the retail trade, both in Thailand and internationally to offer its vast array of tasty, nutritious food recipes as Private Label lines, adding exposure to an ever-widening consumer audience. As a leading, technology-driven manufacturer of food products with impeccable quality and safety standards, the company has developed the capability and capacity to produce, package and label food recipes to the specifications of partner brands. 10 Vision “To make sustainable food experiences enjoyable while raising the quality of life for our stakeholders and in doing so make the world more sustainable one SKU at a time” Mission “Transform our food system for a more inclusive and sustainable world. The world will be better, our producers will be better and our customers will be better” Goal “To create delicious and sustainable specialty food products that delight and enrich people’s lives. We do this by developing innovative products that improve not just taste but is better for me and better for the planet and emphasize the purpose-led company focusing on sustainable business and were chosen as the first choice to produce instant food for the global forefront company” 11 Values ❖ Excellent in everything we do ❖ Honesty & Integrity in all our business relationships ❖ Scientific Innovation with people, process, products ❖ Customer Focus a passionate dedication ❖ Social Responsibility we care about our footprint Business Philosophy Success has been achieved through a commitment to ❖ Quality ingredients ❖ Innovative recipes ❖ Efficient manufacturing processes ❖ Effective R&D 12 Manufacturing Capabilities “Creating Asian recipes loved all over the world” NRF offers a flexible and complete food design, development, manufacturing, and distribution operation with resources more than capable of meeting the needs of our partners and customers This flexible production process, together with our passion for innovation, provides us with a unique ability to meet the diverse needs of our global customers. Our technology-led investment in development kitchens and manufacturing facilities is the key to our on-going success and we have the proven capability of bringing products to markets quickly whilst investment ensures we can control consistency of product standards and are never hindered by a lack of capacity. Research & Development “Our R&D kitchen is where the magic happens” Innovation is central to everything we do it is from a heavy investment in R&D that great ideas are born, developed, and brought to the market. Our aim, always, is to create food recipes that are high on taste values, convenient and affordable. 13 Industry focus Asian Flavors Our brands have been cherished and loved around the world for almost three decades. Many of our products found in ethnic and modern supermarkets around the world have become the benchmark product for chefs, cooks and restaurants when preparing dishes from Pad Thai to Pho soups. We are proud of the products that we produce as we spend a tremendous amount of resources in ensuring that the ingredients that goes into our products are sustainably produced and free of pesticides. We have built a quality supply chain around our products from farm to product and we like to refer to our factory as an oversized kitchen as every product is made largely from fresh ingredients that are picked from the farms and often delivered immediately to our factory for processing. 14 Co-Packing Ultra-modern development kitchens, high-tech, flexible manufacturing equipment, knowledgeable, well trained personnel, renowned ingredient sourcing capabilities, and, above all, a commitment to producing high quality, affordable food products makes NRF the ideal partner in the manufacturing of proprietary products, for both small and large volume lines. We have a proven track record in co-packing for several international food conglomerates and are fully conversant with all the legislative requirements and regulations governing food manufacturing and supply. 15 We fully accept and concur with non-disclosure agreements, which we will willingly sign prior to receiving details of a client’s recipe. Our development kitchens are adept at producing small batches for approval before plant trials and full production is undertaken. We pride ourselves on accuracy, efficiency and transparency and welcome the opportunity to work in close cooperation with clients to ensure a perfect result. With exceptional quality and safety standards, and state of the art manufacturing facilities, we can produce, package, and label the recipes of partner brands to their exact specifications. 16 Specialized Production Line NRF provides the ability to invest into or provide dedicated or specialized production lines or facilities for clients who have rapidly growing needs and require a differentiated, efficient, and resilient product value chain that can deliver quality products to customers. As a global company NRF can strategically locate capacity to enable shorter supply chains. Please contact us directly and one of our executives will reach out to you. 17 Business Strategy Open new product market channel under NRF brand both domestic and outside country • Sell the popular product under NRF brand in Thai and international market for noticing our brand and enhancing company famous Step towards to be the major manufacturer on future food • Joint venture with the lead of food manufacturing on plantbased protein in Europe such as The breck company limited to expand production capacity on plant-based sausage and The meatless farm limited in UK to produce and export plant-based burger • Investment on Big idea venture LLC which support startup business related to plant-based protein such as plant-based lamb and plant-based beef • Investment on Phuture limited and New protein fund which is one of remarkable food tech startups in Asia and interested by global investors • Investment on City food limited to be the production base about specialty food exporting to Asia and global 18 Key Milestones 2019 • Joint venture with Brecks to establish The Plant and Bean • Invested in Big Idea Ventures and New Protein Fund I • Invested in Meatless Farm • Issued the first sustainability report to UNSDG 2018 • Acquired 15% City food • Dusit Thani came in as a strategic shareholder • Signed agreement with V-shapes • Partnership with Mahidol University for safe food • HRM Princess Sirinthorn visited NRF's farm Cultivating Big Idea Venture 2011 2017 Achieved turnover of 1 billion Baht • Acquired by Hatton Capital Partners • SAP applied within 9M • Singed UNSDGs • Founded Nove foods • Appointed EY as auditor • Member of plant-based food production 2005 BRC Accreditation one of the first manufacturers to be certified 2004 Investment in noodle production plant, a first major product differentiation project 2001 • Major export OEM product to UK • Launch of Por Kwan brand in export markets, targeting Asian ethics in US and Europe 1996 First export initiative OEM product to US 1991 NRF was founded 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 20 Company structure 21 Stakeholder’s engagement NRF reviewed our stakeholder to know their expectation and how we response by using several communication tools. Stakeholder’s engagement is divided into 6 groups including Shareholders, Business partner, farmers, employees, customer/consumer, and community. Communication differs in each stakeholder 22 Product type OEM / Private label This type includes a ready-to-cook and ready to eat products as well as vegan food and instant drink powder. We are flexible to manufacture according to customer/consumer needed whether smallor large-scale purchase order and hiring for shortor longperiod production. 23 Product type NRF brand ethnic food Our brands have been cherished and loved around the world for almost three decades. Many of our products found in ethnic and modern supermarkets around the world have become the benchmark product for chefs, cooks and restaurants when preparing dishes from Pad Thai to Pho soups. We are proud of the products that we produce as we spend a tremendous amount of resources in ensuring that the ingredients that goes into our products are sustainably produced and free of pesticides. We have built a quality supply chain around our products from farm to product and we like to refer to our factory as an oversized kitchen as every product is made largely from fresh ingredients that are picked from the farms and often delivered immediately to our factory for processing. 24 Por Kwan Por Kwan gently blends the freshest and finest herbs and chilis to create our sauces, condiments, and curries, so that you can cook and prepare authentic tasting meals. Lee Brand For a more traditional taste of Asia, visit our Lee Brand range of soups, paste, sauces, and condiments. 25 Thai Delight Whether you are at work, at school, on the run, or just looking for a quick snack, look no further that our Thai Delight ready to eat meals to fulfill your cravings. DEDE Whether you are craving Thai tea, bubble tea, or just a quick drink, DEDE has you. 26 Shanggie To make an impressive Asian flavor at your lovely kitchen, Shanggie’s paste may be the answer Sabzu Sabzu’s ‘No Nasties’ philosophy has been fundamental to all design decisions. The glass bottle is a soft, organic shape like the home-grown chilies its contains and thanks to its screw-off cap and dishwasher-safe print, it can easily be refilled and reused, a conscious decision aimed at reducing the amount of plastic waste in Thailand. 27 Our advantages in this competition We are one of the first food manufacturers in Thailand that prepare to competitive in future food in both of producer and food technology and innovation approach. We have the expertise on research and development department that reach the demand on taste and packaging according to more than 30 years’ experience. Sustainability value chain as we believe it is the combination of quality raw materials and experience in developing great products and gives better life for farmer We have strong market channels through 25 country around the world such as US, UK, Germany, France, Australia, South Africa, Japan, and Malaysia. 28 Product classification Paste Seasoning Soup NRF Beverage Sauce Ready to eat NRF separated our high-quality product served to you at home in 6 categories including 1) Paste 2) Soup 3) Sauce 4) Ready to eat 5) Beverage 6) Seasoning 29 HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR 30 Employee information By Gender 2019 Description Persons % Female 372 60.3 Gender Male 245 39.7 Total 617 100 By Age 2019 Description Persons % Female 72 49.7 < 25 Male 73 50.3 Total 145 100% Female 153 50.2 25 35 Male 152 49.8 Total 305 100% Female 83 64.3 36 45 Male 46 35.7 Total 129 100% Female 30 85.7 46 55 Male 5 14.3 Total 35 100% Female 2 66.7 > 55 Male 1 33.3 Total 3 100% Total 617 100% 31 Human rights NRF respect human right by supporting and protecting all rights and liberties as well as equality and equity both inside and outside company with no discrimination, separation on human race, gender, age, religion, position and ancestry. We have no any direct or indirect violate rights and clearly avoidance on any violate rights including no forced labor and child labor Fair labour practices NRF always realizes that all employee is the most important company resource which is crucial factor to reaching the company’s goals. We determine labour practices policy in opportunity, compensation, nomination as well as human development with these principle • Treat all employee with respect, honour and private rights • Taking care Working environment for better and safer life and property • Nomination, reward and punishment with fair and honest depending on basic knowledge and suitability • Focus on continuous knowledge and ability development such as intensive training • Fair compensation and reward according to industrial status, business competition and working performance • Avoid any unfair action which affect to job stability • Open chances to appeal or suggestion related to work for further everyone’s advantages 32 Human development Employee training achievement Gender 2019 Average training hour Female 4 of employee Male 6.75 (hour/person/year) Total 10.75 Training course topic Average No. Course topic training hour 1 Orientation for new employees 1 2 Company regulations 1 Quality of food defense & site security and 3 6 threat Assessment critical control 4 Integrated pest management 6 Safety, occupation health and working 5 1 environment 6 On the job training 3 7 First aid training 3 8 Basic firefighting training 6 33 Health & safety Details Unit 2019 Occupational injuries Persons 28 and illnesses Lost time injuries Cases per 1,000,000 3.1 frequency rate work hours Occupational fatalities Persons 0 Safety standard accreditation We all know that food safety is critical, and we take the ultimate steps to ensure products are never contaminated and always manufactured in a safe environment. Our manufacturing processes are of the highest standards, staff training is mandatory and ongoing, and we have successfully sought and be granted quality and safety certifications, across the globe. Anti-corruption According to United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles, we set out our policy and expectation from all employee in detail of ethical practices including conflict of interest, extortion and bribery. We build the confidence to all stakeholder by regularly 34 communication and improve our policy with steady and honest. ENVIRONMENT 35 Consumption and usage rate Energy consumption rate Megajule/ton-product 4,000 Target in 2020: Reduction in 3,104 energy consumption rate by 3,000 2,797 2,671 4.5% compared to 2019 2,000 1,000 0 2018 2019 2020 2019 projects to reduce energy consumption rate 1. Replace LED Bulk instead of Florescent. 2. Re-condition of Boiler-Fire tube. 3. Replace high-performance aeration system for Wastewater Treatment Plant (Replace submersible-aerator). 2020 expected projects to reduce energy consumption rate 1. Modify new driving system for 9 mincing machines. (10% less of Kw consumption) 2. Re-condition of Steam supply system ex. Steam-trap, Pipe & Valve insulation. 3. Improve new cooling system for product before filling. 36 Electricity consumption rate Kilowatt/ton-product 300 252.5 243.4 242.3 250 200 Target in 2020: Reduction in electricity consumption rate 150 by 4% compared to 2018 100 50 0 2018 2019 2020 2019 projects to reduce electricity consumption rate 1. Solar roof installation to convert electricity resource from purchasing to our renewable energy 2020 expected projects to reduce electricity consumption rate 1. Solar roof testing and running system 37 Crude oil usage rate Liters/ton-product 100 80 71.7 62.7 Target in 2020: Reduction in 60 56.4 crude oil usage rate by 9.9% compared to 2019 40 20 0 2018 2019 2020 2019 projects to reduce crude oil usage rate 1. Improve boiler combustion efficiency by removing pipe slag in the combustion head and cleaning the fire-tube 2020 expected projects to reduce crude oil usage rate Data is not available 38 Water usage rate Q/ton-product 20 15 13.7 Target in 2020: Reduction in 11.6 11 water usage rate by 4.5% 10 compared to 2019 5 0 2018 2019 2020 2019 projects to reduce water usage rate 1. Improve % recovery of Cooling water for RETORT process. 2. Reduce % Backwash water of softener by TDS control. 2020 expected projects to reduce water usage rate 1. Improve efficiency of cooling tower for cooling water of Retort process.(To reduce cooling time & cooling water consumption). 2. Recovery Cooling water of colloid milling machine that currently onetime use. 39 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 40 Sustainable value chain We believe it is the combination of quality raw materials and nearly 30 years of experience in developing great sauces and dishes that brings out the very essence of traditional flavors. Our happy Our safe raw Our independent farmers materials and compliance partners ingredients Our quality-food Our top quality Happy customer and manufacturing products that stakeholder = our facilities were crafted with company’s care performance 41 Signatory, participant, commitment, certificate, and sign UN Global Compact 1.5-degree pledge 42 MTMU partnership Sustainability and farming project with our partners. NRF cooperated with Faculty of medical technology, Mahidol University to test toxic contamination in farmer’s vegetable raw materials. NRF is always interested in supporting good projects with good deeds. Donating water pumps will help farmer in this project who do not have their own lands to be able to make a living on an army land in 43 Kanchanaburi. United Nations Global Compact Sustainable development goals (SDGs) Since 2017, NRF participated as member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the largest corporation originating the sustainable developing movement by calling company to strategizes and operate with 10 international principles of human right, labour, environment and anti-corruption. NRF has vision to support company as follows: 1) Conduct business responsibly with strategies and operations in accordance with the ten principles of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption 2) Make strategic actions to develop broader social goals, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs), with a total of 17 goals. 44 In 2019, NRF reach 12 sustainable development goals including 1) No poverty 2) Zero hunger 3) Good health and well-being 5) Gender equality 8) Decent work and economic growth 10) Reduced inequalities 11) Sustainable cities and communities 12) Responsible consumption and production 13) Climate action 14) Life below water 15) Life on land and 17) Partnerships for the goals 8 9 12 45 Socials and communities Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Over the past 30 years, we are focusing on every stakeholder group from primary producer to customer/consumer around the world to ensure that they received the best product and service from our company, and trust in our standard production and social responsibility. In 2018, NRF effort to put a great emphasis on the transformation of supply chain methodology from the old one with product quality and pricing as the first priorities to focus on the stakeholder’s engagement with sustainable business strategic competition. Policy on CSR Board of director meeting has approved the company regulations on CSR policy, code of conduct and other essential policies in 2018 to guide the performance of director and executive related to comply with their best practices (code of best practice) in 3 major categories including people, planet and performance. 46 Purpose-led Triple bottom lines People People are the communities around the world whose livelihoods are enhanced and supported through our dedicated efforts and operations. Aim.. • To ensure that all employee is happy in their workplace as well as a satisfying salary and welfare and got involved in CSR activities. • To ensure that all employee received good training and development. • To ensure that all employee received full safety during worktime. • To support farmers to have a steady income and sustainable living. • To support farmers to receive proper raw materials price and sustainable purchasing. • To participate in society and foundation activities continuously. • To build the strong communities in healthiness education and environment. 47 Social and Communities Farming project NRF has 3 main goals in the farming project 1) To enhance farmers a sustainable living 2) To cut the middle-man from the process and 3) To increase safe raw material quality by collaborating with Mahidol University to area improvement for 9 rai on the 17th Military circle’s land in Kanchanaburi province under project “Green army Green project”. In this project, Mahidol University support farmer by helping them test toxic contamination of the raw material to ensure a safe raw material, while we support farmer as a market to buy farmers’ raw material and share the knowledge on making high quality production and harvesting their materials according to global NRF material spec. 48 This project was successfully increased farmer’s good living due to increase their income and wealth. Particularly, NRF’s CEO donates for Her royalty’s agriculture project and receive the royal medal from Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn. This project was cooperated between NRF and government led by Prime Minister H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha. 49 NRF contract farmer project As the farming project was established, we distributed this project to local farmers under contract farming model. NRF is willing to make farmer a better living by support them in every process to succeed the production and receive their raw material as market buyer. During the process, we support farmers a salary while theirs plant is not yet ready, and we also sent farm specialists to give them advices on agricultural practice and hoping them a good life without poverty. 50 Contract farming model Set Set the water system Find Find the right seeds Give farmers salary while they are waiting for Give productions Visit Visit farmers regulary Get Get farming specialist to give farmers advice Walk Walk with farmers through thick and thin 51 NRF Farms Virgin Land on mountain with Kwaenoi river as water supply * Pesticide free by nature with mountain water supply Survey and Planning on water system Pumping natural water from River Kwae 52 Last plow and Delivery day : From NRF to our farmers Farmers install sprinkler Seeds preparation by NRF farmers and Sustainability team & Plant delivered to NRF Farmers 53 Planting process & Water pump installation Plant growing & Our farmer’s production 54 Knowledge sharing project Speakers Topics NRF CEO Agricultural technology Sustainability Manager Market channels Sustainability Team Sustainable living NRF Farmer Participants Local farmer Young smart farmer Agriculture college We aim to share our knowledge and experience from our specialist to local farmers in many topics related to their life and hoping them extend their safe production resulting in a safe life in term of healthiness and sustainable living as well as income insurance in the whole community. Further, we recognize the importance of new generation farmers that will be grown as the major agricultural movement in the future. We have shared student the knowledge on environmental issues and support them a scholarship. 55 Knowledge sharing project Invited speaker on topic of Market channel at Ban Mai Na Dee district, Chaiyaphum province Invited speaker on topic of Global farming to agricultural student at Kasetsart University 56 Knowledge sharing project Invited speaker on fertilizer making from plant waste and group communication with local farmer about safe farming . NRF support food and necessary stuff to communities. We strongly believe that children holds a greater future and education is one great solution for sustainable living. NRF gives fun activities and scholarships. 57 Purpose-led Triple bottom lines Planet The planet is at the heart of our work. By implementing environmentally sustainable practices, initiatives and products we are confident that our mission for a greater world Aim.. To ensure that company operate the eco-friendly policy To manage company the energy-use efficiency To manage waste and sewage effectively To maintain high standard on safety To pay attention on all living thing on earth 58 Production process development project We aim to develop the production process to be more efficiency and more eco-friendly Zerowaste project CLEAN WASTE SAVE COST FROM OUR GETTING RID OF FACTORY WASTE SAVE COST ON GIVE TO OUR NATURAL FARMERS FERTILIZER SAVE PLANET OUR COMPANY'S SAVE FOOD PERFORMANCE “Clean waste upcycling model” 59 Carbon footprint According to international cooperation between NRF and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we recently encouraged and vowed as part of social movement on global warming in the 1.5 degree pledge of Science Based Targets which is brought a group of business leaders to make the low carbon and clean energy movement. In 2019, we realized the importance of carbon release and greenhouse gas emission, which is the cause of global warming, so we are pushing the carbon footprint project on October to anticipate as zero carbon or carbon neutral company in 2020. 60 Renewable energy Solar rooftop installation at NRF factory LED light installation at NRF office building and factory 61 Purpose-led Triple bottom lines Performance Success in our performance for stakeholders lies in the economic values we uphold as an organization. Aim.. To ensure that our business drives ethically and without any law violation. To treat to our employee, farmers, business partner and society fairly and openly. To ensure that our products have high quality, value and fair. To ensure that our customer receive the good experience. To ensure that all feedback from our customer is responded and has been improved for our customer satisfaction. To develop on sustainability continuously. 62 NRF is a Purpose-Led Company here are our commitments… PURPOSELED Triple bottom line People Performance Planet Farmer Net profit Carbon Environment Governance Social 63 Join Our Journey nrinstant.com 64
