REPORT COP & CSR 2020 WELCOME In this report, DKG Group describes its efforts, progress and plans in relation to sustainability and Global Compact Principles. All information in the Report is reliable and properly reflects the feasibility of Group's targets, expectations and ambitions. STATEMENTS Approach to CSR / Latest perspectives on the coronavirus pandemic. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE About the DKG Group . CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Structure of the Group, mechanism for stakeholders. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR Workplace, equal opportunities and rights, anti-corruption ENVIRONMENT Good Agricultural Practices, certificates, awards SOCIETY Practices that assets the impacts of operations on communities. INFORMATION ON THE REPORT Closing, the committee STATEMENTS Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility For DKG Group, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is about how we manage our impacts on society and the environment. We strive to operate responsibly and act with integrity and thus make a positive contribution to the economy, our people and our local communities. We seek to eliminate or mitigate CSR risks, where identified, in partnership with our employees, and other stakeholders through the application of good practices. Equally, we seek opportunities in respect of CSR, including ways to reduce our environmental impact, or develop employees during their career in the Group. For every of our companies, CSR has a particular meaning which relates to that company’s operations and impacts. For DKG Group, the key issues which we address through our CSR program are: • meeting the expectations of our clients for the delivery of high quality services and products • understanding and minimizing the environmental impacts of our business operations • helping our people to realize their potential in a supportive and stimulating environment • working with our business partners to foster sustainable practices in our supply chain. This report provides a reliable and adequate presentation of the policy of the DKG Group for Global Compact values and Sustainable Development, or of the activities, events and performance of the Group relating to sustainable development in accordance with DKG Group's reporting criteria. COVID-19 17.03.2020 Our latest perspectives on the coronavirus pandemic. WE REMAIN ACTIVE AT WORK We have always believed that work is a privilege. Especially when it comes to food. Nowadays, in the case of the deadly Coronavirus, in addition to the obvious thing that has to do with the World Health Test, an issue that needs special attention is that of Food. All of us at DKG Group, who work in this field, have an obligation to contribute to the smooth continuation of the work of the companies in the industry that we work with and that are struggling with particular difficulties now. How; • With One-to-One meetings (keeping the materials of the Ministry of Health for Coronavirus) with leaders we use the questions we are researching scripts and Health protocols and our products in essence • Slow communication with partners and through smart phones, telecommunications and messaging image approaches. We are convinced that we are always available to keep using and doing, they must have been able to put their backs on overcoming the four-differentiated use. In a positive way, the users we use start air conditioning and sulfation. For The DKG Group Evangelos Drimtzias COVID-19 02.04.2020 Update Our latest perspectives on the coronavirus pandemic. The days of crisis are difficult. From one hand the ban on movement and on the other hand the weather, the market, and the prices. Already a section of, which we support, FLORICULTURE is at point 0.. As far as Vegetable Marketing is concerned, despite the factors listed during the applications, Popular Markets formations… at 0! Response, the request for searches and disputes of distinctions of value in empowerment. This situation, of course, has affected our company as well. However, believing that the choice is one way forward, we are on the ramparts for any help the growers need. Our People are behind computer screens and are available to answer questions and of course to stock crops. Do not hesitate to call us. Online contact is something that came to stay. Let's dare her. After all, it is a contact !!! For The DKG Group Christos D. Katsanos COVID-19 May 2020 Update Our latest perspectives on the coronavirus pandemic. COVID-19 The Day after… I could not foresee the new world that would be formed by the global and dangerous corona virus, in which we participate shocked with masks and gloves. We have been warned since many global viruses have knocked on our door in the recent past. It is a given that the new era will now keep us at a greater distance! COVID-19 pandemic disrupts industry. For the media and social media, the coroner creates great opportunities as well as challenges. New questions arise in the context of the dangerous threat, social and physical distancing, as well as public concern, regarding the very central role of social media which they play today in our lives on an individual and social level and who will play the next day. For The DKG Group Dimitrios Gartzonikas COVID-19 The number #1 reason to focus The number #1 reason to focus You will care more about the things that aren't working yet, you'll push through the dip, you'll expend effort and expose yourself to fear. When you have a lot of balls in the air, it's easy to just ignore the ones that make you uncomfortable or that might fall. Surviving (Success) comes from doing the hard part. When the hard part is all you've got, you're more likely to do it. And this is precisely why it's difficult to focus. Because focusing means acknowledging that you just signed up for the hard part. ---Written by Seth Godin ( with a paraphrase) – sorry Seth ) Inspired by Giorgos Kolliopoulos Christos D. Katsanos 28.03.2020 https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=2657882741000850&set=a.13530513659 1969&type=3&theater 9 June 2020 Quality & Safety Systems Inspection during the #Covid_19 era with #SocialDistancing ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE AWARDS OFFICES THESSALONIKI 5 b, Ioustinianou street 551 34, kalamaria, Thessaloniki HELLAS Greece) T. +30 2310 488915 | F: +30 2310 488916 | E: welcome@dkggroup.com IERAPETRA Ammoudares, P.O Box 105, 722 00 Ierapetra, Crete HELLAS (Greece) T. +30 28420 22622 | F: +30 28420 22622 | E: info@iqcrops.com IOANNINA 5 b, Ioustinianou street 551 34, kalamaria, Thessaloniki HELLAS Greece) T. +30 2310 488915 | F: +30 2310 488916 | E: welcome@dkggroup.com IQ CROPS & DKG CONSULTING TERRITORY GREECE BULGARIA ROMANIA TURKEY SERBIA CYPRUS BOSNIA MONTENEGRO FYROM ALBANIA EGYPT TROPOS #MULTICULTUЯE GREECE SPAIN FRANCE ITALY GERMANY PORTUGAL UNITED ARAB EMIRATES CYPRUS BOSNIA ROMANIA BULGARIA DENMARK MONTENEGRO TURKEY KOREA TURKEY KOREA FYROM SERBIA CHINA SERBIA CHINA GROUP SECTORS RESEARCH | PRODUCTION | SUPPLIES | TRAINING | CONSULTING | BRANDING CONSULTING DKG Consulting Ltd offers specialized sustainable solutions to individuals, professional groups and corporations within the fresh produce industry creating value through people, and for people, all driven by a brand-centric philosophy. DKG Consulting services are focused on greenhouse and farm activities include general advice regarding hydroponic techniques, crop or product selection, cultivar (variety/ies) selection, plant propagation processes, general cultivation practices, distance crop monitoring, feeding solutions recipes, harvesting, packaging and post-harvest practices based on Total Greenhouse Management ®and Total Farm Management® methodologies. DKG Consulting Ltd is also a service provider for quality, environmental & food safety systems and brand building. More info at www.dkg-consulting.com SUPPLIES IQ CROPS Ltd (member of The DKG Group) provides intelligent agricultural supplies to the agricultural sector. IQ CROPS is one of the leaders supply company in HYDROPONIC SOLUTIONS in Greece and Balkan countries covering the whole cycle of the needs of a modern Greenhouse Grower with supplies such as: • Grodan hydroponic substrates, plugs and blocks • Drainage gutters (plastic and metal) • Irrigation systems • Fertigation machinery • Soil coverings • Fertilizers • Enhancers In general, IQ CROPS Ltd promotes innovative solutions based in new technologies and scientific results offering safety to the consumers and the environment towards natural systems and biological solutions that promote plant health and growth. More info at www.iqcrops.com BRANDING TROPOS BRANDING Co is a Branding Agency focuses on Storybuilding & storytelling across various platforms (digital & analog). We design brands from the ground up (big B) and help existing companies present themselves better (little b). We help organizations turn employees and customers into a Tribe of true believers who share the same values and are all pulling in the same direction. We live in now (we breathe in more than 20 digital platforms) through Brand Journalism. We (R)evolutionizing via “Branding Office”, “Corporate TV”, “360”, “+1” , “Tribe service”, “Start-up essence”, H2H approach. “No Borders System” is our way of working in International Branding Projects. We solve problems through creativity and collaboration You can call us Brand Culture makers. More info at www.tropos.gr RESEARCH & TRAINING Research and training are an integral part of our projects, as we aim for participants to be able to assume full responsibility for activities once our involvement with the training is over. The International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) is a training facilitator organisation (member of DKG Group) that provides a greater understanding of key issues for the agriculture industry and provide solutions for those with an interest in the sector, through top quality speakers and presentations from industry leaders and researchers. IRTC with expertise in Branding, Total Greenhouse Management, Total Farm Management, Total Quality Management, Hydroponic Systems, Good Agricultural Practices, provides a series of training programs to corporations and individuals to help them achieve higher standards. Some of the above training programmes are held in cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A, the University of Macedonia, Thessaloniki, Greece and The Logistics Group consulting company. More info at www.irtcs.org PRODUCTION DRIKA Farm was founded in 1996 by Evagelos N. Drimtzias and Katerina Kaparaki. In 2006 the second level of investments was implemented (upgrading heating oil to LPG, a thermal, freezer, packing). In 2008 the enterprise was awarded the GLOBALG.A.P. Certification by TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) Certification Body. In 2011 DRIKA FARM became a proud member of The DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives in order to complete the whole chain “from the farm to the shelf”. Ffacilities are located in an area of ​9,5 Ha on the site Ammoudares -Ierapetra, Crete,Greece, 200 meters from the sea side.Its production focused in Mini Cucumber. More info at www.drikafarms.com 20152020 20102015 20052010 2000 2005 19902000 C O M P A N Y E V O L U T I O N 1993 back to the ’90s K INSPIRATIONS. A boutique consulting agency that works with personal brands, consumer brands and startups led by Christos D. Katsanos. Evangelos N. Drimtzias as a Sales Technician and then Account Executive of the GRODAN Group for Balkan Countries (Greece, Serbia, Albania,FYROM,Bulgaria), Turkey, Cyprus, Egypt. 20152020 20102015 20052010 2000 2005 19902000 1996 Starting DRIKA Farm DRIKA Farm was founded in 1996 by Evagelos N. Drimtzias and Katerina Kaparaki. DRIKA Farm’s facilities are located in an area of ​0,5 Ha on the site Ammoudares -Ierapetra, Crete,Greece, 200 meters from the sea side. Its production focused in Mini Cucumber. 2001 The DKG Consulting & IRTC were established On December 2001 was established the DKG GROUP led by Christos D. Katsanos and Evangelos N. Drimtzias . The headquarters of the Group is located in Thessaloniki, Greece, with additional advocacy office operating in Crete. DKG CONSULTING. Services are focused on greenhouse and farm activities include advice regarding hydroponic techniques, crop selection, plant propagation, feeding solutions recipes, harvesting based on TGM® and TFM® methodologies, is also a service provider for quality, environmental & food safety systems. IRTC. The International Research & Training Centre for Sustainability (IRTC) is a training facilitator organisation that provides a greater understanding of key issues for the agriculture industry and provide solutions for those with an 20152020 20102015 20052010 2000 2005 19902000 interest in the sector. 2003 The Askme® & Agrisystems Divisions The Askme® Translation and Localisation Division of the DKG Group was formed with the objective to undertake complex translation projects, offering a complete range of translation and localisation services in the Greek market. Head of the ASK ME division is Eleni Mathaiopoulou. AGRISYSTEMS. DKG GROUP was Co-founder of TUV HELLAS AGRISYSTEMS Division. External Lead Auditor for Quality, Environment and Agriculture Lead Trainer on ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 22000, GLOBALGAP & AGRO Standards. GLOBALG.A.P. .The Group’s department AskMe officially translates in Greek language the GLOBALG.A.P. documents, related to Fruit and Vegetables Certification (Integrated Farm Assurance). Also Group’s Executive Director Mr. Christos D. Katsanos become Official GLOBALGAP train-the public trainer. DKG Consulting Ltd (member of the DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives) achieved its certificate of registration for the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2008. The management system for the scope of certification which this time extended to “Design, Implementation and Support of Total Greenhouse & Farm Management – Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. 2006 ISO 9001:2008 DKG Consulting Ltd (member of the DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives) achieved its certificate of registration for the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2008. The management system for the scope of certification which this time extended to “Design, Implementation and Support of Total Greenhouse & Farm Management – Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. 2007 GREEN CLUB 20152020 20102015 20052010 2000 2005 19902000 DKG GROUP is a founding member and has been appointed as the Coordinator of The Green Club®, a Reputation Management Growers Association that consists of 21 member companies. These growers who are located all over Greece grow hydponically a number of different vegetables in greenhouses. 2008 UN GLOBAL COMPACT The foundation of the Hellenic Network Global Compact for the CSR was announced in Greece on 28th of May, at a ceremony at the Caravel Hotel of Athens. The Executive Director of DKG GROUP, Mr. Christos D. Katsanos, was invited to that event as a member of the Hellenic Network Global Compact for the Corporate Social Responsibility. 2009 GRODAN PARTNER DKG will be taking on the additional role of sales organisation and exclusive outsourcing partner for Greece, Cyprus, the Balkan countries and Egypt with effect from 1 January 2009. The company expects to be able to provide buyers of Grodan products with an even better service through the expansion of its range of tasks. 2011 IQ CROPS , IQ GREENING, DKG Consulting achieved ISO 14001:2004 & renewed ISO 9001:2008 IQ CROPS provides intelligent agricultural supplies to the agricultural sector. In general, IQ CROPS Ltd promotes innovative solutions based in new technologies and scientific results offering safety to the consumers and the environment towards natural systems and biological solutions that promote plant health and growth. ISO 14001:2004. In December 2011 DKG Consulting Ltd (member of the DKG Group of Companies and Initiatives) achieved ISO 14001:2004 Certification, the international standard for environmental management systems. ISO 9001:2008 RENEWAL. DKG Consulting Ltd also renewed its certificate of registration for the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2008. The management system for the scope of certification which this time extended to “Design, Implementation and Support of Total Greenhouse & Farm Management – Training on Total Greenhouse and Farm Management”. IQ GREENING provides foliage base architecture practices for a healthier and more sustainable urban living environment. The following green design practices such as : Vertical Green Walls, Urban, Farming, Roof Gardening, Green Sound absorbent Walls 20152020 20102015 2005 2010 2000 2005 19902000 2012 Hydroponics.gr & Collaboration with Korean ATEC Hydroponics.gr is a web tool where all the experience and practical application of knowledge of DKG on hydroponic cultivation is available for its customers and to the public. More specific, this knowledge and experience is based on rockwool substrates (Grodan products) and DKG’s Know How COLLABORATION WITH KOREAN ATEC .The Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research & Extension Services has been making efforts to develop the agricultural technlogy and to grow the farming industry through R&D and techology distribution in South Korea 2013 TROPOS Branding & Tomaccini Award TROPOS BRANDING a one stop creative shop led by Christos D. Katsanos and Dimitris Gartzonikas . We design brands from the ground up (big B), and help existing companies present themselves better (little b) by applying “Zero to low Budget Branding” Methodology. TOMACCINI AWARD. 1st place in the award category “Research & Development” has been taken by “TOMACCINI” as the first Snack Tomato in the Greek market. Tomaccini received the prize as a joint award for the three companies that contributed to its creation; Hellenic Greenhouses SA, AB Vassilopoulos SA and DKG Consulting Ltd 2014 ROADSHOW IN AUSTRALIA During October 2014, Mr. Evagelos Drimtzias, President of the DKG Group will visit various places in Australia in order to explore the possibilities of collaboration with many Australian based companies. The areas of importance will be the Branded Solutions, hydroponic application, Total Greenhouse Management and Training needs. 2017 SUSTAINABLE GREECE 2020 SUSTAINABLE GREECE 2020. We participated at the Sustainable Greece 2020 initiative, that aims to raise awareness among the Greek business community and society at large, on issues of Sustainable Development, Responsible Entrepreneurship and Social Responsibility. 20152020 2010 2015 2005 2010 2000 2005 19902000 2018 “KeysMyCrops” International Project Award “KeysMyCrops” International Project COMPO EXPERT GROUP awards TROPOS BRANDING Co for its contribution to 2020 TROPOS Branding & COMPO EXPERT HELLAS Awards * GOLD AWARD in the Stand & Brand Most Interactive Stand category * BRONZE in the category Exhibition Sector | Agriculture 2020 MENURIO APP – ANNOUNCEMENT OF COLLABORATION TROPOS Branding Co (TROPOS) and Double Infinity Co (DBLii) have subscribed a collaboration agreement to promote the Menurio app within the Mediterranean markets. The aim of Menurio is to upgrade the global food/restaurant business with a digital QR. In minutes the customer can have digital catalogues, touchless restaurant menu with just a QR code. By this each restaurant menu, now is online in its customers’ hand. COMPANY PHILOSOPHY No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it. To add true quality of life to our collaborators, customers & stakeholders via our sustainable way of working. It's not how many times you fall down that matters, it's how many times you get back up. If the facts don’t fit the theory, change the facts. Things should be made as simple as possible, but not any simpler (1+1=2) Imagination is more important than knowledge Our Vision & Values To add true quality of life to our collaborators-customers & stakeholders via our sustainable way of working. • We value fair and transparent business practices. • We deliver reliability throughout the supply chain. The DKG Group focuses steadily on increasing the values it represents for all stakeholders We contribute to society where we work and live while respecting the local customs and and continuously improving its performance in every sector of company activity. cultures. Our supply chain network is the focal point of company activities through constant pursuit of • We promote diversity, accountability and human rights methodologies to improve all its products and services. Thus the Group builds strong long• We continue to grow healthy & safety products – taking that extra step. term relationships with its clients and associates. • We acknowledge the seriousness of global environmental issues and act to protect the In order to be a Group of companies and initiatives trusted by all, we formulated our CSR environment strategy in line with the guiding principles and the core values of our company. • we continue to approach all issues in a professional manner. We take care to always provide high quality services & products, being accurate in terms of content and prompt with deadlines. Management Approach Our approach incorporates the precautionary principle, management systems, regular audits, and corrective action tracking. You will find more specific explanations of our high-level management approach on the environment, employee practices, community engagement, societal issues, and product responsibility throughout this report. Policies Recognizing that DKG Group is a diversified international group of companies and initiatives with operations in different divisions, we guided each company to be guided by a series of Internal and International codes and principles. Apart from the Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, the Group also recognizes and supports the principles enshrined in the UN Universal Declarations of Human Rights and is a participant in the UN Global Compact , promoting its ten principles that support human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anticorruption. Additionally, the Group is committed to reporting the impacts of its business in a transparent and comparable way as it is an organizational stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). To make sure our policies are followed, we apply training tools for greater understanding. Corporate Governance Our corporate governance consists of a sum of values, regulations and practices which govern the DKG Group's Administration. These are ensuring transparency of Group operation and protection of stakeholders interests. Our desire is that DKG Group achieve a high level of corporate governance, we recognize the importance of, and we committed to high standards of corporate governance. The Board of Directors The Group conducts its business through its employees, the President and the Executive Director under the direction of the Board of Directors, all with a view toward enhancing the long-term value of the company. The Board of Directors comprises the President, the Executive Director, the Finance Director, the Quality Executive and the Project Manager. The Board is primarily responsible for the following: • the strategic direction of the Group and the operations, • the integrity of financial statements and accounting practices, • the contribution to sustainable development, • the Human Resources. The Board of Directors holds regular quarterly meetings in order to review the Group's strategy, approve its business plan and budget, act on the Group's annual proxy statement Consulting on greenhouse and OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE DKG CONSULTING farm activities IQ CROPS Intelligent agricultural supplies A one stop creative shop, design TROPOS BRANDING brands.. FINANCE / ACCOUNTING IRTC Training facilitator organization DRIKA FARM Fresh Hydroponic products QUALITY MANAGEMENT ASK ME Translation and Localization Department Medical Cannabis Hydroponic MEDI CANNA BEST System COMPANIES LIVE VERTICAL WALL BEST Vertical Hydroponic wall system IQ GREENING Foliage base architecture FRAOULA BEST Hydroponic Strawberry Solution SOLUTIONS MAROULI BEST Hydroponic Lettuce Solution A Reputation Management GREEN CLUB Growers Association HYDROPONICS.GR Digital Knowledge Diffusion EU PROJECTS & STUDIES LIVE CELL Greenhouse Business Concept Association of a special Greek THE FRIENDS OF XINOMAVRO wine variety OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE GREENHOUSE ENVIRONMENT GRODAN SUBSTRATES CONTROL EQUIPMENT IRRIGATION SYSTEMS SPECIALIZED FERTILIZERS FINANCE / ACCOUNTING DRAINAGE CHANNELS TURN KEY PROJECTS TECHNICAL & COMMERCIAL GROUND COVER MATERIALS SUPPORT SERVICES RESEARCH LUBRICATION CONTROL COMPATIBILITY WITH THE MACHINES PRINSIBLES OF GAP & SUSTAINABILITY IRRIGATION CONTROL MACHINES PRODUCTS FRAOULA BEST MEDI CANNA BEST SYSTEMS MAROULI BEST LIVE VERTICALWALL BEST IQ GREENING LIVE CELL SOLUTIONS HYDROPONICS.GR TOTAL FARM MANAGEMENT GREEN CLUB TOTAL FARM MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE NO BORDERS Startups Events FBR 600 12 Cinema FINANCE / ACCOUNTING Music BRANDING PACKAGE 360 Radio PRODUCTIONS Books QUALITY MANAGEMENT Consumer Corner Food Channel Fine Dining Wine Times SERVICES Olive-Oil Coffee Art Tattoo Stories TROPOS LIFE Photography Places Hotels EU PROJECTS & STUDIES Sailing Adventure Stakeholders For DKG Group is essential the commitment to its stakeholders. In order to achieve this objective, the DKG Group has laid the groundwork by applying a series o methods and practices (such as surveys measuring the satisfaction of clients, employees and associates, regular meetings) through which it aims at enhancing its communication with interested parties. Code of Business Conduct and Ethics DKG Group has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all employees and directors and reflects the Group's belief that ensuring compliance and integrity is a never-ending process. The Group is continually making sure its standards are high, expectations are clear and that have the tools and processes in place for meeting them. The code describes the company's requirements of employee conduct and clarifies expectations in the event of dilemmas or sensitive situation details. The Code details how employees and Directors must behave in the following situations: • Conflicts of interest and protection of sensitive information • Financial integrity including inside information • Protecting health, safety, security and the environment Stakeholders DKG Group is guided also by a series of International codes and principles. The Group recognizes the principles enshrined in the UN Universal Declarations of Human Rights and is a participant in the UN Global Compact , promoting its ten principles that support human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. In addition, the company has adopted internationally standards for its Quality Management System. 01 02 03 EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDERS 04 05 SUPPLIES OTHERS (professional and non-governmental organizations, international or regional bodies, authorities and local communities) Stakeholder Groups DKG Group has identified and categorized its stakeholders into five main groups: Employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers and other, the latter including both authorities and society at large. 39 SOME RECENT CLIENTS P A R T N E R S The relationship we have with our business partners is key to our success, and is supported by our ethical principles. Our aim is to develop professional relationships and to achieve quality and efficiency for mutual benefit. We are committed to treating appropriately and building relationships which are based on trust, courtesy and promptness. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR 50% DKG Group conducts its business in regions where Our Policy rules and regulations governing basic human rights, for 40% instance, working conditions, freedom of associations, There is a general acceptance in the Group for the 30% and forced labour. The Group strives to be a good value of human rights and our management and corporate citizen by always adhering to laws, employees agree that, the respect to these social, 20% regulations and good practices that are in accordance economic and cultural rights is important for creating with human rights in the countries in which it operates. 10% a better work environment and securing dignity and In taking this action, DKG Group hopes to identify equality for all. In this way we believe that we ensure 0% potential problems, reduce the risk inherent in our the respect of human rights within our workplaces for Female 50% Male 50% supply chain and help assure sustainable practices. the benefit of all. Employees by Gender (%) Workplace Fair Workplace 40% 35% The DKG Group's labour practices and policies are We aim to comply with all applicable employment and 30% intended to attract, motivate, and retain top talent in labor laws. We expressly prohibit child labor, forced or 25% the highly competitive supply chain. To this end, our compulsory labor in our operations. We respect and 20% policies are focused on making DKG an employer of protect our employees' right to freedom of association 15% choice. Our position on key human rights issues such and engage in collective bargaining thought periodical 10% as harassment, discrimination, working hours, meetings between the management and the 5% forced/compulsory labour, compensation and employees. 0% freedom of association are addressed in DKG Groups' <25 Age 26-35 36-45 >45 Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics. Employees by Age (%) HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Equal Opportunities Employee Rights Health & Safety 50% Post-graduate degrees DKG Group is committed to equal The Group respects and promotes Protection of the health and safety of 40% opportunity in all areas of our worker's rights, decent employment the people who are affected by DKG University operations, all business activities and opportunities and channels of Group’s activities is such an 30% graduates employment-related activities will be communication between employees. important issues that has defined as 20% administered without regard to race, We develop and maintain a working one of the Group's core values. DKG Graduates of color, region, age, sex or disability. It environment whereby all employees Group is committed to creating safe 10% Technical is the Group's policy to afford equal have the right, and the ability to work and healthy work environment, aims Institutes employment opportunities to all in an atmosphere where they are to have zero injuries, zero 0% qualified employees and applicants. treated with dignity and respect. occupational ill health and zero These employment opportunities are We comply with all applicable accidents. All of the Group's Health and Safety Number of Days lost due to based solely upon an employee's or national labor laws regarding wages employees have medical insurance indicators incidents incidents applicant's qualifications, skills and and work hours and we recognize according to the Greek Law. 2019 2020 abilities without regard to any each employee's right to associations, The Group's occupational health and Number of persons 0 0 condition or characteristic that is not so our Financial/Accounting safety management system tracks injured job-related. In addition , every Group department communicates frequently four key performance indicators: the Number of fatalities 0 0 location is required to have policy with the Labour Inspectorate and the number of injuries, the number of prohibiting discrimination, including Employees' Union insurance Fund in fatalities, the number of illness due to Illness due to work 0 0 harassment, and an accompanying order to continue to be updated work and the number of other illness set of policies establishing about financial and other obligations (e.g. flu). There was only a small Other illness 1 10 procedures for reporting and to the employees. increase in sickness absences investigating complaints. compared to previous year, the other Total 1 10 indicators was and still 0. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR Training and development AntiCorruption DKG Group is committed to learning. All According to our Code of Business employees have access to the IRTC Conduct which sets out guiding library that consists of more than 1,000 principles in its ethics and business books articles, offering diversity of conduct as adopted and approved by knowledge. the Management of the Group. The Code Employees enjoy extensive internal of Business Conduct discusses in detail technical and business skill training. the ethical practices which DKG Group External programs and seminars are expects from all employees, including also provided to develop employees in conflicts of interest, bribery, policies on their current roles, and to prepare for corporate entertainment and acceptance future roles. of gifts and the integrity of our record We aim to create an environment keeping and reporting. Training in this where everyone is encouraged to give area has been carried out and will be their best and realize their full potential, refreshed on an on going basis. through the provision of learning and development opportunities. For a series of years, cases of corruption have not been recorded, neither allegations for suspected fraud, bribery or market abuse have been reported. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR ENVIRONMENT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL CODE OF CONDUCT How we treat the environment is a reflection of our ethics. We take our responsibility for the environment very seriously and we are committed to minimizing our environmental impact throughout our global operations. We respond to our environmental challenges by growing our business in a manner that is responsible and environmentally sustainable. We all: • Demonstrate a commitment to the environmental standards DKG Group has set by • acting in accordance with our global and local environmental policies • Support all local environmental initiatives such minimizing the impact of our travel, reducing water and energy consumption, and by recycling. • Challenge unsustainable behavior by ourselves, our colleagues and our teams. We all work towards achieving the environmental as well as business targets set by the Group. • Where possible assess in advance the environmental impacts of any business decision we are responsible for. • Encourage and support our colleagues, our teams and ourselves to work in an environmentally sustainable way. • Work with others – suppliers, customers, clients and business partners – to ensure that we operate in a way that reflects our commitment to the environment. ENVIRONMENT Patented & Intelligent Agricultural Supplies The products and solutions of IQ CROPS have in their DNA, what is depicted in its logo, IQ = Cleverly quality products. Smart quality solutions in the field of production of fresh produce from the field to the greenhouse. The scientific basis and documentation of products / solutions in cooperation with their applicability to the business world make the people of IQ CROPS ideal partners in a wide range of everyday growing needs in a series of many crops. From patented solutions (Ηarpin) to the top hydroponics substrates (GRODAN), the exceptional efficiency fertilizers (Haifa), the multiplication products, solutions for hydroponic strawberry and lettuce are some of the products / solutions can be found to the IQ CROPS. ENVIRONMENT HYDROPONICS PRODUCE BENEFITS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT DRIKA Farm, a member of The DKG Group that produces greenhouse hydroponic mini cucumber as well as all the Greenhouse clients of DKG Consulting Ltd are committed to environmental sustainable practices by applying the following: Integrated Pest Management Practices (IPM) Drika Farm and all of our Greenhouse clients apply the Integrates Pest Management (IPM), a system that uses beneficial organisms like predatory insects and mites to battle bad bugs that damage crops and vegetables. By using these methods, the growers are able to keep pesticides at a minimum or not use them at all. Water conservation Hydroponic growing saves an incredible amount of water, it uses as little as 1/20 the amount as a regular farm to produce the same amount of food. The water table can be impacted by the water use and run-off of chemicals from farms, but hydroponics may minimize impact as well as having the advantage that water use and water returns are easier to measure. Soil & Land conservation Since the soil is not used in the growing procedure there is no depletion of soil nutrients and soil erosion is impossible. Instead, the plants are grown in clean and steerable stone wool substrates which are the ultimate sustainable solution for the professional horticulture sector. ENVIRONMENT BENEFITS FOR FOOD SAFETY No dirt Without dirt, plants cannot get soil-born diseases, cannot be invaded by grubs or other soil-based insects, and cannot absorb toxins and bacteria found in soil. No Pests By applying an intensive Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program that uses beneficial insects to control pests and stimulate healthy plant growth. Outdoors, plants are more vulnerable to various types of diseases and insects whereas in a controlled environment have the ability to keep a lot of these pressures at bay, so we are able to keep our plants healthy by using also bees for pollination and beneficial predator insects. No Animal Waste Fertilizers Plants receive just the right amount of nutrient-rich water that gives them everything they need. The plants are not in contact with fields where runoff from animals can carry bacteria. So no chemical residues or bacteria from animals can ever reach a plant. No Disease Culture faces no such challenges since the plants grow in the perfect environment, by eliminating the dirt, the pests and the animal waste fertilizers, are unaffected by many diseases that plagues the open field grown. No Acid Rain, No Nasty Weather Greenhouse protects the produce from the rain that carries pollutants or weather damage that ranges from bruises, marks and nicks to the loss of an entire crop. Greenhouse growing ensures optimal environmental conditions by using high-tech computer systems that replicates the best natural growing conditions where temperature, humidity and light are just at the right level. ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable production Basalt, the raw material for stone wool, is extracted according to strict environmental regulations and in non-protected areas. The volcanic rock is turned into stone wool substrate by means of a certified process. Recycling stone wool after use means that less new basalt is required. Sustainable cultivation DRIKA Farm and all of our clients have a responsibility to practice sustainable cultivation. These sustainable growing practices and compliance with Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) ensure that greenhouses have limited environmental impact. Plants are grown in Grodan rockwool. Growing in this material means our plants can stretch their roots, and we can feed them water and nutrients directly where they need it – on their roots – rather than on their leaves or on other parts of the soil. Growing hydroponically means we feed our plants only as much nutrients as they need for optimum growth. Our growing methods mean we don’t use herbicides. A plastic sheet, which suppresses weeds from growing up through our crops, covers the soil in our greenhouses. At the end of each growing season, the plastic sheet is removed to allow for a proper cleaning of the greenhouse. This cleaning ensures no pests or plant diseases from the previous crop are carried into the new growing season. To keep pests at bay we use biological controls. We’re leaders in Integrated Pest Management (IPM) to protect plants from bad bugs and diseases. Our growers introduce predatory insects – like ladybugs – and mites to eliminate harmful pests. Sustainable recycling A sustainable end of life solutions. Used substrate slabs, blocks and plugs are recycled into new stone wool products or used in the production of bricks, cement, potting compost, or soil improvers. The plastic sheet is separated from the stone wool and used in the plastics industry to manufacture dashboards for the automotive industry. ENVIRONMENT GOOD AGRICULTURAL PRACTICES (GAP) DKG Group is an associate member of GLOBALG.A.P®, the global partnership for safe and sustainable agriculture. Its recommendations are intended to fulfill GLOBALG.A.P® demand for consultancy and comply with Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P). GLOBALG.A.P., a non-governmental organization intends to alleviate consumers’ growing concerns about the safety of agricultural produce by developing a single standard for the certification of agricultural produce supplied by farmers and horticulturalists who assign high priority to environmentally-friendly entrepreneurship. This standard, which serves as a global reference system for other standards, is suitable for simple and immediate implementation by all parties in the food sector. We are in the forefront with regard to the interpretation of the GLOBALGAP®, the Group's department AskMe officially translates in Greek language documents related to Fruit and Vegetables Certification (Integrated Farm Assurance). Also Group's Executive Director Mr. Christos D. Katsanos is Official GLOBALGAP train-the public trainer and in cooperation with the Training Department of TUV HELLAS (TUV NORD) S.A. & IRTC, DKG Group offers training programs for corporations and individuals in the areas of: • GLOBALG.A.P. protocol • AGRO 2-1 & 2-2 standard (Greek certification scheme for agriculture enterprises) • ISO 22000 standard (HACCPHazard Analysis Critical Control Point) ENVIRONMENT GROWING MORE WITH LESS The global food production system is under pressure. We need to find more sustainable ways of feeding a growing, more urbanised population. ROCKWOOL products enable modern horticulture to increase production while using fewer natural resources. In places where agricultural land is scarce, new and innovative forms of food production hold the key to feeding city dwelling populations. Grodan hydroponics can be sited anywhere, including in urban areas that would otherwise be completely unsuitable for traditional soil-based production. Savings of water land use, fertilizer and yield gain of products sold “ Relative to growing in soil-based systems, Grodan products sold in 2019 resulted in an estimated 100 million litres less water used. Grodan products also saved nearly 30,000 hectares of land, an area more than three times the size of Paris. Source: ROCKWOOL group website ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE FOOD FOR THE FUTURE Advances in agricultural technology mean that today we produce more food than we ever have Before. . Despite this, we still cannot secure our food supply using purely conventional agriculture. In addition, these methods include the use of pesticides and produce waste, all of which, if not managed correctly, can exacerbate air pollution, contaminate soils and leach chemicals into water supplies. Every 6 times year, lower environmental burden in crop 39 million hectares of soil are degraded due to poor agricultural practices2. However, there are some protection achieved when using high-tech surprisingly simple, but intelligent solutions to some of our most pressing food challenges. greenhouses instead of Insects instead of chemicals High-tech greenhouses offer an easy way to create small, closed conventional agriculture. ecosystems where bumble bees pollinate and selected insects are used as a natural check and balance on harmful insect populations. For instance, 99 percent of tomato greenhouse growers in the Netherlands Stone wool is the use biological crop protection instead of relying solely on chemicals. When it comes to conventional most widely used agriculture, the figures are much lower. Through our Grodan brand, ROCKWOOL Group supports medium for hydroponic tomato growing. sustainable hydroponic horticulture, which allows plants to be grown without soil while using less water, fertiliser and land. In 2019, this positive impact increased significantly Source: ROCKWOOL group Sustainability Report 2019 ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY DKG Group as a co-founder to the Cultural Foundation Methexis“, is founded to meet the needs and beliefs of founders and its members who place as protractor the quality, culture, participation and cooperation and aims to the universality of the individual and the art of everyday life «The daily art of living». Support and conduct events to raise awareness of the local community in cultural, sports education, environmental protection upgrade routine. The organization or creation of schools and training courses of various subjects Implementation actions of counseling, mentoring, training, education and training. Developing initiatives to assist the community The creation of the Movement Supporters Club Cooperation with other agencies to protect the flora and fauna of sensitive ecosystems Working with local and national organizations to capture, rescue, conservation and enhancement of cultural and natural resources The Memorandum of Cooperation with other organizations similar interest in Greece and abroad. The development of the Volunteer Spirit Submission cultural – tourist proposals for implementation of actions relating to the cultural and tourism promotion – development, Voluntary participation in improvement projects and maintenance and the development of corresponding studies for their implementation, Participation with other agencies on projects, activities, interventions and programs for the improvement of daily life The promotion of Greece and other countries, and the promotion of its products, which may take informal or formal and structured form. The emergence, development and protection of cultural heritage and monuments of our country and beyond. The organization of cultural activities and the actions and initiatives of cultural and social character. H production of printed and electronic promotional material activities For more please visit : www.m-f.gr & www.ekthesisyrrako.blogspot.com/ CULTURAL HERITAGE “People of the DKG Group contributes to two television show series that aims to educate and entertain those who are seeking adventure or cultural treasure. For more please visit: www.orizontas.org & www.enxoro.gr The Orizontas specialized for seven years in the broadcasting and communication support of trail running races outside classic track. In this direction included collaborations with the Rodopi Ultra Trail 100 miles, the Rodopi Challenge 50 miles, Round Lake Ioannina and 30 km Run Greece. The program is broadcast digitally by the television station Epirus TV1» via Digea. Also in the world via satellite and OTETV and online from www.epirustv1.gr. “En-Xoro” TV Show is a long term effort where through site records, citing remarkable archival materials and lodging experience and views of individuals and organizations of the wider Area of our Folk Culture, seeks to rescue and exploit the rich cultural heritage of Epirus in particular and the Greeks in general through a perspective that believes in their strength and in their ability to offer a lot in today's Greek. CULTURAL HERITAGE CREATING ASSOCIATION DKG Group is a founding member and has been appointed as the Coordinator of The Green Club®, a Reputation Management Growers Association that consists of 21 member companies. These growers who are located all over Greece grow hydponically a number of different vegetables in greenhouses. They have perfected the growing environment for tomatoes, cucumbers, peppers and lettuce by giving the plants exactly what they need the perfect climate, the right amount of light, the right amount of nutrition, exact amount of water and carbon dioxide and the proper ventilationwhich means that plants can grow strong, healthy and big. By those practices they have achieved a high reputation in the market. All members are certified against Integrated Crop Management processes (GLOBALGAP, AGRO 2-1&2-1) and Food Safety Management Systems (ISO 22000:2005). Another Project that DKG Consulting is involving since the inception is CRETACERT, a non profit organization created for managing the high Reputation of the quality agricultural products of Crete,Greece DKG has also contributed to the idea and the implementation of CottonBest.eu ™, a Certified traceability program based on the Pioneer Hi-Bread Hellas protocol and as a reliable, realistic and flexible system promotes the cooperation among all cotton market “players” without binding any of them. DKG Group is also co-founder of “The Friends of Xinomavro“, a group of people who share the same philosophy about life, love Xinomavro (a special wine from an indigenous Greek vine variety) and like to collaborate and share their experiences. Members keep regular meetings for various events and activities, such as: Viticulture activities (pruning the vines, stretching the wires and straightening of the piles, harvesting), Wine testing and lunches, Wine exhibitions, Creative activities in nature (vine and wine paintings by children). CULTURAL HERITAGE INSPIRING WELLNESS DKG Group believes it is a vital to encourage wellness. The Group promotes a wide range of physical activities, from sailing to scuba diving and from badminton to ultra-marathons, and almost each employee participate at least one activity. But the most remarkable event of the year, in which some members of DKG Group take active part as participants, volunteers and supporters of the event is the Rodopi Ultra Trail (ROUT), which is a tough adventure footrace strictly for experienced runners who compete in semi-autonomy conditions a distance of 100 miles running along abandoned paths and trails through the tremendous scenery of the Rodopi Mountains National Park in Northern Greece. Apart, all employees in the workplace are treated with respect, dignity and understanding, so, the workforce is happier, more motivated and more aware of the benefits that dialogue can bring, because wellness means a healthy balance of the mind-body and spirit that results in an overall feeling of well-being CULTURAL HERITAGE INSPIRING WELLNESS People who give their time are essential to the prosperity of any event Volunteering is a noble act of serving the humankind on freewill using one’s competitions with no cost to the final beneficiary and without accepting any profit or reward for the discharge of such competencies. The Group serves volunteerism either by providing charitable gifts to eligible nonprofit organizations or by taking active part ( some members of DKG Group) as volunteers and supporters at the ROUT 100miles AdvEnduRun event, the Rodopi Challenge (ROC), and Haidou Trail Party, Haidou Kids CULTURAL HERITAGE SPONSORSHIP We are happy and proud to support the sailboat Limoncello for many years. Limoncello helps the local tourism development since it participates to water sport events like the Aegean Regatta race that is held in different Greek islands every year. Apart from the tourism development, also encourage close relationships, teamwork, solidarity and understanding among various people who join the crew. CULTURAL HERITAGE IT’S A MATTER OF PRINCIPLES The Global Compact as the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship initiative, is committed to aligning the operations and strategies of all types of organizations with the universally accepted principles of the UN, covering human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. In September 2008 the DKG Group signed the UN Global Compact, signifying our commitment to operate in a responsible and sustainable manner. We will continue support and promote the Global Compact’s principles and report our progress toward implementing them. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; & Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. DKG Group is committed to operating in accordance with all applicable national and international regulations and laws with reference to human rights. DKG Group has not been complicit nor does ever expect to be complicit in violation of human rights abuses whether through direct involvement (through beneficial involvement via third party), nor assisting other parties by remaining silent. Throughout our history, we have enjoyed a high reputation in fair dealings by keeping our transactions fair and ethical. Targets: • Our Human Rights Commitment will continue act as a foundation to build upon and expand awareness within our spheres of control and influence. Labour Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • We assure compliance with national Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. standards and regulations. DKG Group respects and supports the Global Compact’s four Labour Standards principles. • We do not allow the use of any form of We apply human rights in the workplace, so Group's overarching aim of conducting all business, including with (or forced or compulsory labour. through) our partners, honestly, fairly and with respect for people, their dignity and their rights also applies to these four • We have established a clear policy regarding principles. the minimum age for employment, which DKG Group is committed to providing impartial treatment, equal opportunities and no discrimination policy to all its complies with national law. employees by applying all relevant national regulations and laws. • We are committed to ensuring equal Targets: treatment and opportunities for all our • Update and organize the workplace assessment survey employees. • Increase the average training hours per employee IT’S A MATTER OF PRINCIPLES Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. DKG Group has long recognized the importance of protecting our environment for future generations and of addressing the challenges from increasing demands for healthy and safety products. At DKG Group, maintaining high standards of environmental accountability is a cornerstone of our commitment to corporate responsibility, which state that: We exercise utmost vigilance in protecting the environment We will always meet, and where possible exceed, regulatory requirements in our environmental performance Targets: Further improve the data collection system based on selected G3 indicators Feed our green news and activities more often on the internet Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery DKG Group fundamentally opposes any kind of corruption and bribery. It becomes acceptable that corruption in DKG Group has never existed. However, we continue our efforts in order to ensure that this situation will not change. We use ethical management, transparency of information and open procedures. We increased the awareness of our employees on core subjects to give them a clear understanding of our intentions and their obligations that should follow. We also requested them to undertake personal responsibility for confronting corruption and bribery by adopting strong position and refusing, resisting and reporting any possible attempt or offer. Targets: Continue uphold high moral and ethical principles and the basic norms of behavior IT’S A MATTER OF PRINCIPLES INFORMATION ON THE REPORT Closing In this report, DKG Group describes its efforts, progress and plans in relation to sustainability and Global Compact Principles. All information in the Report is reliable and properly reflects the feasibility of Group's targets, expectations and ambitions. DKG Group will continue to be guided by its core values and its unwavering focus on ethical operation and service to its stakeholders. In 2012, we look forward to improving on the things we can control and continuing to lead the right way every day. Feedback As part of our commitment to open and honest dialogue with our stakeholders, we invite feedback on the contents of this report, or any other COP or CSR issues of importance that we have not covered. We invite you to join us in our sustainable world, and welcome your continued support in this journey. Please address all feedback to Dimitra Notiou, at notiou@dkggroup.com How we intend to make this SCR & COP available to our Stakeholders • DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the UN Global Compact website • DKG’s COP & CSR will be published on the DKG Group website • DKD’s COP & CSR will be published on the Group’s profile on linkedin • DKG’s COP & CSR will be sent via e-mail to all our employees Reporting Period This report focuses on the results of activities in fiscal 2019 and 2020 but includes some activities continuing from before and more recent ones. Publication Current issue: August 2020 Next issue: Scheduled for August 2021 We value your opinions and feedback, and we would appreciate your thoughts about our initiatives and communications. Tell us what you liked, what we could improve or what you would like to see in our next report. To do so, please contact with Dimitra Notiou, at notiou@dkggroup.com The committee of COP Report Editors: Christos D. Katsanos & Dimitra Notiou Proof readers: Evagelos N. Drimtzias & Dimitris Gartzonikas Editing: TROPOS BRANDING Co Publication Current issue: August 2020 Next issue: Scheduled for August 2021 www.dkggroup.com DKG GROUP THESSALONIKI 5 b, Ioustinianou street 551 34, kalamaria, Thessaloniki HELLAS Greece) T. +30 2310 488915 | F: +30 2310 488916 | E: welcome@dkggroup.com IERAPETRA Ammoudares, P.O Box 105, 722 00 Ierapetra, Crete HELLAS (Greece) T. +30 28420 22622 | F: +30 28420 22622 | E: info@iqcrops.com IOANNINA 5 b, Ioustinianou street 551 34, kalamaria, Thessaloniki HELLAS Greece) T. +30 2310 488915 | F: +30 2310 488916 | E: welcome@dkggroup.com
