D I V E R S E TA L E NT C OLLEC T I V E S T R E N G T H 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT W I T H 2 0 2 0 U P D AT E S Omnicom is a group of thousands of individuals across more than 70 countries collectively bringing their passion and creativity to over 5,000 brands. The talent of this diverse group of people allows us to create a positive and lasting impact on the world the best way we know how: through our work. Table of Contents 04 Letter from Our CEO 05 About Omnicom Group 08 People 27 Community 40 Environment 48 Governance 52 About This Report 53 UN Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress 54 GRI Standards Content Index Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index In a world that’s rapidly changing, Omnicom grounds itself in its Furthermore, we supported Theirworld again in 2019 through its commitments to having the industry’s most innovative, collaborative #WriteTheWrong campaign, which raised awareness of the 260 million and diverse talent. Through diverse perspectives and collective strength, children who do not attend school each day. Our work on the our organization is able to uphold the highest standards of excellence and #WriteTheWrong campaign helped secure $2.3 billion in commitments creativity for our clients and the communities we share around the globe. to education over one week and underscored our own commitment to A Letter from Our CEO UN Sustainable Development Goal 4. While this report focuses on our 2019 activities, its release comes at a time of uncertainty and unrest in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic We also continued our progress against our goals of reducing the and the racial inequalities brought to light by George Floyd’s tragic death. environmental impact of our activities, enhancing employee ethics training and advancing a code of conduct for our supply chain. Taken While we have certainly seen tremendous progress in our diversity, together, these actions, plus the many others outlined in this report, equity and inclusion (DE&I) efforts over the last decade, we recognize demonstrate our support for the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. our efforts to date have not been nearly enough. We are actively listening to and communicating with our people and management As we move through and beyond our current challenges, we remain teams to create improvements, and our entire leadership team is optimistic and undeterred. The people of Omnicom will continue to bring committed to accelerating our efforts in building a more inclusive, the highest standards of excellence to our clients, our shareholders, our diverse and aware organization. These efforts, along with our response neighbors and one another. to the global health crisis, will be covered in depth in future reports, but we have also summarized them in the following pages. Sincerely, With this backdrop in mind, we’d like to share some of the noteworthy actions from 2019 that strengthened our inclusive culture and served as a foundation for our 2020 conversations. For example, we established five new chapters of OPEN (Omnicom People Engagement Network) Pride to help promote awareness, acceptance and advocacy for the LGBTQIA+ community. We also launched OPEN DisAbility, a new employee resource John D. Wren group addressing issues affecting individuals with disabilities. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Omnicom also promoted widespread inclusion as a strategic partner This report focuses on 2019 activities occurring before the for The Valuable 500, which launched at the January 2019 World COVID-19 outbreak, but includes a summary of key response Economic Forum with the goal of persuading 500 CEOs to make a efforts by Omnicom and its agencies. public commitment to advance disability inclusion in their organizations. Such efforts helped us earn recognition as No. 1 in our industry for The Wall Street Journal’s D&I ranking of S&P 500 companies, and we were also named a 2020 “Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality” by the Human Rights Campaign. 4 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Omnicom is an interconnected global network of leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications FINANCIAL SUMMARY About Omnicom Group companies. Our branded networks and agencies provide IN MILLIONS a diverse, comprehensive range of global, regional and local solutions in the following disciplines: 2019 2018 2017 • Advertising REVENUE $14,953.70 $15,290.20 $15,273.60 • Strategic Media Planning and Buying OPERATING INCOME $2,122.30 $2,133.50 $2,083.80 • Customer Relationship Management NET INCOME $1,339.10 $1,326.40 $1,088.40 • Public Relations • Health Care Communication Services Our portfolio of companies provides the best talent, creativity, technology and innovation to some of the world’s most Travel & Entertainment Auto iconic and successful brands. 6% 10% Telcom Consumer United States FIVE MAJOR NETWORKS 5% Products 53.7% Tech 9% Financial 7% AS PART OF OUR WORLDWIDE FAMILY OF COMPANIES: Services Retail CLIENT MIX 8% REVENUE 2019 2019 5% Food & Beverage 13% Rest of the World 46.3% Pharma & Health Other 14% 23% 5 ABOUT US CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Omnicom 2019 Omnicom is dedicated to advancing our corporate responsibility goals year over year. Due to the uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have temporarily paused announcing new AWARDS AND goals while remaining focused on driving progress against our current commitments. RECOGNITIONS ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE SNAPSHOT GOAL: In Progress GOAL: Drafted and In Progress HRC Corporate Fortune Magazine Corporate Responsibility Goals Equality Index 2020 Recognized as 1 of 6 REDUCE ENERGY USE BY DEVELOP SUPPLIER (100%) companies with a majority20% PER CODE OF 4th consecutive year women board of directors PERSON CONDUCT Cannes Lions The Wall Street GLOBALLY BY 2023 BY JANUARY 1, 2020 Festival Holding Journal Diversity & USING A 2015 BASELINE Company of the Year Inclusion Ranking 1st place in Forbes’ Best Communication Services GOAL: In Progress industry, tied for 3rd Employers for place overall Diversity 2020 INCREASE USE OF ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE Forbes 2019 America’s Best WARC Creative 100 SOURCES Employers List GLOBALLY TO 20% BY 2023 3rd consecutive year 6 About Us CR GOALS Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report In 2019, we made significant progress across all four of our focus areas: People, Community, Environment and Governance. We describe these initiatives in this report and on our website. Year in Review ENVIRONMENT • Reduced our global energy footprint in excess of 5.5% year over year, and energy use per person by PEOPLE COMMUNITY approximately 19% compared to our 2015 baseline. • Supported The Valuable 500 in its inaugural year • Partnered with Theirworld to take the • Increased use of electricity from renewable sources by providing creative and public relations work #WriteTheWrong campaign to the 74th session by approximately 37% compared to our 2015 baseline. from nine Omnicom agencies, earning five industry of the United Nations General Assembly, using a • Reduced companywide greenhouse gas awards. The Valuable 500 is a global movement to classroom of empty desks to spread awareness emissions by approximately 16% in 2019 put disability on the business leadership agenda. of the global education crisis. compared to our 2017 baseline. Omnicom Corporate Responsibility Highlights • Partnered with ADCOLOR and the American • Supported Girl Effect with the launch of Chhaa Advertising Federation (AAF) to launch THE APEX, Jaa (Go Forth and Shine), a social media brand a multicultural speakers bureau designed to encourage for adolescent girls in India. diverse thought leadership at industry events. • Continued to support the UN Sustainable • Founded OPEN DisAbility, a new employee resource Development Goals (SDGs) and our local group in the United Kingdom with a mission to communities through client and pro bono work, GOVERNANCE improve inclusion, visibility and awareness of issues along with volunteer contributions from our that affect individuals with disabilities. agencies across the globe. • Developed a Supplier Code of Conduct outlining our expectations for the businesses with which • Launched five new chapters of OPEN Pride in the we work. United States and Europe dedicated to promoting awareness, acceptance and advocacy for the • Continued diverse representation on our nine-member LGBTQIA+ community. board of directors with six women and four African American board members (as of June 9, 2020). • Launched One Sandbox, an online directory of more than 250 diverse suppliers available to the entire • Continued offering mandatory business ethics, Omnicom network. security awareness and cybersecurity training to all Omnicom employees. 7 About Us CR Goals YEAR IN REVIEW People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report PEOPLE Human connection drives the work that Omnicom agencies do for our clients. We are able to deliver ideas that resonate with consumers and businesses across the globe because of our top-notch employees who bring a wealth of knowledge, experiences and perspectives. Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index Our award-winning creativity is fueled by this diverse community who collaborates as a team, inspires the best in each other and celebrates success together. Our Commitment to Diversity & Inclusion CULTIVATING AN INCLUSIVE WORKFORCE AS DIVERSE AS OUR CLIENTS AND THE PEOPLE THEY SERVE Our work demands dedicated employees with diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives. That’s why we’re relentlessly focused on recruiting, developing and retaining talent from a multitude of backgrounds and fostering inclusive environments for all employees. Across our global network of agencies and consultancies, our employees champion awareness, acceptance and advocacy initiatives both in the workplace and in their communities to create personal and professional opportunities for all. OPEN 2019 Chief Diversity Champions 9 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report OUR COMMITMENT AND APPROACH OUR PEOPLE We underpin our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion through: AT A GLANCE Leadership. The OPEN Leadership Team, which is led by Omnicom’s Chief Diversity Officer and includes Diversity Champions from across our agencies and networks, U.S. “PROFESSIONALS” AND “OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS” 21,000 CURRENT MEMBERS OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS 9 provides structure, support, counsel and visibility to DE&I initiatives and policies Percentage of total employees who are: Number of total who are: throughout our organization. AFRICAN WOMEN WHITE MEN WOMEN AMERICAN Measurement. 58% 31% 6 4 We disclose five-year progress on diversity metrics for our U.S. employees. Accountability. TOTAL “OFFICIALS AND MANAGERS” TOTAL “PROFESSIONALS” Omnicom’s CEO pay is determined, in part, on qualitative factors that include diversity. Percentage of total who are: Percentage of total who are: Transparency. WOMEN MULTICULTURAL MULTICULTURAL Following the tragic acts of racism in 2020 throughout the U.S., we reinforced our 57% 22% 29% 29% 12% commitment to meaningful action to address inequalities. Understanding and providing transparency in where we currently stand is a necessary first step in paving a path forward. With this in mind, in this year’s report we’ve provided additional disclosures From five years ago From five years ago of Omnicom’s workforce diversity in the United States, as of June 15, 2020. It’s clear that we, and our entire industry, need to do more to truly reflect the businesses, U.S. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (EEOC) DATA communities and consumers we serve. With this in mind, we created OPEN 2.0, Omnicom Group data as of June 15, 2020 an action plan that builds upon the progress we’ve made thus far to achieve our ultimate goal: systemic equity throughout Omnicom. Additional details on OPEN 2.0 BLACK ASIAN HISPANIC WHITE will be shared in future reports. MEASURING OUR PROGRESS Executive Managers 2.7% 7.2% 4.9% 84.1% This is the fourth year we have disclosed our five-year progress against key diversity Mid Managers 4.8% 8.9% 8.6% 74.8% metrics for U.S. employees. Disclosure in this report and on our website reinforces our commitment to transparency and keeps us accountable to strengthening the diverse perspectives that inform our client work. Professionals 5.5% 11.1% 10.3% 70.1% 10 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Accelerating Change for a More Inclusive World Advancing diversity, equity and inclusion efforts requires the action and passion of an entire community. That’s why we collaborate not only with network leadership, but also community partners to more quickly achieve equal opportunities for “The Valuable 500 is transforming individuals everywhere. the global business system, EMBRACING ALL ABILITIES: thereby creating an equal and THE VALUABLE 500 inclusive society for all of us. Among the most meaningful new ways Its achievements would not have we advanced inclusion in 2019 was our work promoting The Valuable 500, been possible without Omnicom’s an organization that seeks to elevate ongoing passion and support.” disability on the business leadership agenda. The Valuable 500 launched at the Marianne Waite World Economic Forum Annual Meeting Omnicom is more than just a signatory to The Valuable 500, we’re also a strategic partner. Our collaboration Director of Inclusive Brands, in Davos in January 2019 with the is led by campaign director Marianne Waite, who is charged with helping as many Omnicom agencies as The Valuable 500 ambitious goal of persuading 500 CEOs possible interact with the organization. To date, nine of our agencies (RAPP, AMV BBDO, Interbrand, Ketchum, to make a public commitment to advance Manning Gottlieb, Porter Novelli, ONE HUNDRED, Changing Our World and Fuse) have provided creative and public disability inclusion in their organizations. relations support for this important movement. Since then, over 250 businesses, representing more than 10.25 million In 2019, our agencies’ work for The Valuable 500 earned three awards from the Cannes Lions Festival, a British employees and over $4 trillion in combined Interactive Media award and a British Design & Art Direction (D&AD) award for Creative B2B Campaign. We also helped revenue, have committed to making The Valuable 500 participate in 75 events in 10 countries, ranging from small roundtables to large festivals like SXSW, to raise disability inclusion a priority of leadership. awareness of the untapped potential of the disability community. As a result, the number of companies joining The Valuable 500 continues to grow, with more than 200 potential signatories in the pipeline. 11 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report MENTORING THE NEXT GENERATION OF DIVERSE LEADERS To build a more inclusive future, we’re leveraging our passion for communications and marketing to strategically partner with organizations that help diverse young professionals hone their creative skills and feel confident taking on leadership roles. Our key partnerships in this area include: • ADCOLOR: Omnicom is a proud partner of ADCOLOR, an organization founded by our own Chief Diversity Officer, Tiffany R. Warren. ADCOLOR celebrates and champions diversity in the creative industries through its annual conference, award show and FUTURES program. Each year, the FUTURES program identifies a class of 30 young professionals and nurtures them as leaders through training, mentorship and empowerment. • AAF’s Most Promising Multicultural Students “Most Promising University helped (MPMS) Program: Omnicom is the premiere my overall confidence as a professional, sponsor of AAF’s MPMS Program, a program pushing me to vocalize my strengths that connects the advertising industry with and celebrate my individuality. With help the nation’s top multicultural college seniors. As part of the program, Omnicom sponsors/ from the program’s mentors, I was able produces Most Promising University, a daylong to create a personalized hashtag and immersive advertising and media curriculum tagline that I still use to brand who I am— that hosts 50 college students each year. something that has proven to be extremely valuable as I start my career.” Jayda Hill AAF MPMS 2020 | 2020 MAIP Fellow 12 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report • 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program (MAIP): Omnicom is also a partner of MAIP, whose mission is to provide and showcase the advertising industry with the best talent through world-class development opportunities. Many of our agencies support the program by hiring MAIP fellows and offering internship opportunities. • The LAGRANT Foundation: Omnicom proudly supports The LAGRANT Foundation, which provides scholarships, career development workshops, professional development, mentors and internships to ethnically diverse undergraduate and graduate students. • Ghetto Film School (GFS): Omnicom also supports the GFS fellow programs, which educate, develop and celebrate the next generation of great American storytellers. With locations in New York City, Los Angeles and London, GFS is the most elite and inclusive film academy in the world. Supporting Diverse Young Professionals at Cannes Cannes Can: Diversity Collective (CC:DC) brings previously absent faces of color to the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. In support of CC:DC, Omnicom’s Chief Diversity Officer Tiffany R. Warren mentored members of its 2019 scholars program. 13 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report ELEVATING DIVERSITY, EQUITY Our agencies are also partnering with nonprofit organizations in their communities to complement AND INCLUSION CONVERSATIONS Omnicom’s diversity and inclusion efforts. THROUGH COLLABORATION • In 2019, eg+ worldwide partnered with the charity Imaan to provide creative support for an Omnicom strives to inspire transformative awareness campaign with the goal of helping the Muslim LGBTQIA+ community reconcile faith change by collaborating with numerous with sexuality and gender identity. partners to draw attention to issues of inequality that persist in our society. • Recognizing how difficult it is for refugees to find employment, 180 Kingsday partnered with the These include: Refugee Talent Hub to help connect displaced people to meaningful employment in their chosen fields. • Ad Council: We serve on the board of • In 2019, CPM International sponsored PRIDE Barcelona for the third consecutive year to show Ad Council, the leading producer of public its support for the rights of the LGBTQIA+ community. As an official sponsor, a team of 200 CPM service advertisements in the United States, employees were involved in the design and creation of the float, social media engagement, to raise awareness of LGBTQIA+ acceptance, photography and participation in the parade. diversity, equity and inclusion, sexual harassment, empowerment of girls and other issues. • Makers: As a Makers partner, we are shining a light on game-changing women within organizations, sharing diversity, equity and inclusion best practices, and promoting the work companies are doing to advance equality for women in the workplace. • GLAAD: We have supported GLAAD’s work BRINGING tackling tough issues to shape the narrative of LGBTQIA+ acceptance since 2011. MULTICULTURAL VOICES TO THE FOREFRONT • Unstereotype Alliance: We are a founding member of the Unstereotype Alliance, In early 2020, we formed a new partnership with ADCOLOR and AAF to support the launch of THE APEX—a Multicultural a consortium of global advertisers, digital Speakers Bureau. THE APEX seeks to increase the diversity of thought leaders who present at industry conferences, seminars, media partners, associations and industry webinars, podcasts and other discussions. We aim to make it easier for event organizers to be more inclusive of different vital perspectives at industry events by making THE APEX a go-to source for multicultural talent. champions who have committed to a global and universal agenda to eradicate harmful gender stereotypes in advertising. 14 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report FOSTERING A CULTURE OF INCLUSION SUPPORTING At Omnicom, we are continuously striving to create a work environment where all OPEN DisAbility In 2019, we founded OPEN DisAbility, a new employee resource group in INDIVIDUALS employees feel comfortable, confident and LIVING WITH DISABILITIES IN OUR AGENCIES the UK, which aims to improve inclusion, visibility and awareness of issues supported. This culture of inclusion is critical affecting individuals with visible, invisible and/or learning disabilities, or Omnicom agency, Rabin Martin, has pledged to to the progress and innovation we hope to people with long-term illnesses. OPEN DisAbility launched in March 2019 The Valuable 500 to make disability inclusion a business see within our company. As part of this vision, and multiple events have been held since, including a range of Basecamps priority and has been a champion of Omnicom’s OPEN we’ve established and grown the Omnicom and CEO panels discussing both seen and unseen disabilities. DisAbility+Allies UK employee resource group. The agency People Engagement Network (OPEN) and its played an integral role in OPEN DisAbility’s development complementary employee resource groups: In December 2019, OPEN DisAbility hosted its first Summit in the UK to of the #HowToDoMore Toolkit – a collection of tools OPEN DisAbility, Omniwomen and OPEN Pride. dispel misconceptions about hiring workers living with disabilities and and resources to support all agencies in their efforts celebrate the unique strengths these individuals bring to the workplace. to become “disability inclusion SMART.” This evolving The Summit drew more than 150 people from 40 Omnicom agencies to toolkit includes a Disability Confident Guide and participate in valuable conversations about the representation of people a Disability Experts Guide, among other vital information. living with disabilities within our workforce and beyond. In 2019, Ketchum London partnered with Ambitious about Autism (AaA), a charity that provides services for young people on the autism spectrum and helps the public understand how to ensure individuals living with autism are valued members of our society. When Ketchum London hired an individual living with autism into its fall internship program, AaA delivered a specialized staff training session to members of Ketchum London’s Corporate Team on how to create a supportive work environment. 15 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Omniwomen Since launching globally in 2014, Omniwomen has focused on promoting networking and career opportunities for women across our networks and agencies, as well as developing the female leaders of tomorrow. Over the last six years, participation in Omniwomen has grown to include more than 10,000 members. In 2019, Omniwomen opened a new chapter in Dallas on International Women’s Day, representing the 14th Omniwomen chapter across the globe. Since its launch, Omniwomen Dallas has focused on supporting High Tech High Heels, an organization that funds programs to increase the number of young women majoring in STEM fields in college. Beyond Dallas, Omniwomen members unleashed their creativity and passion in 2019 to promote the professional advancement of women around the world: Chicago: Omniwomen Chicago grew to more than 750 members and increased member engagement by 559%. The Chicago chapter now how far women have come in the workforce. As Omniwomen UK’s largest Leadership Summit yet, the event brought more than 300 women partners with 26 agencies, up from 10 in 2018. With this growth, together and allowed attendees to focus on their personal interests, such as building confidence, understanding “imposter syndrome” the group revamped its mission and appointed its first-ever board and acknowledging and prioritizing the importance of mental health. of directors. In October, Omniwomen Chicago hosted author and fashion editor Elaine Welteroth for a fireside chat and book signing. The group’s New York: Omniwomen New York hosted 17 hub events, including an art exhibit and three keynote speakers. These events reached every International Women’s Day (IWD) celebration received one of the IWD Omnicom agency in the city and addressed a variety of pertinent topics, including work-life balance, financial fitness, wellness and building organization’s 2019 Best Practice awards. a personal brand, among others. United Kingdom: Omniwomen UK hosted its annual Leadership Summit Paris: Omniwomen France partnered with BVA Group prior to its annual summit to conduct a survey challenging stereotypes around and celebrated Omniwomen’s five-year anniversary. In 2019, the theme gender parity. This research helped inspire Omniwomen France to include male allies who were sensitive to Omniwomen goals into its ranks. was “Celebrating and Supporting Diverse Paths to the Top” and featured China: Omniwomen China created a video titled “I am an Omniwoman,” featuring women from diverse backgrounds sharing their experiences inspirational and diverse speakers, including Ketchum London CEO and supporting the Spring Bud Project, an organization that helps girls who have dropped out of school return to complete their education. Jo-ann Robertson. The day saw men and women supporting one They also created a WeChat gallery filled with images of women across the Omnicom network celebrating and supporting each other. another, celebrating each other’s achievements and acknowledging Looking ahead, Omniwomen aims to exceed 20 chapters globally by 2021. It also plans to develop a training module in partnership with Omnicom University and pursue more global content and research focused on women in leadership. 16 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report “There are many talented women who are experts in what they do, SUPPORTING but who might be struggling to GENDER PARITY maximize their business’ potential or ACROSS OUR NETWORK failing to use digital marketing tools In 2019, Omnicom agencies actively took part in International Women’s Day advocacy events to their advantage. We can hopefully around the world. Highlights include: make a tangible difference on the • Advocacy and Partnership: In honor of International virtually before purchasing them. In a year of working together, future success of their ventures.” Women’s Day, Harrison and Star hosted leadership Haygarth Group helped its entrepreneurial client create her trainer Carol DiSanto of Omnicom Health Group for business plan and company goals, as well as assisted with Chris Freeland a Q&A session with employees. They also held a raffle branding, collateral materials and public relations. CEO at RAPP UK with proceeds going to the Pad Project, a nonprofit • Small Business Workshops: To celebrate International that brings affordable feminine hygiene products to Women’s Day, 10 female-run small businesses were invited women in underdeveloped nations. to RAPP UK for PowerHouse – a series of workshops • Supporting Female Entrepreneurs: As part of its covering marketing disciplines such as social media, SEO, International Women’s Day celebrations, Haygarth brand tone of voice, digital presence and the user experience. Group launched WomanMade, an initiative to find and Businesses participating in the inaugural PowerHouse support one female founder at the start of her small ranged from coffee production to architecture. business journey. In 2019, the agency chose a hairstylist who was in the process of creating a customized wig-styling business with a first-of-its-kind augmented reality app that would allow customers to test wigs 17 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report OPEN Pride Founded in 2016, OPEN Pride fuels the personal growth, organizational inclusion and business success of Omnicom Group’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender, queer or questioning, intersex, and asexual or allied (LGBTQIA+) employees and allies. In 2019 and early 2020, OPEN Pride established six new chapters in Dallas, Denver, Houston, Southern California, Barcelona and Brussels, bringing the total number of active OPEN Pride chapters in the Omnicom network to twelve. OPEN PRIDE CHICAGO In 2018, when DDB Senior Designer Joseph Klomes learned there was no LGBTQIA+ group in his office in Chicago, he decided to start one. When a colleague subsequently informed him about OPEN Pride, Joseph immediately got to work connecting with other Omnicom agencies in the area to expand the OPEN Pride Chicago chapter. By the end of 2019, approximately 20 Omnicom agencies in Chicago had joined the chapter, and members led a series of fundraising activities that generated more than $1,900 in donations for the AIDS Foundation. Joseph also led the design and branding for the Human Rights Campaign’s 2019 Chicago gala, earning DDB Chicago a sponsorship at the event. In 2020, OPEN Pride Chicago hopes to grow its partnerships with the AIDS Foundation and Human Rights Campaign, as well as find new opportunities to partner more with the local community. 18 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Omnicom tapped into its talent to offer support to the LGBTQIA+ community in many ways in 2019. Highlights included: • Sponsorship: Omnicom worked with NYC Pride as a Platinum Sponsor for the 2019 WorldPride celebration. As part of its sponsorship, Omnicom agencies provided in-kind work to promote the historic event, which marked the first WorldPride celebration in the United States, the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots and a half-century of LGBTQIA+ liberation. Many Omnicom agencies assisted NYC Pride in its branding and communications efforts, including Interbrand, RAPP Worldwide, Siegel + Gale, TBWA\ WorldHealth, Harrison and Star, FleishmanHillard, Ketchum, Porter Novelli and RXMOSAIC. • Legislation: The chair of OPEN Pride’s Manila chapter participated in a campaign for the SOGIE Equality Bill. The legislation is intended to prevent various economic and service-related acts of discrimination against people based on their sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. • Career Opportunities: OPEN Pride Dubai developed and launched a new internship program, called DDBTransit, specifically designed to help transgender workers find fulfilling career experiences in Looking ahead, OPEN Pride has several goals for 2020. They include: an inclusive work setting. • Serving, again, as a Platinum Sponsor for NYC Pride’s fully digital 2020 celebration; • Workplace Sensitivity: Sometimes, unintentionally and simply out of curiosity, LGBTQIA+ employees may get questions from colleagues • Credentialing OPEN Pride members as experts in understanding how to appropriately and accurately communicate that could be perceived as invasive, and in some cases, they may to and with the LGBTQIA+ community; be misgendered or placed in awkward situations. To avoid such • Creating a business consultancy specifically to help clients improve engagement with LGBTQIA+ consumers; scenarios, OPEN Pride’s Global Board created globally curated guidelines that can serve as a helpful reference when engaging • Developing partnerships with Omnicom’s other employee resource groups to make a bigger impact on the community; and with colleagues from the LGBTQIA+ community. • Continuing to champion, through partnerships or in-kind work, local/grassroots organizations with a mission to offer support to the LGBTQIA+ community, including NYC Pride, GLAAD, the Human Rights Campaign, the Trevor Project, the Point Foundation and the AIDS Foundation. 19 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report OMNICOM MEDIA GROUP’S AMPLIFYING BUSINESS RESOURCE GROUPS AFRICAN AMERICAN VOICES In 2019, Omnicom Media Group (OMG) launched three Business Resource Groups (BRGs) In celebration of Black History Month, OHG Voices – Omnicom Health Group’s diversity and across the United States. BRGs are employee-led impact groups that share in Omnicom’s inclusion group – hosted a series of events throughout the month to recognize the contributions commitment to create inclusive workplaces for underrepresented populations. of both prominent and lesser-known African Americans alike. The events included the group’s inaugural Black History Month movie night showing of “The Hate U Give,” an OHG Voices Mixer The Black Leadership Network was the first of the BRGs to launch. During Black History featuring artwork and jazz music from Harrison and Star employees, and a speaker panel hosted Month 2019, the BRG hosted 13 events across the country. Highlights included: by Patients & Purpose titled “Going Beyond Diversity and Inclusion: Let’s Get Real About Race.” • Black Girl Magic: Black women are trendsetters, brand loyalists and early adopters who care about projecting a positive self-image and influencing mainstream culture in areas like fashion, beauty, television and music. Together with Turner, now part of WarnerMedia, OMG explored the magic of black woman consumers and discussed the factors that drive their purchase considerations and intent. • Pride Campaign: OMG encouraged employees to show their pride on social media by sharing pictures of their family, community or service events with a description of what Black History Month means to them. Social posts included the hashtag #OMGBHM2019. • Screening of Railroad Ties: The OMG DE&I team screened the short film “Railroad Ties” in offices across the United States. The film featured six descendants of fugitive slaves and abolitionists who learned about their lineage – and how they shared a common bond with complete strangers. In New York, OMG Director of Diversity and Inclusion Justin Reyes moderated a panel discussion featuring senior leaders from Sundance TV for a behind-the-scenes look at the making of the film. Following the launch of the Black Leadership Network, OMG formed the Latino Leadership Network and Asian Leadership Network. In 2020, OMG plans to launch at least two additional BRGs, including a Working Parents Network. 20 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report v SUPPORTING SUPPLIER DIVERSITY Across Omnicom networks and agencies, we are committed to ensuring our creative and production directors can draw from a diverse supplier base when assembling project teams. We recognize we need to do better to ensure that we’re tapping into the wealth of underutilized diverse talent around the world. In 2019, we rolled out One Sandbox – a curated, web-based directory developed by TBWA\WorldHealth that features more than 250 women-owned, multicultural and LGBTQIA+ suppliers – to agencies across the Omnicom network. Agencies have leveraged One Sandbox in addition to their own innovative tools and aggressive goals to boost diversity in their respective supplier networks and maintain a reputation for responsible purchasing: • Critical Mass enacted a tracking system to easily identify vendors with diverse ownership to ensure a healthy percentage of its outsourcing supported supplier diversity. In 2019, the agency spent approximately $500,000 with minorityowned vendors – a $240,000 increase from the prior year. The agency also increased spending with women-owned vendors by $40,000. • GUTENBERG’s commitment to establishing mutually responsible and lasting relationships with its suppliers has earned the agency France’s Supplier Relations and Responsible Purchasing label for six years. 21 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report BLACK LIVES MATTER Recent acts of racism and violence against diverse communities around the globe have been tragic and heartbreaking. We condemn this hatred and bigotry and stand in solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. Since the formation of Omnicom, diversity and equality have been among our core values. And while Omnicom and its agencies have made tremendous progress over the past decade, we know it is not enough. Through ongoing discussions with our diversity leaders, employees and community partners, we are learning how we can better support our diverse colleagues and hold ourselves accountable in the areas of training, recruitment, talent development and retention, and compensation. As part of our recent efforts, we recognized June 19th, or Juneteenth, as a companywide day off from work to allow for reflection on issues around race and inequality. In addition, Omnicom’s Chief Diversity Officer and OPEN Leadership Team launched a new video series titled “Open Conversation,” which explores Omnicom initiatives, DE&I resources and global issues inspiring change. We also have long supported and invested in educational and career development programs that have created greater diversity in our industry. These include AAF Most Promising Multicultural Students Program, The LAGRANT Foundation, 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program and ADCOLOR. Moving forward, we plan to strengthen our support of these programs and adopt new programs where appropriate. We will turn these acts of injustice into a catalyst for lasting change — as individuals, as a company and as a community. 22 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Investing in Training and Development OMNICOM UNIVERSITY TESTIMONIALS Learning and growth never stops at Omnicom. of leadership within our organization. In December 2019, Karen van Bergen was Omnicom University programs consistently receive ratings Each year, we make substantial investments named the new dean of Omnicom University, the third in the program’s history, from students in the 4.7 to 4.9 range (on a scale of 5) for in education and training, which include following Janet Riccio and founder Tom Watson. program excellence. These programs are often regarded as basic skills training all the way through our Omnicom University is structured into several programs to cultivate leaders at high points in the careers of participants. Here is what a few advanced Omnicom University for current different stages in their career: had to say about their experience: and future leaders. We also continue to ramp up digital training so that all of our employees • Senior Management Undergraduate and Graduate Programs (SMP) – SMP “The quality of the professors, combined with the have a deep understanding of how to leverage is an invitation-only, two-year commitment for the most senior executives in intellectual horsepower of the group, is lifechanging.” new technologies and channels for clients the company. Students attend a six-day Undergraduate Program focused on Bill Mulligan and their brands. leading-edge management thinking, followed by a four-day Graduate Program Group CEO, Chameleon Communications New York one year later. OMNICOM UNIVERSITY “I did not anticipate, or perhaps underestimated, the depth • Senior Management Postgraduate Program – A four-day Postgraduate Omnicom University is considered one of of life lessons we’d learn. ‘Thank you’ is simply not enough.” Program is offered to SMP graduates to reinforce concepts and refresh the the preeminent management and leadership enthusiasm found in the original SMP experience. Emily Caine development programs in the industry. The SVP, Senior Partner, FleishmanHillard St. Louis format is based on the Harvard Business • Advanced Management Program (AMP) – AMP is a three-day immersive School case study method and is led by training experience for future leaders and “rising stars” throughout Omnicom “There is an amazing balance of providing a physical, professors from Harvard Business School that teaches the core principles of managing a professional service firm. Three mental, emotional and intellectual education between and IESE Business School in Spain. AMPs are taught each fall: two in the United States at Babson College and one both what is being taught and how it is being taught. in Europe in Milan. Truly motivating!” Founded in 1995, Omnicom University will Gati Curtis be celebrating its 25th anniversary in 2020. • Agency Leadership Program (ALP) – ALP is a hands-on course designed SVP, Senior Director, BBDO New York This prestigious program has grown to for relatively new leaders running an office, a large account or team. Over the offer 12 programs a year on two continents week-long course, students are broken out into teams to work on an agency“The faculty is like a well-tuned orchestra – they build on with nearly 5,200 global alumni, many of simulation program, with situations and events that our agency leaders face content; challenge what you believe is the right answer; whom have gone on to rise in the ranks on a regular basis. and make you acknowledge a different answer may be the one that makes more sense.” Shalini Gupta SVP, Client Partner, RAPP Chicago 23 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report TRAINING YOUNG TALENT ACROSS DISCIPLINES Across our networks and agencies, multidisciplinary training for entry-level employees and candidates has been a key focus. In 2019, IMS invited its first class of young professionals to participate in its Associate Development Program (ADP). The two-year program rotates associates through four different assignments in various roles within the organization to develop cross-functional skills and a well-rounded understanding of marketing. For their first rotations, associates held roles in account management, digital marketing, data analytics and vendor management. As the program grows, ADP graduates will assist with the selection and mentoring of future participants. Designory has partnered with California State University Long Beach’s (CSULB) Senior Design Program – an initiative where students work with Designory mentors on a selected assignment that exposes the students to real-world marketing challenges and pushes them to design creative solutions. The students gain valuable agency experience and a chance at an internship, and Designory gains insights into the best talent coming out of the CSULB graduating class. 24 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report EMERGING STARS TESTIMONIALS Emerging Stars is not just a valuable opportunity for young professionals in the Omnicom Network, but also for our client partners. Here’s what they had to say: “Omnicom friends, what an amazing experience! Thank you again for choosing Olay to be your partner in the Emerging Stars program. The talent, the ideas, the energy and the partnership were amazing. It says a lot about the Omnicom family when you see this type of focus and investment in top talent. Thank you for choosing Proctor & Gamble and Olay to be your partner.” Leigh Radford Global GM Skin Care, P&G “Emerging Stars is my favorite program because Emerging Stars it works on so many different levels. Our young “I rarely get the opportunity to step away from my talent gets to experience the power of all our specialty Emerging Stars brings together top junior talent from across all business – but this was so worth it! The insights expertise working together. The clients we involve Omnicom networks, exposes them to multiple marketing disciplines and ideas presented were fantastic. The young talent are blown away by the quality of the talent, the ideas and gives them the experience of working on an integrated team. on this program are lucky to be part of a holding and the true sense of partnership they experience company that invests in developing and connecting firsthand. For our senior leaders who mentor and The program begins with a three-day workshop that allows participants talent in this way – because we need our agency judge the final day, it’s a chance to feel the excitement to learn from experts in various disciplines and immediately put that partners to work in a cross-discipline way, and and the energy of what we can achieve together. knowledge to work. A marketing brief from one of Omnicom’s largest this program proves the magic of what happens Congratulations to all involved.” clients is delivered to the group, and participants work in multidiscipline when you do.” teams with senior-level Omnicom agency mentors over the course Dale A. Adams Valerie Vargas Chairman and CEO, the DAS Group of Companies of three weeks following the workshop. The session culminates in Vice President Advertising & Marketing a competition where teams deliver an integrated pitch to selected Communications, AT&T Omnicom agency CEOs and a senior representative from the client involved in the brief. This talented and ambitious group builds a fantastic network and pipeline for future leadership. FPO 25 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Advancing the Health and Well-Being of Our People A HOLISTIC APPROACH TO WELLNESS Omnicom continues to offer comprehensive and quality health care benefits to U.S. employees while maintaining a degree of individual choice to meet our employees’ diverse needs. Since 2016, Omnicom has covered transgender-related services under its medical plans, which cover almost all U.S. employees and Beyond offering quality health care benefits, our agencies their eligible family members. and networks encourage employees to stay healthy with programs and initiatives that promote physical, mental and PARENTAL LEAVE POLICY EXPANSION financial well-being. In 2019, we updated our U.S. parental leave policies, which went into effect on January 1, 2020. First, any • In 2019, Omnicom Media Group offered five employee who has been with Omnicom for at least one year can claim up to eight weeks of paid short-term in-office fitness lessons to employees each disability. Omnicom also now offer six weeks of paid parental leave in addition to eligible short-term disability week, enabled the services of a chiropractor in the workplace once per week, provided benefits for all U.S. agencies. fresh fruit in the office year-round and held multiple stress reduction and mental health seminars throughout the year. These initiatives helped Omnicom Media Group earn the “Health Promoting Enterprise” accreditation from the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic. • At darwin BBDO in Belgium, employees welcomed a new Chief Executive “Woofficer,” a canine named Basille. The office dog has been a hit with employees and shown to reduce stress, boost office productivity and improve social engagement among employees who struggle to socialize with others. • In 2019, Proximity launched Feel Good – a series of workshops and initiatives to promote mental, physical and financial well-being. External speakers were brought in to address a range of topics, including mindfulness, sleep, breathing and nutrition. 26 About Us CR Goals Year in Review PEOPLE Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report COMMUNITY Omnicom has a long-standing commitment to serve the areas where we live and work. We use our expertise and passion to strengthen our communities and contribute to the greater good. Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index “It’s clear that the vast majority of young people will be left behind and Through industry initiatives, employee volunteerism and without hope for a client and pro bono campaigns, our work is making brighter future. an impact around the world. This is why education Education: A Right for All is so important.” Omnicom is a founding member of Common Ground, a commitment by agencies in the marketing Sarah Brown and communications industries to support the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals Founder, Theirworld (SDGs). As the pro bono global partner of Theirworld and Girl Effect, we focus on SDG No. 4, ensuring inclusive and quality education for children around the world. RAISING VISIBILITY AND FUNDS FOR THEIRWORLD Theirworld is a global children’s charity committed to ending the education crisis by mobilizing support for funding partners through advocacy, campaigning and partnerships. In 2019, Omnicom agencies BBDO and Porter Novelli partnered with Theirworld to increase world leaders’ awareness of the global education crisis through the #WriteTheWrong campaign. At the 74th session of the UN General Assembly in New York, we took #WriteTheWrong to the next level with an art installation in the main UN plaza. We built an “infinity classroom” of empty desks, using walls full of mirrors to visually depict the 260 million children who do not attend school each day. The campaign was amplified with billboards in Times Square, an online video and posts on social media using #WriteTheWrong. During the week, $2.3 billion was committed to education, making it the single largest mobilization for education. In addition, Theirworld mobilized several million dollars in grants to support refugee education around the world and promote more protective learning environments for more than 160,000 students. Viewers in-person and online were left with a powerful story. The display captured the attention of presidents and prime ministers from around the world, but more importantly, it helped raise financial support. 28 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report SUPPORTING GIRL EFFECT Girl Effect is a nonprofit organization working to connect and equip girls with resources to navigate adolescence, with a focus on health care. In 2019, Omnicom agencies supported Girl Effect through pro bono campaign creation and materials development for two important initiatives: Chhaa Jaa In 2019, Girl Effect launched Chhaa Jaa (Go Forth and Shine), a social media brand for adolescent girls in India. This group makes up 10% of the population but is largely invisible, valued primarily for marriage and motherhood, with little say over their lives and decisions. Chhaa Jaa leverages social media to share content educating girls on reproductive health, relationships and jobs, as well as empowering them with skills and confidence. With the help of Omnicom agencies OMD, DDB and 22Feet, Girl Effect reached 2.8 million users on social media in only six months, with over 90% of those in the brand’s target population. Nutrition International Partnership In June 2018, Girl Effect embarked on a partnership with Nutrition International to improve Indonesian girls’ knowledge, attitudes toward and practices around nutrition. Teenage girls in Indonesia are significantly malnourished due to a lack of proper nutrients in their typical diets of rice and rice cakes. In 2019, Omnicom agency PHD supported the partnership with an SEO strategy and paid search to drive traffic to a Springster site – a mobile platform made for girls – with nutritionspecific stories. In three months, the site attracted 104,000 unique page views, helping Girl Effect and Nutrition International reach 11.3 million Indonesians over the length of the campaign. 29 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Making a World of Difference Omnicom agencies around the globe have a history of volunteering in, and engaging with, their local communities, with many agencies providing paid time off for employees to partake in volunteer activities – many of which contribute to aspects of the UN SDGs. PREGNANT AND PARENTING YOUTH DAS Gives Back, the corporate volunteer initiative of the DAS Group of Companies, held a baby-supply drive to support Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA) for children in New York City and the organization’s Pregnant and Parenting Youth (PPY) Initiative. The PPY Initiative is designed to support young parents and provide goods to reduce economic stressors. DAS Gives Back donated more than 2,300 items to CASA-NYC to help the PPY Initiative. I GOT YOUR BACKPACK Since 2014, the FleishmanHillard St. Louis office has collected, donated and delivered a backpack of food every week to each of 25 local elementary school students who would otherwise go without food for the entire weekend. The students receive enough food for two breakfasts, lunches and dinners, and snacks for the weekend. Through 2019, FleishmanHillard donated nearly 400 backpacks of food. FPO 30 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report DO GOOD. PERIOD. In 2019, TBWA\WorldHealth collected more than 200 feminine hygiene product kits and donated them to The Period Collective, a nonprofit organization that provides impoverished women with access to free products. The initiative raised awareness about the challenges many women face accessing these crucial supplies. SUPPORTING EDUCATION IN SOUTH AFRICA For two years, Omnicom Media Group South Africa (Pty) Ltd. has provided financial support for education and living expenses for more than 200 disadvantaged and disabled students. Students learn computing and entrepreneurial skills to help prepare them for the workforce, and the program has led to a 90% success rate in finding employment for participants. EMPOWERING IMMIGRANT WOMEN In 2019, Critical Mass partnered with the Calgary Immigrant Women’s Association to host a Learn to Code seminar for young women. This nonprofit organization recognizes, responds to and focuses on the unique concerns and needs of immigrant and refugee women, girls and their families. The seminar provided each participant the opportunity to learn basic coding languages, skills and tools. 31 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report BARNABUS CHARITY COLLABORATION CLEAN UP AUSTRALIA Throughout 2019, Healthcare Consultancy Group’s (HCG) Chameleon In March 2019, PHD Sydney closed early to participate in its annual Communications’ office in Manchester, England, supported Barnabus, “PHD’s Big Hug” initiative that encourages employees to volunteer a charity that helps homeless individuals find employment opportunities in the community. One group of employees took to the beaches and and rebuild their lives through access to food and clothing, health care spent the afternoon cleaning up rubbish to restore and preserve the and rehabilitation. HCG employees helped Barnabus through volunteering area’s natural state. days, donation drives, cake sales and a sponsored sky dive event. CLOTH BAGS FOR PATIENTS Omnicom Media Group (OMG) Thailand created a “No Plastic Bag” campaign for hospitals after becoming aware of the large volume of nonrecyclable plastic bags used every day for patients and their medications, which contribute to the global plastics crisis. Colleagues from OMG Thailand set up public collection boxes for reusable cloth bags and invited their clients and media partners to join them in decorating the bags. As a result, almost 10,000 cloth bags were donated to 25 hospitals nationwide. 32 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Our Agencies in Action Reimagining an iconic childhood toy ► #BRAILLEBRICKSFORALL Lew’Lara\TBWA, TBWA Nineteen million children around the world are vision impaired. Born from the discovery that toy building bricks have the same pattern as the braille alphabet, Lew’Lara\TBWA teamed up with the Dorina Nowill Foundation in Brazil to launch an online campaign aimed to convince toy manufacturers to embrace Braille Bricks and produce them on a much wider scale. Using the #BrailleBricksForAll hashtag, the campaign reached over 141 million impressions. As a result, LEGO® announced they would modify their iconic toy bricks to help blind and visually impaired children learn and develop critical skills. Following initial pilots, the final LEGO® Braille Bricks kit will be launched in 2020 and distributed free of charge to select institutions. For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com. 33 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Uncovering the truths of modern slavery ► REALITY CHECK DDB Group Hong Kong, DDB Created by DDB Hong Kong on the eve of the 25th anniversary of anti-slavery organization Hagar International, the Reality Check campaign raised awareness that slavery is not only rife throughout the world but is also cheaper now than any time in human history. In a live activation shown in the campaign’s video, unsuspecting Hong Kong diners are presented with bills showing the number of human lives they could buy for the same price as their meal. DDB also developed a campaign microsite featuring the stories of survivors of slavery and information for visitors to learn more about how to support Hagar International’s efforts around the world. The campaign resulted in a 140% increase in donations made to Hagar. For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com. 34 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Challenging taboos around the female body ► VIVA LA VULVA AMVBBDO and Ketchum, BBDO Viva La Vulva is a campaign with at its heart, a lip-sync music video with a twist: it shows a beautiful diversity of vulvas singing loud and proud to the women who love them. Girls are not born ashamed of their genitals. Yet over half of women are embarrassed by theirs and a growing number wonder how to “get the perfect vagina”. How can you care for something if you do not love it the way it is? Libresse, a feminine care brand, who was new to intimate care in Europe, along with AMVBBDO and Ketchum, decided to dynamite the myth of the perfect vulva through much-needed diversity and positivity that culture and the category were denying because the only imperfect vulva is the one that is silenced and unloved. For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com. 35 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Enabling unbiased news reporting ► OPENLY FleishmanHillard, DAS FleishmanHillard worked with the Thomson Reuters Foundation to launch OPENLY — an impartial LGBTQIA+ news platform that removes western bias to tell stories across the map. On top of 1.1 million-plus organic Facebook video views and 118 million-plus readers in 48 countries, the unbiased reporting through OPENLY influenced Malaysia’s National Health Ministry to drop its “gender identity disorder” language. The powerful work earned recognition at the 2019 ICCO Global Awards and the first-ever PRWeek Campaigns for Good Awards. For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com. 36 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Instilling confidence in the leaders of tomorrow ► LESSONS IN HERSTORY Goodby Silverstein & Partners, DAS Less than 11% of stories in U.S. history textbooks are about women, giving children a false picture of what is possible. Timed with Women’s History Month, GS&P helped Daughters of the Evolution launch “Lessons in HerStory,” an app that uses augmented reality to rewrite popular U.S. history textbooks. Lessons in HerStory tackles the power imbalance between men and women in society and shows young girls they can make history too. The app has reached thousands of schools and a potential audience of more than 59 million students, expanding history and instilling confidence in the leaders of tomorrow. For additional highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com. 37 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report COVID-19 Response: A 2020 Summary As the COVID-19 pandemic has upended the world, Omnicom agencies have worked tirelessly to support their communities and provide clients the services and solutions they need during these unprecedented times. Here are a few examples. HANDLE WITH CARE COMMUNITY SHIELDS SUPPORTING NONPROFIT PARTNERS TBWA\Helsinki, TBWA (Finland) BBDO Guerrero, BBDO (Philippines) OMG MENA, DAS (Middle East) Public places are hot spots for contagious diseases. To help control Due to a shortage of personal protective equipment (PPE), nonmedical To contribute to critical relief campaigns during the COVID-19 pandemic, the spread of COVID-19, clean-energy company Fortum developed Vipu, frontline workers, such as delivery persons and security personnel, Omnicom Media Group MENA joined forces with regional media owners a hands-free handle made from recycled plastics that enables people can often be left without proper protection. BBDO Guerrero teamed in the Middle East to provide complimentary media space to its longto open doors with their forearms. TBWA helped develop an advertising up with the Philippine Chamber of Business and Professionals to raise standing partner charities. With this support, Dubai Cares, Gulf for Good campaign for the product launch to demonstrate its innovative and awareness of the issue and launch #CommunityShields – a series and Médecins Sans Frontières were able to reach a larger audience with sustainable design, which gives new life to plastic waste while reducing of instructional posters and social posts that teach people how their call to action. Their COVID-19 campaigns are focused on education, people’s contact with potentially contaminated surfaces. to construct masks and shields for community frontliners using health, and critical support for people, particularly children, in need in the everyday materials. region and beyond. DRAFT-A-THON COVID-19 RETAILER TOOLKIT OMD, DAS (United States) The Integer Group (United States) To raise money for COVID-19 relief, OMD worked with the National The United Nations issued an open call to creatives around the globe Football League (NFL) to develop a campaign for Draft-A-Thon – to help in “translating critical public health messages into different a fundraiser held in conjunction with the iconic NFL Draft. Using languages, different cultures, communities and platforms, reaching targeted messaging, social media, digital assets and search functions, everyone, everywhere.” In response, the Integer Group created the the team amplified awareness of the event, directing audiences COVID-19 Retailer Toolkit, featuring clear, visual “two carts apart” to stream the fundraiser alongside the NFL Draft. Draft-A-Thon guidelines that will help retailers promote social distancing requirements generated 23 million-plus views, with 46 million-plus minutes watched and ensure the safety of shoppers. The toolkit is turnkey and its files are and an Ask Me Anything of 55,000-plus across multiple platforms – open, allowing for customization in language, color palette and logos. all while raising over $100 million for COVID-19 relief. 38 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report SIGNAL FOR HELP REOPEN CONNECTICUT Juniper Park\TBWA, TBWA (Canada) BBDO, Critical Mass, DDC Public Affairs, FleishmanHillard, OMD, Porter Novelli, Omnicom (United States) During quarantine, domestic violence reports escalated globally. The Canadian Women’s Foundation initiated “Signal For Help” to identify As part of Connecticut’s efforts to reopen in a responsible and safe victims of domestic abuse through a simple hand gesture used during manner, several Omnicom agencies worked to support the governor’s virtual gatherings. Toronto-based Juniper Park\TBWA helped develop Reopen Connecticut Advisory Group, composed of business leaders a social media plan that demonstrated how to perform the signal, and health and education experts. Agency representatives developed along with sharable web-based materials. The campaign has expanded an integrated communications plan featuring messaging, paid media, to Australia, France, Spain and the United States, providing resources website development, creative for PSAs and stakeholder outreach for victims around the world. to ensure messages were shared across the state. WHATSAPP INTEGRATION BLACK HEALTH NOW DDB Singapore, DDB (Singapore) TBWA\WorldHealth, TBWA (United States) Receiving timely, accurate information is critical during a pandemic. Beginning as an awareness campaign around medical bias, TBWA\ DDB Singapore worked with the local government to create an official WorldHealth’s Black Health Now quickly transformed into a series of WhatsApp channel to deliver daily COVID-19 updates. This tool gave virtual sessions with doctors, athletes, fitness experts and community subscribers access to trusted communications from the government leaders to help promote preventative health care and provide COVID-19 and provided a platform for health officials to clarify misinformation information tailored to the needs of Black Americans. The social media and share key announcements. series presents a different guest each week to address COVID-19’s disparate impact on people of color. Guests have included Olympian Tianna Bartoletta, National Urban League CEO Marc H. Morial and emergency medical physician Dr. Garth Walker. 39 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People COMMUNITY Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report ENVIRONMENT At Omnicom, we’re taking strategic actions to reduce the environmental impact of our operations across our networks and agencies in locations around the world. Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index Our teams are empowered to enhance and expand their efforts to advance our environmental priorities. Minimizing the Impact OUR GOAL for 2023 OUR PROGRESS in 2019 of Our Global Operations Being sustainable starts with holding ourselves REDUCE ENERGY USE BY ENERGY USE accountable and requires taking an innovative approach to increasing efficiency and reducing 20% PER 19% PER PERSON PERSON waste. As a provider of professional services, the primary environmental impact of our operations is from energy use in our buildings. As a result, GLOBALLY BY 2023 GLOBALLY PER our Environmental Policy focuses on the following USING A 2015 BASELINE 2015 BASELINE principles to minimize the environmental impact across our real estate footprint: • Efficient use of space OUR GOAL for 2023 OUR PROGRESS in 2019 • Proactive energy management • Smart travel and commuting INCREASE USE OF ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES 37% • Waste minimization GLOBALLY IN USE OF ELECTRICITY FROM We have established goals to reduce our RENEWABLE SOURCES overall energy use and increase the amount of electricity we consume from renewable TO 20% PER 2015 BASELINE, FROM 8% IN 2016, TO 16% IN 2019 resources. The following table shows our BY 2023 progress to date against these goals. Photo provided by GSD&M. 41 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community ENVIRONMENT Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Making Efficient Use of Space, Increasing Efficiency and Collaborating Across Agencies Around the world, our goal is to use the spaces we own and lease more efficiently, to reduce environmental impacts, while also promoting collaboration and creativity between agencies. The United Nations Environment Programme reports that buildings account for 36% of global energy use and 39% of greenhouse gas emissions annually. To reduce our contribution to this global challenge, we continually advanced efforts to reduce the footprint of our offices by transitioning to hub buildings with open floor plans and shared spaces for our agencies. In 2019, we completed the consolidation of agencies in multiple locations around the world. For example, in Dallas, we consolidated our agencies within an existing hub building by implementing an open office plan, cutting our office footprint by nearly half. Work is currently underway to consolidate more spaces in 2020, including moving our headquarters in New York City to a building with a smaller environmental footprint. Across our footprint, we’ve begun moving to agile work environments that bypass traditional dedicated workstations wherever it makes sense for our agencies and employees. As of this writing, we are still assessing what impact the COVID-19 pandemic will have on the way we work together in office spaces going forward. GOING PAPERLESS The finance departments for Quantum Market Research and Hall & Partners eliminated the use of paper in 2019. The eco-friendly move not only came with the added benefit of reduced paper and ink costs, but also increased productivity by giving the teams oneclick access to supporting documentation. 42 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community ENVIRONMENT Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report The goal of agile workplaces is to make the most efficient use of our spaces while giving people the room and comfort they need to work productively. In certain offices where we implemented this measure, such as Dallas and New York City, GRACE employees have already transitioned from assigned to unassigned workspaces. OF WASTE Our global planning standard guides our building and retrofitting activities, which includes following Leadership in Energy The Peter Schmidt Group turned their daily coffee grounds and Environmental Design TM (LEED ) principles. We’re introducing energy-efficient lighting, heating and cooling, while also ® into a nourishing beauty product. Used as a high-quality reducing and reusing materials. In these new and updated spaces, we’re driving ongoing energy and waste savings through holiday gift for business partners, even the packaging is shared conference rooms and service areas, state-of-the-art video conferencing, virtual file storage and printing centers. made from discarded coffee cups, and the amount of ink We also seek to replace existing building mechanical systems wherever possible and cost-effective to more efficient systems. used is minimal. For example, in Los Angeles, we are replacing 50 air-conditioning units with more efficient models in 2020. We regularly collect employee feedback through surveys, workshops and leadership meetings to ensure we’re implementing the best solutions for our agencies. We are testing desk reservation systems to better gauge the usage of space in shared environments. We’re encouraging our employees everywhere to make more efficient use of technology, such as video conferencing and collaboration tools, to cut down on travel and reduce the associated environmental impacts. A few of our agencies that have car fleets to execute their work are investing in hybrid and electric vehicles. Wherever possible, we encourage our employees to bike to work, use public transportation and choose train travel over flying. However, at the time of reporting, travel and commuting recommendations have been adjusted to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines and prioritize employee health and safety. ARTFUL RECYCLING Marina Maher Communications has turned recycling into an art form. The agency donates its used poster boards, easels and other items made of glass, metal or plastic to Materials for the Arts, a program that provides goods to artists, nonprofit groups and public schools in New York City. 43 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community ENVIRONMENT Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Shrinking Our Energy Footprint DEDICATING In 2019, we continued to cut our global energy GLOBAL ENERGY FOOTPRINT A DAY TO THE consumption, using 146,119 megawatt-hours (MWh) of energy, a 5% reduction compared 2019 2018 2017 2016 ENVIRONMENT to 2018. We also cut our electricity use by 6.4%, Total energy used (MWh) 146,119 153,023 175,964 188,365 Around the globe in 2019, our agencies celebrated our planet from 140,929 MWh in 2018 to 131,990 MWh by dedicating days of activities and initiatives to care for the Total electricity used (MWh) 131,990 140,929 152,841 161,903 in 2019. environment. Here are few examples: Total GHG emissions (Metric 200,376 240,124 260,233 289,685 We reduced our companywide greenhouse gas • In St. Louis, the FleishmanHillard Green Team encouraged Tonnes of CO2e (MT CO2e) emissions by 16% in 2019, compared to 2018, employees to bring a reusable container to work on thanks to lower business-travel emissions, World Environment Day in order to promote the habit which were down 23% compared to 2018, and and phase out the use of paper cups. Team members GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS (MT CO2e) lower purchased-electricity emissions, down also led a sustainability workshop where they discussed 2019 2018 2017 2016 nearly 12% year over year. sustainability tips for work and home and offered Scope 1 32,409 30,614 23,961 39,764 attendees the opportunity to make sustainability pledges. As part of Omnicom’s strategy to curb our In Germany, the FleishmanHillard offices introduced carbon footprint, we derive a portion of our Scope 2 58,005 65,407 77,445 73,905 “job bike,” a service through which employees can lease electricity needs from renewable sources. an insured bike to reduce the carbon footprint of their These efforts are spearheaded in the UK, Scope 3 109,962 144,103 158,827 176,016 commutes, and employees participated in a Zero Waste where we are buying green power in buildings Total GHG Emissions 200,376 240,124 260,233 289,685 Workshop with a local sustainable partner. that we manage through electricity purchasing agreements. In the United States, more • On World Environment Day, Proximity London than 90% of our electricity spend is through completely stripped the office kitchen of single-use landlords in our leased spaces, and we GLOBAL ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES (MWH) cups and promoted the “If you can’t reuse it, refuse it” encourage them to seek renewable energy 2019 2018 2017 2016 message as part of its “Cut the Plastic” campaign. sources whenever possible. In 2019, total Purchased (MWh) 21,200 14,987 15,689 16,401 electricity purchased from renewable resources • Resolution Media teams participated in Clean Up was up 30% year over year to 16% of total Australia Day to show appreciation for their communities % of total 16.1 10.6 10.1 10.3 electricity in 2019 from 10.6% in 2018. This by sending out teams of employees with plastic bags is advancing our goal to increase our use of and gloves to clean up their neighborhoods. electricity from renewable sources globally to 20% by 2023. 44 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community ENVIRONMENT Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report COMING TOGETHER Agency employees are passionate about the environment, and they demonstrate that enthusiasm by working together to raise awareness among their teams. Here are some ways they increased internal engagement in 2019: • PHD Australia kicked off an effort to “gamify” printing • The CPM “ROOT” team launched several initiatives, with a friendly competition between teams to see who including the development of a gardening club, could print the least. Since launch, the agency has swapping single-use plastic cups with plant-based reduced paper consumption by 42%. packaging, adding three charging ports in the parking lot for electric cars and raising awareness of new • In every city across its network, OMD has a “greenkeeper” recycling bins. who helps the agency meet its sustainability and environmental protection goals. OMD also offers a • Omnicom Media Group Malaysia participates in bike-leasing program, called JobRad, to encourage the Plant Cartridge Green Office program, which employees to cycle to work instead of driving. encourages employees to adopt a healthy lifestyle and diet while supporting local, sustainable farms. • BBDO Düsseldorf, Proximity, Batten & Company and The office receives fresh vegetables daily, and any Craftwork partnered on an internal campaign named unused produce is donated to the local soup kitchen. “Don’t be stupid. Stay clean.” The initiative reminds employees in a cheeky and funny way to act sustainably in the office, with posters in environmental “hot spots” UK NATIONAL GRID DEMAND SIDE RESPONSE by the printer and in the kitchen. Omnicom’s London headquarters participates in the National Grid Demand Side Response (DSR) program. By balancing the grid during times of high-energy demand, DSR helps negate the need for new fossil fuel-fired generation plants to address peak power needs. In 2019, Omnicom provided 2.5 megawatts of demand response, helping lower carbon emissions and ensure continuity of supply. 45 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community ENVIRONMENT Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Tackling the biodiversity and climate crises ► LION’S SHARE Clemenger BBDO Melbourne, BBDO Led by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and a coalition of businesses including founder FINCH, founding partner Mars, Clemenger BBDO and Nielsen, The Lion’s Share was created to tackle the biodiversity and climate crises. The initiative asks advertisers worldwide to contribute 0.5% of their media spend for each advertisement that features an animal. The funds are distributed to projects around the world that make a significant impact on animal conservation, habitat loss and climate change. As a campaign partner, Clemenger BBDO brought the concept to life and used its creative thinking to drive meaningful impact. For additional agency highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com. 46 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community ENVIRONMENT Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Ringing in Smokey Bear’s 75th birthday ► KEEPING WILDFIRE PREVENTION FROM “GETTING OLD” Hearts & Science, OMG As Ad Council’s pro bono partner of the year, Hearts & Science partnered with the organization to celebrate the 75th birthday of its iconic Smokey Bear. Supported only by donated media space and strategic audience insights, the team executed a fully refreshed digital campaign targeting millennial outdoor enthusiasts with tips and resources to prevent wildfires. Hearts & Science negotiated close to 10 million impressions in free display media, including customized assets triggered by high fire-risk weather, which created a more unique experience for audiences. Following the campaign’s success, Ad Council adopted Hearts & Science’s partner outreach process for use with other partners as well. For additional agency highlights, please visit csr.omnicomgroup.com. 47 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community ENVIRONMENT Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report GOVERNANCE Omnicom is dedicated to continually strengthening the structure and policies that govern our business. We know our success stems from a clear strategy and a transparent set of controls that align with the needs of all our stakeholders. Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index Each member of our board of directors and leadership team LEADERSHIP DIVERSITY AS OF JUNE 9, 2020 has extensive experience and diverse perspectives to ensure Board members: ethical standards are upheld and exemplary oversight is 6 4 maintained across our networks and agencies. of 9 of 9 ARE FEMALE ARE AFRICAN AMERICAN, INCLUDING OUR LEAD INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Governing Our Business Omnicom is led by our senior management team under the direction of our board of directors. Senior management team: The board has adopted, and periodically reviews, policies and procedures that guide the discharge of its oversight responsibilities. These policies and procedures provide a framework for managing 3 3 our company, consistent with our shareholders’ best interests and requirements of the law. of 11 of 11 ARE FEMALE ARE MULTICULTURAL Our board consists of nine directors: eight independent or outside directors and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, John D. Wren. Each director stands for election annually. Our four board committees are all composed solely of independent directors: • Audit Committee • Compensation Committee • Finance Committee • Governance Committee John D. Wren Mary C. Choksi Leonard S. Coleman, Jr. Susan S. Denison We seek to align our directors’ collective expertise with the skill areas most important to strong oversight of management. Accordingly, we periodically evaluate board composition to help inform board succession planning efforts, maintain close alignment between board skills and our long-term strategy, and promote board effectiveness. We elect our Lead Independent Director annually and evaluate the scope and nature of this role on an ongoing basis to ensure that its responsibilities are robust. Ronnie S. Hawkins Deborah J. Kissire Gracia C. Martore Linda Johnson Rice Valerie M. Williams 49 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GOVERNANCE Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report UPHOLDING THE CODE Ethics and Integrity If employees or others see or hear about activities that may violate the Code, the law or our policies, they are encouraged to ask questions and share their concerns by: Our Code of Business Conduct underscores our commitment to upholding the highest ethical standards. The Code spells out what we • Talking with their supervisor or any senior manager, the financial manager value, what we believe and the policies that all Omnicom employees – for their agency or network, or the legal department of their agency or network. both fulland part-time, at every level, in every location around the • Reaching out to Omnicom’s Legal Department via email or mail. world – must uphold. The Code also applies to everyone who represents Omnicom, from contractors to our board of directors. • Contacting the Internal Control Line – a 24/7, anonymous phone line. With an enhanced Code of Business Conduct rolled out across the Omnicom network in 2018, we focused on, and achieved, our goal to establish business ethics and/or anti-bribery training for our full-time, regular employees worldwide in 2019. We also developed a Supplier Code of Conduct. Similar to our own Code of Business Conduct, the Supplier Code of Conduct outlines the HUMAN RIGHTS expectations and high standards we expect from the businesses that provide us with goods and services. We require that all members of our supply chain – meaning any person or organization that provides POLICY a product or service to Omnicom, our agencies or indirectly to our clients – endorse our values by operating in compliance with this Code. Topics As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we include creating a positive work environment, safeguarding our resources, are committed to supporting and respecting the protection establishing and maintaining trust, complying with industry laws and of internationally proclaimed human rights and eliminating regulations, protecting the environment and respecting human rights. discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. This commitment is outlined in our Human Rights Policy. 50 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GOVERNANCE Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report COMPLIANCE WITH DATA PRIVACY LAWS SAFEGUARDING INFORMATION AND REGULATIONS By the nature of our business, we rely extensively on information technology systems at Omnicom and all our agencies and networks. Cybersecurity threats and attacks, which are becoming both more frequent and sophisticated, may pose a risk to our systems Since the European Union’s (EU) Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) took effect in 2018, and networks. We have systems and processes in place designed to protect against, we implemented global policies and additional awareness training to all our employees around the detect, prevent, monitor, and respond to and mitigate cybersecurity incidents. world, regardless of their location or level of exposure to personal identification information or related high-risk situations. We also updated our online Privacy Notice in 2019 in response to the California Interactive security awareness and cybersecurity training is offered in more than Consumer Privacy Act. a dozen languages, every quarter, to all Omnicom employees. Mandatory training modules include topics such as: • Email, Passwords and Phishing • Information Classification and Social Engineering • The Clean Desk Principle and Working Remotely • Cloud Computing and Mobile Devices • Intellectual Property In 2019, we implemented a cloud access security broker, which restricts the use of several unsupported cloud platforms for storing documents or collaborating. This enables us to better control data storage and manage the security of our clients’ intellectual property. With regard to consumer data use and privacy, Omnicom and its agencies act as data integrators, connecting separate data sources in order to deliver valuable insights to clients. This interconnected data is completely anonymous, and we work continuously with our partners to ensure it is protected from potential security threats. 51 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment GOVERNANCE Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report Photo provided by GSD&M. Material Topics Identification Stakeholder Engagement About This Report In developing this report, we consulted various The content of this report was developed primarily through interviews with Omnicom executives, global reporting frameworks – including the subject matter experts and Omnicom agency employees. We also engaged in conversations with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and some of our largest shareholders and interviewed NGO partners, clients and investors to solicit G4 Media Sector Disclosures, the Sustainability feedback on our recent corporate responsibility reports. These interviews informed our reporting Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Marketing strategy and provided further stakeholder input into our corporate responsibility efforts. and Advertising Sector Guidelines, the United As part of our regular governance efforts, we reached out to shareholders holding more than 60% Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the of our outstanding shares, and we spoke to every shareholder who accepted our invitation for United Nations Sustainable Development Goals engagement. The constructive feedback we received from shareholders – which often included (SDGs) – and internal and external stakeholders corporate responsibility topics such as diversity, equity and inclusion and environmental sustainability – to determinve relevant material topics. is shared with and discussed by the full board of directors on a regular basis. OUR MATERIAL TOPICS ARE: Feedback received from clients centered around requiring more accountability throughout the supply chain, ensuring data privacy and information security practices are upheld, being more • Diversity, equity and inclusion This report provides a high-level overview of Omnicom’s proactive in sharing corporate responsibility efforts, and exploring ways to track and disclose corporate responsibility commitments, activities • Employee attraction, development additional information requested from SASB, other reporting frameworks and related raters/rankers. and progress in 2019 and includes some anecdotal and retention These topics will help inform our path forward. information from early 2020. The report is organized • Community engagement to reflect our four focus areas: People, Community, Scope Environment and Governance. In this report and online • Environment at csr.omnicomgroup.com, we have included key The quantitative data in this report covers Omnicom’s global operations in fiscal year 2019 (from case studies from our diverse network of agencies • Ethics and integrity January 1 to December 31, 2019). Numbers throughout the report are estimates based on available to characterize our positive impact on society and data. Unless otherwise noted, data within the report reflects our United States operations. Our last • Governance report was published in 2018. the environment around the world. We plan to continue publishing an annual comprehensive corporate responsibility report that references the GRI Standards and fulfills our commitment as a UNGC signatory to produce a Communication on Progress. 52 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance ABOUT About THIS This REPORT Report UNGC Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report This report provides information on our corporate responsibility strategy and performance for fiscal year 2019 and covers the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress requirements. UN Global Compact Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 1: Businesses should support Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Principle 7: Businesses should Principle 10: Businesses should work and respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective support a precautionary approach to against corruption in all its forms, including proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; environmental challenges; extortion and bribery. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote Omnicom operates in an increasingly complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labor; greater environmental responsibility; and complex global environment, and our commitment to the highest ethical standards Communication on Progress Omnicom’s commitment to support and Principle 5: The effective abolition of child Principle 9: Encourage the development in the communities where we do business respect human rights is embodied in our labor; and and diffusion of environmentally is outlined in our Code of Business Conduct. Human Rights Policy, Code of Business friendly technologies. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination Omnicom directors, officers and employees Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct in respect of employment and occupation. Omnicom is committed to promoting greater undergo mandatory training for, and are (expected to go into effect prior to December environmental responsibility and regularly required to comply with, all applicable anti31, 2020). The Code of Business Conduct Omnicom’s directors, officers and employees reports on environmental performance corruption and anti-bribery laws, including covers our commitment to comply with all are required to comply with our Code of throughout our operations. Omnicom’s the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the laws of the places where we do business, Business Conduct, which sets the foundation Environmental Policy outlines our approach UK Bribery Act of 2010, and any other local our prohibition against insider trading, our for how we should do business on a dayto minimize our impact by encouraging our anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws where duty to advance our employer’s legitimate to-day basis. We are an equal opportunity companies to consider their environmental we do business. For more information on interest and our commitment to equal employer and do not discriminate against footprint in terms of conscious design of office our commitment to ethics and compliance, opportunity. Our Supplier Code of Conduct employees or job applicants on the basis space; energy efficiency; travel and commuting; see the Governance section of this report. will hold our vendors to the same high of race, religion, sex, national origin, age, procurement; and recycling and waste standards we hold ourselves. The Human disability, sexual orientation, gender identity management. For more information on our Rights Policy and Code of Business Conduct and/or expression, pregnancy or any similar commitment to environmental sustainability, are available on our Corporate Governance status or condition. For more information on see the Environment section of this report. website. For more information on our our commitment to fair labor, see the People commitment to respecting human rights, section of this report. see the Governance section of this report. 53 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC UNGCPROGRESS Progress GRI Index 2019 CR Report TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE General Disclosures GRI Index General Disclosures 102-01 Name of the organization Omnicom Group General Disclosures 102-02 Activities, brands, products, and services 2019 10-K, p. 1 (Our Business) General Disclosures 102-03 Location of headquarters 437 Madison Avenue, New York, New York General Disclosures 102-04 Location of operations 2019 10-K, p. 7 (Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) General Disclosures 102-05 Ownership and legal form 2019 10-K, p. 1 (Our Business), p. 6 (Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities) General Disclosures 102-06 Markets served 2019 10-K, p. 1 (Our Business), p. 2 (Our Clients), p. 7 (Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) 2019 CR Report, p. 5 (About Omnicom Group) General Disclosures 102-07 Scale of the organization 2019 CR Report, p. 5 (About Omnicom Group) 2019 10-K, p. 2 (Our Employees), p. 5 (Item 2: Properties), p. 6 (Item 6: Selected Financial Data) General Disclosures 102-08 Information on employees and other workers 2019 CR Report, p. 5 (About Omnicom Group), p. 10 (Measuring Our Progress), p. 10 (Our People at a Glance) General Disclosures 102-09 Supply chain 2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity), p. 21 (Supporting Supplier Diversity) General Disclosures 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2019 10-K, p. 10 (Acquisitions and Goodwill) General Disclosures 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Omnicom Environmental Policy 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 20 (Risk Oversight) General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives CEO Action, Common Ground, Partnership for Global LGBTI Equality, The Valuable 500, UN Global Compact, UN Unstereotype Alliance 54 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI INDEX GRI Index 2019 CR Report TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE General Disclosures 102-13 Membership of associations 4A’s Advertiser Protection Bureau, 4A’s Multicultural Advertising Intern Program, AAF Mosaic Center for Multiculturalism, Ad Council, ADCOLOR, Advertising Research Fund, Girl Effect, GLAAD, Makers, Trustworthy Accountability Group, Theirworld, Time’s Up General Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2019 CR Report, p. 4 (Letter from Our CEO) General Disclosures 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2019 10-K, p. 3 (Item 1A: Risk Factors) General Disclosures 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Omnicom Code of Business Conduct 2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity) General Disclosures 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Omnicom Code of Business Conduct Internal Control Line General Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure The Company’s Governance Committee works with management to adopt and make recommendations to the Company’s Code of Business Conduct, which includes economic, environmental and social topics. See also: 2019 CR Report, p. 49 (Leadership Diversity) 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 25-28 (Board Leadership Structure) General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 21 General Disclosures 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, Omnicom’s leadership team oversees economic, environmental, social and and social topics governance initiatives. The leadership team includes our Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary, Chief Diversity Officer, Dean of Omnicom University and Chief Communications Officer. General Disclosures 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement) social topics 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 6 (Shareholder Engagement) General Disclosures 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2019 CR Report, p. 49 (Leadership Diversity) 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 13-18 (2020 Director Nominees) 55 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI INDEX GRI Index 2019 CR Report TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE General Disclosures 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 25 (Board Leadership Structure) General Disclosures 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 19 (Shareholder Nomination Process), p. 20 (Majority Voting Standard for Election of Directors) General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 30-31 (Ethical Business Conduct) General Disclosures 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities) and strategy Governance Committee Charter General Disclosures 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Senior management (see Disclosure 102-20) regularly discusses economic, environmental, social and governance topics during shareholder engagement meetings conducted annually. General Disclosures 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 11-12 (Qualifications of the Members of the Board) General Disclosures 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities) social impacts Governance Committee Charter General Disclosures 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities) General Disclosures 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 20-21 (Board’s Role and Responsibilities), p. 26-27 (Board Operations and Committee Structure) General Disclosures 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Reviewed by Chief Financial Officer. General Disclosures 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 24 (Shareholder Communications with Board Members) General Disclosures 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 4-8 (Meeting Agenda and Voting Recommendations) General Disclosures 102-35 Remuneration policies 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 7 (Executive Compensation Highlights), p. 31 (Directors’ Compensation for Fiscal Year 2019), p. 35-65 (Executive Compensation) General Disclosures 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 43 (Compensation Discussion & Analysis), p. 55 (Role of the Independent Compensation Consultant) 56 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI INDEX GRI Index 2019 CR Report TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE General Disclosures 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 33 (Item 2: Advisory Resolution to Approve Executive Compensation) General Disclosures 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 2020 Proxy Statement, p. 65 (Pay Ratio Disclosure) General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement) General Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 0% of Omnicom employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements. General Disclosures 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement) General Disclosures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement) General Disclosures 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Stakeholder Engagement) General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2019 10-K, Exhibit 21 (Subsidiaries of the Registrant) General Disclosures 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (About This Report) General Disclosures 102-47 List of material topics 2019 CR Report, p. 52 (Material Topics Identification) General Disclosures 102-48 Restatements of information No material restatements General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting None General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2019 General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual General Disclosures 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com General Disclosures 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report references disclosures from the GRI Standards 2018 and the GRI G4 Media Sector Disclosures, as detailed in this index. General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index 2019 CR Report, p. 54 (2019 GRI Content Index) 57 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI INDEX GRI Index 2019 CR Report TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured. Management Approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2019 CR Report, p. 10 (Our Commitment and Approach), p. 21 (Supporting Supplier Diversity), p. 23 (Investing in Training and Development), p. 27 (Community), p. 30 (Making a World of Difference), p. 41 (Minimizing the Impact of Our Global Operations), p. 48 (Governance) Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components See Disclosure 103-1 Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach See Disclosure 103-1 Economic Disclosures Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2019 10-K, p. 6 (Item 6: Selected Financial Data), p. F4-F8 (Consolidated Balance Sheets) Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 2019 10-K, p. 5 (Item 1A: Risk Factors) to climate change Economic Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2019 10-K, p. F25-F26 (Defined Benefit Pension Plans) Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the Partially reported: The majority of our senior management at the Omnicom holding local community company level are hired from the countries they work in. Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community) Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community), p. 30 (Making a World of Difference) Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Most of Omnicom’s buying decisions are made at the agency level in the context of the production of client products and campaigns. Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 2019 CR Report, p. 53 (UN Global Compact Communication on Progress: Anti-Corruption) 2019 10-K, p. 4-5 (Item 1A: Risk Factors) Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity) and procedures Omnicom Code of Business Conduct 58 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI INDEX GRI Index 2019 CR Report TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE Environmental Disclosures Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint) Energy 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 2019 CR Report, p. 41 (Minimizing the Impact of Our Global Operations) Energy 302-3 Energy intensity 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint) Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint) Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint) Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint) Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint) Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 2019 Climate Change CDP Response Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 2019 CR Report, p. 44 (Shrinking Our Energy Footprint) Social Disclosures Employment 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided The percentage of part-time employees at the Omnicom holding company level is to temporary or part-time employees insignificant. Omnicom doesn’t track this information at the agency level. Employment 401-3 Parental leave 2019 CR Report, p. 26 (Parental Leave Policy Expansion) Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Partially reported: 2019 CR Report, p. 23 (Omnicom University) Omnicom offers employees training related to cybersecurity, sexual harassment, and ethics and integrity. Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 2019 CR Report, p. 23 (Omnicom University) assistance programs Training and Education 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Employee performance and career development reviews are conducted at the career development reviews agency level. 59 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI INDEX GRI Index 2019 CR Report TITLE DISCLOSURE GRI STANDARDS DISCLOSURE TITLE 2019 LOCATION/RESPONSE Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 2019 CR Report, p. 10 (Measuring Our Progress), p. 49 (Governing Our Business) Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 2019 CR Report, p. 50 (Ethics and Integrity) Human Rights Policy Omnicom Code of Business Conduct Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community) assessments, and development programs Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Partially reported: Omnicom Group does not make direct monetary contributions to political candidates or party committees. In accordance with all applicable laws, persons working at Omnicom agencies are permitted to make contributions whether directly or through in-kind support using their own resources. Sector-Specific Disclosures Media G4-DMA Portrayal of Human Rights Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area. See: 2019 CR Report, p. 27-32 (Community), p. 33-37 (Our Agencies in Action) Media G4-DMA Cultural Rights Various Omnicom agencies are doing positive work in this area. See: 2019 CR Report, p. 33-37 (Our Agencies in Action) Media G4-M7 Media Literacy Omnicom at the holding company level contributes to partners who empower audiences and society to develop skills. See: 2019 CR Report, p. 27 (Community) 60 About Us CR Goals Year in Review People Community Environment Governance About This Report UNGC Progress GRI INDEX GRI Index 2019 CR Report 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT If you have questions or comments regarding this report, please email Katie.Beaule@omnicomgroup.com. Read more at csr.omnicomgroup.com.
