United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Period covered From: August 2019 To: July 2020 Statement of Support I am glad to reaffirm that Sustainable Living Lab will continue its support and commitment to the Global Compact. We are here to stay. and we will continue supporting the sustainable development goals, and we commend all organisations who are united by this same mission. In this Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Yours sincerely, Veerappan s/o Swaminathan Director Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Sustainable Living Lab aims to provide all employees and partners a safe and sanitary workplace. Apart from providing suitable workplace, we also enforce appropriate standard workplace conduct in our organisation. We also aim to influence all our employees and partners to voice out any grievances and inequalities faced in work. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. We have published and actively informed employees and partners of our commitment and encouraged them to commit as well. Internal system is in place where our employees are briefed and trained in regards to our commitment. Commitment • Not engaging in behaviour that would constitute discrimination or harassment to others. • Being able to clarify what constitutes harassment and discrimination • Taking all reasonable steps to deal with alleged workplace discrimination and harassment​. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We adopt an open approach that encourages employees and partners to voice out and report any suspicious wrong doings with respect to our guidelines. No reports have been feedback since the implementation of the system. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Sustainable Living Lab supports the UNGC principles of labour standards. In addition to Singapore laws with regards to Labour Rights. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. Employees are responsible for respecting the dignity and rights of their co-workers. Discrimination and harassment are serious forms of employee misconduct in our organisation which may result in disciplinary action depending on the severity. With respect to employment our organisation treats every person with equal treatment, without discrimination or harassment because of any prohibited grounds. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. We adopt an open approach that encourages employees to voice out and report any wrong doings in regards to our guidelines. No reports have been feedback since the implementation of the system. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Sustainable Living Lab supports the UNGC principles on the Environment. We also encourage organisations to think and behave sustainably and support sustainable development goals. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. Our Community Innovation unit seeks to engage communities and initiate environmental action. We focus our efforts on the reduction of electronic waste through our Repair Kopitiam program where members of the community are able to learn and share their repair skills. With the support of the National Environmental Agency in Singapore, we are aiming to seed and nurture a total of 15 repair communities around Singapore within the next reporting period. We have presently nurtured 3 repair communities around Singapore. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. We measure the number of community members who have learned repair skills through our activities, the amount of electronic appliances diverted from the waste stream and the public engagement numbers of our outreach activities. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. Sustainable living Lab supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption. We are against all forms of corruption.​ Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. We have a system in place for whistle-blowing for any Code of Conduct within our organisation. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. We adopt an open approach that encourages employees and partners to voice out and report any suspicious wrong doings with respect to our guidelines. No reports have been feedback since the implementation of the system.
