Modern Slavery Statement From our Chairman and Managing Director & CEO Dear Stakeholders, We do not tolerate behaviour that is in breach of the law or which is non-compliant with our corporate policies and Stockland takes seriously its position of influence as expect our employees and suppliers to operate in a manner one of Australia’s largest, listed real estate groups. Our which is consistent with our values and standards. operations and supply chains touch the lives of thousands of people worldwide. We believe that we have both the This Statement sets out the steps we have taken during the opportunity and the responsibility to create the right financial year ended 30 June 2020 to identify and address balance of social, environmental and economic conditions modern slavery within our operations and supply chains. for our employees, suppliers, partners, customers and Our approach includes a commitment to continuous investors now and in the future. improvement as we increase our understanding and awareness of modern slavery risks. Forced, bonded and compulsory labour To date we have made good progress on awareness are serious human rights violations, and training for employees in supply-chain facing roles and have built an understanding of the activities of our higher it is incumbent upon us to use our risk suppliers. We have continued to conduct specialised leverage, both as individuals and as due diligence across our cleaning contractors during the part of organisations, to eradicate these COVID-19 pandemic and remain vigilant to the heightened risk within that sector. unacceptable forms of abuse. Investigations into the supply chains of our development Our Modern Slavery Statement (Statement), published projects have given us insights into potential building in accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Act) is material risk areas and helped us identify areas to focus attached to this letter. our engagement going forward. These activities will allow us to adapt our approach over time and build appropriate This Statement comprises the consolidation of Stockland remediation and remedy mechanisms if cases of modern Corporation Limited and its controlled entities and slavery are uncovered. Stockland Trust and its controlled entities (collectively referred to as ‘Stockland’ 'Group'). It acts as the policy Our progress to date would not be possible without the framework including governance, risk assessment, due coordinated efforts of government, the property industry diligence and remediation for all Stockland entities and our many suppliers and partners. We wish to thank and their business activities. This Statement has been them for their cooperation and look forward to continuing prepared by Stockland’s Modern Slavery Working Group on this important path with them to help eradicate and endorsed by Stockland’s Board. modern slavery. While this Statement is our first public disclosure specifically addressing modern slavery in line with the requirements of the new Act, we have been committed Tom Pockett Mark Steinert to the improvement of the rights and wellbeing of people Chairman Managing Director & CEO across our operations for many years through a focus on supply chain transparency. A commitment to respect and promote human rights is an essential part of our business activities and stakeholder relationships, and this is appropriately reflected in our human rights policies and procedures published both internally and externally. Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 1 Our FY20 key actions Risk assessment Supplier engagement Stockland supply chain mapped Over 450 suppliers directly engaged and assessed for modern slavery on supply chain and human risk potential rights issues Collaboration Policy Supplier assessment developed with Updated ‘What Stockland Expects Property Council Australia and 14 from our Suppliers’ Policy to industry peers emphasise human rights expectations Due diligence Education 100 percent of Category A suppliers All employees with procurement assessed for modern slavery risk within and supplier management their supply chain responsibilities completed tailored modern slavery awareness training About Stockland At Stockland, we are driven by our purpose – ‘we believe We have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact there is a better way to live’. We are committed to (UNGC) since May 2015, supporting the 10 principles of conducting business across our value chain with integrity, the UNGC on human rights, labour, environment and antito high standards of ethical behaviour, and in line with corruption, and participants of the UNGC Modern Slavery our values of community, accountability, respect and Community of Practice. excellence (CARE). We also support the United Nations Sustainable In accordance with these values, and the UN Guiding Development Goals including ‘Goal 8 – decent work and Principles on Business and Human Rights, we are economic growth’ which includes the commitment to work committed to respecting and promoting human rights to eradicate the many forms of modern slavery that exist. consistent with the International Bill of Rights (including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) and the eight fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 2 Our structure and operations Stockland employees 1,611 Stockland is one of the largest diversified real estate groups in Australia, with $15.0 billion of real estate assets as at 30 June 2020. We own, manage and develop town centres, workplace and logistic assets, and residential and retirement living communities. We create and support thriving communities and workplaces that enable a better way to live. Established in 1952 and headquartered in Sydney, we operate wholly within Australia. We are a listed company on Stockland real estate assets $15.0bn the Australian Securities Exchange, structured as a stapled security, a combination of a unit in Stockland Trust and a share in Stockland Corporation Limited. The Modern Slavery Statement forms part of our overall Corporate Reporting Suite. The suite includes our Annual Report, Investor Presentation, Sustainability Reporting and Corporate Governance Statement. More information on our business and how we operate can be found in our Annual Report. Our supply chain In FY20 we procured over $1.58 billion1 of goods and services from 3,5301 direct suppliers. Our diverse range of suppliers includes building contractors (civil and built form), design Suppliers1 3,530 consultants, information technology, cleaning, security and waste service providers. Overall, procurement associated with the development of our assets accounts for 74 per cent of annual spend, with the remaining spend on operational and corporate procurement. Our development spend is predominately procured from Australian suppliers. Our direct suppliers have their own complex and diverse supply chains that can extend beyond Australian borders. Procured goods and services1 $1.58bn This includes having many suppliers of materials or services who in turn rely on many more suppliers, both domestic and international. It is this extended supply chain that has been identified as one of our highest risk areas for modern slavery. We are committed to working with our suppliers and the extended supply chain to identify and address modern slavery. 1 Excludes 130 government agencies representing approximately $340 million of spend Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 3 Governance Policy framework Governance structure Strong corporate governance is at the core of how we Stockland’s Board has responsibility for establishing a conduct business with integrity and meet the expectations framework of risk management across Stockland. The of stakeholders. Our [Corporate Governance Statement] Risk Committee assists the Board in its responsibilities details our approach to achieving and demonstrating relating to: the highest standards of corporate governance and accountability for our actions. Our Code Of Conduct • assessing the effectiveness of Stockland’s overall risk management framework further reiterates how we expect our employees, directors, contractors and consultants to conduct business in a way • supporting a prudent and risk aware approach to business decisions across Stockland. that promotes and respects human rights. The Risk Committee reviews a wide range of matters Guiding our approach to modern slavery is our What relating to non-financial risks, including Stockland’s human Stockland Expects from its Suppliers Policy. This rights related risks and those concerning modern slavery. details our commitment to responsible procurement and The Risk Committee is chaired by an independent nonour expectation that our suppliers and their supply executive director and meets at least four times per year. chains operate in a manner consistent with Stockland’s values and objectives and relevant legislation. The policy On 17 April 2019, we established a Modern Slavery Working states our expectation that our suppliers implement Group (Working Group) to develop and implement our appropriate labour policies across their organisation, modern slavery strategy, manage our various initiatives including eliminating all forms of modern slavery. We have and ongoing priorities relating to effectively identifying and communicated this policy to our suppliers and as part of a managing modern slavery risks and due diligence activities new system launch our suppliers will be required to confirm (including managing our reporting obligation). Co-chaired they have read, understood and comply with this policy as by the General Manager of Group Project Management and part of the supplier on-boarding process. Key supporting Direct Procurement and the Group Risk Officer, the Working policies and guidelines include but are not limited to: Group meets each month and includes representatives from across the business including Sustainability, Legal, • Human Rights Policy Investor Relations, People and Culture, Risk, Procurement • Whistleblower Policy and Operations. • Supply Chain Management Approach • Fraud and Corruption Policy • What Stockland Expects from its Partners Guideline. Stockland Board ↑ Board Risk Committee WHISTLEBLOWING AT STOCKLAND ↑ Stockland encourages employees and external stakeholders to report any improper conduct they Executive Committee encounter. All complaints are investigated in a fair ↑ and objective manner, including the involvement Modern Slavery Working Group of external parties where appropriate. Stockland Legal, Risk. People and Culture, Sustainability, Procurement, employees or external stakeholders who wish to report Operations, Project Management, Investor Relations improper conduct anonymously can do so via the ‘Tell Me’ online form or via Stockland's external and independent whistleblowing service provider (details are provided in the Whistleblower Policy). Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 4 Our risk management and due diligence approach Risk assessment occurring in different industries and countries. Within these social risk categories are impacts relating to modern slavery such as: child labour, forced labour, excessive In July 2018, we undertook a Group-wide human rights working time, safe working conditions, exploitation of issues review to better understand the potential challenges migrant labour and general human rights and governance. facing our business and to build an understanding of issues within the broader property sector. This review This risk review was coupled with a literature review to identified our supply chain as having the highest potential identify evidence of modern slavery occurring in Australian for human rights risk, highlighting the need to understand supply chains, which included a variety of public sources the sourcing practices of our suppliers, to identify high risk such as news articles, findings of Senate hearing groups products and geographies, and the intersection between and topical reports published by various advocacy and the two. research organisations. Further to this, in July 2019 we conducted a modern The outcomes of the Social Hotspot Database and the slavery risk assessment to identify the areas within our literature review provided the baseline data required to development, operational and corporate supply chain that categorise our suppliers into four priority assessment are at greatest risk of modern slavery. The assessment groups. This categorisation has enabled us to prioritise divided our spend into 45 procurement categories which our focus and response to the suppliers on the basis of the were then screened for five social risk categories: labour highest likelihood of modern slavery (risk), and our ability rights and decent work, health and safety, human rights, to influence and have an impact (spend). governance, and community infrastructure. These risks were obtained from the Social Hotspot Database which indicates the likelihood of an issue Priority group Share of spend No. of suppliers Definition Examples Category A 14% 26 High risk, high spend Built form construction/ maintenance contracts >$5 million, cleaning Category B 13% 954 High risk, low spend Built form construction contracts < $5 million, security, IT electronics (e.g. computers and phones), marketing goods (e.g. promotion merchandise), catering Category C 29% 192 High spend, low risk Civil construction contracts Category D 45% 2,358 Low spend, low risk All remaining suppliers Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 5 Due diligence and remediation Where potential issues are identified, we will work with, and continuously engage with the supplier to learn more about the issue and implement mitigation and monitoring In collaboration with the Property Council of Australia strategies through corrective action plans. Termination of (PCA), industry experts and 14 other PCA member groups, supplier contract will be considered in instances where we developed a property industry modern slavery supplier suppliers do not meet minimum requirements of their assessment tool, providing a consistent method for corrective action plan or are otherwise unwilling to work participants to conduct modern slavery risk assessments with us to improve their performance despite all reasonable (Assessment). The Assessment allows suppliers to provide measures being taken. their response to all clients on the same platform, increasing transparency and efficiency by eliminating The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is having devastating the need to provide data to multiple clients in varying human and economic impact across the world. In June formats. The Assessment considers aspects such as 2020, we conducted an assessment of where and how supplier risk areas, policies and procedures, training and the pandemic may increase the vulnerability of workers supplier engagement. within our supply chain to modern slavery. The assessment indicated that suppliers within the cleaning industry may Using our priority assessment categories, we issued this have significant exposure to increased modern slavery risks Assessment to all our Category A suppliers in FY20 as our as a result of COVID-19. primary due diligence approach. Of the 26 suppliers issued the Assessment, 100 per cent undertook the Assessment More information on supplier engagement activities can be within the tool. All new Category A suppliers are also found in our [FY20 Supply Chain Deep Dive]. required to complete the Assessment as part of the contract award process. CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL RISK ASSESSMENTS The Assessment tool asks suppliers to complete over 100 To gain a deeper understanding of our supply chain questions on modern slavery. However, for our first year of and associated modern slavery risks present within assessment we have focused on those questions regarding construction materials, we selected a typical, medium awareness of modern slavery and the scope of policies density residential development to pilot a specific due regarding supply chain transparency and modern slavery diligence exercise. This involved mapping the supply and subcontracting activities. This has helped us establish chain of a house based on typical materials utilised a baseline for our due diligence and has improved our and identification of modern slavery risks in the supply understanding of how we can support our suppliers and chains of these materials. encourage continuous improvement. Utilising the materials risk assessment, we prioritised Of the Category A suppliers assessed, we found: suppliers with higher risk materials such as tiling and joinery, to engage with and learn more about their Focus area Category A business, operations and supply chain. Our initial suppliers engagement took the form of a questionnaire, which Aware of modern slavery legislation 88% was tailored based on the suppliers’ nature, location Understand modern slavery issues 75% and potential impact. Modern slavery risk assessment complete or 63% This pilot allowed us to not only learn more about planned within next 12 months. potential risk areas within our materials supply Accessed resources to better understand 63% chain, but to also engage in a meaningful way with modern slavery multiple tiers of suppliers and deepen our knowledge Train employees on modern slavery 63% about how to implement a very effective modern Aware their suppliers sub-contract or use third 25% slavery assessment tool. Where potential issues parties and request information from them or were identified with a supplier or their product, we have knowledge about their practices have the opportunity to work with them to gain more information, or explore alternative options Our next steps are to engage with those suppliers that have where suitable. indicated no awareness or no plan to assess modern slavery Find out more about the pilot at our ‘Willowdale and provide the necessary support and encourage those Retirement Village’ on our website. that have a plan to demonstrate continuous improvement. Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 6 CASE STUDY MODERN SLAVERY LENS PROVIDES GREATER VISIBILITY INTO CLEANING SERVICES Across Australia, at our assets, there are over 350 cleaners, In response, we are continuing to reinforce our requirement in Stockland-branded uniforms, working for cleaning to comply with Stockland's subcontracting standards and service suppliers. Supplier Code of Conduct throughout the pandemic. During this time, we have also gained a greater appreciation Our risk assessment has highlighted the cleaning services for how contractors are managing modern slavery during sector as high risk for modern slavery. This is due to a period of heightened risk. For example, it has given the complexity of its contracting relationships, franchising us the opportunity to: consider approaches to updating and sub-contracting practices. We have been proactively work practices and reporting processes; assess training of managing the risk associated with outsourcing labour personnel; and secure critical supplies such as cleaning intensive and low-skilled work to third parties, such chemicals and personal protective equipment. as cleaning for many years and have a long-term strategy focused on enabling safe, fair and equitable Whilst our due diligence activities are ongoing, the process working conditions. has provided greater transparency throughout our supply chain as we identify opportunities to work with our We have engaged industry consultants to conduct contractors to address specific risks. Pleasingly, we have specialised due diligence processes to determine if our also found several of our larger contractors are conducting cleaning services contractors are suitable partners for their own due diligence activities for their sub-contractors Stockland. The due diligence approach includes the and suppliers. assessment of supplier documentation, conversations with the service contractor employees and key management We also have more visibility into how our contractors personnel, and site visits. These reviews have been are approaching payroll compliance. Amidst the current conducted on multiple occasions and occur alongside the media attention placed upon non-compliance, several PCA assessment process. contractors have demonstrated an increased awareness of the restrictions imposed through the cleaning award, With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is possible that focussing on areas of concern such as award rates the risk profile of the cleaning services sector may have paid, superannuation entitlements and hours worked increased in some instances. Cleaning has been deemed by employees. an essential service under the COVID-19 lockdown and the demand for cleaning services has rapidly increased (and continues to increase) as a result. Accordingly, there may be increased pressure on already vulnerable workers to provide services under very difficult working conditions increasing their risk of exploitation. Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 7 Assessing effectiveness We are responsible for the continuous improvement of our • regularly engaging with suppliers beyond initial processes and actions taken to address modern slavery assessment via the PCA questionnaire, to identify risks within all tiers of our supply chain, acknowledging points of improvement within the process and track this is an on-going process. The ways in which we measure awareness levels effectiveness include: • requesting and monitoring feedback after supplier and staff training sessions • regularly reviewing our modern slavery approach • monitoring frequency and trends of whistleblowing conducted within the Modern Slavery Working Group channels. During FY20, we did not identify any potential and reporting to the Executive Committee, Risk modern slavery risks from the incidents raised via our Committee and Board on a periodic basis whistleblowing channels. • monitoring the number and range of suppliers who have been issued and have completed the assessment, the corrective action plans implemented, and actions completed Future priorities We are committed to engaging with internal and external stakeholders and experts to continuously evolve our TRAINING AND ENGAGEMENT WITH THE SUPPLY response to modern slavery. CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY SCHOOL The Supply Chain Sustainability School (SCSS) is a Our future priorities include: virtual education platform dedicated to increasing • an annual assessment of 100 per cent of Category A and knowledge and competency of social, environmental Category B suppliers and economic sustainability within the property and • all suppliers required to formally acknowledge ‘What construction supply chain, of which Stockland is Stockland Expects of its Suppliers’ policy as part of the a founding partner. Designed to provide practical our supplier on-boarding process training for organisations and suppliers, the SCSS • the establishment of modern slavery-related key provides free, interactive learning modules to performance indicators (KPIs) for key management increase awareness of sustainability issues such as personnel and other employees modern slavery. • all employees to complete modern slavery Alongside more focused engagement and training awareness training sessions, we utilise the SCSS to provide targeted e• the identification of trends across our supplier base to learning modules to our suppliers, aiming to build develop collaborative improvement opportunities knowledge in a format that is easily accessible and • working with industry experts, civil society (including can be consumed in a way that suits individual and the UNGC) and peers to develop a robust, collective team needs. strategy towards remediating modern slavery risks within the supply chain. As part of our initial phase, we have also made these modern slavery-related learning modules available for all Stockland employees to promote awareness of the issue and our response. Stockland Modern Slavery Statement 24 August 2020 8
