SICPA Corporate Social Responsibility 2019 Enabling trust CEO INTRODUCTION I am delighted to be writing the foreword for SICPA’s 7th CSR report. We have continued to make good progress since we first launched this format in 2013, building on a long tradition of engagement with both external stakeholders and employees and our proactivity in promoting best practices. This year, whilst maintaining the core principles of our approach, we have decided to align our actions and outcomes with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. You will see this infused throughout the report. There were numerous highlights in 2019. I would like to mention just a few, such as the international roll out of our competency framework to 14 countries. A key tool which is allowing us to better identify skills gaps and take the appropriate actions to fill them, including through training. Combined with advances in the SICPA Digital workplace through Office 365 implementation, it is enabling better collaborative working between our sites and Centres of Excellence across the globe, making possible more interesting and productive development opportunities for staff in projects internationally. All parts of the company are benefiting from our First in Class IT solutions which permit greater flexibility in working practices and improve productivity and work life balance. Following issuance of Swiss Federal guidelines in 2019 on Personal Data Protection, we were able to validate the efficacity of our roadmap to ensure we are fully compliant. All company programmes, be they internal or clientoriented, are reviewed for alignment with the GDPR and other relevant local regulations. We maintained our approach of continually improving business practice policies and our strong emphasis on client-focused innovation, coupled with expanded reach in new technologies through working with partners. We made further progress in understanding and managing our environmental impacts, through careful and regular monitoring of key indicators. We signed our first contract, with the Dominican Republic, in which we confirmed our engagement to be carbon neutral. I am pleased to note that numerous supporting initiatives in this direction are underway. They complement the impact of the company’s mission to Enable Trust through fighting illicit practices with their many deleterious effects. This is for example the hallmark of our work to fight fraud in hydrocarbons and directly mitigating damage to the environment. Last and not least I would like to recognise the commitment of SICPA and our employees to the communities in which we operate. This expressed itself in many ways in different countries through the year, including sometimes dramatically such as during the tropical cyclones in Mozambique in the Spring. This event highlighted the value of our well-prepared business continuity arrangements which have further demonstrated their worth as a strong basis for the challenges of 2020. CEO and Chairman Philippe Amon Philippe Amon in SICPA's main facility in Switzerland. Cover image : Printing of SICPA advanced security inks technologies. II SICPA Enabling trust 3 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY A In 2019, SICPA s a member of the United Nations Global OUR PEOPLE Compact, SICPA’s aim is to integrate the In terms of professional excellence, SICPA’s world’s best practices in sustainability working environment reflects the importance in its business and operations, adapting to a future where sustainability is ever more essential. attributed to ensuring the highest technical and scientific standards and capabilities. The comhas adopted SICPA’s approach respects and capitalises on the company’s heritage, culture and values. pany maintains its work on integrated talent management processes and continues to develop the United Nations its Employee Branding programme, organising The company’s approach is based on 4 key pilthroughout the year activities to engage stuSustainable lars: our markets, our people, communities dents. Implementation of the company’s “Digital and environment. SICPA integrates sustainability in its strategy at three levels: compliance, Workplace” programme continued by IT teams throughout the world. SICPA once again reported Development reputation and business integration. SICPA has adopted the United Nations Sustainable Devela low incident rate with only 11 incidents per million hours worked, which is below the industry Goals (SDGs). opment Goals (SDGs) as a benchmark to which average, with no occupational illness or fatalities we will align our actions. reported during the year. SICPA has launched numerous initiatives over COMMUNITIES recent years, which enable us to demonstrate 2019 was unfortunately marked by several natural our commitment to key market issues, such as disasters around the world. SICPA provided supethics, sustainable products and more recently port in Mozambique and Albania, to its employproducts that contribute specifically to minimisees and local communities. During the year SICPA ing environmental and social impact. SICPA has also contributed to various scientific, educational, also improved its performance in other aspects cultural and environmental projects in Switzerland such as material and resource utilisation and and around the world. The FitForAll programme in waste reduction. Switzerland continued in its mission to promote a healthy work-life balance. OUR MARKETS SICPA continues to take on the challenge of ENVIRONMENT linking the security of the physical world with its The environmental footprint of the company is digital counterpart in order to protect goods and closely monitored. SICPA’s production processes people from the vulnerabilities created by today’s are energy intensive and the company continues global digitalised economy and governance. to implement projects to optimise energy use. In 2019, SICPA increased its FTEs by 349, while The company launched SQ1, the Global Centre its energy and water consumptions per FTE defor the Advancement of the Economy of Trust, creased but most importantly, the quantity of inks adjacent to SICPA’s headquarters building, an manufactured in tons rose by 30% from 2018, initiative to bring together both private sector and whilst energy consumption fell. In 2019, total academic partners, with the aim of creating a new waste produced in kg per FTE increased by 27% competence center in the field of physical and compared to 2018, in line with the increase in voldigital trust technologies. umes of inks produced during the year. Over 65% of generated waste was recycled or required special treatment compared to 60% in 2018. SICPA Enabling trust 5 INTRODUCTION OUR APPROACH Corporate Responsibility is important for SICPA’s business and Since the 2013 launch of its Group-wide initiative on Corporate markets. Customer requirements have evolved to include social Social Responsibility, SICPA has initiated multiple programmes and environmental issues. This applies not only to the selection and monitors and manages its social and environmental criteria for choosing partners, product and solution providers, but performance closely. also to their attitude to developing lasting business relationships. SICPA’s CSR programme consists of 4 key pillars: Our markets Our people Communities Environment Interaction and impact on the Engagement with employees. Participation within Impact of the company’s sustainability of economies the communities where operations on the environment. and markets. the company operates. This approach reflects the way SICPA conducts its business and vironmental degradation. The services and solutions we offer as a how it impacts economies, society and the environment. company have an important role to play in helping our clients meet their UN SDG targets providing national governments, regional In 2019, SICPA adopted the United Nations' Sustainable Develgroups and simple citizens the means to fight fraud and counter opment Goals (SDGs), as a benchmark to which we will align our the inefficiencies and distortions it creates. This is at the heart of actions. The 17 goals defined by the United Nations cover a wide our CSR approach along with strong company policies guiding how spectrum of sustainable development topics relevant to compawe ourselves act. nies such as poverty, health, education, climate change and enviSince 2016, the company measures and monitors its sustainability actions at 3 strategic levels: Including closer cooperation with key stakeholders on sustainability issues and the development of sustainability technologies and solutions. Business Integration Ensuring sustainability is a driver for positive reputation and managing negative reputational risks. Reputation Including regulatory and product compliance, and elements of risk management. Compliance 1. Since 2016 SICPA has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The Earth printed with SICPA security inkjet inks. 6 SICPA Enabling trust 7 ALIGNED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS SDGS MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 6 ECONOMIC 5 5 Sustainable and safe materials 3 4 9 Major 6 Safe products 7 7 Secure supply chain 2 9 Business ethics 10 8 10 Corporate governance 1 13 Stakeholder engagement 15 Responsible investment 17 Sustainable innovation and improvement EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 11 MARKETPLACE PEOPLE 12 Significant SOCIAL 14 16 2 Diversity and equal opportunities S 13 ECT 15 17 3 Child labour P 4 Security practices AS E 18 8 OCC health and safety C AC PE 11 Talent acquisition, reward and retention EC L O 12 Learning and development TP ts ON an rig 19 Community engagement Ethics RK E OM E Pr h PL 20 21 MA I od u Hum 1 19 cts Moderate H re um ENVIRONMENTAL Go so an ve ur ce rna s 1 Climate change nc e 14 Energy efficiency L ASPECTS SOCIA 16 Waste management al HOW WE DO ation Stakeho Ope r y 2 18 Water management lders g r it BUSINESS int e 20 Biodiversity 21 Sustainable packaging Moderate Significant Major Water IMPACT Com ON MARKETS eng munit INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS age y e me W ast nt EN gy er Phi change ity VI R En ers EN lan TY d iv thr o ON VI Bio NI In 2019 SICPA continued to roll out its programme MATERIALITY ASPECTS SECTIONS (STATUS AND ACTIONS) RO Climate py U M N M of measures based on our Sustainability MateM M EN EN CO riality Assessment. Materiality aspects were TA T defined based on SICPA’s experience with CSR Economic aspects L AS and the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines. Corporate governance Governance PE Major and significant aspects of the materiality CT Business ethics Business ethics S assessment include: Sustainable and safe products, materials Quality / Procurement and supply chain ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Social aspects Occupational health and safety Operational integrity Talent acquisition, retention and reward Workplace excellence Learning and development Workplace excellence Diversity and equal opportunities, Workplace excellence / Human rights non-discrimination Security practices Human rights Child labour Human rights Environmental aspects NOT APPLICABLE Waste management Environment / Waste and climate change Climate change Environment / Waste and climate change 1 Diversity and equal opportunities, talent acquisition, retention, reward, learning and development 2 Health and safety 8 SICPA Enabling trust 9 ECONOMIC ASPECTS Security label specimens using QUAZAR® technology for product and brand protection. OUR MARKETS SICPA’s digital tax stamps combine various patented technologies for cutting-edge multi-level authentication. GOVERNANCE Square One was launched in October 2019, still a SICPA’s governing structures reflect its long-term view on markets and economic sustainability. The campus under construction adjacent to SICPA’s headquarters building, designated as the Global Focus on: company is headed by a Board of Directors made Centre for the Advancement of the Economy of Coffee and cocoa up of shareholders and external non-executive Trust. SICPA leads this initiative with the support traceability systems directors. The company’s strategy and operaof key partners and local bodies such as the EPFL SICPA was awarded a contract in Ecuador tions are overseen by the Executive Committee, and the Canton de Vaud with the aim of creating a to provide the service of designing and supported by committees addressing specific new competence center in the field of physical and validating traceability systems based on strategic topics. The company transformed itself digital trust technologies. It is scheduled to openblockchain technology for sustainable from a two Division setup in 2018 to one based ing its physical doors at the end of 2021, and will and deforestation-free Amazonian cofon Strategic Business Areas (SBA) and Initiatives bring together actors from industry, government fee and cocoa. Ecuador is the third largest (SBI) which support a transversal organisation. and international institutions and academia. cocoa producer in the world with 8% of the This enables the company to deliver current busiproduction and the first producer of fine ness more efficiently than before and to develop SICPA teams were also active throughout the cocoa aroma with 65% of the production. new markets and products. year in a range of international conferences on The Ecuadorian government declared the traceability, security inks or identity security sococoa supply chain and its derivatives as a SICPA policies reflect a set of robust governing lutions, enabling discussion and briefing of govpriority for the fulfilment of the sustainable principles and rules. These are revised to reflect ernment representatives and policy makers and development goals associated with the the latest norms depending on international other key stakeholders. 2030 agenda and the strengthening of the standards. In 2019, SICPA set up a new Internanational economy. tional Trade Compliance Policy. Applicable to all BUSINESS ETHICS operating entities of the SICPA Group, this policy SICPA’s long-standing commitment to conductdefines responsibilities for complying with intering its business in an ethical manner and with national trade and customs regulations, sets up integrity is reinforced by the publication of its effective controls (import, export and national) core principles on the SICPA corporate website. PROGRESS: 2019 ACTIONS and ensures appropriate management. The Code of Business Conduct, the ABC Policy Update SICPA Policies and the Competition Law Policy are pro-actively Update grievance mechanism STAKEHOLDERS shared with and signed by all partners and availaSubmit UN Global Compact COP SICPA’s partnerships with numerous stakeholdble for consultation as part of the general governers reflect its approach of respectful entrepreance of the company. These documents are also Legend: completed on-going pending neurship and its continuous commitment. As an provided to customers and suppliers to ensure example, in 2019, SICPA Indonesia inaugurated they are aware of the standards of practice that LOOKING FORWARD: 2020-2021 new facilities in its factory with its partner, the InSICPA expects of them in their dealings. – Actively support and apply UN Global donesian Banknote Printing Company PERURI, Compact principles taking into account future projected needs for the SICPA ensures that all key stakeholders, includ– Maintain BnEI accreditation – Renewal of certifications next 20 years. ing the company’s management and related third parties are aware and receive training on integrity SICPA continues to take on the challenge of and ethics principles. The company keeps relinking the security of the physical world with cords of all staff and third parties who have read its digital counterpart in order to protect goods and approved these documents. and people from the vulnerabilities created by today’s global digitalised economy and governUnder the leadership of the Board Audit CommitPolicies ance. To enable trust in the digital world, SICPA’s tee, Compliance and Risk specialists oversee Revised, implemented Strategic Business Areas for Digital Integrity and the business and operational application of the relevant Internal Standards Digital Identity are supported by a Digital ApplicaPrinciples and ensure any incidents or potential tions Lab. Pilot schemes are underway to meet breaches are appropriately investigated and a diverse range of challenges – among others, dealt with. protecting land registries, electoral integrity, diplomas or the supply chain of precious metals. SICPA also continues to establish and nurture strong partnerships with both academia (EPFL, CSEM, IMD, HEC Lausanne) and industry from long established companies to newcomers in blockchain or data analytics. 12 SICPA Enabling trust 13 PRODUCTS SICPA products and solutions have an underlying social benefit. The company contributes to the well-being of society-at-large by actively contributing to ensuring cash systems, value documents and vulnerable goods are safer and more secure for use or consumption. QUALITY On this occasion and for the first time, SICPA ing illicit trade supports sustainability. SICPA’s ever SICPA has built its reputation as an innovator, thanks opened its doors to selected Swiss media, showbroader portfolio of technologies, services and to the pioneering development of new products ing some of its R&D labs in Prilly as well as the solutions which counter frauds of all sorts enables and technologies, annually investing a significant Chavornay production facilities. The visit was us to help governments and companies meet their portion of its revenues in research and developorganised around R&D workshops involving sevown environmental objectives. SICPA’s high secument – counting more than 4,200 patents to date. eral different laboratories. A news clip aired on RTS rity traceability systems combined with proofs of The quality and safety of its products and solutions Swiss TV, in the evening news. origin provide assurance for consumers that highis key to the sustainability of SICPA as a successest standards have been met. Such technology ful company and this is reflected in the company’s As of June 1st, SICPA in partnership with one of its solutions help prevent environmentally harmful consistently renewed certifications, such as ISO logistics providers successfully set up a new delivactivities such as the adulteration and illegal 9001. SICPA seeks to minimise the negative enviery flow by sea via the Antwerp port, for customer “cleaning” of fuel products. ronmental impact inherent in the use and disposal orders of security inks, placed in containers on of its products. Substitution programmes for cerpremise. This benefit the environment by assuring The UNCTAD and TRACIT published a report in tain chemicals continue to contribute to the manno transportation of empty containers between the July 2019 entitled “Mapping the Impact of Illicit agement and reduction of risks for human beings. factory and the logistics provider. Trade on the Sustainable Development Goals”. A dedicated programme is focused on developing It officially maps the 17 UN SDGs against a numa broader range of markers for the secure marking As in previous years, SICPA participated to various ber of economic sectors, providing data on illicit fuel, minimising environmental impact and risk and international conferences dedicated to cash techtrade. SICPA is active in some of those sectors broadening applications. nologies presenting its recent developments for with its solutions to fight illicit trade, hence supbanknote security. porting the achievement of specific Sustainable PROCUREMENT Development Goals. The economic sustainability and quality of SICPA Also in 2019, the company was awarded a contract products is closely linked to its suppliers. This is with the US Department of Homeland Security to SICPA also continued to develop more reliable and reflected in the company’s Supplier Code of Consecure digital credentials, such as ID documents, usable authentication solutions for brand owners, duct – this code sets out requirements for busidriving licences and visas. SICPA is on the path to with a new generation of graphical and digital techness continuity and contingency plans, product creating credible technology solutions for building nologies, enabling consumers to verify products changes and phase out. Further, SICPA pays parand securing digital identities that will complement at points of sale. These solutions are applicable ticular attention to environmental and social issues existing systems. across a range of industry sectors such as pharmain its dealings with suppliers. The Supplier Code of ceutical, electronic consumer goods, luxury goods Conduct covers ethics, security, environmental Initiative to promote and defend cash and food and drinks. Other current problems being and human rights rules and principles. In terms of In 2019, SICPA continued to participate in the tackled include counterfeit electric and electronic human rights, particular attention is given inter alia CashEssentials initiative to promote the use of parts, product tampering in pharmaceuticals and to employment conditions, child labour and noncash and to ensure its longevity as a sustainable protective measures for gold bullion. discrimination guidelines. payment method. Cash is not losing ground, on the contrary cash demand has grown in all regions of In 2019, SICPA launched BullionProtect, an innova2019 status and achievements the world, a fact which motivates reflection on how tive solution to safeguard the integrity of the gold ​Cash in Switzerland is still the most common the industry can contribute in shaping its future. bullion market. The company doesn't protect the payment method for households, especially for CashEssentials provides an overview of the bengold itself but rather the authenticity of the gold small purchases. The CHF100 note is the most efits of cash for society which includes the univerbars stamped by refineries, marking them with a commonly-held as a store of value. In September sal use of cash, efficiency, reliability and connecting security seal, specific to the client. 2019, the new CHF100 note was officially released people. Social inclusion and cash as a support to by the Swiss National Bank, as the sixth and final critical national infrastructure planning and crisis note in the latest 9th series, joining Switzerland's management are key drivers for maintaining wellLOOKING FORWARD: 2020-2021 10, 20, 50, 200 and 1000 franc denomination functioning national cash systems. The website On-going replacement of harmful substances banknotes, which have been gradually phased provides fact-based information about cash and Sustainable solutions into circulation over the past four years. This new payment methods and also includes an opinion generation of banknotes, with added security and based weekly blog as well as acting as a compreLegend: completed on-going pending protection against counterfeits, depicts typical hensive repository of documents and reports. facets of Switzerland. These banknotes demonstrate broad collaboration among multiple Swiss Protecting products and brands partners, resulting in a sophisticated design which Illicitly produced products, which respect no regucombines a mixture of new and tried and tested lations or norms, are so often harmful to the envisecurity elements. ronment, to the workers who produce them and SICPAGUARD® HD Sense for document to those to whom they are ultimately sold. Fightand product authentication. 14 SICPA Enabling trust 15 Solar panels on the roof of SICPA's main facility in Switzerland. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ENVIRONMENT Electricity intensity Throughout 2019 SICPA continued to evaluate the halogen & mercury lights were replaced by LED Annual kWh electricity consumed/FTE environmental impact of the company’s business technology and building isolation, heating system and operations, including human health, climate and ventilation flows were optimised. change, resource and ecosystems impact. SICPA follows its QHSSE policy and relevant processes Waste & Climate Change 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 developed as part of ISO 14001 certification to The company identified waste management optimise the environmental footprint of its operaand climate change amongst the top significant Fossil energy Annual kWh consumption/FTE tions. This is closely linked to the intensity of its ink aspects in its Materiality Assessment. In 2019, manufacturing operations. In 2019, the quantity of total waste produced in kg per FTE increased by inks produced worldwide increased by 30.51% 27% compared to 2018, mostly due to the 30% compared to 2018. This manufacturing activity acannual increase of inks production. Over 65% of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 counted for 78.23% of the company’s electricity waste generated was recycled or required special consumption, 70.44% of fossil energy consumptreatment compared to 60% in 2018. It is worthWater intensity tion and 86.67% of waste generation. The remainwhile noting that in line with previous years and Annual water purchase/FTE der is related to the other business activities of the nature of our products, 30% of SICPA waste SICPA around the world. is categorised as dangerous under European and national waste rules, which requires special treat2019 STATUS AND ACHIEVEMENTS ment. 72% of such waste was generated in the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy and Water company’s Swiss manufacturing facility which Energy efficiency is an important factor for SICPA has partnered with CRIDEC for disposal and reWaste intensity Total annual waste (kg)/FTE given its manufacturing operations. The energy use. CRIDEC uses such waste to generate maKPIs calculation is based on the number of FTEs terials and energy for a nearby cement plant, an in December of the year. In 2019, SICPA’s FTEs example of SICPA’s contribution to the concept worldwide increased significantly by 349 comof circular economy. Greenhouse gas emission pared to 2018. The energy and water consumpactions continue to be regulation driven and by 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 tions per FTE decreased but most importantly, contractual obligations in some cases. the quantity of inks manufactured in tons rose by Hazardous waste intensity 30% from 2018, whilst energy consumption fell. Annual hazardous waste (kg)/FTE Focus on: In 2019, the electricity intensity per FTE decreased by 5% (compared to a 5% increase in 2018) and Energy Target Agreement fossil energy intensity per FTE decreased by 7% with the Swiss Federal 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (compared to a 7% increase in 2018). Finally, Authorities water intensity has declined by 35% per FTE. DurThe SICPA Chavornay plant validated the Non-hazardous waste intensity ing this time, SICPA continued to install energy Annual non-hazardous waste (kg)/FTE efficient solutions, such as in Switzerland where Energy Target Agreement with the Swiss Federal Authorities in charge of energy and environment in 2018. As part of the “2050 Energy Strategy”, SICPA committed itself LOOKING FORWARD: 2020-2021 over a 10-year period to optimise energy in 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Energy efficiency obligations order to reduce its consumption and CO2 Waste management solutions emissions. Other modifications are planned Recyclable and recoverable up to 2025 such as the efficiency of the Industrial waste (kg)/FTE CO2 measurement (regulatory compliance) compressed air supply and the ventilation Note. The time horizon for these actions is 3-5 years. system to fulfil SICPA’s objectives. In addition to reducing energy costs, this agreeLegend: completed on-going pending ment also exempts SICPA Chavornay from the CO2 tax for fossil energy until the end 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 of 2020. Note: figures are based on 90% Full Time Equivalents (FTEs), compared to 86% and 80% in 2015 and 2014 respectively. Security label specimens using QUAZAR® technology for product and brand protection. 18 SICPA Enabling trust 19 A laboratory technician is preparing a sample of marked fuel for precise quantitative testing. SOCIAL ASPECTS 20 SICPA Enabling trust 21 OUR PEOPLE The SICPA workplace reflects the importance of technical and scientific excellence and capabilities to the company, as well as the long-term and diverse nature of its business and markets. WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE Learning & Development Natural turnover % of employees that leave of their own volition The three topics below are major and significant SICPA has specific programmes to develop leadaspects of SICPA’s Materiality Assessment. ership, management and innovation capabilities and skills such as the SAP Integration Academy, Talent Acquisition, Retention & Reward a programme that enables training in all SAP proDuring the year, SICPA continued implementing cesses. The company also continued to partner 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 its integrated talent management processes. with Bookboon, an online library, to further develop Performance reviews The initial focus is on talent acquisition, i.e. to a proactive e-learning culture. It is essential for % employees with formal performance review strengthen recruitment processes overall and employees to have the necessary skills, knowlroll out procedures, tools and common practices edge and attitude to adapt to the ever-changing globally. New processes and tools are objective workplace environment and to continuously dedriven focusing on quality of new hires, which is velop both within and outside their role. In total, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 reflected in the retention rate of 94% in 2019, more than 2000 learning activities were delivered similar to 2018. throughout 2019, including formal and distance Training hours learning and on-the-job knowledge transfer. In Number of annual training hours per employee Over the years, numerous academic partneraddition, the Digital Lab in HQ organised monthly ships have been established with reputable inlunch-hour learning sessions for employees who stitutions in the region of Swiss Romandie, such were eager to know more about SICPA's current as EPFL, HEC and IMD. Willing to be open to the and future activities across sectors within the world and grow its employer brand awareness, digital sphere. Finally, the company’s “Digital 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SICPA, with its HR Talent Management team, Workplace” programme continued to be impleAverage training ratio continued organising throughout 2019 activities mented by IT teams, to improve IT functionalities % of total employee costs spent on training to engage students. These events were a great as well as new collaborative features to improve opportunity for employees to share their experiteam working. ence with young graduates or students wishing to follow their path. Among the events in which Diversity & Equal Opportunities SICPA participated in 2019 were the IMD Global Equal Opportunities and Non-Discrimination are 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Talent Forum, the HEC Career Networking Fair part of SICPA’s values and Code of Business Conand IT Day. The highlight was the participation duct. This is reflected in SICPA’s workforce with Gender ratio in the EPFL Forum, one of Europe’s largest remore than 70 nationalities and ethnicities rep% of employees (male/female) cruitment fairs, where more than 190 companies resented. To shine a light on the diversity within male and 85 start-ups attend each year to meet EPFL SICPA, the “Chef for a day” initiative was set up female students and graduates from different fields in 2019 in our Swiss Headquarters, to enable our of study. colleagues to share the gastronomical treasures of their roots, whether regional or international. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Equal opportunities Focus on: PROGRESS: 2019 ACTIONS % of employees in management – grade 11 and above (male/female) Global Development Deploy Employees Competency Model male programme Global Management Development Training Maintain low health and safety incident rates female Leading and managing a team is one of the most challenging aspects of a manager’s Legend: completed on-going pending 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 role. In 2019, the SICPA Management Development Programme, a global training LOOKING FORWARD: 2020-2021 Note: Figures for 2013 and 2014 represent programme, was updated. It provides man– Continue deploying the SICPA Digital Workplace Switzerland only. From 2015 to 2017, agers with the opportunity to grow their peo– Integrate talent management processes figures represent 80% of SICPA worldwide employees except for the training ratio. ple management and leadership skills by – Implement equal opportunities actions The 2018 figures represent all SICPA focusing on communication, professional – Roll out grievance mechanism worldwide employees except for the annual relationship building, change management, turnover and the training ratio. Starting in 2017, the training ratio is calculated based and cultural awareness. In addition, more on the figures from SICPA Group annual than 40 training sessions in 14 countries consolidated financial accounts. It includes all training costs worldwide except related were held following the implementation of travel expenses. the global competency model. SICPA employees with visitors in Swiss Headquarters looking at the 2019 new 100 CHF banknote. 22 SICPA Enabling trust 23 0.13% 0 Lost days of total Occupational days worked illnesses In addition, the company continued to monitor SICPA ensures that all relevant human rights OPERATIONAL INTEGRITY actions concerning equal opportunities at work. issues are covered by the company’s policies The health and safety of SICPA employees and As part of the Swiss “Journée des métiers”, SICPA and guidelines and communicated accordingly to the communities in which the company operSwitzerland has opened its doors since 2003 staff worldwide. Due to the nature of its business ates are essential for the operational integrity and for employees to bring their children to work to SICPA maintains the highest security standards. sustainability of the SICPA business. SICPA has share a working day with one of their parents or There is an on-going requirement to ensure we rigorous health and safety processes and OHSAS relatives to discover their profession and work identify the impact these practices may have on 18001 certification. The company provides perienvironment. This initiative is organised by local the respect of human rights, in particular in relaodic and continuous training to its employees on authorities and enables children from 7th to 9th tion to physical and data security, and ensure that occupational hazards and professional safety. year to participate in workshops and discover new adequate guidelines and training are given to professions. Currently, educational choices resecurity personnel, both SICPA and third parties. 2019 status and achievements main strongly influenced by gender stereotypes. SICPA staff in Switzerland voted in 2015 against In 2019 SICPA continued to maintain a low inciTherefore, on this day, children are encouraged to the establishment of a staff association explicdent rate with only 11 incidents per million hours discover a broad range of jobs and without limiting itly renewing their trust in management when worked, which is below the industry average. themselves to traditionally female or male jobs. it comes to the management and resolution of The number of accidents with or without lost labour issues. In other countries, the freedom of time decreased from 68 in 2018 to 51 in 2019, Values & Corporate Culture association and collective bargaining principal is for a population of more than 2800 employees SICPA is focused on promoting a common culture applied through a trade union as and when deterworldwide. It is important to highlight that there and building a transversal organisation and has mined by staff. was no reported occupational illness and no introduced a common competency framework to fatalities during the year. support this. Leading and managing teams of difSICPA’s Materiality Assessment identified several ferent people with different personalities, career human rights aspects, such as security practices For several years now, SICPA has also been atgoals, communication styles and culture, is one of and child labour, as important for the company’s tentive to the use of hazardous raw materials. For the most challenging aspects of a manager’s role. business. The UN Principles on Business and example, BPA is not allowed in SICPA's raw materiDemonstrating the importance of people manHuman Rights and the Global Reporting Initiative als at more than 0.1% due to its hazardous charagement, SICPA successfully implemented its (GRI) is used as a basis for internal assessments. acteristics. All raw materials exceeding this limit new Competency Model in 2019. It is designed to SICPA has an on-going programme to identify any have been identified and substitution or deactivaidentify the critical behaviors leading to success potential gaps and address them accordingly. tion procedures have been implemented. As of within SICPA culture. For the first time, all managtoday, raw materials used in Switzerland, and in ers around the globe received the same training most of SICPA's subsidiaries, do not contain BPA on people management skills. or content is well below the limit of 0.1%. Phase out Focus on: is still ongoing in only one entity and it is expected In addition, the SICPA values and sense of coheCenter of Excellence to be completed soon. sion were promoted through numerous communications and several internal events in a number in Spain of countries, such as a table football tournament in Our Center of Excellence in Madrid opened HQ and the End-of-year celebrations for staff and in September 2010 and will soon celebrate their families in various countries. its 10th anniversary, an opportunity to renovate and refurbish the facilities, and accomHUMAN RIGHTS modate our new talent in the best possible Focus on: SICPA aims to conduct its business in full conditions. In 2019, the Spanish team had the pleasure to host the first worldwide GDPR – Data Protection respect of prevailing human rights standards meeting for Scrum Masters, a workshop At SICPA, the protection of personal data and legislation. Human Rights elements such allowing participants to share their agile has always been a primary concern and is as non-discrimination and respectful labour practices at SICPA. Spain also pioneered professionally managed within SICPA client and security practices are incorporated in the the implementation of the first Employees solutions. Best practice is integrated into company’s policies, in particular the Code of Engagement Survey. This enabled some our standard working procedures. In 2019, Business Conduct, HR and Security Policies. the Swiss Federal Council issued detailed gaps to be identified and to set up an action The Supplier Code of Conduct looks closely at provisions on data security requirements plan to strengthen teamwork and cohesion issues, such as freedom of association, child within teams. In addition, a series of team to cover the protection of personal data. To labour, employment conditions, human treatbuilding events were organised to reinforce meet these provisions, SICPA implemented ment and freely-chosen employment. this team spirit. appropriate technical and organisational measures. Security label specimens using QUAZAR® technology for product and brand protection. 24 SICPA Enabling trust 25 COMMUNITIES Geneva Camerata 2019 concerts, one example of cultural events sponsored by SICPA. Everywhere SICPA conducts business and operates, the company takes care of its local communities by being involved and participating in social, cultural, education and scientific activities. The focus of the company’s corporate sponsorship and donations is in Switzerland, the home country and main production centre, and in countries where SICPA has existing businesses and operations. 2019 STATUS AND ACHIEVEMENTS der the Christmas tree, employees left gifts for the In 2019, SICPA contributed approximately 754’399 children, bringing a smile to their faces during the CHF to 89 community initiatives, mainly to cultural, holiday season. 755 education and environmental projects. KCHF invested Another example comes from the city of Kinshasa in community projects In Switzerland, SICPA sponsored various cultural in the Democratic Republic of Congo where SICPA events such as concerts of the Geneva Camerata, donated several dozens of recent, unused laptop the charity concert of the Orchestre de chambre de computers to a high school in Ndjili, taking care of Lausanne, the kids Diabolo festival and the cultural the shipment and related costs. season of the city of Renens. The company also continues to be a proud sponsor of La Nuit des Mu89 sées, a local cultural event that takes place once a Focus on: Community projects year in Lausanne and Pully, near the SICPA Headquarters. During the 2019 event, 25 museums SICPA supports supported participated and welcomed no less than 15,000 its communities visitors for more than 70,000 visits. Visitors to the This year has unfortunately been marked by museums discovered the exhibitions and more Total financial contributions (KCHF) several natural disasters around the world. Sponsorships and donations to community than 110 activities such as performances, workIn March and April 2019, Mozambique was shops and musical improvisation. In 2019, SICPA hit by two successive tropical cyclones, participated in the design and production of the severely affecting the central and northern event entry tickets using colour shifting inks. parts of the country and resulting in numer2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In addition, SICPA Switzerland continued its Fitous human and material losses as well as ForAll programme to encourage health and fitness the destruction of a large part of the crops. Number of community projects supported activities among employees, promoting a healthy Immediate and priority action was taken to work-life balance. Employees in Switzerland parlocate and provide emergency support to our ticipated in various events such as The Lausanne 40 local employees and to secure our infraMarathon, Bike to work, B2Run or DEFI, covering structure and stocks of sensitive products. A 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 hundreds of kilometers whether cycling, walking, few months later, SICPA also provided supAverage project value (CHF) swimming or even scootering. port to the local population hit by an earthquake in Albania where the company has Also in 2019, SICPA sponsored the Lausanne operations. Hockey Club with employees able to support the team in person during the season. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CONFERENCES MADE IN SWITZERLAND Some examples of SICPA Community projects In its effort to support local initiatives, SICPA was Impact assessment and follow up* Number of projects with implemented outside Switzerland this year include SICPA Pakia partner of the 3rd edition of the JIYU conference, impact assessments and development stan which celebrated Earth Day in April. Employin Lausanne, focused on the Business models programmes ees were invited to change their habits to make our of the future. This Swiss initiative rethinks the planet a better and healthier place to live. SICPA way of doing business, working, communicating Pakistan also decided to support the Layton Rahand collaborating. matulla Benevolent Trust by assisting them in the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 improvement of their equipment and facilities. The For several years now, and again in 2019, SICPA LRBT Tertiary Eye Hospital provides free eye care sponsored the well-known TEDx and TEDxWom* A substantial number of donations to people with incomes close to the poverty line en conferences which took place in Lausanne. The are given to cultural events as one-off contributions which do not require and has helped over 38 million patients all over spirit of TED’s mission is Ideas worth spreading and follow up. the country. therefore it brings together speakers from all over the world on various topics. Note: the above figures are indicative Another example comes from Spain where SICPA and exclude, to the extent that it was possible to identify them, commercial collaborated with the NGO Cooperación Internacdonations, membership of associations, LOOKING FORWARD: 2020-2021 ional which launched a campaign in support of – Continue to support community projects subscriptions and documentation. Numbers for 2019 reflect this as several underprivileged children, in the form of gifts. Un– Continue FitForAll programme subscriptions were excluded. 26 SICPA Enabling trust 27 OTHER CSR ACTIONS SICPA has also Every year CSR awareness sessions are organised for employees to learn more about the com+600 communicated pany’s approach to sustainability, specifically to new employees as part of the SICPA Induction SICPA employees +350 and managers New employees Programme in the first weeks of their arrival. In the contributed to CSR briefed on CSR selectively on last eight years, over 900 employees and 400 SICPA managers, including corporate functions, in 2019 sustainability issues divisional management and country entities management, participated in these sessions. with peer groups, In Chile, SICPA partnered with a local solution provider of waste management and recycling, Focus on: SICPA Headquarters such as the UN installing clean points in the offices and informing employees to contribute with the 3Rs: Reduce, exclusive visit for EPFL alumni Global Compact Reuse and Recycle. On October 31, a delegation of Alumni from In Pakistan, SICPA was awarded for a fourth conthe EPFL (École polytechnique fédérale de Network and plans secutive year, the Best Practices in Corporate Social Responsibility Award 2019 by the National Lausanne) was welcomed in Prilly – a first for the company! The event, organised in colto continue such Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH), in a ceremony graced by the Pakistani President. laboration with the EPFL Alumni VD-VS Antenna, allowed participants to visit several laboratories and attend demonstrations of actions in 2020. The company continues to ensure its approach SICPA solutions ranging from security inks, analytical laboratory, authentication soluto sustainability issues is communicated externally on social media platforms and on its tions and the Digital Lab. website. The website CSR section is updated to include examples of SICPA achievements worldwide. In addition, communications on CSR topics continue to be published on the company’s global intranet. Finally, like in previous years, the 2018 CSR report was distributed to interested customers and partners. SICPA has also communicated selectively on sustainability issues with peer groups, such as the UN Global Compact Network and plans to continue such actions in 2020. SICPA’s serialisation solution for pharma securely marks at high speed on production lines. 28 SICPA Enabling trust 29 UNITED NATIONS Samples of marked fuels collected from the field are ready to be tested with SICPA‘s analyser. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 CSR REPORT 2019 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS 2019 REFERENCE/SECTION Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection — Policies inclusive of human rights Human Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights — Grievance mechanism and remediation Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human — Policies inclusive of human rights Procurement / rights abuses Human Rights Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom — Policies inclusive of Labour Practices Human Rights of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced — Code of Conduct Procurement / and compulsory labour — Supplier Code of Conduct Human Rights — Clear contractual basis Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour — Code of Conduct Procurement / — Supplier Code of Conduct Human Rights — National labour laws and regulations — Verification mechanisms Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect — Code of Conduct Procurement / of employment and occupation — HR police and procedures Professional Excellence / — Records of recruitment, training and promotion Human Rights — Grievance and remediation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach — Policies inclusive of environment Governance / to environmental challenges — Stakeholder engagement Stakeholders / — Governance structures Environment — Grievance mechanism Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater — Sustainable products programme Products / environmental responsibility — Target and objectives Quality / Traceability Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion — Lifecycle assessment Products / of environmentally friendly technologies — Product design Quality — More sustainable materials Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms — Code of Conducts, and related Policies Business Ethics — Business ethics training — Group Compliance Committee — Grievance mechanism 30 SICPA Enabling trust 31 ABOUT SICPA SICPA is a leading global provider of secured authentication, identification and traceability solutions and services. Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Lausanne, the privately-owned Swiss company is a long-trusted advisor to governments, central banks, high-security printers, and industry. SICPA’s mission is to Enable Trust through constant innovation. For more than 70 years SICPA has been at the forefront of research and innovation in security inks which are at the core of the company’s expertise. SICPA inks and special features protect the majority of the world’s banknotes, security and value documents from counterfeiting and fraud. The company also integrates these security features with digital technologies, such as software and data management systems, to offer solutions and services to governments, ensuring product authentication, traceability and protection as well as tax reconciliation and production control. SICPA systems protect governments from tax revenue loss on products most often subject to illicit trade, such as excisable goods like alcohol, tobacco and fuel and support broader policy objectives in the fields of health and the environment. Systems also allow manufacturers to protect and authenticate their products and to engage consumers. SICPA continues to be focused on innovation in the digital area, working with inhouse R&D and external partners to provide solutions for a diverse range of e-government services, to enable trust in the digital world. Today, SICPA is a global company with offices and factories on five continents. With more than 2,800 staff of over 50 nationalities, the company provides technologies and services to most nations worldwide. www.oxyde.ch SICPA World Headquarters Tel +41 21 627 55 55 Worldwide locations: Av de Florissant 41 Fax +41 21 627 57 27 Visit www.sicpa.com/map 1008 Prilly info@sicpa.com Switzerland www.sicpa.com © 2020 SICPA HOLDING SA, Switzerland SPARK ®, SICPAGUARD ® HD Sense, SICPATRACE ®, QUAZAR ® are trademarks of SICPA HOLDING SA, registered in Switzerland and other countries or otherwise protected by law. SICPA is certified to ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015, ISO 45001:2018, ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 17025:2017, CSR.REP.00007.V1.06.20 according to a worldwide deployment programme, in the framework of a unique Integrated Management System. All material in these pages, including text, layout, presentation, logos, icons, photos and all other artwork including any derivative work, is the intellectual property of SICPA (for the purpose of this document the word “SICPA” shall mean SICPA HOLDING SA or any of its parent or affiliate companies) unless otherwise stated, and is protected by trademark, patent or copyright. No reproduction, derivative, or commercial use of any material is authorised with-out the prior express written permission by SICPA. Information contained in, or derived from, these pages shall not be used for development, production, marketing of any product or service, or for any other purpose, without the express prior written permission of SICPA.
