July 1st 2020 Mr. Antonio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm, that Jutlandia Terminal A/S, still follow the course of promoting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We actively use any opportunity to communicate and prioritize these principles and enhance the importance of these to partners, 3rd Parties and stakeholders. This embedded as part of our strategies and everyday life. The ten principles are still part of our Code of conduct program for new employees. Subsuppliers are approved, this by questionnaire and audit; in this process we ask them to read and accept our Code of conduct as well as our HSEQ policy. CSR continue to have our focus and is promoted both internally and externally. The newly implemented HSEQ strategy are inspired by UN publication “Making Global Goals Local Business” and inspiration material is made available and highlighted how we, in Jutlandia, in practice work with the ten principles. We have focus on values and act with respect; We acknowledge the need for continuously search for opportunities to improve our performance. This in order to prevent recession or breaches in any of the four generic areas. During the previous year, management has continued the line of work of informing about the importance of complying with the principles, as individual as well as our company’s image and reputation, of the outside world. This year we achieved: Human rights Close cooperation with dedicated occupational health represent we have focused on ensuring proper PPE and condition for all employees. This also making sure that new facilities for employees, has the right conditions, bath facilities and so forth Labor Part of our sub-contractor supplier approval procedure (subcontractor, goods and services). Suppliers are subject to verification and successively validation and Audit if necessary. Information and guiding employees according to questions regarding amount of maximum worktime and free time. Environment In order to reduce the emission/load of CO2 and NOx to the environment, we invested in Electric cars and has started the process for optimizing the outdoor area regarding handling and containment of spill. This to minimize and prevent hazardous impacts related to our activities. We are aware of and acknowledge our responsibility with respect to environment as well as local and national legislation. Anticorruption A practical handling has been described in the internal Quality System. This is part of our Code of Conduct, ensuring proper behavior maintain one of our core values. Upcoming Our goal is to optimize sorting and distribution of waste and thereby minimize amount of “waste of combustible” with 30 percent before year 2022. In 2020, we will upgrade fiscal handling and storage areas to insure use of Best available technology. This to maintain environmental awareness and environmental footprint as low as possible. Furthermore, we will continue replacement of diesel truck with electrical trucks – to reduce CO2 consumption from our vehicle fleet with 20 % before year 2022. Sincerely yours, Mr. Michael Rühe General Manager JUTLANDIA Terminal A/S
