NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 NGK Group Philosophy NGK Group Philosophy Our Mission Enriching Human Life by Adding New Value to Society. Our Values Quality of People Embrace challenges and teamwork. Quality of Product Exceed expectations. Quality of Management Social trust is our foundation. Visit the “About NGK” section of our website to read the NGK Group Philosophy. https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/governance/ The NGK Group Philosophy is a signpost that guides every employee of the NGK Group. Formulated in 2019 to mark our 100th anniversary, it encompasses our desire to use our proprietary ceramic technology to contribute to future energy, environmental protection, and industrial progress, and to help people around the world live a happy, comfortable life. NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Contents Message from the President Unique ceramic technology for a future of coexistence between environment and humanity The current spread of the novel coronavirus has caused an abrupt slowdown in the global economy, having a significant impact on the NGK Group’s business performance. Nevertheless, we must not halt our progress. Placing utmost priority on ensuring the safety of employees and their families and infection control, we will take advantage of our unique ceramic technology to provide products that exceed society’s expectations and continue growing to create a sustainable future. 1 NGK Group Philosophy, Contents 2 Creating Value 4 Message from the President 10 ESG Management 12 Position on SDGs 13 Environmental 39 Social 86 Governance 125 GRI Content Index 132 Corporate Outline 133 NGK Group 134 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance 135 External Evaluation / Editorial Policy NGK Group Research and Development Embracing challenges with tenacity and a dedication to discovering technologies that will change the world The new product development period lasts anywhere from three to more than 10 years, but we do not give up, even on research that takes a long time to bear fruit. A culture that makes it easy to embrace such challenges is the strength of the NGK Group’s approach to R&D. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 1 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Creating Value Using advanced ceramic technology to create value and address social challenges The NGK Group uses its advanced ceramic technology to bring the world unique product lineups in the energy, ecology, and electronics sectors. By creating new value for customers, we help society solve its problems. Social Challenges ■ Social infrastructure building ■ Spread and expansion of renewable energy ■ Environmental pollution prevention ■ IT innovation ■ Climate change Input (fiscal 2019) Financial capital NGK Group Philosophy Total assets 833.1 billion yen Cash and cash 94.7 billion yen Enriching Human Life by Adding New Value to Society. equivalents Manufactured capital NGK Group’s Value Creation Engine Capital 94 billion yen expenditures Research & Development Tangible fixed assets 359.4 billion yen Sales, Marketing Analytical/evaluative techniques, parts structural design, material technologies Intellectual capital Quality improvement Investment in R&D 22.9 billion yen Number of Japan 3,513 patents held Overseas 4,485 Ceramic technology Human capital See “Competitive Strength” on our website. Employees 20,000 people Global business Social and relationship capital Diversification development Consolidated 55 companies subsidiaries Natural capital Manufacturing Electricity 950,000 MWh Procurement, production/process technologies, R&D, control techniques Gas (natural gas 137 million Nm3 conversion) Oil (light oil 1.74 million liters conversion) Raw materials 147,000 metric tons PRTR-listed 589 metric tons substances Water 4.33 million m3 Corporate Governance NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 2 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Output Results Values Provided by the NGK Group (fiscal 2019) Ceramic Products Consolidated net sales Supporting Social Infrastructure Business Group Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, 442 billion yen and modern energy for all Insulators are indispensable to stable power supply NAS batteries allow stable supply of renewable energy Net income attributable Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and to owners of the parent sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation Ceramics used in electronics make ICT cheap and 27.1 billion yen ubiquitous Ceramics used in semiconductor manufacturing Gasoline particulate filters (GPFs) equipment let the semiconductor industry be the foundation for modern daily life ROE Metal-related products are widely used in mobile Process Technology phones, automobiles, industrial equipment, and other Business Group 5.8% devices that undergird modern life Lithium-ion rechargeable batteries contribute to the dissemination of next-generation products such as IoT devices and smart cards Total sales of products contributing to Protecting the Environment environmental protection Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all 259.9 billion yen Ceramics for semiconductor Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust manufacturing equipment gas clean, thus enabling clean usage of fossil fuels Take urgent action to combat climate change and Electronics Social contribution its impacts Business Group spending NAS batteries aid in the fight against climate change by allowing stable supply of renewable energy 0.24 billion yen Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources for sustainable development Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater to prevent Avoided NOx emissions marine pollution 4 million metric Improving People’s Lives tons per year EnerCera lithium-ion rechargeable ® Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for batteries Note: Assumes exhaust systems are all at all ages equipped on new automobiles that Energy Infrastructure do not have equivalent systems. Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust gas clean Business Group Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Ceramic membrane filters provide highly safe water Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable NAS batteries enable innovation in urban energy management for the creation of sustainable cities NAS® batteries NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 3 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Message from the President NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 4 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Unique ceramic technology for a future of coexistence between environment and humanity My heart goes out to all those affected by COVID-19. I would also like to express my sincere respect and gratitude to medical professionals and all the other people who are supporting our society. The current spread of the novel coronavirus has caused an abrupt slowdown in the global economy, having a significant impact on the NGK Group’s business performance. Nevertheless, we must not halt our progress. We strive to ensure the safety of employees and their families and prevent the spread of infection. With this as our top priority, we will take advantage of our unique ceramic technology to provide products that exceed society’s expectations and continue growing to create a sustainable future. NGK Insulators, Ltd. President Commemorating 101 years in business Look into the future and set a goal to realize the NGK Group Philosophy Last year, on the occasion of its 100th anniversary, the NGK the Japanese government, advocates a people-centered Group took a new look at its philosophical framework and society and encourages companies to drive reforms. The established the NGK Group Philosophy. In the 101st year, we concept of achieving coexistence between environment and would like to define the Group’s goals and work on formulating humanity took shape as we examined the ideal state as a a new business vision. company based on this trend. Large-scale investments we had carried out over the past Nonetheless, coexistence between environment and four years have been mostly completed. The path for the humanity is no easy feat. In order to create a future where business expansion of existing products has been laid out, and people coexist with the rich natural environment, we must new products with good prospects are beginning to emerge in further improve ceramic technology as our strength and each business. We already know what needs to be done in the resolve diverse social issues through innovative solutions. To 2020s. Now, the NGK Group must develop a vision looking into this end, we need to drive transformation and growth through the future beyond that. the Group’s collective efforts. The new vision will focus on the ways we can achieve Therefore, since the end of 2019, we have been holding coexistence between environment and humanity, based on discussions with the management team, outside directors, and which we aim to resolve diverse social issues through the younger employees to formulate a new vision. I constantly effective use of our technologies and create new value. think about contributions we can make to society by believing The reduction of CO2 emissions is an important global in the future of ceramics and further evolving our unique challenge, and investors consider ESG initiatives as part of technology. corporate responsibility. Society 5.0, an initiative promoted by NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 5 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Message from the President COVID-19 Sustaining business activities while prioritizing human life Meanwhile, when I look at the current global situation, people-to-people contact such as by installing vinyl curtains COVID-19 remains rampant. I am afraid that a great number of and using face shields in some sections. The shift to people are now living with fear in their hearts. telecommuting proceeded relatively smoothly as we had been The NGK Group has positioned preventing the spread of working to establish a network environment such as by COVID-19 as an important crisis management issue and introducing new software. There are more departments now launched the Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Countermeasures taking this opportunity to review conventional work patterns to Headquarters to gather information. Under the three policies, improve operational efficiency. namely priority on human life, cooperation with the government COVID-19 has also had an impact on the Group’s and collaboration with local communities, and the achievement respective businesses, forcing some production sites in of sustainable business activities, we are looking into various Europe, North and Central America, and Asia to suspend measures for business continuity while placing utmost priority operations or reduce factory utilization. A number of major on ensuring safety and preventing the spread of the virus. markets have been affected in terms of demand. Nonetheless, Specifically, in back-office departments, employees are we anticipate a recovery in demand from a mediumto encouraged to switch over to staggered commuting and long-term perspective. Therefore, we will focus on the creation telecommuting to the greatest extent possible, while in of new products for the future while flexibly addressing the production lines, measures are taken to reduce immediate drop in demand. Business risks Strengthening the management system for diversified business risks We categorize business risks that are considered significant increase in new and high-performance products. In the from a management perspective, including COVID-19, into Chinese market, which is growing in importance, although those related to the business environment, strategies, and Chinese competitors are expected to become more active, we internal factors respectively and review them on a continual will continue to strengthen our competitive edge with basis. capabilities to provide technologies that preemptively address In the automotive-related business, changes in demand environmental regulations and through a steady supply of may be anticipated in the future due to internal combustion products. engine vehicles (ICEVs) gradually being replaced with As global business expansion proceeds, in order to non-ICEVs such as electric vehicles (EVs) and fuel-cell vehicles minimize the impact of diversified business risks, the NGK (FCVs). However, for the time being, the ICEV market is Group is working to strengthen risk management. We will expected to further expand with tightened exhaust regulations, improve the risk management system to further reinforce our and therefore, we are anticipating business growth through an management base. Business overview Production capacity up to 2023 has been secured; focusing on the dissemination of new products Now, I would like to give an overview of the NGK Group’s proceeding with the development of high-performance respective businesses. products that can address new exhaust regulations. In the automotive-related business, fiscal 2019 results were Due to large-scale capital investments that we have been affected by a number of factors. In China, an economic carrying out since fiscal 2016, production capacity up to fiscal slowdown began in the automotive market from late 2018 and 2023 has been secured. Although there are factors such as the introduction of environmental regulations for large vehicles recent depreciation cutting into profits, we hope that success was later than anticipated. In Europe, diesel vehicle sales in our other businesses can offset a drop in demand in the dropped further and resulted in lower-than-anticipated automotive market. demand. However, the prospect that the number of ICEVs will continue to increase until 2030 remains the same. We are NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 6 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index In the semiconductor-related business, investments for the used as substrates for electronic devices, which are Internet of things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), and the 5G incorporated in products like smartphones. Against the next-generation communication standard show a trend of backdrop of the spread of mobile communication speed expansion, based on which we are assuming that they will enhancement technology, they are expected to achieve reliable continue to increase. We will maximize the use of a new factory growth in the future. GaN wafers are high-performance wafers in Tajimi City, Japan, which began operation in October 2019, that will improve an LED’s luminous efficacy and enable the to raise production efficiency and increase our earning higher output of semiconductor lasers. In anticipation of their capacity. Moreover, we will work on the development of application to power semiconductors, which constitute a large next-generation products for higher-performance market, we have also established technology to create bigger semiconductor manufacturing equipment. 6-inch types. With regard to the power-related business, the Power All these products were developed based on our own Business was renamed the Energy Infrastructure Business in technologies, such as crystalline orientation control, 2020. In addition to existing power system insulators and NAS® ultra-high-precision polishing, wafer bonding, and liquid-phase batteries, zinc rechargeable batteries for utility customers have crystal growth and deliver unrivaled high performance. These been added to the product lineup. In comparison to lithium-ion businesses have a promising future in that customers batteries, zinc rechargeable batteries provide greater safety, approach us with potential new applications or we discover which allowed them to eventually acquire the world’s first UL application needs that we have never thought of. verification mark* in the storage battery field. We will continue with their development and sales expansion. In order to ensure * The UL verification mark signifies a high level of safety, backed up by a rigorous safety testing and evaluation process carried out by Underwriters Laboratories access to low-cost, reliable energy for everyone, we will not (UL), a third-party safety science organization in the U.S. Valid until the end of only support the stable supply of electricity, but also expand October 2020. the possibility of its efficient use, thereby establishing a business that can contribute to social infrastructure. In the electronics-related business, samples of EnerCera® lithium-ion rechargeable batteries have been shipped to more than 200 companies inside and outside of Japan. These batteries were commercialized in fiscal 2019. We are promoting the assessment of these products for use in IoT devices including smart cards and smart keys for automobiles. We are also strengthening our marketing forces and working on cost reduction in an attempt to promptly generate sales and profits. In fiscal 2019, the Advanced Device Components Division was launched under the Electronics Business to handle all promising new products such as the EnerCera battery, bonded wafers, and gallium nitride (GaN) wafers. Bonded wafers are NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 7 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Message from the President ESG Consolidating relevant matters to be discussed by the ESG Committee and promoting them as Group policy In fiscal 2019, in order to consolidate discussions related to the the start of my tenure as president, I have been personally environment, society, and governance, we launched the ESG visiting each workplace and asking employees what they are Committee, which established a structure for discussing ESG focusing on and what they are doing to solve problems. With initiatives, including the Fifth Five-Year Environmental Action each passing year, I have seen positive changes in the Plan that will start from fiscal 2021, among senior management attitudes of both department heads and employees. We will and promote them as part of the Group policy. also further enhance corporate systems to be a company In the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan, which where each employee can actively engage in work without any will be completed in fiscal 2020, target values have already worries and deliver higher-quality performance. been achieved in terms of the reduction of discarded materials The NGK Group has shown respect for employees’ and recycling. However, the target achievement in terms of CO2 diversity and designed our human resource system to meet the emission intensity of sales has been difficult due to our needs of the times. In April 2020, we established the HR expanded scale of production. We are likely to focus on actions Committee as an organ for cross-sectoral discussion of to combat climate change in the next plan. In order to achieve corporate activities that respect human rights and human targets, we will continue to improve the structure to enable the resource issues that should be addressed by the Group as a development and introduction of production technologies that whole. Concurrently, we also launched the Diversity & Inclusion will help reduce the environmental impact and to facilitate the Department. dissemination of products and services. With regard to governance and compliance, we will In February 2020, we endorsed the recommendations promote honest business activities. In the past, the NGK Group made by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial caused problems that must never be repeated, including an Disclosures (TCFD). We, as a responsible party, will work to anti-trust law violation and a non-conformity in the testing realize a sustainable society and strive to disclose and enhance procedures of insulators and related products. It is important to related information. never repeat these problems, and to this end, we must foster a With respect to the social aspect, we will concentrate culture where each employee strictly follows routines and rules primarily on job satisfaction reforms. I have been persistently as they are required. We are currently carrying out initiatives communicating to our employees the importance of pursuing such as holding compliance seminars at Group company sites our essence, because I would like them to spend time on what in an effort to instill this attitude in every employee. is truly necessary and perform higher-value-added work. Since Post-COVID-19 Be ingenious by adopting new work styles The global economy has suffered an unprecedented level of are always living side by side with nature. Thinking about how damage due to the effects of COVID-19. Looking back on the we should approach lifestyles in harmony with nature will past, infectious diseases have had a considerable impact on broadly lead us to discuss what the company can do for society in the long history of the world. Considering these society in 10, 20, or 100 years into the future. Toward the historical facts, we may have to prepare for the long haul. In formulation of a new vision, we will redefine environmental the future, I believe that a variety of measures including protection in a broader context and clarify the direction to take vaccines will be implemented and new values and technologies as the NGK Group. suited to the post-COVID-19 era will be developed. The NGK As we undergo social changes, our work styles have also Group will continue to look into various measures while placing shifted significantly. New working methods such as utmost priority on ensuring safety and infection control. telecommuting and web conferencing have become The current catastrophe significantly reframed my attitude ubiquitous, which I believe provided us with an opportunity to toward the environment. While keeping in mind a future of determine how essential each task is by spending time on coexistence between environment and humanity, we have up thinking about contributions that each of us can make to the to this point viewed the environment with a focus on CO2 team and then discussing such ideas with them. Currently, we emissions reduction such as in the form of global warming are internally gathering and summarizing feedback on changes countermeasures, and examined the effective use of the NGK that we have experienced and what we have felt throughout Group’s strengths and other initiatives. However, due to the this calamity. We will be holding discussions on new work spread of COVID-19, we confronted the reality that we are styles suitable for the NGK Group. fighting an invisible threat every day. This reminded me that we NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 8 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index When I think of change, I value the idea of being ingenious. that allows us to reach a goal in a single bound. Work is In the world, the word “innovation” is casually mentioned; meaningful only because we spend time on the process. I however, in order to change the world, the accumulation of believe that the least I can do is to create a pleasant working research activities over an extended period of time and the environment where each employee can exercise their ingenuity. repetition of the trial and error process to develop ingenuity are In order to create a future of coexistence between crucial. This ingenuity stems from findings and inspirations, environment and humanity, we will continue to pursue based on which we shall work toward materialization. Products unrivaled ceramic technology with ingenuity and keep growing are the fruit of these steady efforts, and there is no silver bullet as a company capable of contributing to society. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 9 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index ESG Management To help realize the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations, the NGK Group seeks to provide new value to society with our unique technology, thus contributing to the realization of a sustainable world and winning positive expectations and trust among society. All those who work in the NGK Group respect human rights and comply with the law by acting on a foundation of fair values and internationally recognized norms of judgment. ESG Action Framework In April 2019, the ESG Committee was established with the president serving as its chair. In line with the Group Philosophy, this committee deliberates on management issues pertaining to ESG. In fiscal 2020, other NGK committees discussed ESG issues in their functions. ESG Action Framework Chart ESG Committee Chair: President HR Committee Development Committee Chair: Executive Vice President Chair: Senior Vice President President Compliance Committee Facilities Committee Chair: Director and Senior Vice President Chair: Executive Officer Environmental Protection Committee Safety and Health Committee Chair: Executive Vice President Chair: Executive Vice President Quality Committee Chair: Executive Vice President Fiscal 2019 ESG Committee Achievements Session Date Agenda • Formulate basic concept of ESG Committee 1st April 11, 2019 • Analyze other companies’ trends • Plan environmental, quality, health and safety, and compliance activities 2nd July 4, 2019 • Analyze ESG corporate rankings • Discuss risk management issues 3rd September 25, 2019 • Plan community service activities 4th December 18, 2019 • Make long-term environmental plan • Step up risk management 5th March 19, 2020 • Plan ESG information disclosure NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 10 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Key ESG Action Themes At the first ESG Committee session in fiscal 2020, we decided on the key action themes for the fiscal year. Key themes Main activities Activity leader • Formulate human rights policies Human rights protection • HR Committee • Carry out human rights due diligence • Formulate next term’s environmental action plan and • Environmental Protection Committee Climate change countermeasures environmental vision • Plan specific action on TCFD • Task force Support for ESG in supply chain • Disseminate CSR procurement policy • Task force • Study framework giving clearer separation of execution Revamping of governance system and supervision • Task force • Strengthen risk management system Contribution to SDGs from new business • Assess development themes from an SDG standpoint • Development Committee Implementation of ESG-related • Plan environment-related capital investment • Facilities Committee capital investment • Spread barrier-free facilities ESG information disclosure • Increase number and depth of disclosure items • Task force (integrated report, securities report) • Plan NGK Foundation for International Students and Concept of community service activities • Task force international student center activities Note: Task forces are project teams comprising members of relevant business divisions. NGK Group Signs UN Global Compact The NGK Group is a signatory to the United Nations Global The UN Global Compact is a global framework for realizing Compact, which advocates for independent action on the part of sustainable growth through companies and organizations acting companies. We believe that addressing a broad range of social as good members of society. problems through our business activities, while measuring progress against indicators such as the SDGs, is an important corporate social responsibility. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 11 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Position on SDGs Ever since its foundation, the NGK Group has pursued business in the energy, ecology, and electronics sectors in efforts to keep nature’s air and water clean and thus help people live a comfortable, healthy life. Many of our technologies and products contribute to the SDGs, and we will continue to provide new value by leveraging our unique ceramic technology towards the realization of a sustainable society. Goals Values provided by the NGK Group • Creating appropriate employment helps to end poverty End poverty in all its forms everywhere • NGK’s climate change countermeasures help mitigate natural disasters End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote • The social infrastructure created by NGK products helps secure equal access to work opportunities sustainable agriculture • High-output, high-efficiency semiconductor lasers using gallium nitride (GaN) wafers are a substitute for Ensure healthy lives and promote ultra-high-pressure mercury lamps, thus contributing to less use of mercury well-being for all at all ages • Micro-lenses are increasingly used instead of mercury in UV LED light sources for applications such as the sterilization of water and air, thus contributing to less use of mercury • Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust gas clean Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning • Creating appropriate employment gives people the chance to have equal access to education opportunities for all • The social infrastructure created by NGK products helps provide more opportunities for women to enhance Achieve gender equality and empower their abilities all women and girls • Securing equal opportunities for women to participate and be leaders in society Ensure availability and sustainable • Ceramic membrane filters provide highly safe water management of water and sanitation • Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater for all • Insulators are indispensable to stable power supply Ensure access to affordable, reliable, • NAS® batteries allow stable supply of renewable energy sustainable, and modern energy for all • Ceramics for purifying automobile exhaust make exhaust gas clean, thus enabling clean usage of fossil fuels Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable • Creating appropriate employment and providing employees with a satisfying work environment contributes to economic growth, full and productive economic growth employment, and decent work for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote • Thin lithium-ion rechargeable batteries provide power for the new IoT generation • Ceramics used in electronics make ICT cheap and ubiquitous inclusive and sustainable industrialization, • Ceramics used in semiconductor manufacturing equipment let the semiconductor industry be the foundation for modern daily life and foster innovation • Metal-related products are widely used in mobile phones, automobiles, industrial equipment, and other devices that undergird modern life Reduce inequality within and • We prevent discrimination and take prompt and appropriate action when violations occur among countries Make cities and human settlements • NAS batteries enable innovation in urban energy management for the creation of sustainable cities inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable Ensure sustainable consumption and • We efficiently use the natural resources used to make ceramics production patterns Take urgent action to combat climate • NAS batteries aid in the fight against climate change by allowing stable supply of renewable energy change and its impacts Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources for • Ceramic membrane filters purify wastewater to prevent marine pollution sustainable development Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage • We protect biodiversity on land owned by NGK forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to • We comply with the rules and regulations of the countries and regions in which do business, and ensure respect justice for all, and build effective, accountable for and strict compliance with international treaties and inclusive institutions at all levels Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for • We encourage and promote effective partnerships among governments, corporations, and society as a whole sustainable development NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 12 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment 14 Five-Year Environmental Action Plan 15 Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report 16 Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System 17 Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact 21 Preventing Global Warming 24 Promoting Effective Use of Resources 29 Protecting Biodiversity 31 Environmental Education and Communication 33 Creating Products That Contribute to the Environment 35 Environmental Accounting 38 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 13 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environment In addition to promoting the development and popularization of products and services that can help protect the environment, the NGK Group is endeavoring to preserve the global environment by improving manufacturing processes and developing and introducing manufacturing technology that has less environmental impact. Activities covered All NGK Group sites • NGK Headquarters, Nagoya Site, Chita Site, Komaki Site, Ishikawa Plant, Tokyo Main Office, Osaka Branch, and six other sales offices • Group companies: 55 consolidated subsidiaries NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment Recognizing that protecting the environment is a vital issue that all of humanity must face, the NGK Group formulated its Core Policy on the Environment in April 1996 based on Environmental Philosophy and Guidelines for Environmental Action in order to bring its corporate activities into harmony with the environment. On the basis of this policy, the NGK Group works to reduce the environmental impact of business activities, and actively strives to help protect the environment by developing products and technologies to that end. NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment Environmental Philosophy (revised in June 2019) The NGK Group continues our commitment to improving the global environment through our “Triple E” businesses representing the energy, ecology, and electronic sectors. Guidelines for Environmental Action 1. Strive to develop, design, and manufacture products that contribute to the environment and products with low environmental impact. 2. Work to reduce the environmental impact arising from business activities. Conduct design reviews to scientifically study and evaluate the environmental impact of business activities. • Promote energy conservation measures for all processes and facilities, and make efforts to control CO2 emissions. • Promote resource saving and recycling, and make efforts to control the generation of by-products. • Through the appropriate use and control of chemical agents, work to reduce the risks inherent in toxic substances. • Give precedence to environmentally friendly materials, parts, products, and facilities in procurement and purchasing, strengthening cooperative alliances with our business partners. 3. Enhance environmental management systems from a global perspective while continuously reducing our environmental impact. 4. Not only abide by environmental laws, regulations, and other requirements, but also institute voluntary standards and work to improve our own environmental conservation. 5. Provide environmental information to the public at the appropriate time and pursue dialogue with all stakeholders. Proactively develop social action programs. Also, engage in education and publicity in order to improve employees’ environmental consciousness. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 14 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Five-Year Environmental Action Plan The NGK Group has established the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan (fiscal 2016–2020). To achieve the goals of the Plan, we are promoting environmental activities, setting annual targets. Outline of the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan (Fiscal 2016–2020) The NGK Group organizes environmental initiatives by creating five-year action plans. The Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan, initiated in fiscal 2016, has been formulated to broadly encompass major global environmental challenges and to select two key issues each for two groups of themes, namely, priority themes and focus themes. The two priority themes are: environmental/social contribution through products; and reducing CO2 emissions and discarded materials. The first priority theme directly reflects the core concept of the NGK Group philosophy, while the other theme closely relates to NGK’s mediumto long-term initiative of New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures for increasing competitiveness. For focus themes, we have also set two issues: biodiversity conservation and water resource risk management/response, both being major challenges for which socially responsible corporate action is required with greater urgency. Base Year, Target Year, Control Scope Base Year: Fiscal 2013 Target Year: Fiscal 2020 Control Scope: Consolidated The new Five-Year Environmental Action Plan has been designed to correspond with the business initiative of New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures. Accordingly, the base year of the Plan has been set to coincide with the initiative. In principle, activities are managed on a consolidated basis. The consolidated method has been adopted in response to the recent changes in our global production output structure, particularly increased production at overseas manufacturing sites and more products that go through the supply chain covering multiple locations worldwide. Mediumto Long-Term Socially Important NGK Group Philosophy Management Strategies Environmental Issues Commitment to Biodiversity Conservation Our Mission New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures (Involvement in the Aichi Targets) Enriching Human Life (Creating resilient and efficient by Adding New Value to Society. manufacturing sites) Commitment to Water Resource Risk Management Incorporated into the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Priority theme Priority theme Focus theme Actions for Environmental/Social Reducing CO2 Emissions and Biodiversity Conservation Contribution through Products Discarded Materials (Development and distribution (Cutting energy and raw Actions for Water of products contributing to material costs) environmental protection) Resource Risk Management NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 15 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report The initiatives planned under the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan and their progress (targets and results for fiscal 2019; targets for fiscal 2020, the final year) are summarized in the table below. In fiscal 2019, compared to forecasts at the start of the period, negative factors such as lower sales volume in core products and negative currency effects prevented us from achieving annual goals for a number of the items for which we set numerical goals. Fiscal 2020 is the final year of the Fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan. Despite the uncertainty in the global economy caused by the growing COVID-19 pandemic, the NGK Group is working in concert to undertake environmentally beneficial activities that will enable us to meet the targets of the Five-Year Environmental Action Plan, including the smooth start-up of new plants and production lines and an increase in the production yield ratio. FY2019 FY2020 Take action Category Item KPI Selfin 11 of the Target Result evaluation*1 Target 17 SDGs Develop and distribute products Sales growth (%) Increase by at least contributing to Increase by 52% from FY2013 Increased by 45% from FY2013 (consolidated) 60% from FY2013 environmental protection Environmental/ • At least 99% of NGK’s • 99.5% agreed (100% including social contribution suppliers in Japan agree to Promote green suppliers who partially agreed) Maintain in Japan, through products comply with the CSR procurement Plan progress (%) • Unable to get useful ○ expand overseas Procurement Guidelines information on overseas • Survey of overseas efforts activities Environmental/social contribution methods Participate in local Contribute to local Continually enhance actions Plan progress (%) environmental protection Group companies participated ○ communities partnering with communities activities • Provide environmental Promotion of Raise education for employees • Provided training Continually enhance environmental environmental Plan progress (%) • Disseminate environmental policy programs by job grade ○ environmental training and communication awareness • Encourage participation • Installed “green curtains” information disclosure in environmental events Promote actions based on Continue to expand employee 396 employees participated in Expand and enhance content biodiversity Plan progress (%) participation in My Action ○ FY2019 (cumulative total: 6,550) of Aichi Targets actions conservation Declaration project Conservation of guidelines biodiversity Basic unit per net sales Reduce by 17% from FY2013 Reduced by 9% from FY2013 Reduce by 20% from FY2013 Reduce CO2 (consolidated) emitted from manufacturing*5 Reduction rate Reduce by 18% from FY2013 against BAU (%)*2 Reduce by 16% from FY2013 Reduced by 16% from FY2013 ○ (upward revision from initial (consolidated) 15% target) Prevention of global warming Reduce CO2 Basic unit per Environmental impact reduction Reduce by 1% per year Increased by 5.1% per year on Reduce by 1% per year emitted from transport volume*3 on 5-year average*4 5-year average*4 on 5-year average*4 supply chains (non-consolidated) Basic unit per Reduce discarded net sales Reduce by 30% from FY2013 Reduced by 32% from FY2013 ○ Reduce by 30% from FY2013 (consolidated) materials emitted from Reduction rate Reduce by 23% from FY2013 manufacturing*5 against BAU (%)*2 Reduce by 19% from FY2013 Reduced by 24% from FY2013 ○ (upward revision from initial (consolidated) 20% target) Promote resource Recycling rate At least 99% 99.3% ○ Maintain at least 99% Effective use of recycling (Japan) resources Manage and Strengthen actions by Follow-up of water Water consumption continued production bases for respond to water Plan progress (%) ○ resource risks consumption results at stable pace evaluating risks and streamlining water use Notes: *1: Self-evaluation standards for achievement level: ○: Target achieved; : Target not achieved *2: Reduction rate against BAU (business as usual) indicates the percentage rate of emissions reduction resulting from implemented actions compared to a case in which no improvement action was taken since fiscal 2013. By not incorporating the influence of foreign exchange movements and other factors, this indicator allows a direct grasp of the efforts by each site. *3: NGK basic unit per transport volume expresses in metric ton-kilometers the amount of crude oil equivalent fuel used. *4: Based on the computation criteria stipulated in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. *5: Covers all manufacturing sites of the NGK Group. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 16 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System The NGK Group promotes environmental conservation activities in accordance with our Core Policy on the Environment through initiatives pertaining to environmental management frameworks and the Environmental Management System (EMS) implemented by global Group companies working in conjunction with one another. Environmental Management President Promotion System ① NGK Environmental Protection Committee NGK Environmental Protection Committee Chair In addition to environmental management systems built (Executive Vice President) independently at each site of NGK (Nagoya, Chita, Environmental Management ② Komaki, Ishikawa), we have established a consolidated Headquarters Environmental management system to control environmental activities at Expert Committee all Group companies in and outside Japan under the leadership of each Business Group. The Five-Year ③ Environmental Action Plan and the related annual plan are Nagoya EPC shared across the entire Group via the Business Groups to be incorporated into activity plans of each Group company. Chita EPC Energy Ceramic Electronics Process Infrastructure Products Technology Business Group To promote unified environmental management for the Business Group Business Group Environmental Business Group Environmental Environmental Environmental entire Group, annual liaison meetings are held for Group Komaki EPC Management Management Management Management companies in Japan, while headquarters personnel visit Group companies outside Japan on a regular basis. Thus, Ishikawa Plant we create interactive discussion and support opportunities to address issues facing each company. Group Group Group Group companies in companies in companies in companies in ④ and outside and outside and outside and outside Japan Japan Japan Japan ① NGK Environmental Protection Committee In principle, this committee meets twice each year. Other meetings are held at the discretion of the chair. Governing Structure Chair President makes decision in light of Executive Committee deliberations (As of July 2020, Executive Vice President) Vice Chair Appointed by NGK Environmental Protection Committee Chair (As of July 2020, General Manager of Environmental Management Dept.) Executive Vice President, Vice Presidents responsible for Headquarters Departments, Group Executives, General Managers, General Manager of Pollution Control at each site, General Manager of Environmental Management Dept., General Manager of Safety and Health Management, General Manager of Corporate Members Strategy Office, General Manager of Corporate Communications, General Manager of Human Resources Dept., General Manager of Group Compliance, General Manager of Finance & Accounting Dept., General Manager of Legal Dept., General Manager of General Affairs Dept., General Manager of Purchasing Dept., General Manager of Construction & Maintenance Dept., General Manager of Global Engineering Center, and others designated by the Committee Chair ② Environmental Expert Committee The committee meets before the NGK Environmental Protection Committee to review and discuss items to be reported to the committee. Governing Structure Expert Committee Chair General Manager of Environmental Management Dept. Vice Chair General Manager of Construction & Maintenance Dept. General Manager of Business Planning Dept., persons in charge of promoting environmental activities in each division, Members Group Manager of Environmental Management Dept., others designated by the Expert Committee Chair NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 17 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index ③ Environmental Committees at Each NGK Site In principle, committees of each NGK site (Nagoya Site [headquarters, Atsuta/Mizuho], Chita Site, Komaki Site, Ishikawa Plant) meet twice each year in each area. They thoroughly convey matters determined by the NGK Environmental Protection Committee, and communicate and discuss issues and topics in each area (five sites hold two meetings each for total of 10 per year). ④ Environmental Management In and Outside Japan Business divisions of NGK, including those at Group companies in and outside Japan, have environmental management systems aimed at realizing NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment. The NGK headquarters surveys environmental performance at Group companies and conducts audits to monitor their conformance to environmental laws. If problems are discovered, the causes and remedies are determined and disseminated throughout the Group. At Group companies in Japan involved in manufacturing, annual liaison meetings are held in order to convey environmental policy and to share information on matters such as companies’ environmental management status and effective environmental initiatives. Environmental Management System Certification of Environmental Management System As of July 2020 (ISO 14001, etc.) Initiatives Number of Number of Category manufacturing bases bases certified The NGK Group encourages the acquisition of ISO 14001 NGK 4 4 or third-party certifications (such as Eco Stage 2 or Eco Action 21 in Japan) meeting this standard to Energy Infrastructure Business Group 5 5 systematically and continuously develop its environmental conservation activities in line with NGK’s Core Policy on Ceramic Products Business Group 1 1 Domestic the Environment. Group Electronics Business Group 12 12 Under this initiative, all Group companies (excluding new Group companies), including those outside Japan, as Process Technology Business Group 4 4 well as the Nagoya, Chita, Komaki, and Ishikawa sites, have received certification. Five of these are bases that Energy Infrastructure Business Group 3 3 were newly certified in fiscal 2019. Ceramic Products Business Group 9 9 Overseas Group Certified Production Bases Electronics Business Group 5 5 47 bases 100% of entire Group Process Technology Business Group New bases operating less than two years not covered. 4 4 External Organizations’ Evaluation of ESG Company Evaluation NGK Environmental Management Evaluation index Survey year 2016 2017 2018 2019 On the right is an evaluation by external organizations of CDP-Climate Change B B B ANGK’s recent environmental management and ESG CDP-Water Security B B BBactivities. Our fiscal 2019 rank was “A-” on CDP’s Climate DJSI/Asia Pacific Selected Selected Selected Selected Change list. Since fiscal 2016, we have been selected Nikkei Environmental every year for the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Management Survey 109th 50th 62nd Index. In the Nikkei Environmental Management Survey, Nikkei SDGs Management Deviation NGK’s highest placing was 50th, in fiscal 2017. In the Survey value: 59.6 fiscal 2019 Nikkei SDGs Management Survey, we received a deviation value of 59.6. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 18 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Audits NGK conducts internal audits and external audits (renewal audits) of the environmental management system at the Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki sites, as well as the Ishikawa Plant. Group companies also conduct these same internal audits, and external reviews of the environmental management systems are conducted by external auditors at all Group companies. In fiscal 2019, in the same way as with the previous year, there were no significant findings. In the event of a significant finding, the relevant division and Environmental Management Dept. work together to review and implement countermeasures, as well as inform environmental committees in each area in an attempt to horizontally deploy these measures. Environmental Risk Management At the NGK Group, each manufacturing site has individually established environmental management systems to prevent environmental pollution. In fiscal 2019, the NGK headquarters conducted audits, which were focused on environmental risk control, at 14 manufacturing bases in Japan and 9 overseas. The main purpose of the audits was to ascertain progress on improvement since the previous year’s audits and to determine the situation at overseas bases that could not be audited in the previous year. Based on audit results, problems were remedied and support was provided for improvements as part of efforts to improve the management level for the entire Group. Regulatory Compliance NGK conducts monitoring and assessments as well as vigorous control of exhaust and wastewater produced from its sites, observing relevant regulations and environmental preservation-related and other agreements with control authorities. Additionally, we organize environmental management specialist seminars on a regular basis for all Group companies in Japan to keep responsible persons updated on related topics, thereby enhancing our capabilities to prevent environmental pollution. In fiscal 2019, there were no major violations of environment-related laws by NGK. Environmental Patrols and Emergency Activities Conducted in FY2019 Response Drills Atmosphere Water Noise and Chemical vibrations substances NGK implements environmental patrols in line with annual Environmental patrols 4 4 4 1 plans to prevent environmental pollution and conducts Nagoya Emergency response response drills based on emergency scenarios to minimize 4 2 − 2 drills damage. Environmental patrols 1 2 1 1 In fiscal 2019, environmental patrols were conducted Chita at the Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki sites and the Ishikawa Emergency response 4 5 − − drills Plant to prevent atmosphere and water pollution, ensure the appropriate management of chemical substances, and Environmental patrols 1 2 1 1 Komaki suppress noise and vibrations. Response drills based on Emergency response 9 9 − − emergency scenarios were also conducted at these four drills areas. Going forward, NGK will continue to proactively Environmental patrols 2 2 2 2 engage in patrols and drills in an attempt to improve Ishikawa Emergency response 5 2 − 2 operational methods and mitigate environmental risks. drills Note: “—” indicates emergency response drills were considered of low importance and not conducted. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 19 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Chemical Management System For NGK sites on a non-consolidated basis, strict checks are carried out when new substances come into use as part of efforts to maintain and raise the level of management. Before purchasing a new chemical substance, the Chemical Substances Safety Committee decides whether it should be used, then confirms with, and provides guidance to, the departments that will use the chemical on important matters regarding the chemical’s use and disposal. The departments using the new chemicals thus take the lead in proper management of the substances. Thanks to these efforts, atmospheric emissions of organic solvents and other PRTR-listed substances at NGK decreased in fiscal 2019 against fiscal 2010 by 62%. We are transferring this success to our main overseas manufacturing bases so that they lead to a lower environmental impact for the NGK Group as a whole. Chemical Management Flowchart Department using Division checking (safety and health, Purchasing Department Department using chemicals chemicals environment, construction and maintenance) Department Confirm SDS (safety data sheet) Review of new chemical substances Register Appropriate control at departments Details of intended substance, Guidance (on use, storage, disposal, etc.) purchasing (Implementation of guidance items, apply for permission to use to department using chemicals information inventory control) Permission and Purchasing registration information Tools and methods Application process Purchasing system Chemical Substances Safety Committee Chemical substances inventory Substances contained, relevant regulations, Registration of substances, control system abatement equipment, disposal method, etc. regulations, and storage facilities Strengthening of Global Environmental Management In accordance with the Guidelines for Environmental Action, the NGK Group horizontally deploys domestic environmental impact reduction initiatives in Group companies outside Japan while creating mechanisms to strictly comply with amendments to environmental laws and regulations to propel our global environmental management to the next level. Mitigating Environmental Risks throughout the Group All NGK Group manufacturing bases in and outside Japan have completed acquisition of ISO 14001 or third-party certifications meeting this standard and implement environmental management in line with environmental management systems. NGK shares information regarding changes in domestic environmental laws and regulations with Group companies and has created a structure to ascertain the status of responses to these changes. Overseas, NGK headquarters is enhancing its ability to regularly ascertain the status of responses and management in terms of important legal and regulatory system revision information in the countries and regions where Group companies are located. In fiscal 2019, staff of the NGK headquarters continued their work from fiscal 2018 in conducting audits at 14 manufacturing bases in Japan and 9 overseas, with a focus on environmental risk. Based on audit results, problems were remedied and support was provided for improvements as part of continuing efforts to mitigate environmental risks throughout the Group. Periodic audits will continue to be conducted at all bases in fiscal 2020 and beyond. Strengthening Environmental Management Linked to Business Planning The NGK Group aims to build an environmental management system that can cope with changes in both our business plan and the state of the social environment. Initiatives aimed at reducing environmental impact in accordance with business plans include conducting biannual forecast estimates and achievement evaluations in each business group, product line, and manufacturing base to determine which initiatives to pursue next. These efforts include the establishment of the Environmental Expert Committee under the NGK Environmental Protection Committee as a company-wide decision-making body. The Environmental Expert Committee facilitates discussions among managers from planning and production divisions who formulate and promote actual business planning in each business division, strengthening the company-wide environmental management system. Going forward, we will continue to strengthen management integration with the aim of promoting environmental management that combines global environmental protection and corporate growth. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 20 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact The table below shows aggregate inputs to and outputs from manufacturing operations of the entire NGK Group at all domestic and overseas sites. Inputs represent data for raw materials and energy etc. and outputs for manufactured products and services as well as substances that are discharged into the atmosphere and into water. FY2019 NGK Group Material Balance (Input and Output) FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Category Item Unit Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Electric power GWh 880 230 930 250 950 250 Gas (natural gas conversion) Million Nm 3 140 19 142 20 137 19 Oil (light oil conversion) Million L 2.55 0.27 2.11 0.28 1.74 0.30 INPUT Raw materials 103 metric tons 192 36 180 35 147 28 Recycled materials 10 metric tons 3 4.4 4.4 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 PRTR-listed substances Metric tons 707 232 694 219 589 236 Total water usage Million m3 4.32 1.50 4.53 1.60 4.33 1.55 Energy-origin CO2 103 metric tons of CO2 932 156 960 164 960 157 Other greenhouse gases 10 metric tons of CO2 3 5 1 5 1 5 2 CO2 (non-energy origin) 103 metric tons of CO2 1 1 0 0 0 0 CH4 10 metric tons of CO2 3 1 1 0 0 0 0 N2O 103 metric tons of CO2 0 0 0 0 0 0 HFC 103 metric tons of CO2 0 0 0 0 0 0 PFC 10 metric tons of CO2 3 4 0 4 1 3 0 SF6 103 metric tons of CO2 0 0 0 0 0 0 OUTPUT VOC Metric tons 145.3 0.0 119.7 0.0 68.4 0.2 PRTR-listed substances (emissions into atmosphere) Metric tons 154.2 2.4 127.5 2.8 76.3 2.6 Discarded materials 10 metric tons 3 59 11 58 11 54 11 Recycled 103 metric tons 44 11 43 11 43 11 Disposed of externally 10 metric tons 3 15 0 16 0 11 0 Total water discharge Million m3 2.87 1.31 2.81 1.37 3.14 1.40 PRTR-listed substances (discharge into bodies of water) Metric tons 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Scope 1 (energy-origin CO2) 103 metric tons of CO2 320 43 323 44 309 43 Scope 2 (energy-origin CO2) 103 metric tons of CO2 612 113 637 120 651 114 Notes: 1. Environmental performance values in this report have been rounded off for convenience; therefore the sum of individual values may not match the totals. 2. “Discarded materials” indicates the total amount of industrial waste and valuables. 3. Figures in the non-consolidated column indicate data from non-consolidated NGK production bases (Headquarters, Nagoya Site, Chita Site, Komaki Site, Ishikawa Plant). 4. Fiscal 2017 non-consolidated CO2 emissions have been revised so that calculation uses the CO2 conversion factor stipulated under enforcement orders of Japan’s Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. 5. There was an error in adding up fiscal 2018 VOC emissions values, but this has been corrected. 6. There was an error in adding up fiscal 2018 consolidated PRTR values (emissions into atmosphere), but this has been corrected. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 21 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Reporting Scope 3 CO2 Emissions Starting in fiscal 2017, NGK has been calculating Scope 3 emissions on a non-consolidated upstream basis in response to emerging expectations for businesses to expand the relevant data reporting scope to include supply chain CO2 emissions levels. In fiscal 2019, NGK confirmed that the total volume of CO2 emission from NGK logistics was 977,000 metric tons, which was over six times more than the 157,000 metric tons of NGK in-house CO2 emissions (sum of Scope 1 and 2), and that Category 1 (purchased goods and services) amounted to over 80% of total CO2 emissions. NGK will continue to develop calculation methods that can ascertain CO2 emission levels in relation to a greater range of items. Please note that the calculation used for Scope 3 data was carried out in accordance with Basic Guidelines Regarding the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions through the Supply Chain (Ver. 2.2) (Ministry of the Environment; Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry). Scope 3 GHG Emissions FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Category Item Unit Non-consolidated Non-consolidated Non-consolidated 1 Purchased goods and services (including resale items) 103 metric tons of CO2 762 863 842 2 Capital goods 10 metric tons of CO2 3 84 152 99 3 Fueland energy-related activities 103 metric tons of CO2 16 18 16 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 10 metric tons of CO2 3 11 8 14 5 Waste generated in operations 10 metric tons of CO2 3 1 3 2 6 Business travel 103 metric tons of CO2 1 1 1 7 Employee commuting 10 metric tons of CO2 3 2 2 2 8 Upstream leased assets 103 metric tons of CO2 0 0 0 Total 10 metric tons of CO2 3 877 1,047 977 Water Withdrawal by Source, Water Discharge by Destination, Recycled Amount, Recycling Rate FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Item Unit Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Municipal government water utility (or other water utility) Million m3 3.69 1.06 3.91 1.14 3.71 1.08 Water Groundwater Million m 3 0.63 0.44 0.62 0.47 0.62 0.47 withdrawal Surface water (lakes, rivers, etc.) Million m3 0.002 0.0 0.002 0.0 0.001 0.0 Total Million m 3 4.322 1.502 4.532 1.610 4.331 1.550 Sewerage Million m3 0.73 0.20 0.71 0.19 0.66 0.20 Rivers, lakes, etc. Million m 3 2.14 1.11 2.10 1.18 2.48 1.20 Water Waste Million m3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 discharge Ground permeation Million m 3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total Million m3 2.87 1.31 2.81 1.37 3.14 1.40 Recycled amount Million m3 0.09 0.0 0.09 0.0 0.09 0.0 Recycling rate % 2.04 0.00 1.95 0.00 2.04 0.00 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 22 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index INPUT 1. Energy Electric power: Consumption amount of electric power Gas: Consumption volume of each type of fuel gas converted into natural gas volume =Σ(Consumption volume of each fuel gas × Unit heating value of each fuel gas / Unit heating value of natural gas) <Unit heating value of fuel gas> Natural gas: 43.5 MJ/Nm3 City gas: 45.0 MJ/Nm3 LPG: 50.8 MJ/kg LNG: 54.6 MJ/kg Oil: Consumption volume of each type of fuel converted into light oil volume =Σ(Consumption volume of each fuel × Unit heating value of each fuel / Unit heating volume of light oil) <Unit heating value of fuel> Light oil: 37.7 MJ/L Fuel oil A: 39.1 MJ/L Kerosene: 36.7 MJ/L Gasoline: 34.6 MJ/L 2. Water Total consumption volume of city water, industrial water, well water, and rainwater 3. PRTR-listed substances Total amount handled of Japan’s PRTR Type 1 listed substances 4. Raw materials Total weight of raw materials used in product manufacturing OUTPUT 5. Energy-origin CO2 emission volume Energy-origin CO2 emission volume = Σ(Consumption of each energy × CO2 conversion factor of each energy) <CO2 conversion factor of energy> (Unit of electric power factor: kgCO2/kWh Unit of fuel factor: kgCO2 / fuel unit) Electric power Japan: Emission coefficient for each electric utility in Japan based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures; United States: 0.709; Belgium: 0.292; France: 0.061; Poland: 0.986; South Africa: 1.096; China: 0.983; Thailand: 0.687; Indonesia: 0.790; Australia: 1.390; Mexico: 0.741; Malaysia: 0.543 Fuel Natural gas (Nm3): 2.22; City gas (NGK on a non-consolidated basis) (Nm3): 2.244; City gas (except NGK on a non-consolidated basis) (Nm3): 2.23; LPG (kg): 3.00; LNG (kg): 2.70; Light oil (L): 2.58; Fuel oil A (L): 2.71; Kerosene (L): 2.49; Gasoline (L): 2.32; Industrial steam (MJ): 0.06 6. Emission volume of other greenhouse gases Emission volume of other greenhouse gases = Active mass × Emission factor × Global warming potential <Global warming potential> CO2: 1; CH4: 25; N2O: 298; HFC: Differs by type; PFC: Differs by type; SF6: 22800; NF3: 17200 7. Water discharge Total amount of discharged water excluding rainwater 8. PRTR-listed substances Discharge into bodies of water: Total amount of Class 1 substances listed under Japan’s PRTR Act discharged into public bodies of water Emissions into the atmosphere: Total amount of Class 1 substances listed under Japan’s PRTR Act emitted into the atmosphere 9. Total amount of discarded materials generated Total amount of discarded materials generated = Externally disposed amount*1 + Externally recycled amount Recycled amount: Externally recycled amount = Paid disposal*2 + Valuable amount (selling off) *1 Externally disposed amount: Direct disposal by landfill, or simple incineration *2 Paid disposal: Outsourcing disposal and paying for recycling 10. Scope 1 to 3 Scope 1: Direct emissions of greenhouse gases by the reporting company (generated from the burning of fuel or industrial processes) Scope 2: Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by the reporting company resulting from the use of electricity, steam, or heat purchased from other companies Scope 3: All other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (not included in Scope 1 or 2) that occur in the reporting company’s value chain NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 23 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Preventing Global Warming The NGK Group strives to reduce CO2 emissions, a major cause of global warming, by setting and working toward achievement of emission reduction targets. NGK is a member of the Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership (Japan-CLP), a business coalition in Japan that aims to create a low-carbon society through decarbonization of business, trial business collaborations, policy creation and publicity activities, and cooperation with like-minded international organizations. NGK Endorses TCFD* The NGK Group is committed to making even greater efforts amidst government and private sector actions to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. The Group’s top management determined the importance of endorsing the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which encourages the disclosure of climate-change related risks and opportunities towards making plans for reducing CO2 emissions. In February 2020 the Group announced its endorsement of the recommendations of the TCFD. *TCFD: The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures was established by the Financial Stability Board (FSB). The G20 Osaka Summit in June 2019 provided the impetus for many Japanese companies to announce their endorsement of the TCFD recommendations. (As of June 22, 2020, 276 companies and organizations have announced endorsement.) Management of Climate Change Risks Action plans proposed by the NGK Environmental Protection Committee are deliberated on by the Board of Directors before being carried out under group environmental management. In fiscal 2019, the ESG Committee, made up of management and chaired by the President, was launched to discuss important tasks and strategies and create action plans related to ESG. The ESG Committee discusses the management of climate change risks. Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with Manufacturing Activities By creating and implementing annual improvement plans in line with the business plans of each of our manufacturing sites both within Japan and overseas, the NGK Group has been making steady progress toward achieving the CO2 emissions reduction targets set under our Five-Year Action Plan. Demand for NGK’s main products has gone down due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic beginning in late fiscal 2019. Factors such as the occurrence of temporary energy losses due to the start-up of facilities at new bases have presented difficulties in our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. Combined with the effects of a strong yen, these have prevented us from achieving the target for CO2 emissions per unit of net sales that we set under the Five-Year Action Plan. However, thanks to steady reduction efforts at manufacturing bases, we were able to achieve our annual target for reduction rate against BAU, an indicator newly introduced under the Five-Year Action Plan to help visualize the effect of measures to reduce emissions. In fiscal 2020, the final year of the Five-Year Action Plan, we predict a large decrease in demand for most products due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We thus foresee extreme difficulty in achieving the Five-Year Action Plan targets. That being said, we will revamp our production system and do everything possible to carry out our initially planned CO2 reduction measures. Believing that preventing future global warming is one of our most important duties as a company, from a long-term perspective we have already started deliberating on how to further reduce CO2 emissions after the end of our current Five-Year Action Plan. As part of this we are considering where we want to be as a company during the period between 2030 and 2050, and the policies that we will need to implement to realize that. Note: In calculating CO2 emissions under our environmental action plan, considering consistency with the target values from the past, we use the following CO2 conversion factors, which differ from the figures in the section titled “Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact.” CO2 emission volume = Σ (Consumption of each energy × CO2 conversion factor of each energy) <CO2 conversion factor of energy> (Unit of electric power factor: kgCO2/kWh Unit of fuel factor: kgCO2/fuel unit) Electric power: Japan: 0.42; United States: 0.709; Belgium: 0.292; France: 0.061; Poland: 0.986; South Africa: 1.096; China: 0.983; Thailand: 0.687; Indonesia: 0.790; Australia: 1.390; Mexico: 0.741; Malaysia: 0.543 Fuel: Natural gas (Nm3): 2.02; City gas (Nm3): 2.29; LPG (kg): 3.007; LNG (kg): 2.70; Light oil (L): 2.64; Fuel oil A (L): 2.677; Kerosene (L): 2.49; Industrial steam (MJ): 0.06 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 24 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index CO2 Emissions / Basic Unit per Net Sales* CO2 Emissions / Reduction Rate against BAU* (All NGK Group manufacturing sites) (All NGK Group manufacturing sites) CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions Basic unit per net sales (x103 metric tons) Reduction rate against BAU (%) Target for the final year (x103 metric tons) Upward revision from initial 15% target 100 Target for the final year 20 18 18 2,000 100 2,000 91 89 100 86 91 16 15 90 1,600 15 14 1,500 80 83 86 87 83 16 81 80 12 2019 annual target 11 170 60 2019 annual target 1,200 185 145 10 112 143 1,000 870 907 910 94 795 817 40 751 756 800 5 870 907 910 500 795 817 20 400 751 756 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Base year Base year Emissions volume Basic unit per net sales Target Emissions volume Reduction amount from BAU Reduction rate against BAU Target *Basic unit per net sales calculated with the value in fiscal 2013 set at 100. * Reduction rate against BAU: The percentage rate of emissions reduction resulting from implemented actions against a computed value for the hypothetical absence of the actions. Adoption of Environmentally Friendly Production Processes Change in CO2 Emissions from Continuous Kilns by Year of Introduction Per-unit emissions (index value) Through the introduction of highly efficient equipment and 100 the promotion of the collection and use of exhaust heat 100 1984=100 and improved production efficiency, the NGK Group 80 makes efforts to reduce environmental impacts resulting 60 55 from production. Also, we will create further advanced 40 39 31 eco-processes through our New/Reformed Manufacturing 20 Structures, which are aimed at enhancing 0 competitiveness. 1984 2002 2011 2015 (FY) Note: Change in CO2 emissions from continuous kilns, which constitute major production equipment Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions and Effects As we continue to expand overseas manufacturing, the NGK Group is particularly striving to raise manufacturing efficiency at our overseas sites in order to reduce the CO2 emissions of the Group as a whole. We have made steady progress by introducing the innovative manufacturing processes and improvements to facilities and operations that we have implemented to date in Japan in our overseas manufacturing sites, as well as promoting energy-saving activities for general-purpose equipment. Examples of Initiatives Aimed at Reducing CO2 Emissions Category Measures Effects (FY2019) Main production efficiency initiatives at overseas sites Highly efficient • Introduction of innovative production processes CO2 reduction effect (17,000 metric tons) manufacturing processes • Facility improvements Japan: 7,000 metric tons • Operational improvements Overseas: 11,000 metric tons Promoted energy savings at overseas sites Of which Group company • An English version of the voluntary energy-saving guidelines and a best practice • Production process improvements energy-saving diagnostics brochure created and distributed to overseas sites Japan: 4,000 metric tons • Headquarters staff visited overseas sites and conducted activities with local employees Overseas: 10,000 metric tons Horizontally deployed main improvements • General-purpose equipment energy savings • Replaced boilers with more efficient models General-purpose equipment Japan: 3,000 metric tons • Eradicated air and steam leaks from plumbing energy-saving activities Overseas: 1,000 metric tons • LED lighting • Renewed air-conditioning equipment and eliminated wasteful air conditioning Energy-Saving Activities for General-Purpose Equipment and Buildings The NGK Group has been actively promoting energy-saving activities in relation to general-purpose equipment, such as lighting, air conditioners, boilers, and compressors. The headquarters plays a central role in this in terms of sharing know-how among different manufacturing locations, thereby achieving more efficient activities. Whenever our buildings are built or altered, we ensure that large-scale energy-saving measures and ZEB (zero energy building) principles are incorporated. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 25 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index (1) Headquarters Supporting Energy-Saving Activities at Overseas Manufacturing Sites The headquarters Engineering Department has, over the years, sent personnel to overseas manufacturing sites to perform energy audits and, as necessary, help local staff develop and carry out effective energy-saving measures using the know-how gained from practices in Japan. These efforts have produced solid results at overseas companies, including NGK Ceramics Polska. (See “Global Warming Countermeasures Taken by Group Companies.”) (2) Creating and Distributing a Printed Version of the Energy-Saving Brochure and Guidelines We have created a printed version (Japanese, English) of our energy-saving guidelines and brochure of best practices, both of which were previously available only in digital formats. Copies have been distributed to each manufacturing site in and outside of Japan to be kept handy at worksites for easy reference. This is expected to help enhance activities to reduce CO2 emissions. (3) Efforts to Conserve Energy within Buildings Whenever there is the opportunity to build or renovate a building, we actively endeavor to utilize high-efficiency equipment and introduce renewable energy, and carefully consider each location so as to be able to effectively utilize any natural advantages, such as low-temperature waste heat from our adjacent factories and natural ventilation/lighting, to achieve significant energy savings. Efforts like these allowed the new administration/welfare wing, which was completed in Mizuho, Nagoya in January 2020, to be a zero energy building (ZEB)-oriented office facility whose CO2 emissions are less than half of the official standard. This New administration/welfare wing construction project has been lauded for its pioneering CO2 reduction technology. It was adopted as a Leading Sustainable Building Project (CO2 Reduction) by Japan’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. We have many more construction/renovation projects lined up as part of our plans to reorganize corporate structure and update old buildings, all of which will include energy saving and ZEB measures. Using eco voids BEMS for visualizing health • Natural ventilation Solar power source • Natural light Absorption refrigeration unit Desiccant dehumidifier Coolness/warmth, brightness, healthiness (Worker survey) Eaves for shielding sunlight Low-E glass Hot water tank Radiant ceiling air conditioning (ambient) and Offices floor-blowing air conditioning (task) combine for healthy, comfortable environment Offices Lighting control using natural light Using low-temperature waste heat from factory Task and ambient lighting Offices • Absorption refrigeration unit • Desiccant dehumidifier Circadian lighting • For heating Offices • For hot water Employee cafeteria Kitchen Using waste heat from industrial water Medical clinic, others Factory Heat exchanger using waste heat Cooling and heating trench Water thermal energy storage tank makes use of waste heat Industrial water tank NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 26 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Global Warming Countermeasures Taken by Group Companies NGK Stanger Pty. Ltd. and Hokuriku Energys Corporation NGK Stanger and Hokuriku Energys collect and recycle gas-filled switches that are being disposed of by clients. These units contain sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) for insulation purposes, and as it has a very high global warming potential, the companies collect all SF6 when disassembling the unit without allowing it to be released into the atmosphere. The total amount of SF6 recovered in fiscal 2019 was approximately 910 kg, which is the equivalent of approximately 20,800 metric tons of CO2. NGK Ceramics Polska Sp. z o.o. Since 2011, NGK Ceramics Polska has been focusing on improving processes for manufacturing SiC-based DPFs, its main product. Target areas include particularly energy-intensive calcination and drying processes, for which we have carried out various measures to reduce our CO2 emissions. To further improve our performance, we will introduce new measures, including technologies provided by the Nagoya Site. NGK Metals Corporation NGK Metals is reducing CO2 emissions by updating control systems and improving the operation of production equipment. Among various efforts, a particularly distinctive effect resulted from automating the control units of the oil circulation system for rolling mills. The automation eliminated unnecessary around-the-clock operation, a measure taken to address inefficient activation/deactivation processes, as well as simplifying complex manual processing. This change helped reduce electric power consumption as well as CO2 emissions. Reduction of CO2 from Logistics Transport Volume / Basic Unit per Transport Volume Basic unit per transport volume Transport volume (10,000 ton-kilometers) (KL/100,000 ton-kilometer) NGK has worked to reduce CO2 emissions from logistics, 5.08 setting a target of reducing the basic unit per transport 5 4.72 4.74 5,000 4.61 volume by 1% year-on-year on a five-year average, as 4.17 required by the Energy Conservation Act. To achieve this 4 4,000 target, we have implemented a number of measures, 3,221 3,092 including improving loading efficiency and promoting a 3 2,715 2,776 2,687 3,000 modal shift. In recent years, the basic unit per transport volume has shown a tendency to deteriorate due to a 2 2,000 decline in the volume of goods transported by sea on account of a change in the product mix. In fiscal 2019, the 1 1,000 five-year average deteriorated by 5.1% year-on-year. 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Transport volume (other) Ocean transportation Land transportation Basic unit per transport volume NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 27 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Introduction of Green Power As part of our corporate activities aimed at harmony with the environment, NGK began introducing “green power” (energy sources such as wind and solar power and biomass fuels) in 2002. The Green Power Certification System contract we signed with Japan Natural Energy Company Limited calls for them to generate two million kilowatt hours of biomass-generated electricity for us each year. This accounts for about 60% of the power consumed annually at the NGK headquarters building, attaining a reduction effect of approximately 1,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions per year, or the annual amount of CO2 absorbed by approximately 71,000 cedar trees. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 28 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting Effective Use of Resources To boost yield from manufacturing process improvements, the NGK Group reuses in-process materials in an effort to curb discarded materials while also focusing efforts on recycling to reduce final disposal volumes to promote resource recycling. Reducing Discarded Materials from Manufacturing Activities In the same way as for CO2, the NGK Group works to suppress the generation of waste (discarded materials) by formulating and managing annual improvement plans with the aim of achieving the waste reduction targets contained in the Five-Year Action Plan. In fiscal 2019, as with CO2, there were numerous factors that hampered waste reduction, such as lower demand for NGK’s main products and a strong yen. However, the basic unit per net sales steadily improved over the previous fiscal year, allowing us to achieve our fiscal year target and, as was the case last year as well, reach the target under our Five-Year Action Plan ahead of schedule. This was thanks to the continuing improvement activities of our manufacturing divisions, such as improving the material utilization rate and production yield, and recycling within each process. Meanwhile, the reduction rate against BAU, which indicates the rate of improvement in the basic unit per production volume from the fiscal 2013 level, was 24%. This not only achieved the fiscal year target but also met the 23% target set for the final year of the Five-Year Action Plan a year ahead of schedule. In fiscal 2020, we will continue with these and other efforts with the goal of further improvement. Amount of Discarded Materials Generated / Basic Unit Discarded Materials / Reduction Rate against BAU* per Net Sales* (All NGK Group manufacturing sites) Amount of (All NGK Group manufacturing sites) Amount of Basic unit per net sales discarded materials Reduction rate against BAU (%) discarded materials (x103 metric tons) 2019 annual target (x103 metric tons) 100 25 24 250 2019 annual target 23 100 250 22 100 87 20 83 22 200 20 18 80 85 72 70 70 200 81 81 Target for the 72 70 68 15 final year 150 60 150 12 Upward revision from initial 20% target Target for the final year 10 8 100 40 100 8 12 17 15 18 60 62 64 59 59 58 6 54 5 50 20 50 60 62 64 59 59 58 54 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Base year Emissions volume Basic unit per net sales Target Base year Amount of discarded materials Reduction amount from BAU Reduction rate against BAU (%) Target BAU rate *Basic unit per net sales calculated with the value in fiscal 2013 set at 100. * Reduction rate against BAU: The percentage rate of emissions reduction resulting from implemented actions against a computed value for the hypothetical absence of the actions. Promoting Resource Recycling At the NGK Group, we promote resource recycling initiatives, pursuing rigorous sorting and separating practices and seeking out new methods of recycling. In fiscal 2017, we started sharing information with our production sites in Japan regarding waste recycling methods and companies that can process such waste. This has allowed us to choose highly reliable waste processing contractors and continue to improve waste recycling efficiency. Through such ongoing efforts, we have managed to sustain a domestic recycling rate of 99% or higher since fiscal 2013, which is the target set under the Five-Year Action Plan. Meanwhile, at our Group companies outside Japan, where the situation varies according to country and region, suitable targets are set taking into account circumstances specific to each location. The average recycling rate at the 21 overseas Group manufacturing companies has remained at over 90% (with the exception of three companies that generate non-recyclable waste). Examples at Group Companies Outside Japan At Group companies outside Japan, waste material separation management is strictly enforced. Waste separation rules are posted where waste materials are stocked and color-coordinated containers are provided for each category of waste to avoid confusion. NGK Ceramics Europe NGK Ceramics USA NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 29 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Risk Management of Water Resources and Response The NGK Group recognizes the management of water resources as an important issue for the company in achieving a sustainable society, and promotes relevant initiatives as described below. Water Risk Evaluation To ascertain water supply risks for each of our production facilities in and outside Japan, the NGK Group performed a simplified internal survey to assess water shortage risks based on the water supply capacity of rivers in the respective regions. For production facilities located in areas where there is a risk of water shortages, particularly overseas, we commissioned a third party to conduct a comprehensive survey. As part of that survey, in addition to the water supply capacity of rivers, factors such as groundwater, seasonal fluctuations in water supply capacity, and the holding capacity of dams are evaluated and used to create water supply/demand forecasts. The risk of water-related disasters (flooding, landslides) and water quality deterioration (public health, ecosystem) is also analyzed as Number of Manufacturing Bases Outside Japan with Inherent Water-Related Risks part of a comprehensive risk assessment. Number Water supply/demand Vulnerability to pollution Region Disasters These efforts allow us to determine waster of bases Current 2040 Public health Ecosystems risk at all overseas manufacturing sites, North and Central America 5 0 1 0 0 0 information that we share among all of our sites. Europe, other 5 2 0 0 2 3 Although no serious water-related risks have China 3 0 0 0 0 0 been identified to date at any of our facilities, we stay abreast of regulatory trends and we strive Asia, Australia 7 0 5 0 1 1 to make more efficient use of water. Water Usage Guidelines NGK created guidelines (an implementation status checklist) aimed at appropriate water usage and, in fiscal 2015, launched inspections to ascertain the efficiency of water usage at all manufacturing sites in and outside of Japan. Going forward, we will enhance these guidelines through internal and external case studies while encouraging efforts at each location to strengthen the operational structure against a future tight water supply. Promoting Efficient Water Use at Group Companies NGK Ceramics Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. We use precious local water resources as appropriately and efficiently as possible, including the recycling of water used inside plants, at Group companies located in highly water-stressed regions. For example, at NGK Ceramics Mexico, manufacturing process waste water is filtered using reverse osmosis membranes and the recycled water is reused as coolant and boiler water or sprinkled on vegetation. Since production lines went into full operation in fiscal 2014, the basic unit of water usage per production volume has improved with each year. Basic Unit of Water Usage per Production Volume (NGK Ceramics Mexico) Basic unit per production volume Water usage (million m3) 120 1.2 100 Basic unit calculated with value in FY2014 set at 100. 100 1.0 87 76 80 0.8 65 62 58 60 0.6 0.41 0.40 40 0.33 0.4 0.30 0.22 0.23 20 0.2 0 0 Filtration device using reverse osmosis membranes 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Cooperation with Suppliers Believing that it is important to address issues related to water resources throughout the supply chain, the NGK Group asks its suppliers to practice water resource-related risk management and efficient water usage in accordance with the CSR Procurement Guidelines. In fiscal 2019, 99.5% of companies in NGK’s domestic supply chain agreed to our request. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 30 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Protecting Biodiversity In the NGK Group, we view the challenge of protecting biodiversity as an integral part of achieving a sustainable society, and towards that end we are undertaking the following activities. Activities for Achieving the Aichi Targets The NGK Group has been pushing forward with activities pursuant to the Aichi Targets (international goals for biodiversity) agreed upon at the 10th Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10). Since fiscal 2016 under the current Five-Year Action Plan, we have done biodiversity surveys of company-owned sites, taken part in the Ministry of the Environment’s “My Action Declaration” initiative, and worked in unison with our suppliers. Promoting Participation in the “My Action Declaration” Initiative In fiscal 2017, as a way of raising awareness among employees, we began promoting participation in the “My Action Declaration” initiative led by the Japan Business Federation and the Ministry of the Environment. This project aims to have by 2020 a million people make a declaration to take action to conserve biodiversity. Declarations have been received from a total of 5,200 employees who promised to take a personal interest in and work to protect the biodiversity around them. We have also expanded this initiative throughout NGK Group companies in Japan and so far a cumulative total of 6,500 group employees have made the declaration. My Action Declaration card Aichi Targets NGK Group Activities • Employee environmental education People are aware of the value of biodiversity and actions to be • Next-generation education Target 1 Spread awareness • Cooperation with suppliers taken to conserve it. • Promoting participation in My Action Declaration initiative • Encouraging employees to participate in volunteer activities • Expanding sales of products contributing to environmental Sustainable production Stakeholders at all levels have taken steps to achieve sustainable Target 4 and consumption production and consumption. protection • CO2 reduction • Effective use of resources • Cooperation with suppliers Inhibit loss of all The rate of loss of all natural habitats, including forests, is at least • Voluntary employee participation in forestation and other Target 5 natural habitats halved, and degradation and fragmentation is significantly reduced. environmental conservation activities • Biodiversity survey/appropriate control of company-owned site Control pollution by Pollution from use of chemicals, including fertilizers and • Chemical substance management Target 8 chemical substances, agrichemicals, has been brought to levels that are not detrimental • Management of exhaust and wastewater etc. to the ecosystem. • Expanding sales of products that prevent air pollution • Cooperation with suppliers Target 9 Alien species Invasive alien species are controlled or eradicated. • Biodiversity survey/appropriate control of company-owned site At least 17% of terrestrial and inland water areas and 10% of • Voluntary employee participation in forestation and other Target 11 Conserve protected coastal and marine areas are placed under appropriate environmental conservation activities areas conservation management. • Voluntary employee participation in forestation and other Ecosystems that provide essential natural services are restored Target 14 Ecosystem services and safeguarded. environmental conservation activities • Biodiversity survey/appropriate control of company-owned site Note: Source: “Guidelines for Action by the E&E Industries concerning Biodiversity Conservation” (The Biodiversity Working Group, The 4 Electrical and Electronic Industry Associations) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 31 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Cooperation with Suppliers We have added to the CSR Procurement Guidelines items pertaining to water resource-related initiatives and biodiversity conservation initiatives. We have won the agreement of 99.5% of our suppliers in Japan to comply with the expanded Guidelines. Biodiversity Survey of Company-Owned Site At an NGK employee welfare facility located on the outskirts of Nagoya City, we carry out periodic summer and winter surveys of birds, plants, and insects. Among the diversity of wildlife confirmed, no alien species that require urgent action has been found, meaning that biodiversity is being adequately maintained. The results of the surveys are displayed on panels at the facility in order to raise awareness of the area’s biodiversity among facility users. Biodiversity survey Employee Volunteering NGK bases work with local governments and NPOs in community service, and this includes contributing to the preservation of biodiversity. Employees of NGK Okhotsk (in Abashiri, Hokkaido Prefecture) help the Lake Abashiri Mizu-to-Midori-no-kai (Water and Greenery Association) in its activities to preserve Asian skunk cabbage colonies. These efforts have been held twice a year, in spring and autumn, since 2009 as one way to conserve the local natural environment. Employees of the Ishikawa plants of NGK and NGK Ceramic Device join local citizens every year in cleaning up the Neagari coastline in Nomi, Ishikawa Prefecture. Ocean plastic pollution has become a worldwide problem in recent years, not only spoiling the aesthetic beauty of beaches but also presenting serious threats to ecosystems. To help alleviate this problem NGK employees—in fiscal 2019 a total of 109 from NGK and NGK Ceramic Device in Ishikawa—have joined beach cleanups conducted under Ishikawa Prefecture’s Clean Beach Ishikawa initiative. Group companies outside Japan are also doing their part for the environment. NGK Electronics Devices Malaysia (in Penang) takes part in tree-planting activities of the Forestry Department of Peninsular Malaysia. In fiscal 2019, employees joined mangrove planting in a forest reserve in Nibong Tebal, Penang. By planting trees in this way, the effort raises employee awareness of the importance of environmental protection and ecosystem maintenance. The 88 employees who took part planted a total of 500 mangrove seedlings. Employees help preserve Asian skunk Employees in beach cleanup Joining mangrove-planting in Malaysia cabbage colonies NGK Ishikawa Plant, NGK Ceramic Device Ishikawa Plant NGK Electronics Devices Malaysia NGK Okhotsk NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 32 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Education and Communication In accordance with the Guidelines for Environmental Action under NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment, we conduct ongoing environmental education and awareness activities aimed at increasing employee environmental awareness. Our aim is to deepen the understanding of environmental problems among each employee to inculcate an awareness of environmental conservation activities. We also conduct environmental events and provide information to a wide range of stakeholders, including on-site classes at elementary schools, to increase environmental awareness. Participating in Local Environmental Education Offering Guest Lectures at Elementary Schools and Children’s Centers NGK sends instructors to participate in lectures and workshops for young people that are hosted each year by EPOC (Environmental Partnership Organizing Club)*. Our instructors offer classes on water resources and usage in which children can experience how soil can purify water. So far, a cumulative total of 2,300 people have participated in environmental education programs with which NGK is affiliated. *EPOC (Environmental Partnership Organizing Club): A voluntary organization consisting mainly of companies in the Chubu region of Japan, which was established in 2000. Its purpose is to spread information regarding the environment with the aim of building a recycling-oriented sustainable society. NGK has been involved in the planning and management of this organization since its establishment. EPOC currently has approximately 270 members. Sharing Information with Other Companies The EPOC subcommittee chaired by NGK organizes seminars and field trips several times a year under the theme of corporate environmental management (low carbon, resource recycling, biodiversity, water resources, environment-related laws, etc.) and sends out information to members. Raising Environmental Awareness Environmental Education inside the Company We conduct position-based training related to environmental management systems to familiarize employees with the aims and content of NGK’s environmental policies. We also provide specialized environmental training courses for personnel who will be directly involved in environmental management, as well as special environmental training for the entire workforce. Fiscal 2019 Specialized Environmental Training (1) Regulatory reporting and compliance with regards to facilities covered by environment-related laws Held four times in September, 189 participants. (2) Managing machinery that uses CFCs Four seminars were planned for March, but in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19 participants studied relevant educational materials on their own. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 33 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting the Acquisition of Qualifications To continue conducting environmental conservation Qualifications Acquired as of March 31, 2020 (NGK) (Persons) activities in compliance with laws and regulations, we Special Waste make an effort to develop and increase the skills of legally Pollution Control Managers Qualified Controlled Disposal qualified personnel. We provide support in each Energy Industrial Facility Noise/ Managers Waste Technical Air Water department for the acquisition of environment-related legal Vibration Managers Managers qualifications targeting managers engaged in pollution 81 99 19 19 17 3 prevention required for the management of each site. We systematically educate Qualified Energy Managers in the Engineering Department, and Special Controlled Industrial Waste Managers and others involved in waste-related activities in the Environmental Management Department and other business divisions. Support for Acquisition of Eco Test Certification With the aim of ensuring that each employee acquires a Eco Test Certification strong environmental awareness and a wide range of Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 knowledge with respect to the environment, NGK encourages employees sitting the Eco Test* by lending Number of successful 94 120 125 90 37 them reference materials and subsidizing test-related examinees expenses. To date, a total of 845 people—more than 20% of all NGK employees—have passed the test. *The Eco Test is an environmental and social certification test administered by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry focused on a wide-range of environmental issues. NGK Eco Point System NGK promotes its Eco Point System in an effort to contribute to regional environmental improvement. Employees earn points for environmental behavior conducted at work and in the home, a portion of which is converted into cash and donated to local government-managed funds (environmental funds). In addition to the company’s three sites in Nagoya, Komaki and Chita and the Ishikawa Plant, the system was newly introduced to the Tokyo Main Office and Osaka Branch and sales offices in fiscal 2016. Donation of NGK Eco Points The NGK Eco Points earned by individual employees through their engagement in environmental activities are aggregated on an annual basis for each site (Nagoya, Chita, Komaki, Ishikawa), and top scorers are commended every year. For earned points, employees select from two options: exchange for eco goods or donate to local funds. The number of employees choosing donation is growing every year, indicating increasing environmental awareness. From left: Kazuhiro Hasegawa, environmental manager at NCDK Ishikawa Plant; Mayumi Seto, leading Eco Point earner for NCDK Ishikawa Plant; Mayor Ide of Nomi City, Ishikawa Prefecture; Yukari Yamaguchi, last year’s top Eco Point earner for NGK; Takahisa Kaneko, environmental manager at NGK Ishikawa Plant NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 34 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Creating Products That Contribute to the Environment The NGK Group considers contributing to society through business activities to be one of its most important missions. For nearly a century since its founding, NGK has made use of accumulated technologies to develop and provide products and technologies that reduce burdens on the global environment. Development and Distribution of Products Contributing to Environmental Protection Under our fourth Five-Year Environmental Action Plan initiated in Sales Growth for Products Contributing to fiscal 2016, NGK has set a goal of increasing sales of products Environmental Protection (NGK Group) that contribute to environmental protection by 60% compared Sales growth (%)* Annual target Target for the final year with fiscal 2013 (and maintaining the sales percentage for 180 products contributing to environmental protection at over 50% of 160 152 160 144 144 all products). 140 137 126 126 In fiscal 2019, sales of products that contribute to 145 Target: 120 environmental protection increased by 45% over fiscal 2013, 100 Increase which fell short of our fiscal year goal of 52%. Demand was 100 by 60 % 80 Base year down from forecasts due to factors such as a cooling down of 60 the global economy from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. 40 In fiscal 2020 as well, the pandemic prevented a recovery of demand in the first half of the year, and we predict difficulties in 20 reaching our targets for the final year of the Five-Year 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) Environmental Action Plan. *Figures are indexed with fiscal 2013 set at 100. We have a total of nine products that contribute to environmental protection, including two registered last fiscal year: gallium nitride (GaN) wafers and micro-lenses for ultraviolet LEDs. We are currently developing other products that contribute to environmental protection; for example, zinc rechargeable batteries, fuel cells, and CO2 separation membranes. Definition of NGK Products That Contribute to Environmental Protection 1) Certified or awarded by third-party institutions 2) Control or reduce impact on the Earth’s environment 3) Reduce impact on the local environment NGK Group Products Contributing to Environmental Protection HONEYCERAM® HONEYCERAM is a ceramic substrate for catalytic converters to purify harmful contents in the exhaust of automobiles. It carries a catalyst that detoxifies harmful substances by chemical reaction, and its honeycomb structure provides a greater contact surface area for the exhaust and thus gives better purifying performance. Since the launch of mass production in 1976, over 1.5 billion units have been shipped of this essential ceramic product for purifying exhaust. NGK’s HONEYCERAM eliminates a total of four million metric tons of NOx per annum*1, equivalent to double the annual NOx emissions in Japan*2. *1 Assumption based on installation of exhaust gas system in new cars that are not equipped with such systems *2 Source: OECD Environmental Statistics (2012) NOx elimination: 4 million metric tons annually NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 35 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Diesel Particulate Filters (DPF) The DPF is a porous ceramic filter used worldwide in the exhaust systems of diesel vehicles. With a pore structure, the filter ensures particulate matter (PM) is captured to purify the exhaust emitted from diesel vehicles. NGK is the only company to produce two types of DPFs based on both cordierite and silicon carbide. NGK’s ceramic technology support further developments for diesel vehicles. The honeycomb structure, where the inlet and outlet of the through-holes are alternately sealed, enables the thin ceramic walls to efficiently capture PM while exhaust passes through. Eliminates up to 99 % of PM Gasoline Particulate Filters (GPF) GPFs are ceramic filters that remove particulate matter (PM) from the exhaust of gasoline-powered vehicles. We developed this filter based on diesel particulate filter (DPF) technology, and succeeded in producing a GPF that can achieve high performance (captures more PM) and low pressure loss (lower fuel costs and higher output) at the same time through the use of our proprietary micropore creation and control technologies. We were the first to commercialize a GPF in 2012, and commenced mass production in January 2016 at one of our subsidiaries. As automobile emission regulations throughout the world become stricter, we expect that demand for GPFs will increase. To respond to this demand increase, we are boosting production capacity. In-Vehicle High-Precision NOx Sensors NGK developed the world’s first in-vehicle sensor to measure concentrations of nitrogen oxides (NOx) in exhaust in real time with high precision. Specifically, the sensor is capable of measuring NOx concentration at the parts per million (ppm) level and can thus detect even very small amounts of the noxious substance. The sensor supports precise control of the exhaust purification device used in diesel vehicles, which leads to a reduction in NOx emissions and helps to promote the use of clean diesel vehicles. NAS® Batteries Providing clean energy that burns no fossil fuels and releases no CO2 emissions, renewable energy is on the rise worldwide. The NAS battery stabilizes fluctuations in the output of renewable energy such as wind and solar power—which are susceptible to weather conditions—by appropriately storing and discharging the electricity provided. Increases in the amount of renewable energy depending on the season or time of day lead to electricity surpluses that make it difficult to constantly balance electricity supply and demand. NAS batteries use their high capacity to store excess electricity and enable supply–demand balance, thus making more widespread use of renewable energy practical. Installed at over 200 locations worldwide with a 580 MW/4000 MWh capacity (As of June 2020) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 36 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Low-Level Radioactive Waste Treatment Systems NGK has developed a wide range of systems to safely treat low-level radioactive waste generated from nuclear facilities and has supplied these systems to nuclear power stations and related facilities across Japan. The systems are developed utilizing NGK’s proprietary treatment technology and high-performance filter-based dust collection technology. We undertake a variety of engineering projects including design, manufacturing and site construction, and also provide a long-term maintenance service to deliver stable and high-level radioactive decontamination. NGK thereby provides essential support for the safe and stable operation of nuclear facilities. In addition, we focus on the development of new systems for treating various types of radwaste expected to be generated from the decommissioning and dismantling of aging nuclear reactors. Importance of Treating Radioactive Waste When treating and disposing of waste generated in radiation-controlled areas, including nuclear power stations, it is critically important to prevent the spread of radioactivity via the release of radioactive matter. This requires special treatment and disposal methods that differ from those for general waste. Wavelength Control Drying Systems Our wavelength control drying system uses a proprietary heater unit developed in-house to promote the evaporation of solvents. This system uses specific infrared frequencies to effectively facilitate evaporation, shortening drying time to approximately ½ to ⅓ of that required for conventional drying methods using heat, and reducing power consumption by 30 to 50%. It is also possible to suppress binder segregation, which is an expression of variations in concentration that occur due to drying of the soluble component in films during drying, by 30 to 40% (in-house binder segregation study). Gallium Nitride (GaN) Wafers This low-defect density gallium nitride (GaN) wafer uses NGK’s original crystal growth method covering the entire wafer. With the Minamata Convention on Mercury going into effect in August 2017, there is expected to be high demand for high-output, high-efficiency semiconductor lasers using GaN wafers as a substitute for ultra-high-pressure mercury lamps. They are expected to see use in light sources for projectors, stadium lighting, car headlamps, and other products. We see applications for the gallium nitride (GaN) wafer in high-frequency devices for next-generation 5G wireless base stations, and power devices key to realizing a low-carbon society such as inverters for electric vehicles and power conversion equipment for photovoltaic power. Micro-Lenses for Ultraviolet LEDs Micro-lenses for UV LEDs are transparent quartz glass lenses developed by NGK that are used in UV LEDs in place of mercury lamps. Mercury lamps are currently used in light sources used in applications such as the sterilization of water and air. However, factors such as the Minamata Convention going into effect are increasing the likelihood that mercury lamps will be banned and sparking interest in UV LEDs that do not use mercury. NGKs micro-lenses for UV LEDs are characterized by a cavity that holds a UV LED chip, a feature that improves UV LED efficiency and lowers costs. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 37 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Environmental Accounting As an important index of environmental management, NGK conducts environmental accounting and announces the results. In addition to announcing environmental conservation costs (capital investment, expenses), economic benefits, and cost effectiveness, information on the environmental efficiency of CO2 and discarded materials has been added since fiscal 2007. Capital Investment (NGK and Group companies in Japan) Expenditures (NGK and Group companies in Japan) (¥100 million) Pollution (¥100 million) 31.7 Pollution 14.8 0.1 prevention 29.8 prevention 15 30 1.9 29.0 0.1 0.4 13.6 0.6 Global 28.0 27.8 1.8 Global 3.4 1.8 environment 1.8 2.5 1.9 environment 0.1 2.6 12 Resource 4.0 5.2 2.8 5.4 Resource 5.1 recycling recycling 0.3 5.9 2.1 20 0.1 Upstream/ 9 Other 4.7 0.1 4.2 downstream 8.0 0.1 11.0 0.2 7.8 0.2 9.5 0.2 0.1 9.5 7.5 Administration 6 6.0 6.4 3.6 0.5 7.7 Research & 4.9 9.2 10 3.3 2.9 3.3 development 3.2 2.9 2.2 3 Social activity 3.9 7.8 6.8 8.2 7.7 2.9 3.4 6.2 2.3 Environmental 0 0 remediation 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Economic Benefits (NGK and Group companies in Japan) (¥100 million) 10 Discarded materials (gain on sale) 8 Discarded materials (disposal decrease) 6.3 Resource conservation 6 5.8 5.5 (containers) 5.1 2.3 Resource conservation 1.4 4.4 2.3 (raw materials) 4 2.2 1.4 1.4 Energy savings 1.5 1.2 0.4 1.0 0.2 1.0 2 0.4 0.5 1.3 0.3 0.1 2.3 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.1 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Cost-Effectiveness (NGK and Group companies in Japan) Environmental Efficiency (consolidated) (%) (%) FY2013 = 100% 30 146 150 144 139 21.7 124 123 19.2 20 124 15.5 117 18.2 115 17.2 111 109 100 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Benefit Net sales Cost-effectiveness = CO2 eco-efficiency = Cost CO2 emissions Discarded materials Net sales = eco-efficiency Total discarded materials generated Note: The above charts do not include data for NGK Electronics Devices, Inc. and other manufacturing subsidiaries for fiscal 2015. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 38 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Social Communication with Stakeholders: Basic Approach 40 Work-Life Balance 66 Human Rights: Basic Approach 42 Human Resource Development 70 Customers: Basic Approach 43 Labor-Management Initiatives 74 Quality Activity System 44 Implementation of Fair, Free, and Transparent Transactions: Basic Approach 75 Enhancing the Elimination of Quality Risks Company-Wide 45 Fair and Honest Procurement Partner Evaluations and Quality Activities at Overseas Production Bases 47 Extensive Resource Diversification, Promotion of CSR Procurement 76 QuiC Activities to Improve Quality with Full Employee Participation 48 Supply Chain Risk Assessment, Communication Activities with Procurement Partners 78 Strengthening Quality-Related Education 49 Local Communities: Basic Approach 79 System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management 50 Providing Scholarships and Assistance to International Students 80 Employees: Basic Approach 51 Social Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Occupational Safety and Health 54 Local Communities and NPOs 81 Health Management 58 Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees 84 Diversity 61 Interacting with Local Communities 85 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 39 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Communication with Stakeholders In addition to promoting understanding regarding the NGK Group among customers, suppliers, shareholders, Customers investors, regional communities, governments, international Universities organizations, universities, research institutes, and and Procurement Research Partners employees, we are continuously improving our activities Institutes and initiatives through dialogue with all of our stakeholders. NGK Governments and Group Shareholders International and Organizations Investors Regional Communities Employees Basic Approach In the NGK Group Code of Conduct revised in January 2019, our commitment to “Disclosure of Company Information and Accountability” as a part of stakeholder communication is expressed through the following. Disclosure of Company Information and Accountability ● We will increase healthy and transparent management by active disclosure of information and discussion with stakeholders. • We will accurately and promptly disclose information required by society. • We will take seriously the voices of our stakeholders and fulfill our obligation of accountability. Reference NGK Group Code of Conduct URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/guideline/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 40 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Approach Communication (objectives) Communication (methods) To earn and maintain the trust of Enhance customer services Official website customers, we engage in the creation of Quality improvement Contact desk new value through the provision of Participation in exhibitions Customers products and services realizing global environmental conservation and social Open innovation safety and peace of mind from a long-term and global perspective. With a basic policy centered on the three Realize fair, free, and transparent Financial results presentations principles of openness and fairness, transactions Supplier helpline partnership, and relationship with society, Exchange information with suppliers Individual visits to suppliers in Japan and the NGK Group is engaged in fair, free, and Establish better supply chain overseas Procurement Partners transparent business transactions with the procurement partners in our supply chain. We also established a supplier helpline to provide unwavering support for important inquiries in an effort to build and maintain fair supplier relationships. The NGK Group aims to meet expectations Enhance corporate value General Meeting of Shareholders for enhanced corporate value through Information sessions dialogues and efforts to disclose Individual visits and interviews Shareholders and information pertaining to management, Investors finance, products, and services in a timely Participation in IR events and appropriate manner. Countermeasures for socially responsible investment (SRI) Official website The NGK Group strives to create a safe Respect the human rights of employees Company newsletter and comfortable workplace environment Develop safe and comfortable workplace Global MIZUHO English-version company with respect for employee humanity. We environments newsletter also support the growth of human Conduct surveys on workplace environment Video news resources and fair treatment enabling each and employee satisfaction Intranet employee to maximize their skills. Inculcate corporate philosophy and policies Labor-Management Advisory Board meetings, Employees regular Labor-Management Council meetings Survey on workplace vitality CRS (Corporate Risk Survey) Helpline Hotline We proactively engage in social Contribute to regional communities as a Collaborative activities with NPOs, etc. contribution activities in response to trusted corporate citizen Volunteer activities by employees community needs with the intent of Social contribution activities in cooperation Regional Communities becoming a corporate citizen trusted by with labor unions society with concern for social issues in all countries and regions where we do Invitation to plant tours and events business. We proactively participate in international Promote initiatives to solve social problems Participation in international initiatives Governments and initiatives and other activities in order to International realize mutual cooperation as key actors Organizations seeking to resolve social problems. Through research and educational activities Develop scientific technologies Joint research based on industry–academia collaboration, Develop technologies that will contribute to Universities and we have been pushing forward with the solving social problems Research Institutes development of scientific technologies and other technologies that will contribute to solving social problems. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 41 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Human Rights Basic Approach In the NGK Group Code of Conduct revised in January 2019, our relationship with employees is based on the idea of “Respect for Human Rights” and “Provide a Safe and Enjoyable Work Environment” and defined as follows. We will strictly comply with international standards of human rights and respect the diversity of all people. • We will respect human rights and undertake business activities without the use of forced labor or child labor. • We will respect the individuality and independence of each employee and not engage in discrimination on the basis of race, citizenship, gender, age, religion, belief, existence of handicaps, sexual diversity or any other aspect. • We will prevent the occurrence of harassment in the workplace and take prompt and appropriate action in the case where it occurs. We will provide a safe and enjoyable work environment that is comfortable for everyone to work in for all. • We will strictly comply with laws and regulations of each country and region relating to labor, safety and sanitation. • We will aim to harmonize work and life, and support a variety of working styles. • We will build up a relationship of trust through sincere debate and discussion with employees. • We will give educational opportunities to employees and provide opportunities to stretch their motivation and abilities. Reference NGK’s employee-focused initiatives URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/society.html Protecting Human Rights and Establishing an HR Committee The NGK Group complies with international human rights standards and respects all aspects of employee diversity, including racial, nationality, and gender diversity. Our basic hiring policy is to recruit diverse personnel and to provide them with stable employment and equal opportunities. In April 2020, we established the HR Committee as a cross-sectoral, deliberative body tasked with ensuring that corporate activities have a stronger focus on human rights and that important personnel issues are addressed by the NGK Group as a whole. In fiscal 2020, we will focus on the following human rights initiatives. 1. Development and announcement of human rights policy 2. Expansion of human rights due diligence across the entire NGK Group 2020 2021 July August September October November December January February March Development of Announcement Draft creation In-house and external feedback Final deliberation human rights policy of policy Survey questionnaire Expansion of Survey (all NGK Group sites in Japan, some sites outside Japan) revision human rights due diligence Planning in response to results NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 42 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Customers Guided by the Corporate Philosophy, which puts customers first, the NGK Group considers the provision of products and services that contribute to a better social environment to be one of its most important missions in an effort to create quality from the customer’s perspective. Basic Approach The NGK Group engages in the creation of quality from the customer’s perspective by defining Quality Objectives each year in accordance with the Quality Policy based on the NGK Group Code of Conduct. Quality Policy NGK is dedicated to quality and committed to providing valuable products and services that are trusted by our customers and respected by society Quality Objectives 2020 Transparency is the key to improving our quality of operation Initiatives for Fiscal 2020 In fiscal 2019, we further built upon the quality of operation*1 initiatives begun in the previous fiscal year by instituting training aimed at boosting senior management’s awareness, as well as strengthened the system to reflect contractual specifications into operations. These initiatives have led to continued improvement in quality of operation among NGK’s various business divisions and to more widespread adoption of quality of operation improvement activities. In fiscal 2020, we expanded the scope of training aimed at boosting managers’ awareness to also include section managers and supervisors. We also made a concerted effort to foster an environment where employees are encouraged to voice their concerns. With regard to product quality, we are working to strengthen business department-led implementation of ongoing QRE-P*2 efforts. Additionally in fiscal 2020, we sought to ensure that organizational culture reforms take hold by establishing quality objectives, which promote problem awareness and place positive value on problem identification. *1 Quality of operation: Level of operational systems that are in place to ensure that promises made to customers are fulfilled. *2 QRE-P (Quality Risk Elimination Process): An operational protocol intended to more effectively eliminate quality-related risks at every stage when bringing products to market, from product planning to mass production. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 43 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Quality Activity System The NGK quality activity system consists of a company-wide system, led by the Quality Committee Chair, and business division internal activity systems, led by the heads of each business division. In terms of company-wide activities, the Quality Committee was established to function as a deliberative body assisting the Quality Committee Chair, while business division internal activity systems were put in place for each business line, creating appropriate quality systems for each. Quality assurance, quality control, quality improvements, and quality education activities are promoted by the acquisition of ISO 9001 or IATF 16949 certification. Starting in fiscal 2018, we have sought to address non-conformity issues in the delivery tests by codifying standardized rules that will further strengthen our quality compliance. In addition we have expanded quality-focused activities for “quality of operation” as well as “product quality”. As a result of crisis management revisions implemented in fiscal 2020, in the event that a serious quality issue arises that involves legal, ethical, or other such concerns, it will be dealt with by the Quality Committee Chair in conjunction with the relevant committee. Technical issues are discussed at Quality Review meetings, as necessary, to plan countermeasures, and the Quality Committee Chair supervises execution of the measures at the responsible division. Quality Activity System ■Quality policy/objectives deliberation Social Quality Committee ■Discussion of quality activities responsibility Quality Review meeting ■Technical discussion of critical quality issues Corporate Society value Quality Activities Meeting QuiC Steering Meeting ■Follow status of quality activities ■Improvement activities ■Quality surveillance Suggestion Review Committee Business Groups Quality Activities Quality compliance program Products/ Quality assurance Quality control Quality improvement Work quality improvement services activities activities activities activities Customers Quality Design and Production Manufacturing Clerical/sales Procurement Customer Assurance development engineering Department division division division divisions division satisfaction Group companies Acquisition of ISO 9001 or IATF 16949 Certification FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Percentage of ISO 9001 certified sites (%, Group) 100 100 97 97 97 Note: NGK Ceramics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. has been preparing to obtain certification since fiscal 2017. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 44 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Enhancing the Elimination of Quality Risks Company-Wide NGK Group Quality Activity Rules The NGK Group promotes restructuring of its quality activities to respond more precisely to increasing and diversifying quality demands from customers in different target markets. In particular, quality activity rules have been formulated to enhance the elimination of quality risks in the market; we are promoting the establishment and improved effectiveness of the rules. Four Rules for Quality Activities Quality confirmation rule Quality monitoring rule Establish milestones, from development to start of Monitor and share information company-wide with production, and confirm conformance with six quality respect to quality status changes or problems levels when production processes change. concerning products or markets. Manufacturing defects and customer complaints are shared company-wide every month through reports to the Quality Management Department, and the appropriateness of countermeasures is discussed. DR* function strengthening rule Rule for handling major customer Register DR plans with quality risks of medium or complaints high level as important DR subjects with participation In the event of a serious customer complaint, of company-wide DR reviewers. The Quality including a potential complaint, the situation is Management Department head holds company-wide promptly reported to the Quality Committee Chair to DRs for cases with particularly high risk level. formulate company-wide countermeasures. *Design review Seeking Greater Effectiveness from Quality Activities and Innovation in Operational Procedures We have been promoting Quality Risk Elimination Process (QRE-P) activities throughout the NGK Group. Through these activities, we can identify procedural innovations in product realization in order to eliminate risk while improving quality. In fiscal 2019, we added Guidelines for Quality Risk Prevention in New Product Development to the company-wide regulations in order to better facilitate quality risk elimination during new product development by the Research and Development Division and others. Two quality assurance review meetings were held in accordance with these guidelines. The findings of not only the developer but also those of numerous experts were collected, so that robust discussion about quality risk elimination could be carried out prior to the product being used on the market. A lot of practice and experience are necessary to reach the level of understanding required to be in charge. Staff members deepen their understanding by working closely with the person in charge. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 45 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Activities to Strengthen DR Functions The increasing and diversifying quality demands from customers call for the integration of knowledge among various members, not only from the design division but also from the manufacturing and production engineering divisions, throughout the development process. For this reason, the NGK Group considers the Design Review (DR) to be the most critical activity. DRs are conducted when development milestones are reached or when production processes change. Critical DRs are conducted by reviewers from throughout the company to support the elimination of quality risks. The DR Guidelines were created to promote DR discussions and to thoroughly eliminate quality risks. We are constantly enhancing the effectiveness of DRs through efforts to spread these guidelines company-wide, including awareness and review of each DR. Furthermore, NGK organizes a company-wide DR (quality review meeting) for quality issues that are difficult to solve by one division. At this meeting, relevant engineers and experts from across the company discuss broad aspects of issues related to the reliability and safety of products. We are also deploying the above-mentioned QRE-P approach to facilitate improvement of design level at the pre-DR period as well as to ensure the more effective utilization of organizational knowledge and experience from DRs. Designers DR participants Ultimate Goal Product design and process design consideration Discussion and (DR preparation) deliberation at DR To eliminate quality risks by improving DR DR Guidelines Key concepts and perspectives ● Search systematically for influential factors where modified or changed, check for risks with no omissions. ● Discuss the basis for risk assessments, get opinions ● Exchange knowledge that makes for better design with everyone NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 46 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Quality Activities at Production Bases outside Japan From their inception, production bases outside Japan have created quality systems appropriate to their situations and acquired ISO 9001 or IATF 16949 certification. Monthly reports from each base regarding customer complaints and the status of manufacturing quality are discussed at quality activity meetings, enabling the entire NGK Group to evaluate the quality status in a timely manner. Moreover, quality activity rules and annual quality objectives are distributed in an attempt to develop and enhance quality activities. Strengthening Quality Education at Production Bases outside Japan In fiscal 2019, quality compliance-related education seminars were held at six NGK Group companies in the U.S. as part of quality of operation activities focused on maintaining and improving the operational systems that are in place to ensure that promises made to customers are fulfilled. The issue of the NGK Group’s non-conformity in delivery testing procedure of insulators, along with the initiatives undertaken and rules put in place in response, was presented to the attendees in order to foster greater understanding of, and recognition about the importance of, quality compliance. Expanding Improvement Activities to Production Bases outside Japan The NGK Group is working to expand improvement activities to production bases outside Japan. For the overseas training in 2019 we visited Group company ACE in Belgium and implemented the following: • Team discussion and a presentation to local staff on the topic of “What is ‘improvement’?—proposals and small groups” • Toured the factory with local staff and discussed how to identify problems and solve them • Presented examples of improvement NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 47 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index QuiC Activities to Improve Quality with Full Employee Participation Since 2003, the NGK Group has held QuiC (Quality up innovation Challenge) quality improvement activities in which all employees participate. These activities consist of quality improvement activities by small groups or individuals and suggestions that strive to enhance the quality of production; best practices are then shared by the entire NGK Group. Every July, NGK holds a company-wide contest at its headquarters to highlight examples of outstanding improvement activities with the intent of horizontal expansion throughout the company. In fiscal 2019, the contest was held over two days, and was divided between manufacturing and non-manufacturing divisions. For the manufacturing division contest, 13 practices were introduced, including those from six Group companies in and outside Japan. The non-manufacturing division contest began with a keynote speech in the morning about how to create a “self-propelled” organization. This was followed in the afternoon by the introduction of eight non-manufacturing practices, including those from three Group company teams. Around 700 NGK Group employees and executives attended the competition. Suggestion Activity Participation Rate Manufacturing Division Non-manufacturing Division FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 At the manufacturing division contest held on July At the non-manufacturing division contest held on Manufacturing 10, ACC won the Grand Prize for successfully July 16, the President’s Special Award was 98% 100% 98% improving testing capacity, along with lowering the presented to NGK Adrec for enlisting the help of divisions incidence of defects, to accommodate growing sales and manufacturing divisions in sorting Nondemand. through the build-up of unneeded part numbers manufacturing 93% 92% 85% divisions and implementing a smart product control system. Clerical – – 60% divisions Number of Approx. 38,000 Approx. 28,000 Approx. 29,000 suggestions Sending Award Recipients and Outstanding Proposal Commendation Recipients to Training in and outside Japan Training at a Group Company outside Japan From the end of October to the beginning of November, four fiscal 2018 QuiC Outstanding Proposal Commendation recipients and two fiscal 2019 QuiC Grand Prize recipients visited NGK Group company ACE in Belgium. There, the visitors and local employees presented and discussed best practices and mutually reinforced the importance of pursuing operational improvement. Training in Japan In late December, six fiscal 2018 Outstanding Proposal Commendation recipients and 13 fiscal 2018 QuiC Excellence Award and Special Award recipients visited Okinawa to attend a nationwide QC Circle Conference and participate in discussion sessions about the differences between NGK and other companies, among other topics. Group Company outside Japan Training in Japan Local staff and team members take part in a training session at ACE Team members sent to attend the nationwide QC Circle Conference NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 48 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Strengthening Quality-Related Education In order to facilitate greater product value and to better meet the expectations of customers, the NGK Group provides employees with quality-related education focused on acquiring skills that can be used to incorporate specific customer needs into new products. NGK, along with other Group companies, is continuously working to improve quality management system (QMS) training, which incorporates real-life topics into practical training and the promotion of operational improvement measures. Quality-Related Education in FY2019 Program name Number of days and participants Objective 3-day lecture, 1 consultation session, 1-day report session, Perform data-based decision-making and QC7 tools exercises; carry out QC QCI total approx. 40 days; 51 manufacturing staff members story-guided problem-solving procedures in their 3rd year and 80 mid-career hires 2-day lecture, 3-day consultation session, 1-day report session, QCI Training for Group total 11 days; QCI level problem-solving practical training implemented by NGK Companies Soshin Electric (Nagano and Miyazaki): 8 people in total 4-day lecture, 3 guidance sessions, 1-day report session, Outside and in-house instructors provide instruction in statistical approaches to Quality Basic II total approx. 45 days; 62 engineering staff members quality control and oversee exercises in applying them to business task-specific in their 3rd year + 2 Group company staff members problem-solving Lecture and exercises that teach analysis and application skills useful for learning Learning from Failure 1.5-day lecture, 4-day exercise, 1-day presentation session, from failure and Methods of total 6.5 days; total of 155 participants Supplemental special lecture focused on common examples of organizational failure Creation provided in order to facilitate reorientation in thinking among management Develop an understanding of product liability laws, including how such laws have 1.5-day lecture; been applied in specific B2B cases total of 16 participants Understand basic approaches to preventive action and recurrence prevention; Prevention Training understand risk elimination procedures Issue examination and discussion: 0.5 days × 4 groups; Operational systems improvement training based on participants’ work challenges total of 20 participants and aimed at stimulating prevention activities Lecture on ISO/IATF standards: 1 day for each; Develop an understanding of the intent and key requirements of standards total of 340 participants Lecture on ISO/IATF standards: 2 days for each; Cultivate and certify internal quality auditors total of 122 participants QMS Training Strengthening internal auditing capability: 1 day; Building up process auditing ability for improved QMS effectiveness and greater 38 participants quality compliance awareness VDA6.3 process auditing: 1 day; 33 participants Develop an understanding of process auditing required by VDA standards Points of Strengthening Quality-Related Education QMS Training We provide training aimed at helping personnel be able to more effectively capitalize on internal audits and, thereby, improve the effectiveness of quality management systems and increase awareness and knowledge of quality compliance. In fiscal 2019, we worked together with outside instructors to prepare skills enhancement courses tailored to internal auditors within the NGK Group, and, based on the positive response received from course participants, we will continue to develop them further. 77 Employees Pass Self-Maintenance Expert Test (Grade 1: 31 Employees, Grade 2: 46 Employees) Seventy-seven manufacturing division and engineering center employees who are engaged in NGK’s voluntary maintenance activities passed the Self-Maintenance Expert Test (Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance) conducted in October (Grade 1: 31 employees, Grade 2: 46 employees). This qualification is given to those who possess a broad range of knowledge and skills necessary concerning quality management, safety, and machinery maintenance, and are certified to have the ability of planning and implementing voluntary maintenance activities and giving instruction. NGK will continue to encourage employees to acquire such qualifications in order to improve quality management capabilities at manufacturing sites. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 49 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management Establishment of a Customer Customers Consultation Helpdesk Inquiries Answer As the top industrial ceramics manufacturer in the industry, NGK makes use of its accumulated technologies to Customer consultation helpdesk manufacture and sell C1 home-use water purifiers and has mechanisms for reflecting customer feedback. Full-time staff We set up an C1 inquiry service for customers to Quality information liaison committee Product reflect customer feedback in our products and services. (important issue improvements During fiscal 2019, we received around 6,000 inquiries via Regular countermeasures) meetings phone and e-mail on various issues, including product Engineering divisions Associated companies performance, installation methods, and requests for Quality assurance division brochures, repair, and installation. Enhanced customer service through information sharing Customer Cards We also respond to various customer feedback provided on customer cards sent from the customers who purchased the C1. Information on the customer card is added to a list and then used to improve the service we provide for our customers, such as notifying them when it is time to replace the cartridge. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 50 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Employees The NGK Group implements a human resource system which enables every employee to perform at their full potential under fair treatment. Basic Approach In the NGK Group Code of Conduct revised in January 2019, our relationship with employees is based on the idea of “Respect for Human Rights” and “Provide a Safe and Enjoyable Work Environment” and defined as follows. Respect for Human Rights ● We will strictly comply with international standards of human rights and respect the diversity of all people. • We will respect human rights and undertake business activities without the use of forced labor or child labor. • We will respect the individuality and independence of each employee and not engage in discrimination on the basis of race, citizenship, gender, NGKage, religion, belief, Sustainability existence Data Book 2020 of handicaps, sexual diversity or any other aspect. 57 • We will prevent the occurrence of harassment in the workplace and take prompt and appropriate action in the case where it occurs. Provide a Safe and Enjoyable Work Environment ● We will provide a safe and enjoyable work environment that is comfortable for everyone to work in for all. • We will strictly comply with laws and regulations of each country and region relating to labor, safety and sanitation. • We will aim to harmonize work and life, and support a variety of working styles. • We will build up a relationship of trust through sincere debate and discussion with employees. • We will give educational opportunities to employees and provide opportunities to stretch their motivation and abilities. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 51 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Basic Information on Employees Number of Employees Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 NGK 3,700 3,937 4,142 4,119 4,224 Number of employees*1 NGK Group 16,667 17,517 18,783 20,115 20,000 Total 3,717 3,939 4,136 4,355 4,529 Men 3,247 3,440 3,621 3,807 3,951 NGK*2 Women 470 499 515 548 578 Number of employees by Ratio of women (%) 12.6 12.7 12.5 12.6 12.8 gender Total 16,805 17,824 19,406 20,578 20,409 Men 12,855 13,620 15,013 16,167 16,010 NGK Group Women 3,950 4,204 4,393 4,411 4,399 Ratio of women (%) 23.5 23.6 22.6 21.4 21.6 Full-time employee 3,717 3,939 4,136 4,355 4,529 Number of employees by NGK Contract employee 150 131 398 507 464 employment type Temporary employee 299 322 392 389 395 *1: Includes employees from outside companies who have been temporarily assigned to the NGK Group, but excludes employees from the NGK Group who have been temporarily assigned to outside companies. *2: Excludes employees from NGK Group companies or outside companies who have been temporarily assigned to NGK, but includes employees from NGK who have been temporarily assigned to NGK Group companies or outside companies. Employee Composition by Region Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Japan 39 39 38 37 39 Asia 29 29 27 25 23 Employee composition by NGK Group Europe 14 15 18 21 21 region (%) North and Central America 17 17 16 16 15 Other 1 1 1 1 1 Employee Status Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 38.6 39.0 38.7 39.0 38.8 Average age (year) NGK Men 38.6 39.1 38.7 38.1 39.0 Women 39.2 38.9 38.6 39.1 38.6 Total 15.0 14.1 13.7 14.1 13.7 Average length of service (year) NGK Men 14.8 14.0 13.6 14.1 14.4 Women 16.3 15.1 14.6 15.1 14.9 Average salary (yen) NGK 7,746,664 7,861,726 7,852,010 7,888,094 7,770,318 Turnover Ratio Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 1.2 1.1 0.8 1.4 1.5 Turnover ratio (%) (Only full-time employees, excludes NGK Men 1.2 0.9 0.7 1.2 1.3 mandatory retirees) Women 1.6 2.0 1.9 2.9 2.8 Voluntary Turnover Ratio Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 0.7 0.8 0.8 1.2 1.5 Voluntary turnover ratio (%)* (Only full-time employees, excludes NGK Men 0.6 0.7 0.6 1.0 1.3 mandatory retirees) Women 0.8 1.7 1.7 2.5 2.6 *Voluntary turnover ratio is calculated by dividing the annual number of employees retiring of their own will by the total number of annual retirees. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 52 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Retention Rate of New Hires after 3 Years Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 95.1 94.3 94.6 92.6 93.5 Retention rate of new hires NGK Men 94.8 89.2 94.8 97.6 95.2 after 3 years (%) Women 90.0 100.0 80.0 83.9 85.1 Revision of the Human Resource System for Group S/M/J Employees In April 2017, NGK revised its human resource system for Group S/M/J employees to enable all employees, from the young to the experienced, to work with enjoyment and fulfillment. As NGK develops its businesses globally and promotes the creation of new products and businesses, it is essential to motivate young and mid-level employees who will take on future key roles and encourage them to demonstrate their full potential. The revised system aims to build the environment that makes these possible. Key Points of the Revised System Qualifications • Developing a mechanism whereby all employees can challenge to qualify for a higher job grade. • Clarifying the definition of each qualification. Evaluation • Shifting from age-based evaluation to effortand result-based evaluation. Retirement at age 65 • Maintaining the same level of salary after age 60. NGK Definition of Employees Key personnel: Employees in managerial positions Group S: Key personnel candidates and advanced specialists Group M: Operational and on-site leaders Group J: Personnel who seek to actualize, and be utilized to, their full potential NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 53 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Occupational Safety and Health The NGK Group operates an Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) in line with its Safety and Health Policy. The OSHMS serves as a mechanism for the ongoing, systematic achievement of employee safety and health initiatives. By strictly implementing this system and conducting risk assessment-based safety measures, we strive to raise the level of occupational safety and health throughout the entire Group. Safety and Health Policy Structure to Promote Safety and Health Management Board of Directors Maintaining the safety and health of each employee constitutes the basis for a President company’s operation and existence Safety and Health 1. Comply with occupational safety and health laws and Committee company regulations. Safety and Industrial Health 2. Engage in activities in line with the OSHMS to Management Department (secretariat) continuously raise the safety and health standards. 3. Promote safety and health activities under enough • Nagoya Site Responsible business groups education and training and good communication with (including Ishikawa district) employees. • Chita Site • Komaki Site 4. Reduce the risks of hazards and toxicity and prevent • Tokyo Main Office Group companies Group companies accidents to provide a comfortable work environment. in Japan outside Japan Safety and Health (13 manufacturing (15 manufacturing 5. Prevent employees’ health hazards and enhance Committee at each site health promoting activities. bases) bases) Enhancing Safety and Health Activities NGK views the enhancement of safety and health activities as one of its top priorities. As such, we developed a three-year action plan in fiscal 2016 built around the key themes of compliance, risk reduction, and enhanced governance and have undertaken activities based upon it. These activities have resulted in us achieving overall targets for compliance and enhanced governance. However, for risk reduction, we found that for the Group as a whole risk assessment for jobs other than routine work was insufficient. In particular, we determined it necessary to step up risk response to prevent electrocution, explosions, and employees getting caught in rotating machinery—the cause of critical disasters and major accidents. In fiscal 2019, towards preventing critical disasters and major accidents or minimizing their damage, we formulated the second three-year action plan prioritizing the strengthening of risk management and governance systems. In addition, we have promoted the acquisition of international occupational safety and health management system certification by all NGK sites, factories, and manufacturing-related Group companies in and outside Japan. These safety and health efforts have earned NGK certification from the Japan Industrial Safety and Health Association (JISHA) for ISO 45001 and for JIS Q 45100, a first for Japan,. This was one of the reasons NGK received the Chairperson Prize in JISHA’s 2019 Occupational Health and Safety Activity Awards. Activities in FY2019 Medium-term action plan Action items Priority activities • Reassess all equipment and jobs throughout the entire Group where there is the possibility Identify critical disaster risks and serious of getting caught in rotating machinery, being electrocuted, or causing explosions Strengthen risk management hazard risks and strengthen preventative • Review risk assessment and conduct emergency measures for equipment and jobs where measures critical disaster risks and explosion risks exist • Confirm the completion status of remaining issues at each Group company through audits • Promote the acquisition of international certification for safety and health management Develop a more fully integrated Set in place governance systems at systems at all manufacturing Group companies governance structure Group companies • Strengthen the comprehensiveness of policy communication and information sharing in each Business Group NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 54 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Work-Related Accidents Item Scope Category 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Lost worktime accidents 2 3 1 4 0 NGK Non-lost worktime accidents 9 3 2 8 7 Total 11 6 3 12 7 Lost worktime accidents 4 3 0 1 1 Number of Manufacturing Group work-related Non-lost worktime accidents 6 5 7 7 7 companies in Japan accidents Total 10 8 7 8 8 Lost worktime accidents − 30 20 8 13 Manufacturing Group Non-lost worktime accidents − 12 8 9 6 companies outside Japan Total − 42 28 17 19 Work-Related Accidents Lost Worktime Accidents and Non-Lost Worktime Accidents (Cases) by Type (past 7 years; NGK) 45 1 Fall on same level/fall from height 40 111 35 Caught in/between 5 30 15 Cut/scratch 25 Total Collision 51 20 6 Flying or falling objects 15 cases Fire 10 5 7 Contact with hazardous substances 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Year) 14 Traffic accidents (on road) NGK Manufacturing Group companies in Japan Manufacturing Group companies outside Japan Others Severity Rate (number of lost workdays per 1,000 hours worked) Item Scope 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Entire NGK Group − 0.026 0.013 0.193 0.012 NGK 0.007 0.004 0.000 0.743 0.000 Severity rate (%) Manufacturing Group companies in Japan − 0.009 0.000 0.000 0.005 (Number of lost workdays per 1,000 hours worked) Manufacturing Group companies outside Japan − 0.040 0.022 0.015 0.020 All industries 0.070 0.100 0.090 0.090 0.090 (Japan, sites with 100 or more employees)* Manufacturing industry 0.060 0.070 0.008 0.100 0.100 (Japan, sites with 100 or more employees)* *Statistics on work-related accidents from Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare. Rate of Lost-Worktime Injuries (number of lost-worktime accidents per a million hours worked) Item Scope 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Entire NGK Group − 1.00 0.55 0.32 0.34 NGK 0.29 0.34 0.11 0.40 0.00 Rate of lost-worktime injuries Manufacturing Group companies in Japan − 0.50 0.00 0.14 0.13 (Number of lost-worktime accidents per a million hours worked) Manufacturing Group companies outside Japan − 1.42 0.91 0.34 0.56 All industries 1.61 1.63 1.66 1.83 1.80 (Japan, sites with 100 or more employees)* Manufacturing industry 1.06 1.15 1.02 1.20 1.20 (Japan, sites with 100 or more employees)* *Statistics on work-related accidents from Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare. Rate of Occupational Disease Item Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Rate of occupational disease (%) NGK 0.00 0.11 0.11 0.10 0.00 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 55 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Number of Deaths from Work-Related Accidents Item Scope 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NGK 0 0 0 1* 0 Number of deaths from work-related accidents (persons) Manufacturing Group companies in Japan 0 0 0 0 0 Manufacturing Group companies outside Japan 0 0 0 0 0 *In 2018 there was one work-related fatality. This fatality was the result of a traffic accident involving the truck of another company, which struck an NGK employee in a crosswalk. External Certification on Occupational Safety and Health Management System To continuously raise the level of occupational safety and health in workplaces, we encourage companies in the NGK Group to acquire certification for international occupational safety and health management systems. In 2017, our Nagoya Site received the first ISO 45001 private certification in Japan. In 2018, all other NGK sites and factories in Japan received ISO 45001 certification and JIS Q 45100 2018 DRAFT certification. In addition, 23 of the 27 manufacturing-related Group companies in Japan and overseas have ISO 45001 or OHSAS 18001 certification. Acquisition of Management System Certification Item Scope Category FY2018 FY2019 NGK ISO 45001 and JIS Q 45100 100% 100% Acquisition of occupational safety and health management system certification Manufacturing Group companies in Japan (12) ISO 45001 58% 100% Manufacturing Group companies outside Japan (15) ISO 45001 or OHSAS 18001 40% 73% Note: NGK/Nagoya Site, Chita Site, Komaki Site, Ishikawa Plant, Mitake Plant NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 56 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Danger-Prediction Training Center Established In order to reduce occupational accidents caused by young workers or inexperienced workers, we have replaced our conventional training center with a 450 m2 Danger-Prediction Training Center at the Chita site, where we provide safety education led by employees who have accumulated experience outside the company. In the training center, cranes, equipment for experiencing dangers such as being caught in rotating machinery, and mannequins are arranged to simulate occupational accidents that have occurred in the company. In addition to training regarding general hazards, the program is designed to enhance sensitivity to danger through practical simulated 1,700 situations. In 2020, we introduced hazard simulation VR (virtual reality) and CG (computer graphics) equipment, thus enabling a new training program combining existing hazard Number of participants in safety training at simulation equipment and lectures that will boost workers’ Danger-Prediction Training Center in FY2019 sensitivity to danger. High-Visibility Vests Although the Danger-Prediction Training Center was established to provide training that lowers the incidence of work-related accidents caused by younger or less experienced employees, this group still accounts for 40% of all accidents at NGK. In response, we made it mandatory starting in 2020 for these less experienced employees to wear high-visibility vests. This helps create a work environment conducive to accident prevention in two ways: by making the vest wearers conscious of their own inexperience, and by making it easy for other workers to see exactly who the inexperienced workers are. Hosting a Safety Process Expert Meeting (PEM) NGK’s Ceramic Products Business Group brings together overseas production site safety and health managers to its yearly Safety Process Expert Meeting (PEM) with the aim of improving safety levels across the NGK Group. In fiscal 2019, a total of over 30 employees from HONEYCERAM® production bases in and outside Japan gathered at the NGK Nagoya Site to share Group-wide activity policies and plans related to safety and health, and to exchange information about their respective companies. And with the aim of boosting risk assessment skills, all participants toured the plant to observe work processes and discuss things like potential sources of danger, successful measures, and possible improvements to be made. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 57 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Health Management The NGK Group strives to promote employees’ health through the NGK Group Health Declaration: “Developing dynamic, people-friendly work environments and a health-conscious corporate culture.” Health Declaration of the NGK Group At NGK, we consider employee health and safety to be of fundamental importance to the company’s operation and are, therefore, proactive about developing dynamic, people-friendly work environments and a health-conscious corporate culture, which contribute to better health for each and every employee. Provide a workspace that is both people-friendly and work-friendly Cultivate a health-conscious corporate culture for executives, employees, and their families Promote early detection and early intervention for health concerns Offer support for mental health and wellbeing April 2018 President, NGK Insulators, Ltd. Reducing Long Work Hours In July 2016, we lowered the maximum amount of overtime work to 70 hours per month (with an upper limit of 300 hours per half-year). To this end, employees are, as a rule, not allowed to work for more than seven days straight and are not allowed to do overtime on their twice-a-week refresh days. If either of these are necessary, they must get permission from their bosses beforehand. To prevent employees from working excessively long hours, there must be an interval period of at least 10 hours between shifts of late night work. Overtime Work Hour Trends Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Annual actual working hours 2,087 2,069 2,072 2,081 2,059 NGK general employees Average overtime work per month 24.9 23.7 24.3 25.2 23.7 NGK including key personnel Annual actual working hours 2,079 2,067 2,089 2,087 2,056 Hours worked/ overtime work (managers) Average overtime work per month 23.7 22.9 23.4 25.2 23.6 (Annual fixed working hours: 1,919 hours) Annual actual working hours 2,140 2,102 2,129 2,129 2,067 NGK production divisions Average overtime work per month 26.7 24.7 25.7 27.3 24.4 Annual actual working hours 2,053 2,051 2,077 2,050 2,052 NGK non-production divisions Average overtime work per month 22.4 22.3 22.4 24.0 23.2 Following Up on Employees Working Long Hours NGK provides employees working long hours, including non-regular and part-time employees, with ongoing opportunities to meet with industrial physicians for health consultations and exams. The results are reported at monthly Safety and Health Committee meetings at each worksite to thoroughly promote the reduction of overtime work. In fiscal 2019, because certain managers were often putting in long hours, Business Groups ordered this to be reduced. Consultations by Employees Working Long Hours Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of employees having NGK All 226 108 85 243 78 consultations Note: Numbers of people shown are cumulative totals. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 58 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promotion of Activities Supporting Mental and Physical Health Four Types of Care for Mental Health We facilitate the widespread implementation of ongoing mental and physical health promotion activities, centering on the four types of care for mental health promoted by the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare (MHLW). In fiscal 2019, we carried out stress checks for all employees and had test results analyzed by group. Based on the results of this analysis, we have a six-month program that involves training the managers of workplaces with comparatively high stress levels in improving interpersonal relations within the workplace and improving the work environment. Four Types of Care 1 2 3 4 Line care Care by industrial health Care by resources Self-care (care by supervisors) staff within business sites outside business sites Note: Recent, selective introduction Percentage of Employees Taking Stress Checks Unit: % Item Scope FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Target Percentage of employees taking stress checks 91.4 93.4 94.9 95.9 100 NGK Percentage with high stress levels 9.0 9.7 11.7 10.7 Position-Based Mental Care Education With an emphasis on self-care for new employees and young employees, we strive to deepen understanding of mental health by combining self-care and line care for new supervisors and managers. In fiscal 2019, we provided training for managers in areas with high occurrences of employee mental health problems with the goal of detecting and treating problems early on and putting these employees on the road to early recovery. Position-Based Mental Care Education Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 All 558 1,009 402 567 614 Number of employees taking New hires 199 234 158 192 143 position-based mental care NGK education General employees 272 325 181 306 339 Managers 87 450 63 69 132 Anti-Harassment Training Item FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Sessions held 11 6 5 5 5 Number of participants 277 326 350 464 419 Promoting Better Health and Wellbeing among Employees In addition to annual health exams, NGK holds collaborative health promotion activities* with the health insurance association in efforts to promote better health and physical strength among employees. These activities include health lectures, health declaration challenges, the use of health apps for smartphones, physical strength measuring events, walking-age assessment events and related lectures, and recreational walks. *An initiative in which health insurance associations work closely with companies and use their respective strengths to create a positive work environment by efficiently and effectively promoting the health and wellbeing of employees and their families. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 59 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Percentage of Employees Taking Health Exams Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Target Total employees 3,846 4,035 4,266 4,683 4,936 Number taking health exam 3,794 3,946 4,230 4,601 4,855 Periodic health exam NGK Number of exceptions* 52 89 36 82 81 Health exam ratio (%) 100 100 100 100 100 100 *Employees on maternity leave, temporary retirement, etc. Percentage of Smokers Item Scope FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Smoking ratio (%) NGK 24.6 25.0 26.0 Percentage of Employees Taking Metabolic Syndrome Checkup Unit: % Item Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Percentage of employees taking metabolic syndrome checkups NGK 84.5 84.8 86.3 86.3 Compilation results in Percentage with metabolic syndrome NGK 15.7 13.2 13.1 14.3 about November 2020 Percentage under medical guidance NGK 42.1 59.1 58.6 56.7 Number of Participants in Health Promotion Initiatives Unit: Persons Item Participants FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Health lectures NGK managers 200 270 300 Health declaration challenges NGK employees 1,306 1,590 1,199 Smartphone health apps NGK employees and families 522 742 1,127 Physical dynamism checkups NGK employees 192 191 ― Walking-age assessments and lectures NGK employees ― ― 64 Recreational walks NGK employees and families 223 163 223 Response to Infectious Diseases and Other Global Health Problems There are approximately 450 NGK employees and family members posted overseas, and our employees in Japan take more than 3,000 overseas business trips a year, thus creating substantial risk of contracting infectious diseases. To reduce this risk, those posted overseas and taking business trips, as well as their families, are provided with health management training by industrial physicians. Participants learn the fundamentals of infectious diseases, are advised to take immunization shots, and are taught ways to avoid contracting things like HIV and malaria. During the influenza season from autumn to winter, employees going on overseas business trips can get influenza shots at the in-company clinic. Outstanding Health and Productivity Management Company Since 2019, we have been included in the 2019 “White 500” list under the Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program, run by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Aichi Prefecture Advanced Health Management Company NGK and the NGK Health Insurance Association have earned a designation as an Advanced Health Management Company by the Aichi prefectural government. The aim of this program is to recognize companies and organizations that aggressively pursue health management, in the process increasing the number of companies taking action towards a healthy workforce and increasing the healthy life expectancy of the prefecture’s citizens. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 60 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Diversity It is NGK Group’s basic policy to recruit human resources and offer stable employment and equal opportunities regardless of race, nationality, gender, age, religion, belief, disability, or gender identity/sexual orientation. Also, in an aim to promote autonomy and independence, NGK maintains the human resource systems necessary to provide employees with fair compensation commensurate with their degree of contribution to the company. New Graduate Hires Note: Excluding new graduates planned to transfer from temporary to regular positions. Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 68 154 111 155 143 Number of new graduate NGK Men 58 127 96 122 115 hires Women 10 27 15 33 28 Ratio of Women among New Graduate Hires Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total* 29 23 31 28 23 Ratio of women (%) NGK Administrative-related; target 30% 42 27 42 44 52 Engineering-related; target 20% 13 20 22 24 27 *Covers regular-position employees Mid-Career Hires Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 200 158 135 115 105 Number of mid-career NGK Men 185 139 121 101 87 hires Women 15 19 14 14 18 System to Promote Diversity At NGK, the Human Resources Department plays a central role in promoting diversity, including through nursing care support and promotion of women’s active participation. Regarding human rights issues, NGK strives to educate employees by distributing booklets on human rights on occasions such as training for the recently promoted employees. A helpline is also available for consultation on these issues. Seminars Promote Understanding of LGBT Issues NGK held its first seminar for executives on LGBT issues. The aim of the seminar was to learn about how the company can create workplaces friendly to LGBT and other minorities and to develop a greater understanding of diversity in gender identity/sexual orientation and respect for human rights. Speaking at the seminar was Takeshi Ichikawa, the representative of the On the Ground Project, who, under the theme of creating company workplaces friendly to LGBT and sexual minorities, outlined basic LGBT issues and gave examples of how other companies are accommodating these workers’ needs. Mr. Ichikawa said that companies that ignore LGBT issues do so at their own risk, and stressed that proper understanding of the issue, respect for employees’ abilities and diversity, and the creation of workplaces accommodating all individuals will contribute to a company’s growth. Similar seminars are planned for other companies throughout the NGK Group. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 61 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting the Success of Women Appointment of Female Key Personnel (Management Staff) The NGK Group strives to increase opportunities for motivated and skilled people to enhance their skills regardless of gender. We are also engaged in creating comfortable working environment for women. Ratio of Female Employees Item Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Ratio of female employees* (%) NGK 12.6 12.7 12.5 12.6 12.8 *Ratio among all employees Key Personnel (Managers) Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 803 824 865 890 900 Men 789 808 848 870 874 NGK Women 14 16 17 20 26 Number of key personnel (employees in managerial Dept. managers or higher 3 3 4 4 5 positions ) Ratio of women (%) 1.7 1.9 2.0 2.2 2.9 Group companies Ratio of women (%) 16.6 15.3 21.0 16.0 20.2 outside Japan Female Directors Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total ー ー 12 12 13 Number of female directors NGK Women ー ー 1 1 1 Ratio (%) ー ー 8.3 8.3 7.7 Promoting Women’s Active Participation through the Revised Human Resource System NGK revised its human resource system in April 2017 with the aim of enabling employees in general employment positions who were engaged in routine tasks to take on a broader range and a higher level of work. The new human resource system helps career advancement by allowing individual employees to take on the challenge of moving up to a higher job grade. In addition, for those in general employment positions in charge of doing clerical and routine work, we are striving to create an environment where both employees and their supervisors can achieve high performance by improving and consolidating their duties. Establishment of a Career Consultation Helpdesk In 2016, we established a career consultation helpdesk for female employees to discuss career-related concerns. At the helpdesk, certified career consultants provide support and consultation services to employees, while strictly observing confidentiality. Since 2017, we have expanded the service to make it available not only to women but to all employees. Introduction of System to Support Early Return from Parental Leave We have introduced a system to encourage and support employees so that they can return from maternity and childcare leave and resume their careers at an early stage. P67 Work-Life Balance: Systems to Support Early Return from Parental Leave NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 62 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Training for Employees Returning from Childcare Leave Training was provided for female employees returning after the end of their designated childcare leave period, as well as for their supervisors. During this training, participants were offered advice on how to orient their focus and coordinate their schedule in balancing work and family responsibilities, as well as how to go about developing a medium-to-long-term career plan. Despite being from different departments, all of the participants were alike in that they faced the challenges of balancing childrearing with work, and through their interactions with one another, they were able to share their stories, their struggles, and their advice. Group J Clerical Staff Career Design Training In line with the revisions made to NGK’s human resource system for general employees in April 2017 (job grade standardization and extension of the mandatory retirement age to 65), Group J clerical staff were provided with career design training intended to serve as an opportunity for them to think about their future career path and work style. Through this training, participants examined the expectations of those around them, their own skills and values, and then objectively considered their career goals from a medium-to-long term perspective and what they need to do to achieve them. Participants not only utilized information provided by their instructors but also engaged in solo and group work to facilitate a deeper level of self-awareness and discovery. Women’s Active Participation Promotion Project: “Surprising Women” In fiscal 2018, NGK launched its new Women’s Active Participation Promotion Project. Taking women’s empowerment efforts beyond just expanding support systems and providing training to supervisors, the project, called “Surprising Women,” includes members from the Human Resources Department and other company departments in order to achieve a broader, company-wide perspective. In fiscal 2019, in order to expand job opportunities for Group J clerical staff, these employees and their supervisors filled out questionnaires that yielded suggestions for future progress. We also held career design workshops for female Group J staff, where participants interacted with their peers and their more experienced colleagues, in the process dispelling worries about the future and giving them the opportunity to take the initiative towards their desired career. Hamada Seminar NGK Outside Director Emiko Hamada led a seminar for female Group S key personnel called the “Hamada Seminar.” To help participants understand what constitutes good work and the creation of a satisfying company, Ms. Hamada interspersed talk of her own experiences with what makes work rewarding and worthwhile for company officers and key personnel, and exchanged opinions with participants on their future career ideals. Submitting Our Action Plan for Promoting Action Plan Women’s Active Workplace Participation to MHLW Issues In January 2019, in accordance with the Act on Promotion • Although there is no gender gap in terms of criteria for of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the promotion and service years, the number of women in management positions is small. Workplace, NGK submitted a general employer action plan to the Aichi Labor Bureau, which is overseen by the Ministry Goals of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW). • Foster a corporate culture that promotes women’s active In this plan, NGK sets the goal of hiring more female participation. employees. Accordingly, the proportion of women among • Increase the number of candidates for managers by 1.5 times. new hires increased from 16% in fiscal 2012 to 28% in fiscal Create an environment that makes it easier for 2019. Initiative 1 women to achieve a work-life balance. We will keep working on the initiatives according to the Increase the ratio of women among new graduate Initiative 2 action plan to accomplish our goals. hires and diversify career opportunities. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 63 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Third-Party Certifications Certified as an “L-Boshi” Company for Excellence in Promoting Women’s Active Participation In March 2017, NGK was certified as an “L-Boshi” company by the Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW). This certification is granted to companies that have done excellent jobs in accordance with the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Each applicant for the certification is evaluated on five criteria: recruitment, Labor and Welfare “L-boshi” certification of corporate employment continuity, working hours, percentage of female managers, and Next-generation support excellence in the promotion of certification logo women’s active participation diverse career paths. In September 2019, NGK satisfied all five criteria and “Kurumin” (2012) Certification level 3 (2019) received certification for level three, the highest certification level. Certified as a Company Promoting Women’s Active Participation by Nagoya City* In recognition of our efforts to create a workplace environment that encourages women’s active participation such as revising our system for Nagoya City Aichi Prefecture Certification of corporate Certification of Aichi transferring to career-track positions, we were certified as a Company promotion of women’s “Shining Women” Companies Promoting Women’s Active Participation by Nagoya City in January 2012 active participation (2016) (2011) and recertified in January 2018. *A system for certifying companies that conduct outstanding initiatives in the areas of (1) awareness improvement, (2) work-life balance, and (3) promotion of women’s active participation. Promoting Participation of Older Employees As part of changes made to the NGK Insulators personnel system in April 2017, the mandatory retirement age has been raised to 65. Salary levels, bonuses, and benefits have all been kept at the same level as of age 60. Our goal is to ensure employees to work without worries even after they turn 60. More robust systems and support have been introduced for employees with illness or nursing care needs, such as more flexible work schedules offering shorter hours and three-day work weeks, or a lump sum nursing care support allowance for employees caring for their parents or spouse. Initiatives for Persons with Disabilities NGK undertakes a variety of initiatives aimed at employing people with disabilities, such as accepting students from special-needs schools as trainees and attending employment seminars for people with disabilities. In fiscal 2019, we hired one new employee with a disability. We have a subsidiary that provides cleaning services and whose employees are mainly intellectually disabled. In September 2019, this company was certified as a special subsidiary for the employment of the disabled by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW). This helped us meet the MHLW’s 2.2% employment quota for persons with disabilities. With this figure set to go up to 2.3% in fiscal 2020, we are stepping up our efforts to hire people with disabilities by continuing to accept students from special-needs schools as trainees, attending employment seminars for people with disabilities, and expanding the work of our special subsidiary. Number and Percentage of Employees with Disabilities Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of employees Number of people 56 55 57 62 135 NGK with disabilities Employment rate (%) 2.18 2.03 1.90 1.92 2.20 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 64 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Various Systems to Make Use of Diverse Human Resources The NGK Group implements systems promoting the utilization of human resources based on the idea that personnel diversity is linked to innovation in organizational culture. Human Resource Utilization Systems Aligned with Employee Individuality and Skills To open the way for employees to take full advantage of their individuality and skills, NGK adopts an internal job application system, in which open positions are announced internally and eligible applicants are appointed. There is also an FA (free agent) system that allows employees to register their personal aspirations and preference of jobs to appeal themselves within the company. Internal Job Application System Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of applications 25 17 32 28 28 Number of recruits 36 28 50 40 37 Job application system NGK Number of applicants 23 11 15 7 18 Number of successful applications 9 4 5 2 7 Promoting the Regular Employment of Fixed-Term Manufacturing Contract Employees NGK established a system for appointing fixed-term manufacturing contract employees to become regular employees, and 41 employees were appointed in fiscal 2019. Excellent employees are identified through biannual personnel assessments and recommended by division heads to sit for the regular employee promotion exam. Those who pass the exam become regular employees. Transfers from Fixed-Term Contract Manufacturing Worker to Regular Employee Item Scope Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of contract-to-regular NGK Number of people 25 15 20 37 41 employees Management of Follow-up System to Fit Young Employees in the Workplace To prevent career mismatches, there is a follow-up system for younger employees in NGK. For career-track employees, we conduct surveys and interviews about their jobs and work environment in their second year; and for manufacturing technology staff, we do this in their second or third year of employment. If they desire, feedback is provided to their superiors, leading to younger employees’ job stability. A job rotation system is also provided mainly to young career-track employees. After working with us for four to six years, they are transferred to a different job—potentially overseas or outside their current department. Come-Back System Since fiscal 2016, NGK has had its Come-Back System to rehire people who had left our company for various reasons (e.g., job change, studying abroad, job transfer of a spouse, etc.) as mid-career employees. Reference Come-Back System URL https://www.ngk.co.jp/recruit/comeback/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 65 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Work-Life Balance NGK strives to promote a work-life balance and reduce long working hours. We keep track of social changes, such as changing attitudes toward work as well as legislative amendments, and strive to respond to these changes flexibly and properly by improving systems and revising operations. 10 rules for promoting a work-life balance No more than 70 hours of overtime work per month If overtime is necessary, a prior permit application must be submitted Overtime work exceeding 45 hours per month limited to In principle, work must not be performed for more than seven days straight six months each year If work in excess of seven days straight is necessary, a prior permit The target for annual paid leave is 10 days, and employees application must be submitted are obligated to take at least six days a year Written applications must be submitted when requesting employees to No more than 300 hours of overtime work per six months work on holidays or late at night In principle, there will be no overtime work on refresh days There must be an interval period of at least 10 hours between shifts of (Wednesdays and Fridays) late night work Initiatives to Limit Overtime Work If, for any reason, overtime work in excess of 45 hours per month appears likely, the reason for the increase in overtime work must be confirmed through prior labor-management consultations to level out the time periods and workloads or increase the number of employees. Countermeasures for Mitigating Increased Paid Leave: Number of Days Used, Utilization Rate (NGK Union Members; Excluding Outside Employees Temporarily Overtime Working Hours Assigned to NGK) （%） 77.5 (Days) Each year, NGK discloses statistics on hours worked and paid leave utilization to its Labor Union for discussion and 75 72.5 25 countermeasure deliberation purposes. When cases of 68.7 long working hours are found, Labor Union meets with 70 67.5 20 65.2 each workplace to devise countermeasures. When long 65 14.1 15 working hours are found for employees who have been 11.9 12.1 12.2 12.8 temporarily assigned overseas, they must submit in writing 60 10 the reason for the long working hours and undergo a health 55 5 check. These measures are taken to maintain their health, and the written report is used to identify the reasons for 0 long working hours and to develop countermeasures. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Days used Utilization rate Enhancing Systems for Supporting Work-Life Balance NGK offers flexible systems to help employees maintain a balance between work and family life. To support childcare and nursing care, we are enhancing financial support by providing a babysitter expense subsidy system, and a lump-sum payment system for nursing care support. And in consideration of the working environment, we offer support via a shortened working hour system. Further, we continue to enhance the soft infrastructure NGK has in place to support these employees. For employees seeking to balance their career with childcare, we offer pre-maternity leave interviews, pre-reinstatement interviews during the childcare leave period, career consultations, and other consultation resources. For employees undertaking nursing care, we offer nursing care-related information sessions and distribute nursing care handbooks, as well as facilitate consultation services which make use of outside resources. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 66 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Enhancement of Work-Life Balance Systems In 2010, NGK made a major revision to its human resource system, and we have since been continuously enhancing our support measures by identifying employees’ needs. In fiscal 2017, we established an early reinstatement lump-sum system for employees who return to work early from their childcare leave (within 11 months of the start of their childcare leave). We also established a non-registered daycare subsidy system to help subsidize employees who put their children in non-registered daycares. These systems are part of the initiatives we undertake to support employees’ careers after they have returned to work. Also, in addition to childcare and nursing care, we launched a system for flexible work arrangements to help employees who need to attend to a health condition of their own that requires repeated and ongoing treatment, thereby finding a balance between work and medical care. In fiscal 2018, we investigated how to improve the efficiency and productivity of workplaces by offering employees greater flexibility in terms of work style and environment, so that they can work to their potential while maintaining a healthy work-life balance, regardless of when or where they work. It was in this context that we introduced a telecommuting system intended to help address the needs of employees with children or family members who require care, or who have a serious illness themselves. In fiscal 2019, we made it possible for male employees to accumulate more vacation days to be used for post-maternity support. They can also take childcare leave for shorter periods. This has resulted in a more-than-60% increase in male employees taking childcare leave. System to Support Employees to Balance Work and Childcare at Each Stage Interview (employee, supervisor, and HR) Interview (employee, supervisor, and HR) ▲ ▲ ▲ During pregnancy Before/after birth During childcare leave Balancing work and care Measures on health management Time off before/after birth Childcare leave Shortened working hours Overtime work exemption Special paid leave when a Continuing the childcare leave Flex time system spouse gives birth Unscheduled work exemption Late-night working hours Post-maternity support leave exemption Childcare leave (using (for male employees) Limitation on overtime work accumulated vacation days) Late-night working hours exemption Work systems Flex time system Half-day paid leave Caring for a family member (using accumulated vacation days) Caring for a child Lump-sum payment for early return Childcare Concierge (for those living in the Tokyo Priority use of a commuter metropolitan area) parking lot (in Nagoya) Other systems Non-registered daycare expense subsidy Babysitter expense subsidy Family Fund Maternity gift Financial support Elementary school enrollment gift Health systems Lump-sum birth allowance Insurance insurance benefits Employment Childcare leave benefits insurance During the time off before/after Lump-sum payment made six Salary birth, pay 2/3 of the standard Unpaid months after returning to work daily wage (330,000 yen) During the time off before/after Bonus birth, pay a bonus calculated Unpaid with a 2/3 attendance rate Systems to Support Early Return from Parental Leave Systems to Support Early Return from Parental Leave NGK has systems to encourage and support employees who have A lump-sum payment for early return taken maternity and childcare leave so that they can return to their careers at an early stage. Licensed daycare center expense subsidy These systems are aimed at developing workplaces that support Childcare Concierge female employees in particular, with the expectation of promoting their active participation. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 67 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Overview of Childrearing Support Measures and Users Systems That Exceed Legal Requirements Item Details Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Until the last day of the month when the child turns 1 year old. When there are certain Total 60 51 53 54 94 circumstances, such as not being able to find a daycare center, leave is available until the Number of childcare leave takers last day of the month in which the child turns Men 11 7 17 27 37 18 months old or the end of March after the child turns one, whichever is longer. (Legal requirement: until the child turns 18 Women 49 44 36 27 57 months old) 6 or 7 hours per day for employees until the Shortened working hours fiscal year when their children start 4th grade Number of 53 57 51 63 64 during childrearing in elementary school (Legal requirement: For leave takers children under the age of 3) Systems Operated Independently by NGK Unit: Persons System name Details FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Lump-sum payment made 6 months Lump-sum payment is paid 6 months after returning to work 16 26 19 31 25 after returning to work System for taking annual paid leave Paid leave (day’s worth) can be taken in hourly increments by 35 36 36 59 62 in hourly increments for employees working shortened hours employees working shortened hours Childcare leave for fathers using Unused annual paid holidays can be used for childcare leave 11 7 17 19 31 accumulated vacation days Interview is attended by employee, HR, and supervisor to provide the employee with peace of mind while on maternity leave and Pre-maternity leave interview 22 20 27 30 26 ensures both sides have proper understanding of procedures related to systems supporting childcare and work Supports smooth transition back to work through consultation on Interview before returning to work 27 18 30 29 27 work details and work style Enables employees to take a leave of up to 2 years and 6 months while accompanying a spouse (including a non-NGK employee) System for accompanying a posted overseas for work, and allows employees to continue their 3 6 9 10 9 spouse’s overseas assignment* career path, which was difficult to do prior to the establishment of this system Maternity gift ¥50,000 gift when a child is born 175 208 225 241 218 Provides up to ¥100,000 per year for employees who must pay 19 Babysitter expense subsidy 16 9 8 11 for a babysitter or daycare due to working hours Support to facilitate the process of putting a child in daycare and 2 Childcare Concierge Unintroduced 1 1 1 returning to work Priority parking spaces to Priority parking spaces available at a commuter parking lot 17 19 29 32 40 support childcare Non-registered daycare subsidy Unintroduced Unintroduced 1 0 0 system Lump-sum payment for early Unintroduced Unintroduced 3 7 5 return * The definition of the system for accompanying a spouse’s overseas assignment has been revised and the data for past years has been revised. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 68 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Systems to Support Nursing Care Working hours Time off Financial support 1 Shortened working hours 7 Caring for a family member using 10 Care leave benefits 2 Working 3 days a week accumulated vacation days 11 Care leave support fund 3 Flex time system 8 Unpaid days off to provide care (for employees at departments to which 12 Lump-sum care allowance the regular flex time system does not apply) 4 Limitation on overtime work Leave of absence 5 Unscheduled work exemption 6 Late-night working hours 9 Care leave exemption Nursing Care Leave Usage (NGK) Category FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total 0 0 1 1 1 Men 0 0 1 0 1 Women 0 0 0 1 0 Note: Includes contract employees. Revision of the Care Leave System In line with revisions made in January 2017 to the Child Care and Family Care Leave Act, we made revisions to our own system, such as enabling employees to divide their one-year nursing care leave into three blocks. Moreover, we have signed a corporate contract with SeaCare, an NPO that supports care-giving, to further enhance services helpful to caregivers. This service makes care-giving consultations available free of charge, regardless of whether Certification of Needed Long-Term Care has been obtained, and enables employees to receive support in care-giving when they are unable to do so. Company Intranet We have launched a site on diverse work styles on the company intranet to widely announce our measures to support a work-life balance. The new site is a redesigned and more user-friendly version of the previous Work and Family Life Support Site. Its new features include, for example, an online handbook on childcare and nursing care. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 69 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Human Resource Development The NGK Group puts its Group Philosophy into action by ensuring that people remain our top priority as we pursue a mission of “Enriching Human Life by Adding New Value to Society.” We do this not only through the educational programs that we offer but also by cultivating work environments and supportive supervisors capable of ensuring that each employee is able to contribute and independently grow through the work that they undertake within the environment in which they are placed. Group Philosophy Our Values Quality of People Quality of Product Quality of Management Embrace challenges and teamwork Exceed expectations Social trust is our foundation Personal Character Professional Competence Compliance Requirements in Job Performance Tenaciously pursue results Cultivate a distinctive skill set and through teamwork a proactive approach to problems Recognize and act upon responsibilities as a member of society Basic Human Resource • To cultivate personnel who can both inherit and develop the tradition and spirit of monozukuri, Development Guidelines or “making things” • To cultivate personnel with the ability and talent to support worldwide business development Enacted in 2006 • To provide all interested employees a platform for growth and learning NGK undertakes systematic human resource development, which encompasses every job category in Group companies in Japan, from employment to every promotion milestone in their career. The education and training that we provide employees across the NGK Group, in conjunction with their departments and with the aim of putting the Group Philosophy into practice, is divided into three areas: “Personal Character” needed to tenaciously pursue results through teamwork, “Professional Competence” needed to cultivate a distinctive skill set and a proactive approach to problems, and “Compliance Requirements in Job Performance” needed to recognize and act upon responsibilities as a member of society. Key Personnel Competencies In order to improve the managerial skills of key personnel and, thereby, contribute to greater organizational vitality, we have defined the “key personnel competencies (behavioral traits)” that are expected of key personnel in NGK. As the diversity of our human resources continues to increase, we want to put in place a structure that promotes a shared awareness across our company to enable key personnel to effectively contribute to business performance. We have established key personnel competencies for the sake of achieving the following aims. • Ensure key personnel have a correct understanding of their expected roles so that their performance meets the expected contributions of those roles to company development. • Ensure key personnel candidates have a clear vision for themselves, and promote their growth towards recruitment as key personnel. The creation of key personnel competencies was used as an opportunity to conduct a 360° survey (multifaceted evaluation) of all key personnel. Training Participant Summary (total participants) Average Time Spent in Training Annually per Employee (hours) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total Total 3,988 4,002 3,889 4,661 4,685 21.0 24.8 21.7 21.3 21.4 participants participants Key Key 892 933 1,132 991 813 15.3 13.1 15.6 12.8 12.3 personnel personnel General General 3,096 3,069 2,757 3,670 3,873 22.5 28.8 23.3 25.0 23.7 employees employees Average Annual Cost of Training per Full-Time Employee (¥10 thousand) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Average 7.8 7.0 6.6 6.3 5.3 expenses Note: Calculated based on actual achievements from FY2015. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 70 Fiscal 2020 Company-Wide Education Scheme NGK employees Group companies in Japan Group companies outside Japan New 1st-year hires Group J Group M Group S Key personnel Employees Executives Employees Executives Training for new hires and Training Promoted to J1 New key Promoted to New M New S New section promoted employees for new hires technical and clerical personnel key personnel 2 chiefs NGK philosophy NGK philosophy NGK philosophy NGK philosophy NGK philosophy NGK philosophy NGK Group Philosophy Philosophy sharing activities Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Training for new managers Values Code of Conduct Explanation using various educational opportunities, etc. Message from the President Entrance ceremony Message Company history Understanding Understanding Understanding Empathy Practice Past and present Management concept New key personnel BL BL II BL III Held at global Conceptual meetings, etc. Creativity Innovation (ideas, action, change) Innovation (ideas, action, change) skills Seminar on creation and learning from failure NGK Group Profile Logical thinking Logical thinking I/II Logical presentation Logical presentations Organizational operation Basic Group company Personal Character Guiding and training subordinates Instructor Managing Key personnel management Key personnel president support Human New work and 4 competency 2 competency skills Report/inform/ worksite Leadership Training for Your own role and Business consult and Leadership and personnel 360° survey interviews, 360° survey business communication etiquette how to proceed followership leader individual with work analysis Support for autonomous 2nd-year staff Career design for women Career design Career career design 2nd-year technical in 50s Support Support for life events Seminar for employees returning from childcare leave and working mothers Quality management Quality control Quality management Quality assurance Quality basic III (Reliability) Risk prevention I Risk prevention I Risk prevention II Management mechanism Production Cost basics Cost basics Worksite IE basics Environmental control Maintenance basics Entry-level maintenance education Cost basics Ceramics Factory training Manufacturing basics Technical seminar for sales divisions, ceramics technical lectures Training Center/ Unique Manufacturing technology Elemental technology Elemental technology/Corporate Manufacturing Engineering, Engine practice/Ceramic Products, Basic chemical engineering/Process Technology Ceramic Products Worksite capability Worksite capability leader, follow-up for persons who completed course, instructor Worksite capability manager/plant manager Worksite capability leader/instructor For leaders How to Staff QC basics Basic quality I/II proceed with workplace Skills QC basics QC I (entry-level) QC II (Awareness) QC I improvements Office work Group M NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 problem-solving Finance Accounting basics Proper accounting Accounting Financial issues Training for Accounting seminar (for Group company accounting staff) Group company president Legal Mini legal seminar candidates Technical skills Other companies’ IP activities patents IP strategy Social Professional Competence Intellectual property Operations Patent seminar I–III (system/procedures), IP seminar II (patent management, survey) IT literacy (under preparation) Information, IT Office 365 Office 365 workshop/consultation, RPA developer training Office 365 Office 365 IT security PC upskilling IT security IT security IT security 71 Work execution Business communication, management skills, corporate management, practical tasks, safety control, health management, export control, competition laws, overseas bribery regulations For heads of overseas subsidiaries Business communication English for Language for overseas assignees (English, Chinese, Thai, others) Global career Language for overseas assignees For persons to be assigned Language to overseas posts Global new hires Basic business English, business writing in English, English for engineers, presentation in English, meetings in English, department-specific English development Awareness Mindset Mindset (cross-cultural communication/self-understanding) Company Business/financial conditions Introduction Basic training Basic training understanding Systems and regulations Basic training Basic training Basic training Laws and compliance seminar Basic training Compliance Mini/intensive legal seminar Competition Law Education for sales staff For sales staff Anti-corruption Education for sales staff For sales staff Governance Contract compliance Security export control Security export control education, study meeting, training on competition laws Companies Act Companies Act study meeting Subcontract Act Subcontract Act lecture, optimization seminar, etc. For purchasing staff Basics Construction Business Act Construction Business Act study meeting Complying with laws and regulations Harassment Education for general employees Basic training For employees Introduction Basic training Basic training Basic training Mental health Mental health Safety and health Safety simulation education Quality Qualification-specific quality compliance education Basic training Environment Legend CSR Basic training Training conducted by Human Resources Department Job Performance Compliance Requirements Safety and health legal training, Internal safety and health education (dust, low-voltage electricity, RST, VDT, etc.) Training for new hires and promoted employees license acquisition, Outside safety and health education (forklifts, cranes, various work, etc.) occupational safety and health Content Index MS*, ISO 45001-related In-house safety and health auditors, safety and health education, etc. Annual compulsory qualifications training Laws and regulations, IATF 16949 Standards interpretation Training for selected persons Quality MS* Standards interpretation Training for those who need it ISO 9001 standards In-house quality auditor development training Enhancing auditing effectiveness Training for those who want it ISO 14001-related environmental MS* Lecture for chief environmental in-house auditors, lecture for in-house environmental auditors, etc. Training conducted by other departments *MS: Management system Individual training within each department Directly run by Head Office departments Run individually by each department NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Values NGK training and education seeks to foster an understanding of the NGK Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct such that employees will not simply work for the sake of meeting their individual job targets but, rather, will think about the significance of the work they perform and the basis for their decision-making, leading to a sense of pride and shared identity as an NGK employee. It is not enough for employees to know what the NGK Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct are; we want employees to incorporate them into their behavior. This approach is particularly evident in the corporate history training program that was launched full-scale in 2017 for every level of employee, from new hires to those promoted to managers. It is also incorporated into the educational programs of Group companies outside Japan in order to reach a variety of personnel. It will continue to be developed and expanded. Business Skills We carry out training designed to equip employees with the mindset, knowledge, and skills they need to carry out their jobs. To ensure that the skills employees acquire are applicable and directly contribute to the work that they perform—i.e., practical skills instead of just knowledge—we provide coaching in cooperation with the participants’ supervisors and training programs for handling challenges directly relevant to their own departments. Career Support In order to ensure that as many personnel as possible are able to actively participate in and contribute to the functioning of NGK, we provide employees with career development support in the form of a variety of effective HR initiatives, such as initiatives to promote the active participation of women and extending the mandatory retirement age. This support is focused on cultivating personnel capable of thinking outside the limits of predetermined career models to chart their own career path. Career design training programs for women, employees in their 50s, and others serve as opportunities for employees to think about who they want to be and how they can challenge themselves in their work to grow to become that person. When it comes to diversity promotion, our focus is on ensuring that every employee is able to work to their full potential within the context of the many and varied environments that comprise the NGK Group. Job Performance Compliance Requirements We provide employees with training that communicates to them the responsibilities, which NGK bears as a corporate citizen, as well as what this requires of them as employees of NGK. This training seeks to instill a strong sense of ethics and a commitment to doing what is right. The fundamentals of NGK business—safety, quality, environment, and CSR—are inculcated from the time an employee joins the company to every time they receive a promotion so that knowledge ends up being reliably translated into action. Manufacturing Training NGK Manufacturing Training We pursue training aimed at conveying the central Since 2006 Since 2005 Since 2009 Manufacturing basic training Worksite capability Prevention importance of safety, the environment, quality, timely Fundamentals of ceramic technology enhancement training Reliability management delivery, and cost in manufacturing while passing on the Manufacturing worksite leader training traditions and spirit of NGK manufacturing. This training also aims to grow employees into individuals who can Technical training for clerical/sales divisions QC, quality, and cost support the creation of new value. NGK ceramic material technologies lecture Seven QC tools, statistics, problem-solving approaches, and manufacturing cost structure Towards this end, we provide training in specific technologies that will deepen employees’ understanding Develop a deeper understanding of products Training to be aware of and to resolve one’s own challenges of NGK products and technologies, as well as provide and technologies (specific technologies) (administrative/improvement techniques) training in administrative and improvement techniques that will equip employees with the mindset and means to improve their workplaces. Manufacturing basic training is centered on practical training tied to the actual manufacturing process. It involves teaching participants about ceramic technology and manufacturing in general at NGK so that they will have a broad perspective, which they can apply in their work. Worksite capability enhancement training cultivates human resources capable of making managerial contributions as manufacturing worksite leaders who independently pursue worksite capability improvements together with others both in and outside of their plant’s organizational framework. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 72 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Innovation Training The aim of innovation training is the cultivation of leaders suited to an era of transformation and speed. This is achieved by fostering outside-the-box thinking coupled with an ability to think and act to bring an idea to fruition. In the program for young employees with leadership potential, participants learn about the essential innovation processes involved in generating new business. The program is held jointly with other companies. This allows interaction with employees from other companies who have different experiences and values, thus helping NGK employees develop a more multifaceted perspective. Corporate History Training This training program looks at the history of NGK in order to reexamine the origins of our corporate activities, to reinforce our shared values, and then to prompt participants to think about how this impacts the way they go about their jobs. The program for newly appointed managerial personnel incorporates corporate history materials related to topics, such as globalization or diversity, which are assigned to each participant group, along with a worksheet, that they discuss in depth in relation to the distinctive character of NGK. Education programs for other job grades are being steadily introduced, as well as programs geared towards Group companies outside Japan. English Instruction for New Employees Since fiscal 2011, we have been providing English language Time spent learning English per new career-track hire courses for all new staff members with the goal of rapidly (fiscal 2019 results) 120 cultivating globally capable human resources. The one-year course is divided into classes based on hours per year student level. Besides studying the classroom materials, participants also take the initiative in their learning through activities such as creating their own class slogans. Practical Overseas Training NGK conducts practical training over a period of six months at Group companies outside Japan with the aim of developing globally minded human resources. The training focuses on developing practical business and communication skills in a cross-cultural environment targeting young employees who are future candidates for overseas postings. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 73 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Labor-Management Initiatives Labor Union Labor Union Membership Rate （％） March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 NGK respects workers’ rights, including the right to 89 94 96 97 collective bargaining, and strives to build healthy Note: Number of union employees / Number of NGK employees (excluding labor-management relations. As of March 31, 2020, 3,995 managers) employees belonged to the Labor Union. (Both figures include contract manufacturing employees) Protecting the Right to Collective Bargaining NGK and the Labor Union have signed a labor agreement Labor-Management Consultations in FY2019 as equal partners. The agreement specifies that both parties shall respect each other’s rights and take Regular Labor-Management Council meeting: held twice responsibility for the exercising of their own rights. Labor-Management Advisory Board meeting: held twice The two sides regularly hold Labor-Management Other bargaining and consultations Advisory Board meetings to exchange information and • Consultation on overtime work and work on days off promote mutual understanding. They also maintain healthy • Consultation on revision of the agreement labor-management relations by exchanging opinions on • Consultation on measures to rectify long working hours issues such as management policies, financial conditions, and activities of the Labor Union. Collective bargaining sessions are held in an orderly manner, with both parties striving in good faith to resolve issues peacefully and promptly. Guaranteeing the Minimum Wage NGK and the Labor Union have signed an agreement that sets out original in-house minimum wages, which are fixed at a rate above the minimum wages by region and industry stipulated by the Minimum Wage Act. Through this agreement, we strive to improve employees’ working conditions and avoid violation of relevant laws. Communication between Labor and Management NGK makes an effort to build labor-management relations founded on mutual trust through communication with various consultative bodies, such as the Labor-Management Advisory Board, the Worksite Advisory Board, and the Regular Labor-Management Council. NGK and the Labor Union hold Labor-Management Advisory Board meetings to talk about business conditions and performance, and Worksite Advisory Board meetings to share issues pertaining to manufacturing, work systems, and workplace environments from each worksite. In addition, at Regular Labor-Management Council meetings, labor and management also proactively exchange opinions. Survey on Workplace Vitality Once every two years NGK carries out a survey aimed at gauging and visualizing workplace vitality. In the fiscal 2018 survey, responses from 4,370 employees on a range of matters, such as how satisfied they are with their jobs and how important they consider their jobs, were compared with the average responses for other companies and were shown to rank relatively high. The results of the survey serve as basic data, which facilitate discussion about personnel-related initiatives to create a more work-friendly organizational environment that offers employees a sense of challenge. In addition, the results from each workplace are provided as feedback to the respective manager, and each department considers and works on measures to help improve the daily work environment. Response collection rate 89 % Satisfaction 3.28 (out of maximum of 5) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 74 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Implementation of Fair, Free, and Transparent Transactions With a basic policy centered on the three principles of openness and fairness, partnership, and relationship with society, the NGK Group is engaged in fair and honest business transactions with the procurement partners in our supply chain. Basic Approach The NGK Group has established the Basic Purchasing Policy in an attempt to conduct fair and honest business transactions and to prosper together with all our procurement partners. Supply Chain Management System At NGK, the Purchasing Department is responsible for managing tier 1 suppliers. It also manages tier 2 and beyond suppliers that provide critical items such as raw materials. All supplier management is done in line with NGK’s Supplier Management Regulations. P78 Communication Activities with Procurement Partners Basic Purchasing Policy Open and Fair • Open, fair, and honest procurement • Pursuit of competition principles and profitability Partnership • Mutual prosperity based on mutual trust with suppliers Relationship with Society • Compliance with laws • Preservation of the global environment Familiarization of the Purchasing Handbook Purchasing operations are directly related to various important aspects of corporate management, such as assets, production, development, and business performance, and also involve external and financial activities, major areas prone to compliance issues. In light of this, we created the Purchasing Handbook to summarize internal rules for purchasing engagement and issued the first edition of it in fiscal 2007. The Handbook has since been reviewed every year. Efforts have also been made to better familiarize personnel with the tool: it has been made available on the company intranet and its significant objectives are discussed in company training programs, particularly for new managers. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 75 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Fair and Honest Procurement Partner Evaluations and Extensive Resource Diversification In accordance with the Basic Purchasing Policy, NGK selects procurement partners based on fair and honest evaluations. We also attempt to ensure procurement when disasters occur through the extensive diversification of procurement resources. Selection of Suppliers Based on Fair and Honest Evaluations NGK opens its doors to a wide range of procurement sources, including companies with which it has had no previous transactions. In terms of selecting new suppliers, we choose from multiple companies through fair and honest evaluation of their CSR initiatives, environmental conservation efforts, and financial condition as well as QCD (quality, cost, and delivery). In addition to the procurement department being involved in the selection of suppliers, multiple departments are also involved in this process, which requires multi-stage approval before selection occurs in an effort to ensure fair and honest evaluation and decision-making. Promoting Business Continuity Plan (BCP) through the Diversification of Procurement Resources In the event of unforeseen circumstances such as a major natural disaster, NGK promotes the sourcing of raw materials, equipment, secondary materials, and other critical purchased parts from multiple suppliers as part of its BCP efforts to ensure procurement is uninterrupted. For items which are available from only one supplier, we ensure that we have sufficient inventory and that their storage facilities are located in a safe place that cannot be damaged by disasters like a tsunami. In addition, when selecting a new procurement partner, we take into consideration the existence or absence of multiple locations and efforts to ensure inventory. Promotion of CSR Procurement In response to the rising social expectation for CSR-oriented supply chain management, the NGK Group promotes CSR procurement. We preferentially select CSR-conscious companies and purchase CSR-sensitive raw-materials and services. CSR Procurement Guidelines The NGK Group created the CSR Procurement Guidelines in fiscal 2010 as a guide to promote CSR procurement across the Group. The Guidelines specifically describe our obligations as a socially responsible buyer as well as our requirements for socially responsible suppliers, such as specifying environmental obligations like greenhouse gas emissions reductions. In fiscal 2013, the Guidelines were expanded by being integrated with the previous Green Procurement Guidelines, which set forth rules for preferential purchase of environmentally friendly products and services, and adding provisions of conflict minerals, anti-corruption, human rights, and labor issues. The expanded CSR Procurement Guidelines are publicly available on our website in multiple languages (Japanese, English, and Chinese). CSR Procurement Guidelines and Reference URL Supplemental Materials https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/procure/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 76 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Improving CSR Procurement At the NGK Group, we develop activities to promote CSR procurement, such as visiting individual suppliers and conducting on-site inspections. We also request our suppliers, particularly new companies, to sign an agreement to comply with the CSR Procurement Guidelines. Looking ahead, we will conduct a survey over the course of 2020 to 2021 in order to ascertain the degree to which suppliers understand and incorporate CSR procurement. We will follow this up with information sessions and other communications aimed at improving the level of understanding and incorporation among all suppliers. Ongoing Implementation of CSR Procurement Facilitate understanding Status surveys Comply (agree) Maintain and continue ー Status surveys ー Deeper understanding ー Expand ー Improve quality 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 to 2019 2020 to 2021 Create the CSR Procurement Guidelines Integrate the Green Procurement Guidelines Conduct CSR procurement-related survey Conduct supplier status surveys Request that suppliers agree to comply Ascertain the degree to which with new CSR Procurement Guidelines, suppliers understand and incorporate using CSR self-checklists obtain and confirm written agreements CSR procurement Conduct ongoing communication activities with procurement partners Conduct one-on-one Hold earnings presentations Operate Supplier Helpline meetings in Japan and overseas Procuring Resources and Raw Materials Responsibly The NGK Group conducts procurement activities that consider impacts on regional communities stemming from the use of raw materials (e.g. conflict minerals*) with the potential to cause social issues such as human rights violations and poverty, and takes steps to avoid using such materials. Additionally, in response to requests from customers, we investigate suppliers regarding their responsible procurement of resources and raw materials. *Minerals including tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, and used as a source of funding for armed conflict in the area. Enhancement of Procurement Capabilities of Group Companies In fiscal 2019, we held our first NGK Group Purchasing Liaison Meeting for personnel within each Group company who are responsible for materials procurement. The meeting was attended by 11 people from three companies of similar size and in similar business sectors (Soshin Electric, NGK Ceramic Device, and NGK Electronics Devices). Presentations were delivered about the structure of each company’s materials procurement department, their purchasing and cost reduction activities, the challenges they face, and more. This was accompanied by information sharing among the attendees. We will continue to foster stronger collaboration among Group companies as a means of improving the procurement operations At the NGK Group Purchasing Liaison Meeting within the Group as a whole. Collaboration with Group Companies outside Japan As part of our efforts to strengthen collaboration with Group companies outside Japan, we dispatched personnel to a Malaysian subsidiary of NGK Electronics Devices to assist the staff there during an RBA* audit. We also assist Group companies outside Japan with client management, cost reduction, and other matters when requested. Furthermore, in order to obtain a clear understanding of the actual situation at Group companies outside Japan with regard to logistics, we conduct on-site hearings at around 10 companies every year. *Responsible Business Alliance: Focusing primarily on the electronic equipment industry, the RBA establishes standards and conducts audits with the aim of promoting safe working environments, worker protection, and environmental responsibility. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 77 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Supply Chain Risk Assessment In order to identify sustainability-related risks in the supply chain, the NGK Group relies upon the CSR Procurement Guidelines in selecting procurement partners as well as visits suppliers in order to identify high-risk procurement partners. Communication Activities with Procurement Partners Earnings Presentations for Suppliers NGK held an earnings presentation meeting for major suppliers in June, which was attended by 236 participants from 130 companies. In the meeting, the director in charge of purchasing first expressed gratitude for the daily transactions. This was followed by the Finance & Accounting Department’s briefing on NGK’s business results and an explanation by the Purchasing Department about efforts to tackle issues such as continuous communication. Suppliers invited to the earnings presentation Ongoing Operation of the Supplier Helpline In 2008, NGK established the supplier helpline system. Receiving consultation via e-mail, fax, and telephone, we make an effort to respond with solutions quickly. Reference Supplier Helpline URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/procure/ Visiting Individual Suppliers in Japan and Overseas In order to ensure procurement from the most appropriate suppliers, NGK visits individual suppliers in Japan and overseas to conduct on-site audits, evaluating their QCD (quality, cost, and delivery) performance in a fair and equitable manner. In fiscal 2019, we visited a total of 90 suppliers: 11 new suppliers and 79 existing suppliers. Following the visit, we explained audit results to each company, and asked them to conduct improvement measures in underperforming areas. Through these activities, we strive to strengthen our QCD management system as well as to communicate with our suppliers to forge a relationship of mutual trust. Supplier Training-driven Support Efforts The NGK Safety Cooperation Conference hosts meetings for facilities and equipment construction-related supplier members. These meetings are used as opportunities to share accident and disaster case studies, as well as to provide safety-related lectures. The fiscal 2019 meeting was attended by around 15 people from NGK and 130 people from 85 conference member companies. The keynote address was on the topic of communications focused on on-site accident prevention. Monitoring Activities Aimed at Suppliers outside Japan We systematically undertake quality audits of our suppliers outside Japan. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 78 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Local Communities The NGK Group is concerned about social issues in all nations and regions. We engage in social contribution activities in response to needs in each region in an aim to become a corporate citizen trusted by local communities. Basic Approach The NGK Group promotes social contribution activities based on the following concepts. Focus of Activities Centered on people and education, the environment, and community involvement. Company Activities and Employee Involvement • NGK provides employees with opportunities to experience activities. • NGK proactively encourages individual activities to engender employee satisfaction and a sense of confidence in the company. Information Disclosure NGK promotes an understanding of activities and provides activity information to inculcate a social contribution mindset among employees. Social Contribution Activity Promotion System At the NGK Group, social contribution activities are promoted under the leadership of the Social Contribution Subcommittee, which is chaired by the general manager of the General Affairs Department and reports to the CSR Committee. NGK collects reports from Group companies in and outside of Japan on their activities. In fiscal 2019, a total of 76 reports were received. Social Contribution Activity Promotion Status Breakdown of Activities 3% FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Education, social research 5% Academic research Social contribution 346 315 300 302 237 6% expenditures million yen million yen million yen million yen million yen 25% Regional activities, 10% historic site/traditional Number of social FY2019 culture preservation contribution 9 10 10 10 13 programs 237 Environment Number of million yen International exchange collaborations 4 4 4 4 4 16% 18% with NPOs/NGOs Post-disaster reconstruction support 17% Health, medicine, sports Others (culture, arts, etc.) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 79 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Providing Scholarships and Assistance to International Students NGK established the NGK Foundation for International Students in order to facilitate the cultivation of individuals who will contribute to the development of the international community. It is through the Foundation that NGK is helping to provide housing and scholarships to overseas students visiting Japan. The impetus for the Foundation’s establishment stems from gratitude for the warm community support and hospitality shown to NGK’s first employees and families posted overseas at the time of its initial overseas expansion back in the 1930s. Our activities are conducted in the hope that the students will feel glad that they came to Japan and develop a fondness for the country. The NGK Foundation for In fiscal 2019, we provided housing to 40 students from Reference URL International Students six countries, and scholarships (non-repayable) to 20 students https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/philanthropy/ from 14 countries. Exchange between Supported Students, Communities, and Employees NGK organizes a variety of events and programs to provide opportunities for grassroots international relations between supported students, regional communities, and employees. Language classes taught by international students have been held annually since 2000, and cross-cultural exchange meetings where international students introduce their native countries have been held annually since 2006. In fiscal 2019, there were six cross-cultural exchange meetings alternatingly hosted by different exchange students to introduce their different home countries. Through these events, participating students and local residents were able to enjoy meaningful exchange. As of fiscal 2019, a cumulative total of 1,000 people have participated. Number of Participants in Cross-cultural Exchange Meetings (people) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 International students 20 12 12 11 Local residents 23 20 20 20 Communication after Support Ends To maintain relationships with international students after support ends, each year, we send out a New Year’s greeting card that includes a company status report to former and current students. We also distribute NGK International Friendship Club Members Cards that include our contact information to international students after support ends. In fiscal 2019, we sent New Year’s cards with updates on the Foundation and NGK to around 300 students who have received support in the past. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 80 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Social Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Local Communities and NPOs Aiming to be a corporate citizen trusted by local communities, NGK collaborates with communities and NPOs to engage in social contribution activities in response to regional needs. In addition, employee volunteers from NGK Group companies in Japan and around the world conduct a variety of social contribution activities rooted in their local communities. Read more about NGK’s social contribution Reference URL activities at: https://www.ngk.co.jp/sustainability/social/ Social Contribution Activities by NGK Offering Workplace Experience to Junior High School Students from Rikuzentakata City NGK took part in the workplace experience program offered to junior high school students from Rikuzentakata City, sponsored by the Nagoya City Board of Education. Rikuzentakata junior high school students visited the AC Plant and observed factory operations, such as HONEYCERAM® measurement. They spoke with Executive Vice President Hiroshi Kanie about their impressions of the workplace and about their future aspirations. This program is implemented in line with the “total support” initiatives undertaken by Nagoya City on behalf of Rikuzentakata City, which suffered immense damage as a result of the Great East Japan Earthquake. NGK has taken part in this program each year since 2016. Social Contribution Activities by Group Companies in Japan NGK Okhotsk Takes Part in Cleanup Activities by Lake Abashiri NGK Okhotsk (NOK) took part in the 2019 Lake Abashiri Cleanup Campaign organized by the Abashiri Tourism Association. This event is the largest volunteer effort undertaken in the city and is carried out as part of its tourism promotion activities with the aim of ensuring visitors to the city are met with beautiful scenery. Around 450 local volunteers worked together to beautify the area, including 21 NOK employees who helped pick up trash around Lake Abashiri for about an hour. Energy Support Takes Part in Evacuation Drill in Inuyama City Energy Support took part in a landslide disaster evacuation drill organized by Inuyama City. During this landslide disaster simulation drill, participants familiarized themselves with evacuation routes to Energys and the company’s emergency facilities. After the drill, a variety of disaster safety-related information was provided, including a talk about what to do in an evacuation. In January 2018, Energys signed an agreement with the city of Inuyama on the use of its facilities in the event of a disaster. According to the agreement, Energys agrees to open its facilities to the public to use as an emergency shelter in the event of a disaster. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 81 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index NGK and NGK Ceramic Device Ishikawa Plants Participate in Coastal Cleanup The Ishikawa plants of NGK and NGK Ceramic Device (NCDK) joined together with local residents to clean up the Neagari coastline in Nomi City, Ishikawa Prefecture. In light of the fact that the impact of marine pollution on ecosystems has become a serious global problem, Ishikawa Prefecture undertakes the Clean Beach Ishikawa campaign as a prefecture-wide environmental volunteer initiative intended to help keep the prefecture’s 583 km coastline clean. The NGK Ishikawa Plant has participated every year since 2012, and the NCDK Ishikawa Plant every year since 2017. This year, a total of 109 employees from both plants joined with local neighborhood associations and partner companies to pick up trash along the Neagari coast in order to help maintain its natural beauty. Soshin Electric Donates 10 Million Yen to Typhoon Hagibis Relief Efforts Soshin Electric donated 10 million yen to help with relief efforts in Nagano Prefecture (which is one of its bases of operation) in the aftermath of Typhoon Hagibis, which struck in October 2019. The donation was presented by Soshin Electric President Takashi Kamioka to Nagano Governor Shuichi Abe at the Nagano Prefectural Office. Mr. Kamioka conveyed to the governor his hope that the donation would serve, in at least some small way, to expedite recovery efforts in the wake of the typhoon. The governor provided Mr. Kamioka with a description of the current state of damage in the prefecture and what the government was doing to facilitate recovery. NGK Electronics Devices (NGKED) Volunteers in Ekiden Road Relay Race NGKED took part in as a volunteer the 12th Mine Ekiden Road Relay Race held at Mazda’s Mine Proving Grounds. This race is held every year by the city of Mine. This year’s event featured a total of 420 participants (men and women) divided among 69 teams. NGKED employees assisted both runners and spectators by performing such tasks as checking off runners prior to the start of the race, providing them with course guidance and monitoring, and issuing and selling meal tickets for the bazaar. Soshin Powertech Donates Christmas Presents to Local Childcare Facilities Volunteers from Soshin Electric Group companies Soshin Powertech (Miyakonojo City, Miyazaki Prefecture) and Soshin Device (Miyazaki City, Miyazaki Prefecture) visited childcare facilities in their respective communities to deliver Christmas presents to the children there. These visits are undertaken each year as part of the companies’ larger community contribution activities. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 82 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Social Contribution Activities by Group Companies Outside Japan NGK Ceramics Indonesia Hosts Dinner Party for Children Living in Child Welfare Facilities NGK Ceramics Indonesia (ACIn) invited children living in child welfare homes to a Ramadan dinner hosted at a mosque on plant grounds. Ramadan is a month of fasting observed by Muslims, including those in Indonesia, where the majority of residents are Muslim. During the month of Ramadan, Muslims abstain from eating and drinking between sunrise and sunset. Once the sun goes down they gather together to feast and give thanks for the blessings they have received. ACIn invited children living in child welfare homes to partake in such a feast. In addition to enjoying a meal with employees, the children were also provided with school notebooks, bags, and other gifts. NGK Metals Takes Part in Tree Planting Thirteen employees from NGK Metals took part in the United States’ largest tree planting event, Tennessee Tree Day 2020, organized by the Tennessee Environmental Council, a not-for-profit organization. Participants in this event, which began in 2007, plant tree saplings native to the state of Tennessee as a way of contributing to their environment and local community and to foster a culture of sustainability. Thousands of Tennessee residents participate each year, and, since its inception, a total of 6,371,000 saplings have been planted in 95 different counties throughout the state. NGK Metals has been a supporter of this event since last year. This year, as well, employee volunteers donated money to purchase saplings and helped plant those trees in their respective areas. NGK Electronics Devices Malaysia Takes Part in Blood Drive NGK Electronics Devices Malaysia (NGKMY; located in Penang) held an in-house blood drive. NGKMY is a supporter of Penang General Hospital’s blood drive campaign, which seeks to ensure a stable supply of blood is maintained and to raise awareness of, and participation in, blood donation. Every year, NGKMY contributes to this campaign by holding its own blood drive. NGKMY will continue its blood drive initiative, encouraging employees to participate with the motto: “Donors are heroes. You can be one too.” NGK Stanger Donates to Forest Fire Relief NGK Stanger (Stanger) made a donation of 30,000 Australian dollars (roughly 2 million yen) to the Australian Red Cross to help with relief efforts in the wake of the large-scale forest fires between December 2019 and February 2020. The donations collected by the Australian Red Cross are used to assist victims of the wildfires, as well as to help with the provision of a number of different essential services for communities. Stanger has built up—and continues to build—its business thanks to its longstanding customers in Australia. The decision to provide this donation comes from a desire to repay the generosity that Australia has shown to Stanger. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 83 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees The NGK Group proactively supports activities and provides information to create opportunities for employees to participate in volunteering outside the company. NGK Science Site Offers Special Content for Kids to Try at Home The “NGK Science Site: Experiments at Home Series” featured on the NGK website piques children’s interest in science by presenting them with simple experiments, which they can perform using everyday items. This approach has attracted many to the site since its launch in 1997. In April 2020, a special page was added to the NGK Science Site, which features simple experiments and craft projects that children can create using items from around their house. While at home during efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19, these experiments and crafts help children to enjoyably pass the time, as there is no need to go shopping for any of these projects. As a company whose business involves manufacturing, NGK Reference NGK Science Site URL https://site.ngk.co.jp/ will continue to use opportunities such as this to share information that conveys the excitement of science to children. Christmas Lectures Convey the Wonders of Science Since 2011, NGK has been involved in the Royal Institution Christmas Lecture (sponsored by the Yomiuri Shimbun news corporation and the Tokyo Institute of Technology), which is an annual event aimed at conveying the wonders of science to children. This popular series of lectures began in the U.K. around 200 years ago and serves as a “Christmas present” from scientists to young people. This format has been replicated in Japan, and each year NGK employees take part as guest lecturers who provide an easy-to-understand explanation to children and students about NGK products that fit that year’s theme. Using the Employee Cafeteria for the Table for Two Program NGK has participated in the Table for Two program since September 2010, using it as a casual, daily volunteer activity, which employees can easily be a part of. Under this program, whenever an employee eats something off of the cafeteria’s healthy menu, an amount equivalent to one school lunch (20 yen) goes to children in Africa. All employee cafeterias at our Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki sites, as well as at our Ishikawa Plant (eight cafeterias in total), participate. In fiscal 2019, we provided 40,000 school lunches (800,000 yen from employee lunches and matching funds from NGK) and received the Platinum Supporter Award from the Table for Two organizers. Our total contributions up to this point are 390,000 school lunches (approximately 7.8 million yen), which is roughly equivalent to one year’s worth of school lunches for around 1,770 African children. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 84 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Interacting with Local Communities The NGK Group engages in dynamic interactions with local residents through opportunities such as plant tours and regional events, as well as through opportunities for direct dialogue, making an effort to incorporate the ideas and opinions received in Group business activities and CSR activities. Plant Tours Plant Tours in FY2019 (NGK) Participants Details 36 NGK Foundation for International Students Nagoya Site 3 Rikuzentakata City Takada Daiichi Junior High School Chita Site 55 Local resident plant tour group 41 Ishikawa Technical Senior High School Ishikawa Plant 80 Nomi City Confederation of Neighborhood Associations Total 215 Events for the Local Community at the Komaki Site and Ishikawa Plant The Komaki Site’s annual Komaki Summer Festival was moved to autumn. This was accompanied by a change in the name to NGK Autumn Festival, as well as a change of venue from company grounds to the Komaki Kinrou Center. The event attracted around 1,350 employees, their families, and other local residents. The venue was full of excitement, with different booths set up featuring fun science experiments, NGK mascot* coloring sheets, and other activities. There was also a special stage showcasing taiko drumming performances, comedians, and other live entertainment. The NGK Ishikawa Plant and the NGK Ceramic Device (NCDK) Ishikawa Plant held the joint NGK Ishikawa Plant Summer Festival 2019, which drew around 750 employees, their families, and other local residents. To mark the 100-year anniversary of NGK’s founding, children at the event were presented with special Pokémon character goods from the 100-year anniversary campaign. The special stage featured live entertainment, including performances by local pop groups and singers, as well as a “strikeout” game that visitors could compete in. * Kuroko-kun is the NGK mascot. Kuroko-kun appeared at events at the Komaki Site and the Ishikawa Plant NGK Autumn Festival, Komaki Site NGK Ishikawa Plant Summer Festival 2019 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 85 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Governance Corporate Governance: Basic Policies 87 Compliance Promotion Structure 112 Corporate Governance System 88 Whistleblowing System 113 Committees on Corporate Governance 89 Promoting Compliance Education 114 Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Corruption Prevention Structure 115 Executive Officers 95 Observing the Competition Law and Other Laws and Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Regulations Pertaining to Business Transactions 116 Supervisory Board Members 100 Strict Adherence to Laws and Regulations Relating to Standard and Policy for Independence of Outside Directors Export Management, Privacy Policy and and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 102 Organization for Personal Information Protection 117 Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors and Information Security Policy and Structure, Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 103 Status of Law and Regulation Violations 118 Comments from Outside Directors 104 Risk Management: Basic Approach, Risk Identification Process 119 Open General Meeting of Shareholders 106 Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Initiatives 122 Internal Control Systems 109 Intellectual Property Management 123 Thorough Enforcement of Compliance (NGK Group Code of Conduct) 110 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 86 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Corporate Governance The NGK is conducting a variety of measures to expand and strengthen its corporate governance to increase corporate value with the intent of becoming a company trusted by all its stakeholders. Reference Corporate Governance Report URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/resource/pdf/sustainability/governance_en.pdf Basic Policies Basic Corporate Governance System-related Policies To ensure appropriate operations and transparent management, the NGK has set its sights on establishing and maintaining an organization capable of swiftly responding to changes in the business environment, and a fair and open management system emphasizing the interests of shareholders. These components make up NGK’s basic approach to corporate governance. To put this approach into practice, NGK has chosen a corporate governance system anchored by an Audit & Supervisory Board. In addition to the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors, and the Audit & Supervisory Board, NGK corporate governance includes the Executive Committee and several other committees established to assist the president in management decision-making. These bodies help to enhance governance efficacy by deliberating and reviewing important matters. In recognition of needs to execute swift and optimal decision-making and respond promptly to changes in the operating environment, NGK introduced an executive officer system, thus separating the management decision-making and supervision functions from business execution functions, and clearly defining the responsibilities of both. Furthermore, to strengthen the supervision and monitoring functions of the Board of Directors, major committees among those tasked with mitigating the various risks surrounding NGK are obligated to report to the Board of Directors. NGK has also established a committee scheme, including a Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, a Corporate Council, a Conference of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and a Business Ethics Committee to ensure the effectiveness of the Corporate Governance Code. In addition, we have formulated the NGK Group Code of Conduct to stipulate how everyone working for the NGK Group should execute their jobs so that they abide by society’s laws and the company’s articles of incorporation and comply with corporate ethics. All executives and employees are well versed in the code and are obligated to abide by it. To reflect changes in society since the previous revision, in January 2019 the NGK Group Code of Conduct was revised with an emphasis on respect for human rights, thorough compliance, and the realization of a sustainable society through business activities. Corporate Governance Enhancement Ongoing structural enhancements aimed at strengthening corporate governance include the introduction of an executive officer system and an outside director system to improve the management supervision and monitoring functions and facilitate recommendations with respect to overall management. April 1999 Formulated the NGK Code of Conduct April 2015 Signed on to the UN Global Compact April 2003 Revised guidelines into the NGK Group Code of Conduct June 2015 Established the Global Compliance Office Established the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Introduced an executive officer system Committee, Corporate Council, Conference of Outside December 2015 Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, June 2005 Introduced a stock option and Business Ethics Committee June 2017 Appointed one additional outside director Introduced an outside director system October 2018 Appointed a chief compliance officer July 2005 Established the CSR Committee January 2019 Revised the NGK Group Code of Conduct April 2007 Established the CSR Office April 2019 Established the ESG Committee June 2010 Appointed independent directors Established the Compliance Committee July 2011 Revised the NGK Group Code of Conduct April 2020 Established the HR Committee NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 87 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Corporate Governance System To ensure lawful business activities and management transparency, respond quickly to changes in the management environment, and create and maintain a fair management system from the shareholder’s perspective, NGK has created the following systems. In April 2019, we established the ESG Committee, chaired by the president, to promote comprehensive discussion on key issues, strategies, and action plans related to the environment, society, and governance. In fiscal 2019, the ESG Committee met five times during which it examined a variety of important matters, including long-term environmental response-related planning; the state of environmental, quality, safety and health-related committee activity; ascertainment of serious risks and handling of disclosure; and the status of social contribution activities. Decision-making, supervise, appointment/ Report, propose, presentation of agenda, Whistleblowing, dismissal, business execution, audit, etc. findings, deliberation, recommendation, etc. consultation, etc. General Meeting of Shareholders Accounting Auditors Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Opinion exchange, information collection Nomination and Compensation Corporate Council Business Ethics Committee Advisory Committee Conference of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Hearing Convened by Audit & Supervisory Outside lawyers Board Members and Outside Directors Business execution functions President Executive Committee Development Committee Compliance Committee Outside lawyers/ Auditing Strategy internal contact point ESG Committee Department Committee Facilities Committee Internal Controls Committee HR Committee Quality Committee, others Helpline Hotline Business execution divisions Head Office, Group companies in and outside Japan NGK Group executives and employees NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 88 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Committees on Corporate Governance NGK has further strengthened and enhanced its corporate governance system by establishing committees to bolster the supervision and monitoring functions of the Board of Directors. Board of Directors The Board of Directors is comprised of 13 directors who deliberate matters prescribed in the Companies Act, which primarily include company-wide unified budgeting; strategic planning such as dissolution, mergers, and alliances of the company; appointing and removing representative directors; approval of financial statements, business reports, etc.; the disposal and acceptance of transfer of important assets; and the appointment and dismissal of an important employee. The Board also monitors the job performance of all company directors. The Board of Directors includes three outside directors to create a system enabling management monitoring based on professional knowledge and decision-making from a wider perspective. In addition, both the full-time and outside members of the Audit & Supervisory Board attend meetings of the Board of Directors and provide their input and opinions when necessary. As of June 29, 2020 the current Board of Directors comprises 13 members (12 men and one woman). Times held: 14 Audit & Supervisory Board The Audit & Supervisory Board is comprised of two full-time members and two outside members, each of whom attends meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings. At those meetings they monitor the decision-making process and job execution of directors by receiving reports from directors, employees and others, as well as receiving explanations from them as needed. They also check how the company’s internal control systems are being maintained and operated and confirm the appropriateness of the auditing methods and results of the accounting auditors. Times held: 14 Executive Committee The Executive Committee is a body that deliberates necessary matters to assist the President in decision making, and consists of the President, directors, Audit & Supervisory Board members, senior fellows, as well as corporate officers, chairpersons, general managers, and division heads designated by the President. As of June 29, 2020 the current Executive Committee comprises 18 members (17 men and one woman). Times held: 21 Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee This committee was established in order to ensure fairness and enhance transparency in officers’ personnel matters, the determination of remuneration, and other matters. Comprising five outside directors and three representative directors, it deliberates on matters related to the appointment of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, remuneration of directors, executive officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and Chief Executive Officer succession planning. The results of these deliberations are reported to the Board of Directors. Times held: 2 Business Ethics Committee Comprised of outside directors and one inside director in charge of compliance, the committee conducts investigations as necessary into fraudulent acts or violations of laws and regulations in which the officers and others of NGK were involved, and it makes recommendations, such as measures to prevent reoccurrence, to the Board of Directors. In addition, the committee considers the creation of compliance systems and compliance activities aimed at compliance with competition laws and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and reports the results thereof to the Board of Directors. The committee strives to strengthen the compliance system by establishing, in addition to the current Helpline system, a whistle-blowing system (Hotline) which is directly linked to the Business Ethics Committee, as a mechanism to prevent any such fraudulent act or violation of laws and regulations. Times held: 5 P113 Whistleblowing System (Hotline) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 89 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Corporate Council This council is comprised of five outside directors and three representative directors. It exists as a place for outside directors, representative directors, and other participants to exchange opinions and to provide management with an opportunity to seek advice from the outside directors concerning various management-related issues. Times held: 3 Conference of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members This conference is comprised of five outside directors who exchange opinions concerning managerial issues and other matters, aiming to actively contribute to discussions at the Board of Directors’ meetings. Times held: 2 Hearing Convened by Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors This hearing is comprised of four Audit & Supervisory Board members and three outside directors. Information is collected from the personnel in charge within each division regarding the business environment and issues of NGK. Times held: 7 Note: Times held is the number of meetings between April 2019 and March 31, 2020. Other Bodies Aiming to increase customer satisfaction and trust by realizing even higher-quality products and services, this body deliberates the matters necessary to help the president and the Quality Committee chair with decision-making regarding the following items. Quality Committee 1. Determination, revision, or abolition of Quality Policy and Objectives Times held: 5 2. Items pertaining to the prevention of serious quality defects in the market and technological responses after occurrence 3. Other quality-related matters determined to be important Environmental Protection This body formulates and deliberates the planning of matters necessary to help the president and the Environmental Protection Committee Committee chair with decision-making regarding the realization of our Core Policy on the Environment to promote business activities in harmony with the Times held: 2 environment. This body deliberates important issues on safety and health to assist the decision-making of the president and Safety and Health Committee Safety and Health Committee chair regarding the establishment of basic policies and priority targets pertaining to safety and health and the confirmation of labor accidents Times held: 2 and priority activities. This body assists the president and Compliance Committee chair with decision-making by deliberating essential matters pertaining to the following. (1) Observance of laws, regulations, and corporate ethics 1. Determination, revision, or abolition of basic policies related to the observance of laws, regulations, and corporate ethics, including the Compliance Committee Code of Conduct Times held: 3 Note: Deliberation items for Board of Directors meetings (CSR Committee until 2. Determination of systems, structures, and strict observance of important activities pertaining to laws, regulations, and corporate ethics fiscal 2019) company-wide 3. Handling of Helpline matters 4. Determination, revision, or abolition of risk management structures pertaining to laws, regulations, and corporate ethics (2) Response to the matters, incidents, or accidents related to laws, regulations, or corporate ethics that are special crisis management matters (3) Other compliance-related issues deemed important by the committee chair This body deliberates matters necessary to help the president and Internal Controls Committee chair with decision-making regarding internal controls system assessment and reporting related to financial reporting based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Internal Controls Committee 1. Determines the scope of reporting for each fiscal year, assessment and reporting schedules, standards to assess internal controls, and Times held: 3 other basic matters 2. Summarizes internal controls assessment and drafts internal controls report Development Committee This body deliberates items necessary to assist the decision-making of the president and Development Committee chair regarding policies, Times held: 3 evaluations, budgets, major individual planning, and commercialization projects related to development. Facilities Committee This body deliberates items necessary to assist the decision-making of the president and Facilities Committee chair regarding the examination Times held: 2 and evaluation of policies, budgets, performance, and major individual planning related to capital expenditure and information systems. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 90 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index This body assists the president with decision-making by examining issue presentation, research reporting, solution development, and other essential matters related to corporate obligations in respecting human rights (issue handling) and the important personnel policies within the NGK Group. HR Committee (established in April 2020) 1. Matters related to the determination, revision, or abolition of basic human rights policies 2. Matters related to raising human rights awareness among all Group companies and implementing human rights due diligence 3. Matters related to important personnel policies whose impact may potentially extend to Group companies 4. Other human rights and personnel policy-related matters deemed serious by the committee chair ESG Committee This body facilitates information sharing, opinion exchange, and policy deliberation between the president and other relevant directors and Times held: 5 personnel about important environmental, social, and governance-related issues. BCP Countermeasures Aimed at ensuring business continuity in times of emergency, this body executes the operation and maintenance of business continuity plans Headquarters (BCP) in normal times as well as gives instructions on and support to restoration systems, and prioritizes restoration orders when BCP is in Times held: 1 effect. Central Disaster Prevention This body executes requisite duties under commands from the Head and deliberates items necessary to assist the decision-making of the and Control Headquarters president and Head of this body regarding items related to earthquakes, storm and flood damage, fires, and explosions that threaten or Times held: 1 significantly impact the company. Security Export Control/ Specified Export and This body deliberates and determines items necessary for guidance for subsidiaries and affiliates, legal compliance and the improvement of Customs Clearance other internal systems with respect to security export controls, specified export declaration systems, and the management of customs Control Committee clearance operations. Times held: 1 Auditing Status Audit & Supervisory Board Auditing Status Each Audit & Supervisory Board member is responsible for providing an independent perspective on the job performance of directors and accounting auditors, as well as for sharing information with the other Audit & Supervisory Board members in order to help ensure auditing is both efficient and highly effective. In addition to meeting before and after the Board of Directors meeting each month, the Audit & Supervisory Board convenes meetings on an as-needed basis. In fiscal 2019, the Audit & Supervisory Board met 14 times for an average of 1.5 hours each time. The following three items were addressed as auditing priorities in fiscal 2019. (1) The status of compliance-related initiative adoption (2) The launch/progress status of new business, products, etc. (3) Business-specific risk awareness and reasonableness of the management decision-making process Audit & Supervisory Board members attend Board of Director meetings where they observe meeting management, resolution content, and other aspects, and provide opinions and input as necessary. In addition, hearings convened by Audit & Supervisory Board members and outside directors are held with each general manager and Head Office division director to learn and exchange opinions about various matters, including budgetary content, the status of business, the status of risk management, and legal and regulatory compliance systems. Also, on-site auditing visits and other methods are used when necessary to hold hearings with directors and other managers, as well as directors and personnel at subsidiaries, to learn and exchange opinions about such matters as the status of business, risk management, and legal and regulatory compliance systems. For corporate group auditing, the targets of on-site auditing and inspection were chosen from among NGK subsidiaries in and outside of Japan and based upon importance and risk approach. In addition to the above, full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members also attend meetings of the Executive Committee, CSR Committee*, Internal Controls Committee, and other important meetings and committees within NGK in order to assess the business execution decision-making process. They also meet every half-term with the representative directors to report on the results of their audits and to exchange opinions. In fiscal 2019, as part of the corporate group audit process, the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members also met twice with auditors at major NGK Group subsidiaries in Japan, and they held two audit report meetings with auditors, inspectors, and other auditing-related personnel from NGK Group subsidiaries in Japan, China, and South Korea. Other activities undertaken by the board members included reviewing important approval documents and the results of internal reviews conducted by the Auditing Department; soliciting comments and critiques about financial report-related internal reporting audits conducted by accounting auditors; and reviewing the Group’s asset status by accompanying accounting auditors on in-person, physical inventory inspections of inventory assets. The details of the auditing activities undertaken by the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members are shared in a timely manner with the board’s outside members via board meetings and other means. *The CSR Committee was reorganized on April 1, 2020 into the Compliance Committee. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 91 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Internal Audits The Auditing Department (17 members) has been established as NGK’s internal auditing division and is responsible for checking the status of business execution in each division and then providing management with information, which contributes to their decision-making. The general manager of the Auditing Department is a member of the Internal Controls Committee. As the NGK’s internal auditing division, the Auditing Department performs approval application and expense settlement monitoring and auditing, as well as compliance auditing related to competition laws, the Subcontract Act, security export control, and other regulations. It also does internal control auditing and business process auditing related to the financial reporting of NGK and NGK Group companies. Every half-term, all of the above audits are used by the Auditing Department to compile business audit results for NGK overall, as well as individual audit results when appropriate. These results are then reported to the president, the directors responsible for these departments, the members of the Audit & Supervisory Board, and others. Audits by Audit & Supervisory Board members, accounting audits, and internal audits are conducted independently. However, to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of audits, Audit & Supervisory Board members (the Audit & Supervisory Board), accounting auditors, and the Auditing Department regularly exchange information regarding the policy, plan, and results of audits. Additionally, with regard to quality, environmental, and safety and health audits, these require specialized expertise to conduct and are thus performed on an as-needed basis within the Group by the specialist departments, which serve as the committee secretariats for their respective areas. The results are then reported to the committee responsible for the area audited, and a summary is provided by the committee to the Board of Directors. Accounting Audit Status Accounting audits are performed by an auditing firm and includes financial statement and internal control auditing carried out in line with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and auditing carried out in line with the Companies Act. Selection of the auditing firm to perform accounting audits was carried out by the Audit & Supervisory Board according to a variety of criteria. Among the key criteria were whether the firm maintained systems and structures in line with the Regulation on Corporate Accounting (“Matters Related to the Performance of Duties of Financial Auditor(s)”); whether it possessed professional expertise and could carry out appropriate auditing while maintaining a position of independence; and whether there was any grounds for dismissal of financial auditors, as per the Companies Act. Based on a determination of suitability made in light of these criteria, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC (“Deloitte”) has been selected as the accounting auditor for NGK. The decision of the Audit & Supervisory Board and its members to utilize Deloitte as the accounting auditor for NGK was made based not only on the company’s suitability in terms of the mentioned selection criteria but also in light of such criteria as its communication with management, Audit & Supervisory Board members, finance and accounting divisions, internal auditing divisions, and others during the course of daily auditing and other activities, and its suitability for handling Group-wide auditing and improper and illegal risks. Election of Board Members, Executive Officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members With respect to the nomination of candidates for the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board, all representative directors discuss matters related to each candidate. The Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, of which external directors make up a majority, then deliberates matters related to each candidate, and reports the results to the Board of Directors. As for candidates for the Audit & Supervisory Board, approval is obtained from the Audit & Supervisory Board in order to secure the independence of Audit & Supervisory Board members. With consideration given to the report made by the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, candidates for the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board are determined by resolution of the Board of Directors and their confirmation is set as an agenda item for the General Meeting of Shareholders. Members of the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board are then appointed by resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders. Also, to further clarify the directors’ mission and responsibilities, the term of office for directors is one year. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 92 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Training Policies for Executives Taking into account that directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members assume the duty of care of a good manager as a fiduciary of NGK, NGK has established training policies to provide the following opportunities to improve their skills and knowledge so that they can adequately fulfill their respective responsibilities as experts in management or as supervisors of business execution. 1. Training for internal officers relating to the Companies Act, Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, competition laws, and corporate governance and compliance. 2. The provision of individual explanations from the relevant divisions to outside directors/Audit & Supervisory Board members, mainly relating to the items brought up at the Board of Directors’ meetings as well as the periodic provision of information to, and opportunities to exchange opinions with, outside directors/Audit & Supervisory Board members on the business environment and other issues. Evaluation on the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors With regard to its effectiveness, the Board of Directors issues a survey at the end of every fiscal year to directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. The results are reported at the Board of Directors’ meeting, after the analysis and evaluation by an external organization, and NGK implements specific initiatives to enhance the effectiveness of the Board of Directors based on issues identified in the results of this evaluation. Regarding the evaluation of the Board of Directors conducted in fiscal 2019, a survey with a total of 50 questions and an open-ended section was conducted in April 2020, and the results thereof were reported at a meeting of the Board of Directors. Regarding the overall evaluation, we received the following comments from the external organization. • The foundational elements required of the Board of Directors have been maintained, such as leadership, commitment, and its sound culture and operation. The Board of Directors also raised additional issues in order to make improvements. • Owing to the above, the external organization considers that the Board of Director possesses sustained effectiveness. • On top of issues previously identified, including the understanding of risks for important, large-scale projects, and the analysis of past management decisions, new issues were identified regarding the functions and composition of the Board of Directors, as well as the necessity of a mediumto long-term strategy. • More in-depth discussions on the ideal functions and composition of the Board of Directors are expected to contribute to further improvements in the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Based on the results of this evaluation, NGK will continue endeavoring to maintain and strengthen the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, including implementing specific measures suited to actual circumstances at the Company. Measures to Boost Effectiveness Survey Analysis and Evaluation Improvement Initiatives Questionnaire given to directors and Questionnaire results analyzed and Specific initiatives created based on Audit & Supervisory Board members evaluated by an outside organization evaluation results Policy on Cross-Shareholdings NGK holds shares of listed companies that contribute to the NGK Group’s long-term business development as cross-shareholdings, primarily in order to maintain and strengthen business relationships. In addition, NGK holds the shares of each company in the Morimura Group, which was established by the same founders of NGK, for the mutual benefit of enhancing management quality, as the Morimura Group brand forms a part of NGK’s corporate value through its philosophy and heritage. As all cross-shareholdings are a part of the asset portfolio, they are positioned as assets to supplement the amount of liquidity considered necessary in the business plan. NGK constantly strives to reduce the scale of cross-shareholdings from the perspective of capital efficiency. Furthermore, the scale of cross-shareholdings may fluctuate due to factors including changes in overall business trends and risks, financial conditions, and the status of NGK’s business relationship with each business partner. Regarding the specific stocks held, at its Board of Directors’ meeting, NGK regularly reviews the appropriateness of the continuous holding of shares as cross-shareholdings along with the capital policy, by determining the significance of holding from the business relationship, the safety of ratings and so forth, and the efficiency of dividend yields and so forth. On the other hand, when comparing cross-shareholdings to NGK’s cost of capital, evaluations based solely on shares are not conducted. Instead, ROIC management is conducted for each business with differing risks and expected returns, and cross-shareholdings are evaluated after being included in each business’s balance sheet. After verification, in fiscal 2019, four specified equity securities held for investment purposes were sold for a total of 4.353 billion yen. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 93 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Number of Stocks and Balance Sheet Amount Total balance sheet amount Number of stocks (millions of yen) Unlisted shares 38 2,026 Shares other than unlisted shares 41 31,138 Stocks for Which Number of Shares Increased in FY2019 Share number increase total Number of stocks Reason for share number increase acquisition amount (millions of yen) Shares were increased in order to facilitate the establishment and financing of a joint venture with four Morimura Group companies, thereby allowing for the Unlisted shares 1 483 incorporation of their solid oxide fuel cell technology and expertise, which will expedite product commercialization. Shares other than unlisted shares − − − Stocks for Which Number of Shares Decreased in FY2019 Share number decrease total Number of stocks sale amount (millions of yen) Unlisted shares 1 11 Shares other than unlisted shares 4 4,353 Management Succession Planning In December 2018, the Board of Directors approved the NGK Group Chief Executive Officer Succession Plan, which establishes the required qualities, development policies, selection procedures, and other items for chief executive officer successors. Based on this, the President provides the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee with a planning progress report each year, and its appropriateness is reviewed. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 94 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers Board of Directors (as of June 30, 2020) Taku Oshima Hiroshi Kanie President Executive Vice President Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held 10,000 10,000 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (14/14) March 1980 Joins NGK March 1981 Joins NGK June 2007 Appointed as vice president June 2010 Appointed as vice president June 2011 Appointed as senior vice president June 2012 Appointed as senior vice president June 2014 Appointed as president (incumbent) June 2014 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2018 Appointed as executive vice president (incumbent) Reasons for Appointment After joining the Company, Mr. Taku Oshima belonged to the Manufacturing Engineering Division, and Responsible for Corporate Planning Office, New Business Planning Dept., Secretarial Office, Corporate experienced the start-up of manufacturing lines at overseas subsidiaries. In addition, he engaged in Communications Dept., Human Resources Dept., and General Affairs Dept.; Senior Officer in charge of the development and mass-production of NAS® batteries from the beginning, working on design, Group Companies; HR Committee Chair; General Manager, Osaka Branch manufacturing, and marketing as Head of the NAS battery business, the world’s first large-scale energy storage system. He has been serving as Representative Director and President since 2014 and has abundant experience at the Company and insights into business operations. It is on this basis that Reasons for Appointment he has been appointed. Mr. Hiroshi Kanie has gained a variety of practical experience in business operations and department management, by working in the Industrial Process Division and serving as General Manager of the Secretarial Office, Head Office, and Group Executive of the Ceramic Products Business Group. He currently is responsible for the Human Resources Department, Corporate Planning Office, and New Business Planning Department at the Head Office, and has served as Representative Director and Executive Vice President since 2018. He has ample experience at the Company and knowledge in business operations, and it is on this basis that he has been appointed. Chiaki Niwa Susumu Sakabe Executive Vice Presidentt Director and Senior Vice President Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held 10,000 12,000 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (14/14) March 1984 Joins NGK March 1981 Joins NGK June 2013 Appointed as vice president June 2007 Appointed as vice president June 2015 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2010 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2016 Appointed as director and senior vice president June 2011 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) June 2020 Appointed as executive vice president (incumbent) Responsible for Corporate R&D Group, Corporate Manufacturing Engineering Group, Quality Responsible for Finance & Accounting Dept. and Purchasing Dept.; General Manager, Tokyo Main Management Dept., Environmental Management Dept., Safety and Health Management Dept., and Office Information Systems Dept.; Chair of Quality Committee, Environmental Protection Committee, and Safety and Health Committee Reasons for Appointment Reasons for Appointment After his long engagement in the engineering business division (currently, an independent company) After joining the Company, Mr. Susumu Sakabe accumulated business experience mainly in finance and plant technology division in the Industrial Process Division, Mr. Chiaki Niwa currently controls the divisions and served as General Manager of the Business Planning Department in operational quality management, environmental management, and safety and health management departments at divisions and the Finance & Accounting Department. He also gained experience in corporate the Head Office, takes responsibility for the Corporate R&D Group and Corporate Manufacturing management at the Company’s subsidiaries in Japan and North America. Currently, he serves as Engineering Group, and plays the role of promoting new/reformed manufacturing structures as a Director and Senior Vice President, actively engaging in drawing up capital policies and setting whole. He has ample experience at the Company, as well as deep knowledge in project management strategies for procurement and logistics divisions. He has abundant knowledge and experience in and manufacturing technology, and it is on this basis that he has been appointed. business operations at the Company, and it is on this basis that he has been appointed. Note: Number of shares of the Company held is current as of June 29, 2020. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 95 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Ryohei Iwasaki Shuhei Ishikawa Director and Senior Vice President Director and Senior Vice President Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held 10,000 14,000 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (14/14) March 1982 Joins NGK March 1984 Joins NGK June 2008 Appointed as vice president June 2010 Appointed as vice president June 2009 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2014 Appointed as senior vice president June 2012 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) June 2015 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) Group Executive, Process Technology Business Group Group Executive, Electronics Business Group Reasons for Appointment Reasons for Appointment Mr. Ryohei Iwasaki has accumulated a variety of practical experience in business operations including After joining the Company, Mr. Shuhei Ishikawa has engaged in technology and development in the engagement in sales and marketing in the Ceramic Products Business Group followed by overseas New Metals Division and fostered his knowledge in manufacturing technology and new product subsidiaries’ president, as well as such positions as General Manager of the Corporate Strategy Office development in the said Division. Following having served as General Manager of the New Metals and Group Executive of the Electronics Business Group and in management of the Head Office. He Division, he currently serves as Director and Senior Vice President, and Group Executive of the currently serves as Director and Senior Vice President, and Group Executive of the Process Technology Electronics Business Group, leading the operation thereof. He has ample experience at the Company, Business Group, leading the operation thereof. He has ample experience at the Company and as well as a wealth of knowledge and personal contacts gained in the Electronics Business Group. It is knowledge in business operations, and it is on this basis that he has been appointed. on this basis that he has been appointed. Nobumitsu Saji Atsushi Matsuda Director and Senior Vice President Director and Senior Vice President Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held 5,000 8,000 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (14/14) March 1984 Joins NGK March 1985 Joins NGK June 2013 Appointed as vice president June 2012 Appointed as vice president June 2014 Appointed as director and executive officer June 2017 Appointed as senior vice president June 2015 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) June 2018 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) Chief Compliance Officer; responsible for Auditing Dept., Group Compliance Dept., Legal Dept., and Group Executive, Ceramic Products Business Group; General Manager, Global Sales & Marketing Div., Intellectual Property Dept.; Chair of Compliance Committee and Internal Controls Committee Ceramic Products Business Group; General Manager, Nagoya Site Reasons for Appointment Reasons for Appointment Following a variety of experience in such areas as sales and marketing in the Energy Infrastructure After joining the Company, Mr. Atsushi Matsuda has engaged in sales and marketing in the Industrial Business Division, finance division, overseas subsidiaries, and secondment to external organizations, Process Division and Ceramic Products Business Group, and has gained management experience at Mr. Nobumitsu Saji served as General Manager of the Business Planning Department in multiple overseas subsidiaries. Following having served as General Manager, Worldwide Sales & Marketing business groups and assumed the position of General Manger of the Legal Department afterwards. He Div., Ceramics Products Business Group, he currently serves as Director and Senior Vice President, currently serves as Director and Senior Vice President, responsible for legal affairs and and Group Executive of the Ceramic Products Business Group, leading the operation thereof. He has compliance-related divisions, as well as leading the Company’s legal compliance system as a whole. ample experience and expertise in business operations at the Company, and it is on this basis that he He has ample experience at the Company and global insight into the legal field, and it is on this basis has been appointed. that he has been appointed. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 96 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Shigeru Kobayashi Tsutomu Nanataki Director and Senior Vice President Director and Senior Vice President Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held 5,126 3,000 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Newly appointed Newly appointed March 1983 Joins NGK March 1986 Joins NGK June 2016 Appointed as vice president June 2016 Appointed as vice president June 2018 Appointed as senior vice president June 2019 Appointed as senior vice president June 2020 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) June 2020 Appointed as director and senior vice president (incumbent) Group Executive, Energy Infrastructure Business Group; General Manager, Komaki Site Group Executive, Corporate R&D; Development Committee Chair Reasons for Appointment Reasons for Appointment Mr. Shigeru Kobayashi engaged in overseas sales and marketing in the Energy Infrastructure Business After joining the Company, Mr. Tsutomu Nanataki has accumulated a variety of experience by Division and assumed positions of president of an overseas subsidiary and manager of the overseas engaging in product development at different business groups, basic research of ceramics, and sales and marketing department in the Ceramic Products Business Group. He currently serves as development of applied technologies at the research and development division and other operations. Group Executive of the Energy Infrastructure Business Group, leading the operation thereof. He has He currently serves as Senior Vice President and Group Executive of the Corporate R&D Group, leading ample experience at the Company, as well as a wealth of knowledge and personal contacts gained in the operation thereof. He has ample experience at the Company, as well as a wealth knowledge in the the Energy Infrastructure Business Group, and it is on this basis that he has been appointed. research and development field, and it is on this basis that he has been appointed. Independent Director Independent Director Hiroyuki Kamano Emiko Hamada Outside Director Outside Director Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held 1,000 5,000 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (14/14) April 1971 Joins Ministry of Foreign Affairs April 1984 Joins Taiyo Yuden Co., Ltd. April 1979 Trains at Legal Training and Research Institute, Supreme Court of Japan Dec. 2001 Appointed as general manager, Quality Assurance Control R Technology Div., April 1981 Becomes registered attorney Engineering Group, Taiyo Yuden Oct. 1988 Becomes representative attorney, Kamano Sogo Law Offices (incumbent) Sept. 2003 Appointed as chief engineer, Basic Research Div., General Research Laboratory, June 2007 Appointed as outside Audit & Supervisory Board member, Komatsu Ltd. Engineering Group, Taiyo Yuden July 2007 Appointed as outside director, Sumitomo Life Insurance Company Nov. 2008 Appointed as associate professor, Center for Social Contribution and Collaboration, April 2009 Appointed as vice president, Tokyo Bar Association Nagoya Institute of Technology (NITech) June 2011 Appointed as director, NGK (incumbent) April 2011 Appointed as professor, Center for Social Contribution and Collaboration, NITech, and June 2015 Appointed as outside audit & supervisory board member, House Foods Group Inc. professor for Master of Techno-Business Administration, NITech Graduate School (incumbent) April 2012 Appointed as professor, Center for Research on Assistive Technology for Building a New June 2020 Appointed as outside director, Spancrete Corporation (incumbent) Community, NITech May 2015 Appointed as third-area program officer, A-STEP (Adaptable and Seamless Technology Transfer Program through Target-driven R&D), Japan Science and Technology Agency (incumbent) July 2016 Appointed as part-time lecturer, NITech (incumbent) Aug. 2016 Appointed as visiting professor, Nagoya University June 2017 Appointed as director, NGK (incumbent) June 2019 Appointed as outside director, Taiyo Yuden (incumbent) Reasons for Appointment Reasons for Appointment Having long engaged in legal practice as an attorney-at-law, Mr. Hiroyuki Kamano possesses a wealth Ms. Emiko Hamada has made remarkable achievements such as leading the invention and the world’s of experience and achievements in the legal community, including his service as the vice president of first commercialization of the CD-R (recordable CD) while working for Taiyo Yuden Co., Ltd. Since then, the Tokyo Bar Association. With his expertise and ample experience as well as broad insight, he has she has been engaged in research activities mainly through industry-academia-government been appropriately fulfilling his duties as an Outside Director of the Company, by giving his opinion on collaborations as Professor at Nagoya Institute of Technology and Visiting Professor at Nagoya instilling the Company’s group principles, strengthening the compliance structure, and clarifying bases University. By utilizing the insights she has developed through her career, she has been appropriately of business judgments, as well as offering suggestions to the Company’s business operation and fulfilling her duties as an Outside Director of the Company by giving her opinion in terms of properly overseeing the management of the Company. It is on this basis that he has been appointed. strengthening technical capability and ways of quality control, as well as offering suggestions to the Company’s business operation and overseeing the management of the Company. It is on this basis that she has been appointed. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 97 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Independent Director Kazuo Furukawa Outside Director Number of shares of the Company held 5,000 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (11/11) Note: Attendance since assuming post on June 2019. April 1971 Joins Hitachi, Ltd. April 2005 Appointed as representative executive officer, executive vice president, and executive officer; general manager and CEO, Information & Telecommunications Group; general manager, Export Control Div.; Hitachi April 2006 Appointed as representative executive officer and president, Hitachi June 2006 Appointed as director, representative executive officer, and president, Hitachi May 2007 Appointed as vice chair, Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) April 2009 Appointed as director, representative executive officer, and vice chair, Hitachi June 2009 Appointed as special advisor, Hitachi June 2011 Appointed as president, Information Processing Society of Japan Oct. 2011 Appointed as chair, New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization June 2019 Appointed as director, NGK (incumbent) Aug. 2019 Appointed as outside director (Audit & Supervisory Committee member), Pasona Group Inc. (incumbent) Reasons for Appointment Mr. Kazuo Furukawa has extensive knowledge of technical fields including information and telecommunications, as well as experience leading large organizations, through his work in important positions at Hitachi Ltd. such as General Manager & Chief Executive Officer of the Information & Telecommunications Group and subsequently President, as well as Chairman of the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization. With his insights and experience, he has been appropriately fulfilling his duties as an Outside Director of the Company, by giving his wide range of opinions on overall business activities, as well as offering suggestions to the Company’s business operation and properly overseeing the management of the Company. It is on this basis that he has been appointed. Committee Membership (As of June 30, 2020) Nomination and Conference of Outside Directors Hearing Convened by Audit & Business Ethics Board of Directors Executive Committee Compensation Corporate Council and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Advisory Committee Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors Committee Taku Oshima ● ● ● ● Hiroshi Kanie ● ● ● ● Chiaki Niwa ● ● ● ● Susumu Sakabe ● ● Ryohei Iwasaki ● ● Shuhei Ishikawa ● ● Nobumitsu Saji ● ● ● Atsushi Matsuda ● ● Shigeru Kobayashi ● ● (assumed post in June 2020) Tsutomu Nanataki ● ● (assumed post in June 2020) Hiroyuki Kamano ● ● ● ● ● ● Emiko Hamada ● ● ● ● ● ● Kazuo Furukawa ● ● ● ● ● ● (assumed post in June 2019) Expertise of Directors (As of June 30, 2020) Business sector experience Area of specialization Energy infrastructure Ceramic products Process technology Name Age business business Electronics business business Finance Law HR/labor Materials Engineering Electricity/ Chemical technology energy Automobiles ICT Semiconductors industry Taku Oshima 63 ○ ○ ○ Hiroshi Kanie 62 ○ ○ ○ ○ Chiaki Niwa 60 ○ ○ Susumu Sakabe 61 ○ ○ ○ ○ Ryohei Iwasaki 60 ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Shuhei Ishikawa 60 ○ ○ ○ Nobumitsu Saji 61 ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Atsushi Matsuda 59 ○ ○ Shigeru Kobayashi 59 ○ ○ Tsutomu Nanataki 58 ○ ○ ○ ○ Note: Managerial experience: At time of appointment (June 29, 2020), has experience running large organizations (business group, general manager, head of multiple divisions) or has served in upper management of Group companies in and outside Japan NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 98 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Audit & Supervisory Board (as of June 30, 2020) Ken Sugiyama Takeshi Shimazaki Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held 2,544 817 Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (11/11) Attendance at Audit & Supervisory Board meetings Attendance at Audit & Supervisory Board meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (10/10) Note: Attendance since assuming post on June 2019. March 1980 Joins NGK March 1982 Joins NGK July 2002 Appointed as general manager, Finance Dept. April 2010 Appointed as manager, Finance Dept. April 2007 Appointed as general manager, Auditing Dept. June 2015 Appointed as general manager, Auditing Dept. June 2015 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member (incumbent) June 2019 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member (incumbent) Reasons for Appointment Reasons for Appointment After joining NGK, Mr. Ken Sugiyama worked for many years in finance and served as the general After joining NGK, Mr. Takashi Shimazaki spent many years handling finance-related duties and was manager of the Finance & Accounting Department. He was also involved in the operations of overseas appointed manager of the Finance & Accounting Department. He has also served as the general subsidiaries and has served as the general manager of the Auditing Department. All of this has manager of the Auditing Department and has a thorough, practical understanding of finance, equipped Mr. Sugiyama with a wealth of financial, accounting, and auditing knowledge and accounting, and auditing within the NGK Group, both in Japan and overseas. Mr. Shimazaki is experience relating to the NGK Group and its overseas subsidiaries. He puts this to appropriate use in recognized for his ability to apply this experience towards the performance of management-related performing management-related audits as a member of NGK’s Audit & Supervisory Board. It is on this auditing that contributes to increased corporate value for NGK, and it is on this basis that he has been basis that he has been appointed. appointed. Independent Director Independent Director Junichi Itoh Masayoshi Sakaguchi Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Outside Number of shares of the Company held Number of shares of the Company held — — Attendance at Board of Directors meetings Attendance at Board of Directors meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (11/11) Attendance at Audit & Supervisory Board meetings Attendance at Audit & Supervisory Board meetings 100% (14/14) 100% (10/10) Note: Attendance since assuming post on June 2019. April 1975 Joins The Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd. (now MUFG Bank, Ltd.) April 1980 Joins the National Police Agency June 2002 Appointed as executive officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. (now MUFG Bank) Feb. 1999 Appointed as chief of First Area Headquarters, Metropolitan Police Department May 2005 Appointed as managing executive officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi (now MUFG Bank) Sept. 2001 Appointed as chief of Akita Prefectural Police Headquarters June 2005 Appointed as managing director, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi (now MUFG Bank) Jan. 2003 Appointed as chief Criminal Investigations, Osaka Prefectural Police Headquarters Jan. 2006 Appointed as managing director, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (now MUFG Bank) Oct. 2011 Appointed as chief of Osaka Prefectural Police Headquarters May 2009 Appointed as senior managing executive officer, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (now MUFG Jan. 2013 Appointed as commissioner-general’s secretariat, National Police Agency Bank) Jan. 2015 Appointed as deputy commissioner-general, National Police Agency June 2011 Appointed as senior executive vice president, CFO and representative director, Nikon Corporation Aug. 2016 Appointed as commissioner-general, National Police Agency June 2016 Appointed as counselor, Nikon Corporation (incumbent) May 2018 Appointed as senior advisor, Nippon Life Insurance Company Appointed as outside Audit & Supervisory Board member, The Hyakujushi Bank, Ltd. June 2019 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member, NGK (incumbent) June 2017 Appointed as outside director (Audit and Supervisory Committee member), The Hyakujushi Appointed as vice president, Japan Automobile Federation (incumbent) Bank (incumbent) June 2018 Appointed as Audit & Supervisory Board member, NGK (incumbent) Reasons for Appointment Reasons for Appointment Mr. Junichi Itoh has many years of corporate management-related experience, including serving as a Prior to his appointment as commissioner-general of the National Police Agency, Mr. Masayoshi senior managing executive officer of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (now MUFG Bank) and as a Sakaguchi served in a variety of important law enforcement positions, including as commissioner of representative director, senior executive vice president, and CFO of Nikon Corporation. All of this has the Osaka Prefectural Police and as chief of the Commissioner-General’s Secretariat in the National equipped him with a wealth of experience and expertise as a corporate management specialist, Police Agency. All of this has contributed to a wealth of experience in public administration and a solid making him well-suited to a role in which he will contribute to stronger corporate governance at NGK. track record of running large-scale organizations. Mr. Shimazaki is recognized for his ability to apply It is on this basis that he has been appointed. this experience towards management-related auditing for NGK as a whole, providing a legal compliance and risk management-focused perspective that contributes to increased corporate value for NGK. It is on this basis that he has been appointed. Executive Officers (as of June 30, 2020) Hiroshi Kurachi Senior Vice President Hiroto Matsuda Senior Vice President Tadaaki Yamada Senior Vice President General Manager, Sensor Div., Ceramic Products Business Group Group Vice Executive, Process Technology Business Group; General Manager, Human Resources Dept., Diversity & General Manager, High Performance Ceramics Div. Inclusion Dept.; in charge of General Affairs Dept. Akira Katoh Senior Vice President Group Vice Executive, Electronics Business Group; Masanobu Inoue Vice President Hiroharu Kato Vice President General Manager, New Metals Div.; General Manager, Chita Site General Manager, Industrial Process Div., President, NGK EUROPE GmbH Process Technology Business Group Atsushi Miyajima Vice President Jun Mori Vice President Group Executive, Corporate Manufacturing Engineering; Hideaki Shindo Vice President General Manager, Manufacturing Div., Ceramic Products Facilities Committee Chair General Manager, Finance & Accounting Dept. Business Group Hiroyuki Shinohara Vice President Iwao Ohwada Vice President Tatsumi Ichioka Vice President General Manager, Corporate Planning Office; in charge of General Manager, Advanced Device Components Div., General Manager, Energy Storage Div., Energy Infrastructure New Business Planning Dept. Electronics Business Group Business Group Ryo Ishihara Vice President Mayumi Inagaki Vice President Hirofumi Sakamoto Vice President General Manager, Secretarial Office; in charge of Corporate General Manager, Legal Dept. General Manager, Engineering Div., Ceramic Products Communications Dept. Business Group Note: Number of shares of the Company held is current as of June 29, 2020. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 99 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Policies for Determining Remuneration of Officers Determining the Amount or Calculation Method of Remuneration, and Determining Details of Remuneration The remuneration of directors (excluding outside directors) and corporate officers of NGK consists of the following three components: (1) basic remuneration as fixed annual remuneration according to respective positions; (2) a performance-linked bonus, which is based on the business performance each year; and (3) stock-related remuneration to enhance the motivation, etc. of directors to improve the mediumto long-term corporate value through appropriate corporate management by increasing sensitivity toward the NGK stock price and sharing with shareholders both advantages and risks generated by ups and downs of the stock price. NGK does not pay any performance-linked bonus or stock-related remuneration to outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members and only pays basic remuneration since they assume roles in supervising and auditing management from an independent standpoint. With regard to the remuneration of officers, NGK will endeavor to ensure fairness and enhance transparency by deliberating on basic policies and procedures for determination of remuneration, the overall remuneration range of directors/audit & supervisory board members, and the amount of remuneration for individual directors/audit & supervisory board members at the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, comprised mainly of outside directors/audit & supervisory board members and reporting the results thereof to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will consider the findings of the committee and make a resolution for remuneration for directors and executive officers, and representative directors will take this decision and determine an annual salary that includes bonuses. The amount of remuneration, etc., of each audit & supervisory board member is determined through consultation between the audit & supervisory board members. Committee for Determining the Amount or Calculation Method of Remuneration, and Method of Determination, for Officers The Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee is comprised of five outside directors and three representative directors. This committee deliberates on matters related to the appointment of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, remuneration of directors, executive officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and Chief Executive Officer succession planning. To arrive at a resolution, a majority of committee members must be in favor of the decision. In fiscal 2019, the Committee met two times. At one of these meetings, resolutions included the policy for deciding officers’ compensation amount, compensation amounts and their breakdown for various levels of managers, and the calculation of amounts for performance-linked bonuses. Persons with Authority to Decide Things Like Amount of Officers’ Remuneration The Board of Directors accepts the report from the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee and, while sufficiently taking it into consideration, once again delegates the determination of officers’ remuneration to consultation between representative directors. Representative directors have the authority to determine basic remuneration, performance-linked bonuses, and stock-related remuneration in accordance with respective positions within the scope delegated to them by resolution of the Board of Directors, based on consultation between all representative directors, and the names of these representative directors are as follows: Taku Oshima, Yukihisa Takeuchi, and Hiroshi Kanie Summary of Performance-linked Remuneration In NGK’s view, bonuses linked to short-term performance and stock compensation-type stock options, which are aimed at increasing the stock price by increasing directors’ motivation and morale to improve mediumto long-term corporate value, are variable components of remuneration linked to business performance. With regard to the ratio between this variable remuneration and fixed annual remuneration, the ratio of basic remuneration, performance-linked bonuses, and stock-related remuneration is set from a perspective of putting priority on the stability and enhancement of mediumto long-term performance, based on the fact that NGK’s businesses are in materials industries that provide many products contributing to industry and the social foundations of peoples’ lives, and the fact that, when creating new products and businesses, NGK prioritizes technology developed proprietarily, including materials technology and production technology, and it requires a relatively long time to develop this technology and bring new products to market, and for these products to contribute to earnings. The total amount of remuneration, including basic remuneration, is determined in accordance with officers’ positions, taking into consideration remuneration levels according to the size of companies and other factors, using data from reliable external research institutions. Indicators for Performance-linked Remuneration, Reasons for Selecting Said Indicators For performance-linked bonuses paid as annual bonuses, 1. comparisons of net sales, operating income, and net income attributable to owner of parent company (Net income amounts, hereinafter, the same applies) announced at the start of the period and during the period with amounts at the end of the period, and 2. comparisons of net sales, operating income, and net income in the previous fiscal year with those in the fiscal year under review are used as short-term indicators, while 1. the level of achievement in each fiscal year in terms of important issues spanning multiple fiscal years established by NGK, and 2. operating income and net income, on which ROE is based, are used as medium-term indicators (these indicators are all based on the consolidated business performance of the NGK Group; hereinafter, the same applies). NGK prioritizes comparisons with business performance figures announced at the start of the period and during the period, and comparisons with business performance figures in the previous fiscal year, based on the perspective that the achievement of business performance targets announced by NGK and the achievement of steady growth each fiscal year are important to shareholders and investors. Among measures of business performance, NGK uses net sales, operating income, net income, and ROE as indicators, as these figures are a clear measure of actual capabilities. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 100 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Method for Determining Amount of Performance-linked Remuneration Calculation of performance-linked remuneration is determined by the following method. • A basic bonus amount to be used as the basis of the calculation is established for each position. • The basic bonus amount is distributed between each item in 1. comparisons of net sales, operating income, and net income amounts announced at the start of the period and during the period with amounts at the end of the period, and 2. comparisons of net sales, operating income, and net income in the previous fiscal year with those in the fiscal year under review, from a short-term perspective, and 1. the level of achievement in each fiscal year in terms of important issues spanning multiple fiscal years established by NGK, and 2. operating income and net income, on which ROE is based, from a medium-term perspective. • The result for each item is calculated, within a range from 0% to 200%, and the amount allocated to each item is calculated. • The allocated amounts are totaled and the amount of performance-linked bonus is calculated. • For directors who are not representative directors, the amounts of performance-linked bonuses are adjusted based on representative directors’ assessment of individual performance. • As a result the actual amount of performance-linked bonus paid fluctuates within a range of 0% to 200% of the basic amount. Targets for the main indicators related to performance linked bonuses and the actual results are as follows: Business performance amounts announced at the beginning of the period Net sales of ¥490.0 billion Operating income of ¥70.0 billion Net income of ¥47.0 billion – Business performance amounts announced during the period Net sales of ¥450.0 billion Operating income of ¥60.0 billion Net income of ¥42.0 billion – Business performance amounts in the previous fiscal year Net sales of ¥463.5 billion Operating income of ¥64.7 billion Net income of ¥35.5 billion ROE 7.6% Business performance amounts in the fiscal year under review Net sales of ¥441.9 billion Operating income of ¥55.0 billion Net income of ¥27.1 billion ROE 5.8% With regard to stock-related remuneration, NGK grants stock compensation-type stock options as a long-term incentive. The exercise price of the stock option is ¥1 per share, and NGK determines the number of stock options according to the respective managerial positions. As terms and conditions of the exercises of rights, the director shall, in principal, exercise his/her rights within five years after the lapse of one year from the date of retirement from the office of officer. Resolutions at General Meetings of Shareholders on Remuneration for Officers and Other Matters By the resolutions at the General Meetings of Shareholders held in June 2007 and June 2017, NGK has set the maximum amount of remuneration, etc., excluding stock options, or stock-related remuneration of directors at ¥800 million per year, which includes the amount of ¥60 million per year for outside directors. It was also resolved that the maximum amount of remuneration, etc., concerning stock options to be allocated to directors (excluding outside directors) to be set at ¥200 million per year, and the maximum amount of remuneration, etc. of Audit & Supervisory Board Members at ¥100 million per year. Furthermore, in terms of the number of officers that these resolutions apply to, Articles 20 and 31 of the Articles of Incorporation of NGK stipulate that the prescribed number of directors shall not exceed fifteen and the prescribed number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members shall not exceed five. In addition, NGK discontinued the retirement bonus system for officers at the conclusion of the 139th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held in June 2005. Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Fiscal 2019) Total remuneration by type (million yen) Total remuneration Applicable directors Director category Fixed Performance-linked (million yen) Stock options Retirement benefits (people) remuneration remuneration Directors (excluding Outside Directors) 535 377 113 44 – 9 Audit & Supervisory Board Members (excluding Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) 59 59 – – – 3 Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 66 66 – – – 7 Directors Receiving Total Remuneration of ¥100 Million or More (Fiscal 2019) Total remuneration by type (million yen) Total Company Name Director category remuneration category Fixed Performance-linked Retirement Stock options (million yen) remuneration remuneration benefits Submitting Taku Oshima Director companies 65 26 8 – 100 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 101 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Standard and Policy for Independence of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Outside Directors In addition to the requirements for an outside director under the Companies Act and for an independent director specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, NGK may not designate a person who falls under any of the following items as an outside director with independence (hereinafter referred to as the “Independent Outside Director”); provided, however, that if NGK considers that such person, who falls under any of the items, is appropriate as the Independent Outside Director of NGK in light of such person’s personality, insight, etc., NGK may designate said person as an Independent Outside Director on the condition that said person satisfies the requirements for an outside director under the Companies Act and for an independent director specified by the Tokyo Stock Exchange as well as on the condition that NGK externally explains the reason why such person is appropriate as the Independent Outside Director of NGK. In these independence standards, a person who executes business refers to an executive director, executive officer, corporate officer, manager, or other employee, and NGK Group refers to NGK or NGK’s subsidiaries or affiliated companies. 1. A major shareholder who holds 10% or more of the current voting rights of NGK. If such major shareholder is a corporation, a person who has executed the business of said corporation during the last three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year. 2. A person who currently executes the business of a business partner where the amount of transactions between NGK Group in any of the last three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year is 2% or more of the consolidated sales of either said business partner or NGK Group. 3. A person who has executed the business of a financial institution or other corporation that is a major creditor, which is indispensable for NGK Group’s fundraising and on which NGK Group depends to the extent that it is irreplaceable, in the past three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year. 4. An incumbent director or officer of an organization that receives a donation or grant from NGK Group in the amount exceeding ¥10 million per year or 30% of average annual total expenses of such organization, whichever the greater, in any of the last three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year. 5. A certified public accountant, tax accountant or an incumbent employee of an auditing firm or tax accounting firm who served as an accounting auditor or accounting advisor of NGK Group in the past three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year. 6. A person who is a lawyer, certified public accountant, tax accountant, or other consultant who does not correspond to any of the individuals mentioned in 5. above and who, in addition to his/her remuneration as an officer, has received cash and other property benefits of ¥10 million or more per year from the NGK Group in the past three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year, or an incumbent employee, etc., of a law firm, auditing firm, tax accounting firm, consulting firm, or other advisory firm that does not correspond to any of the firms mentioned in 5. above, which received a payment of more than 2% of its annual consolidated gross sales from NGK Group in any of the last three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year. 7. A person who has executed the business of a company, of which NGK is currently a major shareholder, in the last three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year. 8. Relatives within the second degree of kinship to a person who falls under the items 1 to 7 above. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members In order to ensure that outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are impartial and that there is no conflict of interest with shareholders, NGK makes comprehensive decisions based on the Securities Listing Regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 102 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Outside Directors Name Reasons for appointment Having long engaged in legal practice as an attorney-at-law, Mr. Kamano possesses a wealth of experience and achievements in the legal community, including his service as Vice President of the Tokyo Bar Association. He has been utilizing his expertise, abundant experience, and wide range of insights and appropriately fulfilling his duties as an outside director of NGK, by giving his opinion mainly on the level of permeation of the NGK Group Philosophy, strengthening the compliance structure, and defining the grounds for business judgments, as well as offering suggestions to NGK’s business operation and Hiroyuki properly overseeing the management of NGK. Therefore, NGK appointed him as outside director. Kamano Mr. Kamano holds 1,000 shares of NGK stock. However, apart from this, he has no personal, financial, or important business relationship with, nor other vested interest in, NGK. Concurrent with his work with NGK, Mr. Kamano serves in a variety of roles, including as an outside auditor of House Foods Group Inc. and as an outside director of Spancrete Corporation. However, no personal, financial, or important business relationship, nor other vested interest, exits between NGK and the organizations with which Mr. Kamano currently works. Ms. Hamada has made remarkable achievements such as leading the invention and the world’s first commercialization of the CD-R (recordable CD) while working for Taiyo Yuden Co., Ltd. Since then, she has been engaged in research activities mainly through industry-academia-government collaborations as Professor at Nagoya Institute of Technology and Visiting Professor at Nagoya University. By utilizing the insights she has developed through her career, she has been appropriately fulfilling her duties as an outside director of NGK by giving her opinion mainly on strengthening technical capabilities and the current state of quality management, as well as offering suggestions to NGK’s business operation and overseeing the management of NGK. Therefore, NGK appointed her as Emiko Hamada outside director. Ms. Hamada holds 5,000 shares of NGK stock. However, apart from this, she has no personal, financial, or important business relationship with, nor other vested interest in, NGK. Concurrent with her work with NGK, Ms. Hamada serves in a variety of roles, including as a third-area program officer for the Japan Science and Technology Agency’s A-STEP program, as a part-time lecturer at NITech, and as an outside director for Taiyo Yuden. However, no personal, financial, or important business relationship, nor other vested interest, exits between NGK and the organizations with which Ms. Hamada currently works. Mr. Furukawa has extensive knowledge of technical fields including information and telecommunications, as well as experience leading large organizations, through his work in important positions at Hitachi Ltd. such as President & Chief Executive Officer of the Information & Telecommunication Systems Group and subsequently President, as well as Chairman of the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization. He has been utilizing his knowledge and experience and appropriately fulfilling his duties as an outside director of NGK, by giving his opinion on a wide range of topics regarding all aspects of NGK’s Kazuo business activities, as well as offering suggestions to NGK’s business operation and overseeing the management of NGK. Therefore, NGK appointed him as Furukawa outside director. Mr. Furukawa holds 5,000 shares of NGK stock. However, apart from this, he has no personal, financial, or important business relationship with, nor other vested interest in, NGK. Concurrent with his work with NGK, Mr. Furukawa serves in a variety of roles, including as an outside director (Audit & Supervisory Committee member) for the Pasona Group Inc. However, no personal, financial, or important business relationship, nor other vested interest, exits between NGK and the organizations with which Mr. Furukawa currently works. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Name Reasons for appointment Mr. Ito has been involved with corporate management for many years, including as Senior Management Executive Officer for the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (now MUFG Bank, Ltd.) and Representative Director, Senior Executive Vice President and CFO for Nikon Corporation. As an expert in corporate management, Mr. Ito is able to leverage the wealth of experience and the insights he has cultivated over his long career to provide appropriate advice and oversight aimed at strengthening NGK’s corporate governance. Based upon this demonstrated competency and capability, he has been selected as an outside audit & supervisory board member. Mr. Itoh has no personal, financial or important business relationship with, nor other vested interest in, NGK. Mr. Itoh comes from the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (now MUFG Bank), which is an NGK shareholder and with which NGK has financial transactions, Junichi Ito including lending money to NGK at the end of the fiscal year under review. However, given such considerations as the significant amount of time that has passed since Mr. Itoh stepped down as senior managing executive officer of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ (now MUFG Bank), we do not believe his decisions are affected by the wishes of MUFG Bank in any way that would constitute a conflict of interest with our general shareholders. Mr. Itoh serves concurrently as an outside director (Audit & Supervisory Committee member) of Hyakujushi Bank, from which NGK receives financing; however, NGK has business transactions with numerous financial institutions, and the nature of the financing secured from Hyakujushi Bank is not such that NGK is any way beholden to it. Therefore, we deem the financial borrowing relationship between NGK and Hyakujushi Bank to be one which would not impact NGK’s management decision-making and, thus, does not create a conflict of interest with our general shareholders. Apart from this, no personal, financial, or important business relationship, nor other vested interest, exits between NGK and the organizations with which Mr. Itoh currently works. Mr. Sakaguchi has a wealth of experience in the administrative sector and a proven track record in managing large organizations. He was commissioner of the Osaka Prefectural Police, chief of the Commissioner-General’s Secretariat (National Police Agency), and commissioner-general of the National Police Agency. Making use of this experience, he audits NGK’s overall management from the viewpoint of the legality of business and risk management, thus helping raise NGK’s corporate value. We have therefore elected him to the position of outside audit & supervisory board members. Mr. Sakaguchi has no personal, financial, or important business relationship with, nor other vested interest in, NGK. Mr. Sakaguchi has served as special advisor to Nippon Life Insurance Company, which is both an NGK shareholder and a source of financing for NGK. Masayoshi However, as of the end of the fiscal year under review, Nippon Life Insurance Company’s holdings did not exceed more than 1.36% of total NGK shares, and, Sakaguchi with regard to the financing received, NGK has business transactions with numerous financial institutions, and the nature of the financing secured from Nippon Life Insurance Company is not such that NGK is any way beholden to it. Therefore, we deem the shareholder and financial borrowing relationship between NGK and Nippon Life Insurance Company to be one which would not impact NGK’s management decision-making and, thus, does not create a conflict of interest with our general shareholders. Concurrent with his work with NGK, Mr. Sakaguchi serves in a variety of roles, including as vice president of the Japan Automobile Federation. However, no personal, financial, or important business relationship, nor other vested interest, exits between NGK and the organizations with which Mr. Sakaguchi currently works. We have submitted written notification to the Tokyo Stock Exchange and Nagoya Stock Exchange of the appointment as independent directors of the above five individuals. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 103 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Comments from Outside Directors Topic: Improving corporate value Hiroyuki Kamano Outside Director Our role is to check managerial balance Given that companies exist as part of society, they cannot survive if they ignore the environmental and social impacts of their actions. Thus, I believe that the social value that a company provides, such as through hiring and contributing to the environment, is just as foundational to its existence as its economic value, such as profitability and growth potential. Also, in the post-COVID-19 era and beyond, the importance of the relationship between companies and the environment looks to only grow stronger. An important issue facing society is humanity’s coexistence with the environment, and this is an area where society is increasingly recognizing the lasting value of positively contributing companies. In that sense, we can say that the NGK Group is extremely well-positioned. This is because the very business in which the NGK Group engages, such as developing environmentally beneficial products for automotive-related business, helps to reduce humanity’s environmental footprint. If the NGK Group can capitalize on its expertise in ceramic technology to facilitate progress towards achieving the SDGs, it would be abundantly possible to turn the COVID-19 recession into a growth opportunity. Company management cannot remain static in the face of tremendous societal upheaval. In order to achieve corporate growth, it must embrace significant innovation reflective of society’s needs. Management tends to act conservatively out of a sense of obligation to responsibly handle the important assets of shareholders. However, the act of management entails a certain adventurousness that must be continually acted upon in order to grow. The key, then, is balance: keeping management oriented in the direction of innovation while also keeping it within an acceptable range of risk. Management should not be being overly adventurous. Risk should be adequately calculated. A balance should be struck between risk and reward. Keeping check of all this is, I believe, the role that we must play as outside directors. We will continue to provide the Board of Directors with recommendations so that the NGK Group can anticipate future values and head in the direction of change and innovation. Our wish is for young employees to look forward to realizing their dreams and that the NGK Group will continue to exist well into the future. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 104 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Emiko Hamada Kazuo Furukawa Outside Director Outside Director Transformation and growth Improving corporate value by working for the post-COVID-19 era as a group to speed up all operations Improving corporate value all depends on how well a company is It has been a year since I was appointed as an outside director for meeting the essential expectations of society. This will require the NGK Group. In that time, my impression of the NGK Group companies to be providing society with new value. This is exactly overall is that it is a well-functioning manufacturer, which is expressed in the mission of the NGK Group, as stated in its thorough in its operation of key committees and bodies, such as Group Philosophy: “Enriching Human Life by Adding New Value meetings of the Board of Directors, in its distribution of authority to Society.” between Group companies, in its execution of global governance, And, given its history of product development derived from and in much else. However, in order to further improve corporate the application of cumulative expertise in the difficult area of value, it is important that the NGK Group be more proactive as a ceramic technology, this is a strong suit of the NGK Group. global company, working together as a group to speed up all However, the NGK Group must avoid simply continuing to create operations. better versions of its already outstanding products and services; Given the extremely rapid rate at which the market is rather, it is important that it focus on delivering products and changing, along with the ongoing spread of COVID-19, it is services tailored to the changing times. difficult to make any predictions in the current era. Moreover, with Ceramic materials offer superior durability and versatility, new technologies like AI, IoT, and quantum computers appearing which suits them to an extremely broad range of applications. I one after another, the world is in the midst of significant and think this durability and versatility can also be capitalized upon to ongoing change. It is within this context that the NGK Group great effect as part of the infectious disease measures within the needs to capitalize on its expertise in ceramic technology by medical and healthcare fields. With its expertise in ceramic finding ways to combine it with cutting-edge technology to create technology, the NGK Group is capable of providing the new unprecedentedly innovative products. NGK’s 100th anniversary technologies and products demanded by our times. slogan, “Surprising Ceramics.,” is finding concrete expression In a post-COVID-19 era, things that we thought were still a through the ongoing creation of next-generation products, such way off in the future are suddenly becoming reality, and it is the as the EnerCera® battery and zinc rechargeable batteries. I would companies delivering new ideas to meet this reality who will be like to not only see this trend accelerated by an increase in the building the era to come. I would like to see the NGK Group being speed of product development, I would also like to see the mass a pioneer in the coming era through its technological innovation in production system undergo a rapid reorganization from a global new areas. That, I believe, is the transformation and growth for perspective. By enabling the NGK Group to plan, develop, and which the NGK Group must aim. manufacture on a global basis, I think it will be possible to launch And in order to achieve sustainable growth as a company, it is products and services simultaneously worldwide. important to recognize the value, as well as draw out the full In addition, if all core ideas and expression adopt a global potential, of each and every employee. Specifically, this means perspective, this will likewise affect not only products but also the listening to the input of Group employees throughout the world way in which a business continuity plan (BCP) is performed. In the and engaging in discussion, which incorporates a multitude of face of the COVID-19 pandemic, the smoothness with which viewpoints. In other words, it means embracing diversity. The measures such as transitioning to remote work arrangements has NGK Group already has a foundation of diversity in place; so, the been handled is laudable. However, we are now in an era that next stage is to find ways of capitalizing on all of the diverse input requires readjusting supply chains and production bases, that this foundation provides. reforming the operations of indirect departments, and improving job satisfaction on a global basis and then quickly implementing ideas, quickly obtaining results, and providing feedback to each plant and office. It is my hope that the next 100 years will see the NGK Group achieve even greater growth as a global company. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 105 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Open General Meeting of Shareholders NGK endeavors to hold open General Meeting of Shareholders that its shareholders feel welcome to attend. Every year, we introduce NGK corporate activities at the General Meeting of Shareholders with booths displaying product exhibits explained by NGK staff. We also make efforts toward expanding General Meeting of Shareholders-related information, including the following: (1) Mailing a convocation notice well in advance Sent 22 days prior to the meeting date. (2) Disclosing information on the website well in advance Announced four days before convocation notices are sent out (since fiscal 2018). (3) Taking part in the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) Online voting system made available. Electronic Voting Platform* Documents such as convocation notices, the results of vote execution, notices of resolution, and extraordinary reports are disclosed on the website. English-language notices for the General Meeting of Shareholders are sent out. (4) Posting General Meeting of Shareholders documents on the website General Meeting of Shareholders-related information https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ir/meeting/ *TSE Electronic Voting Platform: An electronic voting system operated by TSE. It allows people to vote not only through the conventional printed materials but also via the Internet, making the process more convenient for shareholders in Japan and overseas. Two-Way Communication In addition to regular presentations held in Japan and overseas, the NGK Group conducts one-on-one meetings and participates in interviews among other ongoing initiatives to expand dialogues with institutional investors. NGK senior management also visits and conducts one-on-one discussions with institutional investors in Japan and overseas. Activities in Fiscal 2019 Activities Details Senior management conducted presentations for analysts and institutional investors twice this year. Japan They also conducted one-on-one meetings and participated in interviews. Overseas Senior management conducted overseas IR meetings targeting analysts and institutional investors twice this year. Included financial reporting information, the timely disclosure of non-financial reporting information, Online IR Library securities reports, annual reports, General Meeting of Shareholder materials, and other information. Reference Investor Relations URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ir/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 106 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Participation in Nomura IR Asset Management Fair To familiarize individual investors with the details of business and performance of NGK, our General Affairs Department and the Finance & Accounting Department took part in the Nomura IR Asset Management Fair 2019 (sponsored by Nomura Investor Relations Co., Ltd.), held at the Tokyo International Forum. With participation by a total of 62 listed companies and investment firms, the event attracted approximately 12,200 visitors over two days. The NGK booth used panels and small briefings to explain what NGK does and how it is performing. Measures for Returning Profits to Shareholders At NGK, returning profits to shareholders is considered one of the highest management priorities. As a basic policy, we aim for management that focuses on shareholders and ROE. Based on this basic policy, we share profits while comprehensively taking account of our business performance, financial structure, and future business development. Our medium-term benchmark for the consolidated payout ratio is around 30%. In fiscal 2019, we paid an annual dividend of 50 yen. The consolidated payout ratio stood at 59.0%. We will keep striving to secure profitability above the capital cost and to maintain financial soundness. We opt to proactively return profits to our shareholders from the mediumto long-term perspective. Dividends per Share Return on Equity (ROE) (Yen) (%) 50 50 50 15 44 13.3 40 40 38 10.4 8.8 30 7.6 5.8 20 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 107 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Shareholder Information Stock Information (as of March 31, 2020) Total number of shares authorized 735,030,000 322,211,996 Total number of shares issued (including 5,668,060 treasury shares) Number of shareholders 39,457 Other Japanese Financial companies institutions 401 Individuals Financial 158 （1.0％） and others institutions （0.4％） 45,764 187,151 thousand shares thousand shares Number of （14.2%） Number of （58.1％） Shareholders Shares Issued Foreign 39,457 companies 322,211 Foreign thousand shares and others 622 companies Individuals （1.6％） and others 72,017 Other Japanese and others thousand shares companies 38,276 （22.3%） 17,279 （97.0％） thousand shares （5.4%） Major Shareholders (as of March 31, 2020) Number of shares held Shareholding ratio Name of shareholder (1,000 shares) (%) The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 42,287 13.35 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 30,746 9.71 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 21,695 6.85 The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 21,457 6.77 MUFG Bank, Ltd. 7,204 2.27 National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives 7,029 2.22 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 4,965 1.56 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 4,759 1.50 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385151 4,602 1.45 Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. 4,387 1.38 Note: The above list of major shareholders does not include NGK, which holds a total of 5,668,060 treasury shares. Also, the shareholding ratios above are calculated based on the number of shares derived by deducting the number of treasury shares from the number of shares issued, and rounded down to two decimal places. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 108 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Internal Control Systems The Board of Directors and the executive bodies overseen by the president are responsible for establishing and operating NGK’s internal control system. The Auditing Department, a specialized internal audit body, is responsible for assessing the status of business execution at each operating division. Moreover, NGK has established the Internal Controls Committee to manage its reporting system for internal controls pursuant to Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. The NGK Group Code of Conduct (revised in January 2019) was formulated as a policy embodying the Group’s corporate philosophy. These guidelines specify the Group’s fundamental stance with respect to business activities and corporate behavior to ensure it remains a company that is beneficial to society, even in the pursuit of its economic goals. The task of ensuring Group-wide compliance with the NGK Group Code of Conduct, along with laws, regulations and corporate ethics, is the responsibility of the Compliance Committee Secretariat Council, which was established by the Compliance Committee and comprises managers from NGK divisions. The Business Ethics Committee handles matters of improper acts and legal violations involving NGK executives, and the ensuring of compliance with competition laws and overseas anti-corruption laws. Please note that at a Board of Directors meeting in April 2020, members adopted an amendment to the “Resolution for the Development of Systems to Ensure the Appropriateness of Operations.” NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 109 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Thorough Enforcement of Compliance For the NGK Group, compliance is seen as the most important means of improving trustworthiness, and concrete systems are in place within the Group to inculcate this view among employees and ensure our business activities are conducted in an ethical, honest, and responsible manner. NGK Group Code of Conduct The NGK Group Code of Conduct has been compiled as a guideline for everyone who works within the NGK Group so that they are aware of what is expected of them in terms of work-related compliance in order to ensure honesty and reliability in our business activities. All NGK Group employees will act according to this code as they fulfill their social responsibilities and build trust in NGK. In fiscal 2019, a guidebook was created and distributed to all NGK executives and employees within Japan to help them better understand and implement the Code of Conduct. Another way in which awareness has been promoted has been with educational posters put up in workplaces. Awareness and understanding of the Code of Conduct is also facilitated with training given to all recent graduate and mid-career hires upon their joining the NGK Group Code of Conduct company, as well as with refresher training given to employees upon their awareness-raising poster promotion. Realization of a Sustainable Society 1. We will create new value through the provision of products and services that contribute to society, protect the world environment, and strive to realize a sustainable society. • By providing high quality products and services in which safety is properly considered and which comply with environmental rules, we can respond to the trust of customers and society. • We will sincerely consider new needs and the desire for improvements from customers and society and undertake product and service development and upgrades. Respect for Human Rights 2. We will strictly comply with international standards of human rights and respect the diversity of all people. • We will respect human rights and undertake business activities without the use of forced labor or child labor. • We will respect the individuality and independence of each employee and not engage in discrimination on the basis of race, citizenship, gender, age, religion, belief, existence of handicaps, sexual diversity, or any other aspect. • We will prevent the occurrence of harassment in the workplace and take prompt and appropriate action in the case where it occurs. Provide a Safe and Enjoyable Work Environment 3. We will provide a safe and enjoyable work environment that is comfortable for everyone to work in for all. • We will strictly comply with laws and regulations of each country and region relating to labor, safety, and sanitation. • We will aim to harmonize work and life, and support a variety of working styles. • We will build up a relationship of trust through sincere debate and discussion with employees. • We will give educational opportunities to employees and provide opportunities to stretch their motivation and abilities. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 110 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Honest Business Activities 4. We will undertake fair and transparent business activities with integrity and strictly comply to international standards, laws and regulations of each country and region. • We will undertake business activities with common sense and based on strict compliance and ethics. • We will ensure performance of contracts and agreements with customers and counterparties. • We will strictly comply with competition laws. • We will never in any manner undertake bribery • We will strictly manage personal data and confidential information. • We will respect the intellectual property rights of other persons. • We will set up and actively manage our import/export system. • We will not have any involvement with organized crime and other anti-social forces. • We will manage business risks and make efforts to prevent the occurrence of problems and promptly respond when they arise. • In order to deter and correct improper acts, we will appropriately prepare and put into practice a whistleblowing system. Disclosure of Company Information and Accountability 5. We will increase healthy and transparent management by active disclosure of information and discussion with stakeholders. • We will accurately and promptly disclose information required by society. • We will take seriously the voices of our stakeholders and fulfill our obligation of accountability. Permeate Social Responsibility into Our Supply Chain 6. We will promote a structure that fulfills societal responsibilities to our trade counterparts and the supply chain overall. • We will respect our trade counterparts as equal partners and work to build a trusting relationship for mutual development. • Through realization of green procurement and CSR, we will contribute to the growth of the region and society. • We will demand respect for human rights and compliance with laws and regulations from our supply chain. Preservation of Environment 7.We will work to preserve and resolve the problems of the world environment. • We will provide products and services that contribute to preservation of the world environment. • We will directly address the burden of business activities on the environment. • We will work for preservation of biological diversity and sustainability. • We will strictly comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment of each country and region. Cooperation with the Region and Society 8. We will contribute to the expansion of the region and society as a good corporate citizen. • As one member of the region and society we will actively undertake activities that contribute to society. • We will actively support activities that contribute to society in which employees voluntarily participate. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 111 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Compliance Promotion Structure In order to ensure strict observance of laws, regulations, Compliance Promotion Structure and corporate ethics within the Group, we have President established the Compliance Committee, and under this we have established the Compliance Committee Secretariat Compliance Committee Council to serve as the committee body that ensures the proper implementation of the Compliance Committee’s Chair: Director and Senior Vice President decisions. Members: Executive Vice President, Group Executives, etc. Compliance Committee Secretariat Council ● Director: Group Compliance Department Manager Establishment of the Global Compliance ● Members: Department Managers System With the aim of building a group-wide foundation for an All divisions Group companies effective compliance scheme, the Group Compliance Department conducts education on compliance at each NGK base. Mission of the Group Compliance Department Works to establish and develop compliance as a corporate culture of the entire NGK Group Supports Group companies in and outside Japan in strengthening and operating their compliance systems, and actively provides compliance training As for Group companies outside Japan in particular, ensures effective compliance for our globalized operations by obtaining the most up-to-date information regarding applicable laws and social demands in each region Mission Achievement-focused Initiatives of Fiscal 2019 Compliance education (NGK and Group companies in and outside Japan) Adapting to global Handling helpline laws and regulations reports Mission of the (competition laws, etc.) Group Compliance Department Internal control Quality compliance system secretariat system operational support NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 112 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Whistleblowing System Helpline We have established a helpline to receive inquiries and reports Number of Helpline Consultation Cases (at NGK) from employees aimed at curtailing and preventing activities FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 contrary to the spirit of the NGK Group Code of Conduct and to facilitate the quick resolution when issues occur. Each 17 43 75 55 Group company outside Japan has its own helpline. Hotline We have established a hotline as a whistleblowing system for responding to fraud and legal infractions committed by senior management of NGK, and competition law and anti-corruption law-related violations. The hotline is operated by outside lawyers, with issues handled by the Business Ethics Committee, composed mainly of outside directors, who report directly to the Board of Directors. We have been pushing forward with the establishment of the hotline at Group companies outside Japan in light of the circumstances in each country. We have, however, established contact points at all Group companies outside Japan for reporting competition law and anti-corruption law-related violations. Whistleblowing System A whistleblowing system is in place, which everyone who works for NGK and its Group companies (including executives, employees, employees temporarily assigned to outside companies, advisors, contract employees, temporary employees hired on a worker dispatch agreement, and subcontractor local employees) can utilize. As a rule, actual names are used for consultations and reports, but outside contact points can be utilized for anonymous consultations. Those seeking advice or reporting issues are promised protection under corporate rules. Organization of Whistleblowing System Board of Directors Report helpline activities Recommendations, monitoring Compliance Committee Business Ethics Committee Report helpline activities Recommend formulation of corrective actions to Board of Directors and monitor status of implementation Helpline Secretariat Observer (lawyer) Fact-finding, corrective action, reoccurrence prevention Internal contact (Group Compliance Dept., others) External contact (lawyers) Person reporting or seeking consultation Helpline • Unlawful conduct that violates laws, company rules, and the Code of Conduct that are difficult to consult with supervisors Hotline • Fraud and legal violations involving senior management of NGK (including instructions and commands) • Violations of competition laws and regulations combating bribery of foreign officials Compliance Card For thorough awareness of the whistleblowing system, we created a carry-size Compliance Card and distributed it to all employees at NGK and all Group companies in Japan. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 113 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting Compliance Education Compliance Education for Employees Compliance training and awareness among corporate officers and employees is driven primarily by the Group Compliance Department and the Legal Department. In addition to career training and training for employees to be posted overseas, we provide Laws and Compliance Seminars to explain laws and regulations and to introduce case studies. Since fiscal 2018, we have included quality compliance and contract observance as part of our career education courses. Compliance Education Conducted in Fiscal 2019 (Overall) Name Target Content Number of sessions New hires Compliance basics, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations 2 Promoted or career-changed employees Compliance basics 3 Mid-career hires Compliance basics, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations 1 Career education General compliance, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations, Newly appointed supervisors quality compliance, contract observance, security export control 1 General compliance, competition laws, anti-bribery regulations, Newly appointed managers quality compliance, contract observance, security export control 1 Managers promoted second grade Compliance (including quality compliance) 1 Training for employees scheduled for postings abroad (global training) Employees scheduled for postings abroad Competition laws, anti-bribery regulations, security export control 2 Managers and sales staff of Group companies outside Japan Lectures provided by attorneys and paper materials-based in-house training 22 Compliance education General employees of NGK and Group companies in Japan Compliance, harassment prevention, whistleblowing system 31 Corporate structure, centered on the General Meeting of Shareholders and Board of Directors Internal lecturer; 409 participants in total Suspicious email awareness training results Laws and compliance Managers and other targets Outside lecturer; 582 participants in total Latest trends in insider trading regulations 5 seminars depending on content Internal lecturer; 497 participants in total Adapting to the amended Civil Code Internal lecturer; 331 participants in total International trends in anti-corruption practices Outside lecturer; 536 participants in total All directors and managers, and others Quality compliance seminar 2 connected to training content Outside attorney, internal lecturer Other training Divisions and Group companies in Japan Subcontract Act explanatory meeting 3 Training to support new presidents of Group companies in Japan Compliance, harassment prevention, whistleblowing system, etc. 1 Competition Law Education Conducted in Fiscal 2019 Name Target Content Number of sessions Training for newly appointed directors Newly appointed directors and executive officers Outside attorney-led seminar 1 Competition law compliance All directors and managers, and sales staff lectures of NGK and its Group companies in Japan Streamed video of outside attorney-led seminar 1 Compliance training for Group Managers and sales staff of Group Attorney-led, live seminar; seminar conducted via video conferencing; conducted 22 companies outside Japan companies outside Japan by an internal lecturer; conducted using paper-based resources On-demand training on competition laws by internal lecturer Targets depending on content On-demand training upon divisions’ request 1 Anti-Bribery Training Conducted in Fiscal 2019 Name Target Content Number of sessions Sales staff in Japan Training for sales staff Heads of Group companies outside Japan (some) Outside attorney-led seminar; small-group case study discussion 5 Training on anti-bribery regulations Managers and sales staff at Group Attorney-led, live seminar; seminar conducted via video conferencing; conducted for Group companies outside Japan companies outside Japan by an internal lecturer; conducted using paper-based resources 22 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 114 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Other Dissemination Activities Compliance Newsletter We post the Compliance Newsletter on the company’s intranet once a month. The Newsletter features a four-frame cartoon that explores familiar themes followed by detailed explanations of what we can learn from these examples. In fiscal 2017, we began making October the annual compliance strengthening month, during which we do things such as put up educational posters and through employees of whistleblowing system. Themes Covered in the Compliance Newsletter in FY2019 April Being a good citizen October Corporate ethics month May Human rights November Harassment June Reliably executing agreements with customers December Human rights week July Sexual harassment January Contract compliance August Unlawful conduct February Compliance first September Preventing falling accidents March Unpaid overtime Note: Provided by “Compro Custom” compliance training tools service Compliance Awareness Surveys We conduct a compliance awareness and business risk-related Corporate Risk Survey (CRS)* within the NGK Group once every two years. The compliance awareness-related portion of the CRS conducted in October 2019 focused on the degree and scope of awareness among Group personnel, whether they were aware of compliance violations, and what the atmosphere in their workplace was like. There was an increase in the number of responses indicative of compliance awareness among divisions compared with the previous CRS conducted in 2017. Among those responses stating that a compliance violation had occurred or was suspected, harassment was the violation most commonly given. Also, 70% of respondents stated that their workplace atmosphere was conducive or mostly conducive to openly exposing violations. Based on the responses we have received, we will continue to work towards greater and more widespread compliance awareness, violation prevention, and improvement in workplace atmosphere. *CRS target respondents 1) Compliance awareness survey – Japan: All directors and employees (including temporary employees) / Overseas: Employees dispatched overseas 2) Business risks – Japan: Group S* and higher *Assistant manager and supervisor class Corruption Prevention Structure The NGK Group implements anti-bribery measures in order to ensure fair and transparent transactions. In fiscal 2015, we instituted anti-bribery rules for dealing with foreign public officials in order to ensure compliance with anti-bribery laws as well as ethical standards for business conduct. Further, in fiscal 2017 our Auditing Department began a review of overseas money transfers and entertainment expenses. Conducting Anti-Bribery Training In fiscal 2019, we not only had our in-house lecturers provide job grade-specific training to NGK employees, we also invited outside lawyers to run small-group, interactive training sessions. In addition, we also arranged for attorney-led seminars and other training at all Group companies. Political Contributions The NGK Group conforms to all applicable laws with regard to political contributions; this includes abiding by legal prohibitions against political contributions to individual politicians and ensuring that contributions to specific political organizations and parties do not exceed legally stipulated limits. In fiscal 2019, the NGK Group had no political contribution expenditures. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 115 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Observing Competition Laws and Other Laws and Regulations Pertaining to Business Transactions In addition to mandating compliance with competition laws in the NGK Group Code of Conduct, we have established the Competition Laws Compliance Rules, set forth to comply with international standards, which are strictly enforced by the NGK Group both in Japan and its overseas locations. We have established these policies and procedures in order to eradicate unfair business practices and maintain fair and equitable business relationships with our business partners. We also provide education and training aimed at ensuring widespread awareness and thorough compliance with the Competition Laws Compliance Rules and the Competition Laws Compliance Handbook. Furthermore, since fiscal 2015, we have contracted PwC Advisory LLC (hereinafter, “PwC”) as our independent compliance professional. PwC is engaged to annually review the implementation status of the NGK Group’s competition law compliance program per the Competition Laws Compliance Rules as well as assessing the overall oversight and reporting structures in place for NGK Group companies, both in Japan and overseas locations. On top of this, starting in fiscal 2017, PwC has also conducted interviews with the directors overseeing NGK’s various business groups in order to: 1) assess the tone of each director’s approach toward competition law compliance; and 2) to further enhance their awareness of these efforts. The results of these reviews are being leveraged for a variety of Plea Agreement with U.S. Department of Reference Justice concerning ceramic substrates for purposes, such as operating and improving the competition law compliance URL catalytic converters program. https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/news/20150904_9235.html Strengthening Our Compliance System Related to Competition Laws Year conducted Regulation development Creation of internal systems Training • Formulated guidebook and briefing document for • Required each business group to submit a • Lectures on the Anti-Monopoly Act by outside FY1997 the Anti-Monopoly Act Compliance Status Report on the Anti-Monopoly Act instructors (attorneys) (subsequently held annually) FY2011 • Formulated Competition Laws Compliance Rules • Created and distributed the Competition Laws • In-house training led by legal department staff Compliance Handbook • Lectures by local attorneys held at Group companies FY2012 • Established an independent committee • Created and distributed an Appendix to the outside Japan Competition Laws Compliance Handbook • Conducted briefing on the Competition Laws FY2013 Compliance Handbook • Invited U.S. attorneys to lecture on competition laws • Revised Competition Laws Compliance Rules • Introduced company-wide centralized supervision • Conducted study meetings for newly appointed directors • Launched operation of a database for advanced and reporting structures led by the Board of Directors on competition laws and the Companies Act by Japanese notifications and participation reports pertaining (independent of the President) and U.S. attorneys (subsequently held annually) FY2014 to meetings • Appointed company-wide competition laws • Conducted study meetings on competition laws • Launched operation of an e-mail monitoring system supervisory managers at Group companies outside Japan (corresponding • Revised Competition Laws Compliance Rules at • Enhanced the helpline to laws and regulations in each country) North American sales subsidiaries • The Competition Laws Compliance Program was • Competition Laws Compliance Rules of all NGK resolved by the Board of Directors • Conducted study meetings on competition laws for Group companies in and outside Japan were • Established the Global Compliance Office new employees revised to ensure that the NGK Group’s compliance • Contracted Pricewaterhouse Coopers to review the • Distributed a DVD on competition laws to Group FY2015 system meets global standards implementation status of the NGK Group’s competition companies in Japan • Revised the Compliance Laws Compliance law compliance program and assess the overall • Upgraded training on compliance with competition Handbook oversight and reporting structures in place for NGK laws provided in and outside Japan Group companies • Progress status of the competition law compliance program was quarterly reported to the Business Ethics • Expanded seminars led by attorneys in Asia • The U.S. version and Chinese version of the Committee, which is composed mainly of external • Held seminars on the Companies Act and competition laws Competition Laws Compliance Handbook were FY2016 directors. The program was promoted based on for newly appointed executive officers created and distributed to Group companies suggestions received from the Committee. • Prepared online-based training aimed at realizing broader in the U.S. and China, respectively • Retained PwC Advisory to assess the status of training programs (Implemented in fiscal 2017 in Japan) competition law compliance • Operating manual for database used to document • Top management of headquarters, business groups, FY2017 competition law compliance underwent and Group companies provided notifications about • Online seminars provided to 861 employees in Japan maintenance and updating compliance with competition laws at beginning of term • Clarified items that should be reported to the hotline when there were violations or fear of • Top management of headquarters, business groups, • Held seminars on the Companies Act and competition violation of competition laws, and revised and Group companies provided notifications about laws for newly appointed directors and executive officers FY2018 Competition Laws Compliance Rules compliance with competition laws at beginning • Held competition law compliance lectures. • Created a working manual for compliance with of term All executives and managers attended. competition laws • Held seminars on the Companies Act and competition laws for newly appointed executive officers • Held competition law compliance lectures. All managers • Revised Competition Laws Compliance Rules at • Top management of headquarters, business groups, and those designated by competition law compliance FY2019 NGK Electronics Devices, Inc. to strengthen that and Group companies provided notifications about managers attended. subsidiary’s competition laws compliance system compliance with competition laws at beginning of term • Information session provided regarding the Competition Laws Compliance Handbook’s key points (on competitor information when creating email and documentation) Note: Items in blue continue every year NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 116 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Strict Adherence to Laws and Regulations Relating to Export Management As part of its full compliance efforts, NGK is engaged in strictly observing and enforcing laws and regulations related to import and export control. Based on the NGK Group Code of Conduct, we stipulate abidance with laws and regulations related to secure export control, and we carry out export control and employee training in accordance with internal rules and the Export/Import Handbook. Using Databases to Conduct Comprehensive Inspections and Customs Management In response to the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other export control-related laws and regulations, NGK has screened exports to determine whether export licenses are required and has recorded screening results in a security export control database. However, since October 16, 2017, we have moved to a security export control system (TPP) and are performing management via this new system. Furthermore, export management with respect to the export of certain products is conducted under the Japanese government’s AEO (authorized economic operator) Program. We have used an export/import cargo management ledger to fulfill our obligations to track and record imports and exports; however, since our switch to a security export control system (TPP), we have been using the system’s shipment ledger to track and record exports. We continue to use an import cargo control ledger for imports. Each department performs voluntary inspections of imports and exports under the AEO Program at the start of the fiscal year. In addition, we use NACCS data (Nippon Automated Cargo and Port Consolidated System) to verify the completeness of export/import cargo management ledgers and shipment ledgers. We have achieved nearly 100% completeness for both imports and exports. Familiarization with the Export/Import Handbook NGK also makes efforts toward thorough compliance with the Export/Import Handbook, which was published in fiscal 2012 and summarizes items for the observance of export/import customs clearance regulations. In addition to publishing this handbook on the company intranet where it can be viewed throughout the entire company, we provide training to spread awareness of the content of the handbook through study meetings related to export/import management conducted in each business division. Study meetings on the AEO Program and export/import management are held one or more times per year targeting relevant staff in divisions responsible for export and import Export/Import activities. In fiscal 2019, these meetings were held 31 times, with Handbook 568 employees in attendance. Privacy Policy and Organization for Personal Information Protection The NGK Group has established internal rules in an effort to ensure strict handling and management of personal information obtained from customers. In fiscal 2015, NGK formulated and published our Basic Policy on the Proper Handling of Specific Personal Information in response to the enforcement of the Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in Administrative Procedures. Moreover, our policies are in full compliance with the revised Act on the Protection of Personal Information, which came into effect on May 30, 2017. Reference Protection of personal information URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/utpolicy/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 117 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Information Security Policy and Structure Within the NGK Group, proper management and operation of information assets is a collaborative effort carried out by the General Affairs and Information Technology Departments, in conjunction with other relevant administrative divisions and in line with the Basic NGK Group Information Security Policy. Every year, personnel of NGK’s Information Technology Department visit several Group companies to conduct on-site checks and provide guidance on their implementation of IT security measures. In fiscal 2019, eleven Group companies outside Japan and one Group company in Japan received such inspections. Reference Basic NGK Group Information Security Policy URL https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/policies/ Formulation of Basic NGK Group IT Security Standards The rapid advance in information communication technologies and devices has made the quest for consistent IT security on a Group-wide level an urgent concern, thus in fiscal 2010 we formulated the NGK Group IT Security Standards with the goal of developing an IT security structure based on commonly shared Group standards and enhancing IT security. Every year, each Group company drafts action plans for the enactment of countermeasures in an attempt to systematically strengthen security. Through these action plans, NGK confirms initiatives at each Group company and provides guidance as necessary. Information Security Training Number of participants: 143 Training for newly hired employees (participation rate: 100%) Training sessions listed at the right are conducted Training for newly promoted Number of participants: 115 supervisors (participation rate: 100%) throughout the year to ensure strict adherence to Training for newly promoted Number of participants: 50 information security among all employees. managers (participation rate: 100%) Training for newly hired employees and newly Number of participants: 5,215 promoted supervisors and managers are offered to NGK E-learning (participation rate: 100%) employees while e-learning is offered to NGK employees Note: Excluding employees who were away on maternity leave, and employees of some Group companies in Japan. childcare leave, long-term business trips, etc. Status of Law and Regulation Violations There were no material violations of laws or regulations within the NGK Group in fiscal 2019. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 118 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Risk Management Approach to Risk Management The NGK Group addresses the issue of serious risk by empowering the following committees to facilitate risk avoidance and prevention, in accordance with the Basic Rules of Crisis Management. Additionally, in the event of some particularly significant risk, the executive officer in charge of the Corporate Planning Office can call a meeting, which would include the president, to develop countermeasures. In times of increasing socio-economic uncertainty, it is important to have a heightened awareness of risk and to act before risks turn into crises. Therefore, in addition to the six committees, which we maintain in order to oversee matters of day-to-day risk, we also have in place a system by which top management can coordinate a rapid response to growing risks. Risk Management Framework Chart President Serious crisis control situations BCP situations Response Committee BCP Countermeasures Headquarters Chair: President Headquarters chief: President Standard crisis management Compliance Committee HR Committee Chair: Director and Senior Vice President Chair: Executive Vice President Safety and Health Committee Central Disaster Prevention and Control Headquarters Chair: Executive Vice President Headquarters chief: Executive officer Quality Committee Environmental Protection Committee Chair: Executive Vice President Chair: Executive Vice President Risk Identification Process All risks discovered through the standard risk management process, which have the potential to affect the operational or financial situation of the Group are collected and reevaluated in order to identify any which may be serious risks. The ESG Committee will then deliberate and designate those risks that need to be managed by the Group as a whole. Deliberation by Risk collection and list-making Evaluation of risks senior management Risks from existing activities are collected and made Each risk is evaluated along a standardized ESG Committee deliberation is into a list evaluation axis, and serious risks are identified followed by a report to the Board of Directors and Executive Committee 5 10 3 0 Newness of risk Existing risk management activities Degree of impact 4 12 8 0 CSA questionnaire, compliance 3 28 17 9 1 awareness survey 2 29 30 11 2 Special risk examination sheet Risk list 1 28 30 25 1 2 3 Scope of risk Information relevant to the 3 creation of securities reports Frequency of occurrence Information relevant to the 4 creation of integrated reports The NGK Group uses the above results to create a risk heat map NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 119 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Risks, Risk Summaries, Risk Responses 1 Business operation risks 2 R&D-related risks 3 Legal compliance, human rights and safety, and quality-related risks 4 Information systems-related risks 5 Currency exchange, capital, and procurement-related risks 6 Climate change and disaster-related risks Risk Summary Response All operations • Demonstrations, terrorism, war, infectious or communicable disease, and other unforeseen matters • Construct globally distributed, alternative systems ❶ Ceramic Products Business • Drop in demand for NGK Group products due to decline in demand for internal combustion • Compensate for drop in demand by increasing number of new and high-performance engine vehicles products in line with stronger exhaust regulations • Drop in market share due to rising competition from Chinese market • Strengthen competitiveness via technical responsiveness that anticipates environmental regulations, and via supply stability • Inability to recover prior investment due to downturn in business, delayed timing of • Respond appropriately to automaker planning and changing business conditions, and then regulations, or other factors make revisions to capital investment planning ❷ Process Technology Business • Deterioration in performance and financial status due to declining demand for • Work together with direct customers who manufacture semiconductor manufacturing semiconductors equipment, and make revisions to equipment capacity and personnel and production • Delayed responsiveness to customer needs systems, etc., where appropriate 1 • Emergence of innovative semiconductor manufacturing process • Carefully monitor semiconductor manufacturing process trends and revise production systems where appropriate to ensure quick response to changes in demand • Drop in market share due to growth of competition in kilns for lithium-ion battery cathode • Carefully monitor customer trends and pursue production system innovation where materials and electronic components appropriate to ensure quick response to changes in demand ❸ Electronics Business • Sudden drop in base station and data server demand • Carefully monitor customer trends and pursue production system innovation where appropriate to ensure quick response to changes in demand • Inability to develop new technology or release products compatible with customer technology • Carefully monitor customer trends and pursue timely technological development innovations ❹ Energy Infrastructure Business • Change in energy policies overseas • Carefully monitor energy policy trends in each country and revise production systems where appropriate to ensure quick response to changes in demand • Trends among competitor companies and products • Strengthen competitiveness via technical responsiveness and supply stability • Delay in timing of market expansion for large-capacity and long-life batteries • Carefully monitor customer trends and revise production systems where appropriate to ensure quick response to changes in demand 2 • Inability to achieve adequate results with the input received due to increasingly complicated • Continue to receive input not only for increasing performance of existing products but also for technological competition finding promising new topics to explore ❶ Legal compliance-related risks • Decline in NGK Group’s reputation due to actions in opposition to society’s expectations with • Utilize employee training and handbook distribution to ensure employees are familiar with regard to legal and regulatory compliance, respect for human rights, contract compliance, relevant laws and regulations and have a more compliance-focused mindset etc. • With regard to serious improprieties or legal/regulatory violations, undertake prevention and monitoring overseen by Business Ethics Committee, which comprises outside directors and compliance officers ❷ Human rights and safety-related risks 3 • Human rights violations of workers in supply chain • Employee occupational hazards, illness, or physical and mental health problems • Undertake human rights due diligence via HR Committee • In accordance with NGK Safety and Health Policy, identify serious hazard risks and use risk assessment to facilitate strengthening of preventative measures • Follow up on employees who work long hours, and conduct job grade-specific mental health education ❸ Quality-related risks • Quality-related risks such as loss of trust or profits, or contraction in growth, due to serious • Have Quality Management Department perform monitoring of each Business Group’s quality market complaint, contractual violation, or other unsatisfactory operations activities, in line with NGK Quality Policy and under direct supervision of senior management • Regarding serious issues, convene quality review meetings in order to find a solution quickly • Negative impact on societal trust or business continuity due to shutdown of data processing, • Construct IT security system standardized for entire Group 4 or to theft, destruction, manipulation, loss, etc., of data, following external cyber-attack or unauthorized system access, or after unexpected system failure or security issue • Conduct information security training for employees • Decreased sales and profits and deterioration of business performance due to strong yen • Keep production close to local demand centers, perform financing in local currency, and • Risk of negative impact on business operations, performance, and financial situation of NGK optimize purchasing according to currency exchange situation 5 Group as a result of financing difficulties stemming from serious regional financial crises and other factors • Hedge risks with forward foreign exchange contracts and other financial instruments • Rising production costs due to rising raw materials prices • Reflect risk in sale price to customer • Reduce costs through competitive purchasing, increased productivity, and other means • Deterioration in business performance due to additional costs incurred by future international • Invest time and resources into developing and popularizing products and services that reduce GHG regulations, environmental taxes, carbon taxes, etc. environmental impact, and into developing and introducing high-efficiency, environmentally friendly production technology • Operational decline due to global warming-caused sea level rise, increased size and • Announced endorsement in February 2020 of Task Force on Climate-related Financial 6 magnitude of typhoons, increased frequency of local torrential rains, etc. Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. Begin taking concrete action • Deterioration in business performance due to shutdown of production following major • Promote business continuity plan (BCP) for entire Group disaster, fire, or other serious incident or accident • Decline in operations and negative impact on product manufacturing and sales due to emergence and spread of major infectious disease, such as new strain of influenza or coronavirus NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 120 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Legal Risk Management at Group Companies Outside Japan The NGK Group is engaged in strengthening its ascertainment of legal risk management status in overseas business to minimize the globalizing and diversifying risks associated with business expansion. We ask all Group companies outside Japan to report information pertaining to the status of lawsuits, legal affairs and consultation with lawyers twice a year, and helpline usage, export controls and access to legal-related information once a year. Major issues found in such reports are reported to the Compliance Subcommittee and CSR Committee to share information. Consultations from bases outside Japan are handled by lawyers and legal departments to avoid risks. Identifying and Preventing Risks Based on Questionnaire As part of efforts to enhance risk management practices, in fiscal 2019 NGK and its Group companies in Japan conducted the second CRS (Corporate Risk Survey). Combining the previously administered CSA (Control Self-Assessment) questionnaire and the compliance awareness survey, the CRS checks the understanding of respondents regarding the possibility of risk and its implications with the goal of grasping and preventing various potential risks arising from daily business operations. Based on the results of the survey, the relevant divisions and departments create measures to reduce risks. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 121 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Initiatives At NGK, we have established the BCP Countermeasures Headquarters as an organization for leading business continuity and quick recovery, under the direction of the president, in the event of a large-scale natural disaster, and we are promoting BCP for the Group as a whole. Measures include the establishment of multiple manufacturing bases and procurement sources, damage mitigation measures related to buildings and equipment, and employee safety assurance. We conduct emergency drills assuming a major disaster with the aim of enhancing our responsiveness and adaptability in the event of a disaster crisis. In the drill, participants are instructed to take real actions faithfully according to the plan, through which we identify in detail issues related to each process and procedure and use the findings to improve the BCP. BCP Organizational Structure Legal Affairs Committee BCP Countermeasures Headquarters Financial Affairs Committee Headquarters chief President Public Affairs Committee Members • Executive Vice Presidents • Compliance Committee Chairperson IT Committee • Group executives • General Manger of the Central Disaster • Executive Officers responsible for the relevant Prevention and Control Headquarters SCM Committee divisions of each committee • Others designated by the headquarters chief • Corporate Planning Office Executive Officer Human Resources Dept./General Affairs Dept. Secretariat Corporate Planning Office Engineering Committee Business Measures Committee Central Disaster Control Headquarters Secretariat Global Engineering Center In the event of an emergency or disaster, the Central Disaster Prevention and Control Headquarters will switch over to the Central Disaster Control Headquarters to respond to the disaster. FY2019 Initiatives • Invited disaster preparedness experts to present lectures aimed at heightening the crisis management mindset among headquarters Education members • Hosted Web-based seminars on disaster preparedness and other topics for branches in and outside Japan • Held disaster preparedness workshops aimed at key personnel in each division Awareness • Distributed a disaster preparedness and emergency response guidebook to all employees of the NGK Group in Japan • Invited disaster preparedness experts to come and hold disaster preparedness workshops aimed at key personnel in each division Improvement • Revised our training scenarios to make them more effective • Established systems for facilitating the simple and handy purchase of disaster preparedness equipment and supplies for NGK Group Other employees Future Initiatives • Initiatives aimed at resolving BCP-related issues brought into relief through workshops • Ongoing disaster preparedness and BCP capacity assessment • Improve the level of training and increase BCP effectiveness • Ongoing household disaster preparedness support initiatives (seminars, disaster preparedness supplies sales events, etc.) focused on ensuring that respect for human life remains the top priority of BCP Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the NGK Group activated its BCP in April 2020. Along with gathering and sharing up-to-date information about the current situation, ensuring employees are familiar with information about infection prevention, encouraging telecommuting and other options, and distributing surgical masks to employees, we are monitoring factors that hinder business activity and are developing response measures for them. All of these actions are being taken from an “employee and community safety-first” mindset, and they are aimed at ensuring we can continue our business activities in a socially responsible manner. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 122 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Intellectual Property Management The NGK Group encourages the creation of intellectual property (IP) rights and works to ensure proper protection and use of IP rights. In addition, based on the policy of respect for the rights of others and ourselves, it aims for a strategic patent network to be built within the close cooperation between the Intellectual Property Department and other divisions such as Business, Research and Development, and Technology Divisions. Specifically, it features a patent mapping function to present the internal and external patent landscape of specific technology areas using charts and graphs, which can be easily shared within the Group. To prevent patent infringement risks, we regularly conduct patent monitoring of other companies for product families and development themes to update our database. Change in the Number of Patents Held Number of Patents Held As of March 31, 2020 3,513 (No.) 5,000 National patents 4,346 4,485 4,134 4,186 of Japan 4,042 4,485 4,000 3,513 Foreign patents 3,000 3,352 3,191 2,907 3,038 2,000 1,000 0 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 National patents of Japan Foreign patents Intellectual Property Management System Integrated management of intellectual property for the entire NGK Group is carried out by the Intellectual Property Department. This department also pursues intellectual property-related activities in conjunction with various other departments and divisions. President Head Office Intellectual Property Department IP Planning and Administration Group Information Utilization Group Intellectual Property Group Responsibilities of the Intellectual Property Department Application for/acquisition of IP rights (patent, utility model, design): Establish IP rights for NGK’s research and development achievements to safeguard corporate assets on a legal basis Patent search: Analyze the current patent landscape of other companies to prevent patent infringement risks Administration and operation of patent management systems Administrative work relating to acquired patent rights, including maintenance of rights, operation of the employee invention compensation system, and cooperation with patent law firms Application for/acquisition and maintenance of trademark rights for corporate logos and product trade names and marks Copyright In-house training of intellectual property NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 123 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Promoting Intellectual Property Training Training for Young Engineers E-learning and seminars are provided with the aim of providing basic training for young engineers and of up-skilling for patent applicants. Also, focusing primarily on young engineers in the Research and Development Department, trainings in patent search methods are conducted. These methods are taught via individual, computer-based practical training. IP Training Provided in FY2019 Intended participants Number of participants Patent Act introductory e-learning Young engineers 71 Seminars on the patent system (Patent I/II/III) Young engineers 151 Seminars to acquire skills for using the IP search program Employees in charge, engineers 74 Young engineers in the Business and 113 Small-group workshops the Research and Development Divisions (total for 11 sessions) Employee Invention Compensation System to Provide Incentives for Employee Inventions In order to further encourage employees to create outstanding inventions, a revamped employee invention compensation system was launched in April 2019, which is divided into four categories: application incentives, registration incentives, implementation incentives, and excellent invention incentives. The aim of the newly established “excellent invention incentives” category is to recognize, via a substantial financial reward and commendation, the contributions inventors of particularly outstanding inventions have made to NGK. Recipients are presented with either the Contributory Invention Award, which recognizes patents that have contributed significantly to business performance, and the Innovative Invention Award, which recognizes patents and patent applications for truly innovative inventions. In fiscal 2019, after repeated and meticulous scrutiny of the applications from inventors, two applicants were chosen for the Contributory Invention Award and three for the Innovative Invention Award. Responding to Intellectual Property Risks Outside Japan To support our business for automotive exhaust purification ceramic products, for which we conduct manufacturing on a global scale, we have built a mechanism for properly managing inventions at overseas plants. NGK promotes the practice of intellectual property management overseas at the same high level as in Japan. “Patent Searching Know-How” Special Lecture Delivered at Outside Seminar At the Nagoya Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Naka Ward in Nagoya City) JPDS Fair in Nagoya (sponsored by Japan Patent Data Service Company), a special lecture was provided by Yohei Seguchi of the Information Utilization Group. Japan Patent Data Service (JPDS) is a company specialized in providing intellectual property information services, patent management systems, and other resources. It holds the JPDS Fair every year in order to outline its products and to introduce new services and functionality. The theme of Seguchi’s talk was “Important Considerations when Performing Patent Searches with NewCSS*”. He discussed various topics, such as NGK’s patent search activities and important points to remember when setting patent search queries. *NewCSS is the name of the patent data service. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 124 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index GRI Content Index 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Page GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 1 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization • Corporate Outline (P132) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services • Creating Value (P2-3) 102-3 Location of headquarters • Corporate Outline (P132) 102-4 Location of operations • Corporate Outline (P132) 102-5 Ownership and legal form • Corporate Outline (P132) 102-6 Markets served • Corporate Outline (P132) • Annual Securities Report, Overview of Business (P5) (Japanese) 102-7 Scale of the organization • Corporate Outline (P132) • Creating Value (P2-3) • Annual Securities Report, Financial Highlights (P2-3) (Japanese) 102-8 Information on employees and other workers • Overview of Employees (P51-53) 102-9 Supply chain − 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its NA supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach • ESG Management (P10-11) • Risk Management (P119-121) 102-12 External initiatives • NGK Group Signs UN Global Compact (P11) • Position on SDGs (P12) • Preventing Global Warming (P24) • Protecting Biodiversity (P31) 102-13 Membership of associations • NGK Group Signs UN Global Compact (P11) • Preventing Global Warming (P24) 2 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker • Message from the President (P4-9) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities • Creating Value (P2-3) • Risk Management (P119-121) 3 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior • NGK Group Philosophy (P1) • ESG Management (P10-11) • Environmental Philosophy (P14) • NGK Group Code of Conduct (P110-111) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics • Whistleblowing System (P113) 4 Governance 102-18 Governance structure • Corporate Governance System (P88) 102-19 Delegating authority • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System (P17) • Corporate Governance System (P88) 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, • ESG Management (P10-11) environmental, and social topics • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System (P17) • Corporate Governance System (P88) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 125 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System (P17) environmental,and social topics • Basic Policies (P87) • Corporate Governance System (P88) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body • Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers (P95-99) and its committees • Annual Securities Report, Status of Officers (P76-81) (Japanese) 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body • Committees on Corporate Governance (P89) • Annual Securities Report, Overview of Corporate Governance (P67) (Japanese) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance • Election of Board Members, Executive Officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P92) body • Corporate Governance Report, Views on the Balance Between Knowledge, Experience, and Skills of the Board of Directors as a Whole, and Diversity and Size of the Board (P5) • Corporate Governance Report, Matters Concerning Functions of Business Execution, Audit and Supervision, Nomination, Determination of Remuneration, etc. (P19) 102-25 Conflicts of interest • Election of Board Members, Executive Officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P92) • Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers (P95-99) • Reasons for Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P103) 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body • Seminars Promote Understanding of LGBT Issues (P61) 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance • Evaluation on the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors (P93) 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, • ESG Management (P10-11) and social impacts • Evaluation on the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors (P93) 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes • Risk Management (P119-121) 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns • Risk Management (P119-121) 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies • Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P100-101) 102-36 Process for determining remuneration • Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P100-101) 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration • Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P100-101) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio • Basic Information on Employees>Employee Status (P52) • Remuneration of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (P100-101) 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 5 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups • Communication with Stakeholders (P40-41) 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements • Labor Union (P74) • Annual Securities Report, Overview of Employees (P12) (Japanese) 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders • Communication with Stakeholders (P40-41) 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement • Communication with Stakeholders (P40-41) 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised • System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management (P50) • Communication Activities with Procurement Partners (P78) 6 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements • Corporate Outline (P132) 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 126 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index 102-47 List of material topics • Key ESG Action Themes (P11) 102-48 Restatements of information NA 102-49 Changes in reporting • Key ESG Action Themes (P11) 102-50 Reporting period • Target Period (P135) 102-51 Date of most recent report • NGK Report Archive https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/backnumber.html 102-52 Reporting cycle • NGK Report Archive https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/backnumber.html 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report • For inquiries about this report (Back cover) • Inquiries about sustainability https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/contact/sustainability.html 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index • GRI Content Index (P125-131) 102-56 External assurance • Independent Practitioner’s Assurance (P134) 103 Management Approach GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary • Key ESG Action Themes (P11) 103-2 The management approach and its components • ESG Management (P10-11) • NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment (P14) • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan (P15) • Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System (P17) • Activities for Achieving the Aichi Targets (P31) • Communication with Stakeholders (P40) • Quality Policy, Quality Objectives 2020 (P43) • System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management (P50) • Structure to Promote Safety and Health Management (P54) • System to Promote Diversity (P61) • Supply Chain Management System (P75) • Social Contribution Activity Promotion System (P79) • Corporate Governance System (P88) • NGK Group Code of Conduct (P110) • Compliance Promotion Structure (P112) • Whistleblowing System (P113) • Corruption Prevention Structure (P115) • Risk Management (P119) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report (P16) 200 Economic GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed • Annual Securities Report, Corporate Overview (P2) (Japanese) 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and • Creating Value (P2-3) opportunities due to climate change • Risk Management of Water Resources and Response (P30) • Risks, Risk Summaries, Risk Responses (P120) 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other • Annual Securities Report, Defined Benefit System (P122) (Japanese) retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government • Annual Securities Report, Consolidated Income Statement (P94) (Japanese) GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 127 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported • Creating Value (P2-3) • NGK Report 2020, At a Glance (P59) 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption • Thorough Enforcement of Compliance (P110-118) policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken NA GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, • Status of Law and Regulation Violations (P118) anti-trust,and monopoly practices GRI 207: Tax 2019 207-1 Approach to tax 207-2 Tax governance, control, and risk management 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concernsrelated to tax 207-4 Country-by-country reporting 300 Environmental GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) 301-2 Recycled input materials used • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report>Recycling Rate (P16) GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • INPUT (P23) 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • INPUT (P23) 302-3 Energy intensity • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report (P16) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report (P16) 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource • Risk Management of Water Resources and Response (P30) 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts • Regulatory Compliance (P19) 303-3 Water withdrawal • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact>Water Withdrawal by Source, Water Discharge by Destination, Recycled Amount, Recycling Rate (P21-22) 303-4 Water discharge • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact>Water Withdrawal by Source, Water Discharge by Destination, Recycled Amount, Recycling Rate (P21-22) NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 128 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index 303-5 Water consumption • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • INPUT (P23) • Risk Management of Water Resources and Response (P30) GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, • Biodiversity Survey of Company-Owned Site (P32) or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored • Employee Volunteering (P32) 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope1) GHG emissions • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • OUTPUT (P23) 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • OUTPUT (P23) • Introduction of Green Power (P28) 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact>Reporting Scope 3 CO2 Emissions (P21-22) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity • Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with Manufacturing Activities (P24-25) 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions • Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Progress Report (P16) • Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions and Effects (P25) • Reduction of CO2 from Logistics (P27) • Environmental Efficiency (P38) 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) impacts • Promoting Effective Use of Resources (P29) 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts • Promoting Effective Use of Resources (P29) 306-3 Waste generated • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • OUTPUT (P23) • Promoting Effective Use of Resources>Amount of discarded materials generated / basic unit per net sales (P29) 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • OUTPUT (P23) • Promoting Resource Recycling (P29) 306-5 Waste directed to disposal • Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact (P21-22) • OUTPUT (P23) GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations NA GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using • Promotion of CSR Procurement (P77-78) environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 129 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index 400 Social GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover • Basic Information on Employees>Turnover Ratio (P52) • Diversity>New Graduate Hires (P61) 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are • Enhancement of Work-Life Balance Systems (P67) not provided to temporary or part-time employees • Systems Operated Independently by NGK (P68) 401-3 Parental leave • Overview of Childrearing Support Measures and Users (P68) GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57) 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57) 403-3 Occupational health services • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57) • Health Management (P58-60) 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57) communication on occupational health and safety • Health Management (P58-60) 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57) • Health Management (P58-60) 403-6 Promotion of worker health • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57) • Health Management (P58-60) 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57) safety management system • Health Management (P58-60) 403-9 Work-related injuries • Work-Related Accidents, Lost Worktime Accidents and Non-Lost Worktime Accidents by Type, Severity Rate (number of lost workdays per 1,000 hours worked), Rate of Lost-Worktime Injuries (number of lost-worktime accidents per a million hours worked), Number of Deaths from Work-Related Accidents (P54-57) 403-10 Work-related ill health • Occupational Safety and Health (P54-57)>Rate of Occupational Disease GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee • Training Participant Summary (P70) 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and • Human Resource Development (P70-73) transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular • Human Resource Development (P70-73) performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees • Diversity (P61-65) • Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board, Executive Officers (P95-99) • Corporate Governance Report, Views on the Balance Between Knowledge, Experience, and Skills of the Board of Directors as a Whole, and Diversity and Size of the Board (P5) 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 130 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for • Human Rights (P42) incidents of child labor • Promotion of CSR Procurement (P76-77) GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for • Human Rights (P42) incidents of forced or compulsory labor • Promotion of CSR Procurement (P76-77) GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples NA GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights • Human Rights (P42) reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures • Human Rights (P42) 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, • Social Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Local Communities and NPOs (P81-83) impact assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria • Promotion of CSR Procurement (P76-77) 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions • Political Contributions (P115) GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of • Quality Activity System (P44) productand service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health NA and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product NA and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing NA communications GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of • Status of Law and Regulation Violations (P118) customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the NA socialand economic area NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 131 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Corporate Outline (as of March 31, 2020) Corporate Outline Company name NGK Insulators, Ltd. Consolidated 55 subsidiaries Address 2-56 Suda-cho, Mizuho, Nagoya 467-8530, Japan Telephone + (81) 52-872-7181 Equity-method 2 affiliates Established May 5, 1919 Employees NGK 4,224 Paid-in capital 69.8 billion yen Consolidated 20,000 Net sales 442.0 billion yen Stock 5333 (consolidated, for FY2019) Exchange Code NGK Group Website This is the Sustainability Data Book 2020, a report on NGK’s sustainability-related efforts. Our website also has sustainability information, in addition to detailed corporate information and investor relations. Sustainability About NGK Investor Relations English English English https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/sustainability/ https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/info/ https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ir/ Japanese Japanese Japanese https://www.ngk.co.jp/sustainability/ https://www.ngk.co.jp/info/ https://www.ngk.co.jp/ir/ NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 132 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index NGK Group NGK Insulators Head Office / Tokyo Main Office / Osaka Branch / Chita Site / Komaki Site / Ishikawa Plant / Sapporo Sales Office / Sendai Sales Office / Hokuriku Sales Office / Hiroshima Sales Office / Takamatsu Sales Office / Fukuoka Sales Office Group Companies ■ Japan ENERGY SUPPORT CORPORATION / KANSAI ENERGYS CORPORATION KYUSHU ENERGYS CO., LTD. / HOKURIKU ENERGYS CORPORATION ENERGYS SANGYO CORPORATION / AKECHI INSULATORS, LTD. NGK OKHOTSK, LTD. / NGK METEX CORPORATION NGK FINE MOLDS, LTD. / NGK CERAMIC DEVICE CO., LTD. NGK ELECTRONICS DEVICES, INC. / SOSHIN ELECTRIC CO., LTD. SOSHIN DEVICE CO., LTD. / SOSHIN POWERTECH CO., LTD. RISSHIN ELECTRONICS CO., LTD. / NGK CHEMITECH, LTD. NGK FILTECH, LTD. / NGK ADREC CO., LTD. NGK Head Office NGK KILNTECH CORPORATION / NGK SPORTS PLANNING CO., LTD. NGK LIFE CO., LTD. / NGK YU-SERVICE CO., LTD. / NGK LOGISTICS, LTD. ■ America NGK-LOCKE, INC. / NGK CERAMICS USA, INC. NGK AUTOMOTIVE CERAMICS USA, INC. / NGK MATERIAL USA, INC. NGK CERAMICS MEXICO, S. DE R.L. DE C.V. NGK METALS CORPORATION / NGK INSULATORS OF CANADA, LTD. FM INDUSTRIES, INC. / NGK ELECTRONICS USA, INC. SOSHIN ELECTRONICS OF AMERICA INC. ■ Europe, Africa NGK ITALY S.R.L. / NGK BERYLCO U.K. LTD. / NGK CERAMICS EUROPE S.A. NGK EUROPE GMBH / NGK DEUTSCHE BERYLCO GMBH NGK BERYLCO FRANCE / NGK CERAMICS POLSKA SP. Z O.O. NGK CERAMICS SOUTH AFRICA (PTY) LTD. SOSHIN ELECTRONICS EUROPE GMBH ■ Asia, Oceania NGK INSULATORS (CHINA) INVESTMENT CO., LTD. NGK CERAMICS SUZHOU CO., LTD. / NGK TECHNOCERA SUZHOU CO., LTD. NGK AUTOMOTIVE CERAMICS KOREA CO., LTD. P.T. NGK CERAMICS INDONESIA / SIAM NGK TECHNOCERA CO., LTD. NGK CERAMICS (THAILAND) CO., LTD. NGK TECHNOLOGIES INDIA PVT. LTD. / NGK STANGER PTY. LTD. ENERGYS ELECTRIC SHANGHAI CORPORATION NGK ENERGYS MYANMAR CO., LTD. / SOSHIN ELECTRONICS (HK) LIMITED SOSHIN ELECTRONICS (SZ) LIMITED / TAIWAN SOSHIN ELECTRIC CO., LTD. SOSHIN ELECTRONICS (M) SDN. BHD. NGK ELECTRONICS DEVICES (M) SDN. BHD. NGK GLOBETRONICS TECHNOLOGY SDN. BHD. NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 133 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index Independent Practitioner’s Assurance NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 134 NGK Group Profile Environmental Social Governance Content Index External Evaluation / Editorial Policy External Evaluation In September 2019, NGK was selected for the 4th consecutive Japan’s Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF); the MSCI year for the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index in the Japan Empowering Women (WIN) Index; and the 2020 Certified Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, a major index for socially Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organizations responsible investment. Recognition Program (White 500), managed by Japan’s Ministry NGK has been honored with other selections. These include of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Nippon Kenko the MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index, an operator of Kaigi. Ministry of Health, Labor and Ministry of Health, Labor Welfare “L-boshi” certification of and Welfare corporate excellence in the Next-generation support promotion of women’s active certification logo “Kurumin” participation Certification level 3 Editorial Policy The NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 reports details of the ■ Forward-looking Statements NGK Group’s ESG information. Stakeholders can find separate This report contains forward-looking statements such as information on what strengths the NGK Group has to offer, how performance forecasts. These forward-looking statements are we are creating value, how we plan to grow further, and how we based on things such as information currently available to NGK are contributing to sustainable development of society and the and on certain assumptions judged to be rational. Please note entire world in the NGK Report 2020. This data book has been that actual performance may differ from forecasts due to various prepared and edited in line with the Global Reporting Initiative unforeseen reasons. (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. ■ Target Organization Indicated along with each article and data report included in this data book. ■ Target Period April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 NGK Sustainability Data Book 2020 135 For inquiries about this report, please contact Corporate Communications Department Te l: +(81) 52-872-7181 E-mail: pr-office@ngk.co.jp 2-56, Suda-cho, Mizuho, Nagoya 467-8530, Japan Fax: +(81) 52-872-7690 https://www.ngk-insulators.com/en/ NAS, HONEYCERAM, HICERAM, and EnerCera are trademarks of NGK INSULATORS, LTD., registered in the U.S. Plate making: This report has been published using computer-to-plate (CTP) technology to eliminate the need for the film and other materials required in the conventional platemaking process. Printing: A waterless printing method has been adopted to significantly reduce the usage of developer chemicals and processing water, thereby decreasing the amount of hazardous eﬄuent, compared with conventional methods. Ink: To replace petroleum-based inks, vegetable-based inks with the volatile organic compounds (VOCs) content reduced to below 1% have been employed. Design: This report has been designed, with a focus on typeface, color scheme and diagram style, to improve legibility and readability. Published in October 2020
