Communication on Progress (CoP) 2019 DHC Business Solutions GmbH & Co. KG | Landwehrplatz 6-7 | D-66111 Saarbrücken Geschäftsführer | Managing Directors: Dr. Rudi Herterich, Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer Telefon | Phone +49 6 81 9 36 66-0 | Fax +49 6 81 / 9 36 66-33 Web www.dhc-vision.com | mail: info@dhc-gmbh.com Handelsregister | Commercial Register: HRA 11150 Saarbrücken Bankverbindung | Bank Details: Deutsche Bank AG |IBAN: DE48 5907 0000 0011 3530 00 BIC/SWIFT: DEUTDE5M555 Umsatzsteuer-Ident.Nr | VAT Number: DE 224806460 DHC Business Solutions GmbH & Co. KG | Landwehrplatz 6-7 | 66111 Saarbrücken/Germany Statement of Continued Support Saarbrucken, 06 June 2020 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that DHC Business Solutions reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Dr. Rudi Herterich | Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer Managing Directors Page 2 of 5 Company Profile DHC Business Solutions, a Germany-based technology and services company, offers state-of-the-art business software and consulting services in governance, risk and compliance (GRC) as well as process and quality management. The company develops comprehensive GRC solutions based on its standard software product DHC VISION. As Integrated Management System (IMS), the software enables organizations to manage business processes, to comply with regulatory requirements, to manage risks and opportunities, to improve corporate communication and internal collaboration, and to enhance their capacity for effective corporate management. With its interdisciplinary IMS-approach and its high flexibility in platform configuration, DHC VISION certainly figures among the most advanced systems available on the market. DHC also provides business and technical consultancy services for software implementation. With a background of more than 20 years of experience in the fields of process management, quality management, and GRC, DHC has become an expert partner in even the most highly regulated business sectors. Finally, the company offers managed services for the operation of DHC VISION; and it delivers training services for the company’s international customer base. DHC operates an ITIL-based Service Desk (Helpdesk) for its software products; standard support languages are German and English. DHC Business Solutions started operation in 2011 in the context of a corporate restructuring process of DHC GmbH, founded in 1996. With more than 20 years of experience in the fields of process management, quality management, and GRC, DHC Business Solutions is an expert partner in even the most highly regulated business sectors. The company is dedicated to the quality label of “German Engineering”; it has received a number of awards for its innovative DHC VISION solution concept. DHC holds a DIN EN ISO 9001:2015 quality management certificate and applies a regular schedule for external audits. The latest certification process has been concluded successfully in December 2018. ISO 27001-certification for the company and its subsidiaries is in preparation. The company also offers hosting services via an ISO 27001-certified data center and within European regulations for information security and privacy. To ensure the quality of services, DHC follows the PRINCE2 project management standard. In addition, DHC implements ITIL guidelines for IT services. Finally, DHC supports the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest network of companies committed to sustainable and socially responsible policies. Page 3 of 5 Communication on Progress The following table lists activities and shows progress made toward achieving positive results with regard to the Ten Principles. To the extent available, performance indicators and quantitative data are provided. Human Rights DHC has provided information to its staff on safety on the workplace issues; it also has conducted training measures taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during the work. Number of Training measures: 2 Number of staff trained: 34 DHC’s headquarters continues to provide employees with a state-of-the-art working environment. In addition, all DHC subsidiaries meet highest standards for safe and sane working environments. In each subsidiary, there is a security officer who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. Training has been updated during the reporting period. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. DHC employees have always access to drinkable water. Snack-bar, canteen and small kitchen with drinks are also available in the DHC building. Finally, DHC continues to respect and act in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in the regions it operates. Labour DHC continued to ensure “equal pay for equal work” using a transparent remuneration scheme for permanent staff irrespective of any personal circumstances such as gender. Requirements to be met for achieving different salary levels are clearly defined and available to all employees. Labor is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also, DHC employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. One information meeting on retirement and insurance plans have been held with a total of 21 members of staff participating. Environment DHC continues to practice waste separation, according to German law. The car pool includes energy-efficient vehicles; high CO2 emission vehicles no longer are part of the company car pool. Diesel-powered cars have been replaced. The company’s “green IT strategy” has been broadened: An increasing number Page 4 of 5 of in-house software systems are moved to the cloud; “green” cloud providers are in charge of system hosting. Also, the number of cloud-based solutions provided to customers has increased from 15 to 21. The expansion of DHC’s cloud business contributes to reducing CO2 emissions and, thus, global warming. DHC’s travel policy has been updated to strengthen staff awareness of environmental standards when booking flights and hiring cars. Anti-Corruption All sales and service staff has received training on anti-corruption measures and on ethical behavior in business relations; two training sessions have been carried out during the reporting period. To strengthen the company’s ability to prevent non-ethical behavior, in internal alert system with clear reporting lines on issues of non-compliance has been implemented and continues to be in place. END OF DOCUMENT Page 5 of 5
