DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE LOGISTICS REAL ESTATE CSR REPORT 2019 Investor & Asset manager | Planner | Developer | Property manager | Photovoltaic energy producer WWW.BARJANE.COM SUMMARY Editorial : A statement from the management 4 OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 5 Background 6 Our CSR approach based on international standards 8 Our CSR aims 9 Our stakeholders 10 Our commitments 11 DEVELOPING REAL ESTATE PROJECTS THAT ARE MORE VIRTUOUS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 12 Monitoring of environmental impacts 14 Quality control and continued improvement 15 Minimising disturbances and prevention of pollution 16 Preservation of water 18 Using energy resources sparingly 19 High quality landscaping and promotion of biodiversity 22 Environmental quality of buildings 25 CO-CONSTRUCTING QUALITY PROJECTS WITH OUR CLIENTS AND PARTNERS 28 Client satisfaction 30 Users comfort 31 Long-term relationships with our partners 33 ENTRENCHING OURSELVES SUSTAINABLY WITHIN COMMUNITIES 34 Economic development of communities 36 Development of relationships between the projects and the region 38 Support for local initiatives 40 Involvement in associations and networks 43 SHARING OUR VALUES WITH OUR EMPLOYEES 44 Coworkers 46 Respect of fundamental rights 47 Well-being and safety at work 48 Talent development 49 Road map 2018 – 2020 50 Breguieres Park, Les Arcs-sur-Argens (83) 2 3 EDITORIAL: A STATEMENT FROM THE MANAGEMENT OUR SUSTAINABLE 2019 was a promising year for the logistics real estate sector, which experienced its second-best year of the decade. It had a take-up volume of nearly 3.2 million sqm, well above the tenyear average of 2.5 million sqm, and an overall investment in the sector of nearly €4.8 billion. This represents a historic performance, as it amounts to 13% of the total amounts health trails, multi-sports grounds and social premises designed by an interior architect are all elements that make these sites great places to live and work. We would like to thank our two customers for trusting us to carry out these beautiful projects by their side. DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 1 invested in real estate (€36.2 billion). BARJANE remains mobilised on the renewable energy front and focused on reducing its carbon footprint. This can be In this solid market, BARJANE has taken advantage of this seen through the commissioning of two new rooftop solar fruitful year to consolidate its financial structure and to prepare power plants in Belleville-en-Beaujolais (ACTION distribution for future maturities. With the completion of a new asset sale, centre) and Les Arcs-sur-Argens (THALES, BESTWAY, IRON the signing of BEFA (leases in the future state of completion) MOUNTAIN distribution centre). In addition, BARJANE has with nearly 125,000 sqm for major clients in retail and industry, won 2 new CRE tenders for the connection of 2 power stations, the acquisition of new strategic real estate in the South and in Fuveau and Ollainville. Towards the end of 2019, BARJANE’s Île-de-France regions, and the recruitment of 8 new talents, installed capacity reached 16 MWp. With these new projects, BARJANE is preparing for a new phase of growth. BARJANE will have a fleet of 16 photovoltaic power plants with a cumulative power of 21.6 MWp, representing the equivalent We want this growth to be sustainable, mindful of the annual electricity consumption of 10,400 people. This environment, people, and general interest, in line with our photovoltaic strategy makes BARJANE a leader and pioneer in strong commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. Indeed, France in terms of solar power plants developed on the roofs of we are convinced that economic performance can only go hand logistics buildings. in hand with social and environmental respect. It is within this framework that we develop our real estate projects and work In this report, you will find more details on the actions we carry towards their success. out as part of our CSR commitment. It highlights some of the flagship actions of the BARJANE Corporate Foundation, which In 2019, BARJANE had the honour of winning awards in its supports the territories and communities in which BARJANE two main markets, France and the United Kingdom. Winning operates. More than 25 local actions in favour of Nature or the SIMI 2019 Grand Prix for the construction of the Biocoop the City (Culture and Sport) were supported and more than Distribution Centre in Ollainville (91), and the prize for the a hundred children were welcomed by the Foundation on our best project of more than 15,000 sqm at the Logistics Awards sites. Once again, we would like to thank the municipalities for the new Decathlon Distribution Centre in Northampton, and communities that host our sites. We wish to be at their BARJANE saw two of its projects named best logistics sites of side to support them in their societal projects in favour of the the year, both in France and the United Kingdom. inhabitants and their living environment. These awards recognise not only the operational excellence We hope you enjoy reading this report. Please do not hesitate of these logistics buildings, but also their environmental and to contact us if you wish to join us, to participate in certain social performance. A roof-mounted solar power plant, reuse actions at our side, or to propose new projects. of deconstructed materials, provision of vegetable gardens, Julie Barlatier-Prieuret & Léo Barlatier 8 NEW TALENTS 2 AWARDS 16 MWp recruited in 2019 in France and of total photovoltaic power in the United Kingdom in late 2019 Breguieres Park, Les Arcs-sur-Argens (83) 4 5 BACKGROUND 6 7 OUR CSR APPROACH BASED ON OUR CSR AIMS INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS 1 An in-depth analysis of the internal and external challenges The importance of the economic growth of BARJANE: with which BARJANE may be faced allowed us to identify the management of BARJANE has ranked these primary CSR goals for the company strategy. This selection objectives according to the opportunity of economic was notably made regarding the analysis constructed by the value created, or its risk of value destruction, Durable Property Observatory(1) which puts forward the crucial 2 goals for the coming years in the real estate sector. The level of expectation of BARJANE’s employees, with Once these aims are defined, a detailed analysis is conducted respect to the inclusion of the CSR objectives in our in order to prioritise them, in regards to the following criteria: individual actions. Aware of the impact that our BARJANE’s commitment to all CSR The UN Global compact is the most operations can have on the themes is reflected in its LUCIE important international initiative environment, we have adopted the label since 2015. LUCIE demands of voluntary engagement regarding Importance to ISO 14001 standard since the very alignment on 7 core issues of the sustainable development, covering BARJANE employees beginning and our first completed ISO 26000 standard, through the over 10,000 participants across project, the Breguieres Park, was implementation of a positive CSR, 160 countries. The objective is to + Buildings certified in 2009. The entire process through continuous environmental encourage firms to voluntarily align sustainability has been certified, on a global basis and human improvement. The their strategy with the sustainable Carbon impact of Energy Adaptation to buildings from design to management, through framework anchors the approach development goals adopted by the Style and climate change the realisation of a remarkable while respecting all stakeholders. United Nations. In 2015, BARJANE corporate culture Water management construction site. In 2012, we made adhered to the UN Global compact Risks a choice to extend this certification standards, committing to annually Governance management Dialogue to all our areas of activity, which publish the progress the company with stakeholders now applies to all our projects. This has made on these points. Biodiversity Comfort and Clients satisfaction well-being of users includes land planner, developer and Human rights Community manager of logistics and industrial and non Sustainable development discrimination mobility BARJANE property. certifications Management Image of Circular of talent Support to Evolution of the logistics economy local initiatives economic models sector These commitments form the pillar of BARJANE’s CSR strategy. In order to monitor all the activities to comply with the appropriate Innovation regulations and certifications, the Department of Sustainable Development leads an efficient internal management system. This Modern Hygiene, health, technology system of Sustainable Development Management (SDM) has been developed and implemented following the steps below: safety Reduction of nuisances Responsible (construction site) purchasing 1 2 Analysis of BARJANE’s backDefinition of BARJANE’s + ground and the expectations sustainable development objecImportance to ENVIRONMENT CLIENTS BARJANE’s business of its stakeholders. tives and its commitments. EMPLOYEES COMMUNITIES 6 3 Annual redefinition of Control of actions and monitothese objectives allowing (1) L’Observatoire de l’Immobilier Durable. ring of associated sustainable continuous improvement of development indicators. overall performance. 5 4 Definition and implementation of Identification and analysis of the action plans aiming to reduce the impact impacts of BARJANE’s activities. and to comply with the sustainable development activities of the Group. 8 9 OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR COMMITMENTS Identifying our stakeholders, and most importantly The commitments set under BARJANE’s Corporate Social Responsibility structure our responsible and civic strategy. These are understanding their expectations and needs, allow us to focused on developing quality projects that create value. continuously improve our CSR approach, with the aim of satisfying those expectations. The identification of our stakeholders is updated annually during a management review. The activities that we undertake are organised around four axes essential for BARJANE: They are divided into three large groups: 1 Group The stakeholders essential to the operations of THE ENVIRONMENT THE CLIENTS BARJANE. • Improving the environmental quality of our buildings • Co-constructing a quality project with our clients and 2 Group The stakeholders able to have a significant imand our logistics parks, our partners, pact on BARJANE’s operations. • Preserving the resources on all of our projects: energy, • Improving the comfort and frameworks for the users of 3 water, property…, our creations, Group The stakeholders who, without having a formal connection, have an important influence on • Developing renewable energies, • Accompanying our clients throughout the whole life of BARJANE’s operations or provide supporting the project, services. • Minimising the nuisance of our projects and reducing • pollution, Ensuring the security of the persons and goods, • Encouraging the promotion of biodiversity. • Increasing the sustainability of our assets and develoCommercial link Social link ping innovative solutions. Research Peers organisations THE COMMUNITY THE TEAM Maintenance • Participating in the human and economic development • Sharing values and respecting a professional ethic, Former Educational Professional providers employees organisations of the community, networks • Promoting diversity and respecting the fundamental • Ensuring communication between our stakeholders, rights of a person, Customers Users Future Provision of employees • Creating connections between the project and the • Encouraging well-being at work initiatives and the and their intellectual General collaborators community (schools, residents…), safety of our colleagues, services contractors 1 2 3 Critical equipment BARJANE • Supporting local initiatives. • Developing the competence of our team. suppliers team State services Residents Shareholders Sustainable Development commitments are transmitted to all BARJANE’s collaborators and partner companies, enabling the group’s Communities Associations CSR performance to be continuously improved. Financial Town halls partners NGO Local communities Insurance Certification organizations Media Schools Financial link Societal link 10 11 DEVELOPING REAL ESTATE PROJECTS THAT ARE MORE VIRTUOUS 2 FOR THE ENVIRONMENT Breguieres Park, Les Arcs-sur-Argens (83) 12 13 MONITORING OF QUALITY CONTROL AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT The environmental performance of BARJANE is regulated by ISO 14001 standard. BARJANE is committed to its stakeholders, including its the project, an internal multi-competency team is set up clients and the communities that host its high-quality project (Development, Legal, Operations, Sustainable Development, development operations. Facilities Management, Management & Finance) and monitors The ISO 14001 standard sets the framework for an internationally recognised the project comprehensively, ensuring that the commitments environmental management approach which has one objective: the continued 100% In order to ensure quality monitoring at all phases of made to stakeholders are met. improvement of environmental performance. logistics To monitor the environmental impacts, BARJANE has conducted a comprehensive and industrial property analysis of all its activities, including land-planner of business parks, developer of logistics buildings and facilities, and manager of these real estate assets. ISO 14001 certified DESIGN ACHIEVEMENT This analysis has been made throughout the life cycle of the project; it represents the PROGRAM ACHIEVEMENT MANAGEMENT entire life of an asset and includes all of BARJANE’s activities, from the first contact with STUDIES STUDIES the client, until the end of each asset’s life, all of which are ISO 14001 certified. CUSTOMER RELATIONS, EMP OPERATION GREEN EMP MANAGEMENT COMMUNITY CONSTRUCTION SITE Director of Operation Property Development Manager Manager DESIGN OF THE PROJECT CREATION OF A GREEN RECEPTION OF THE SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT CONSTRUCTION SITE OPERATING COMPANY For each activity, the environmental impacts and the added value brought by BARJANE are listed and action plans called EnvironSustainable mental Management Programs (EMP) are defined. These are put in place to reduce negative impacts and maximise the added value. Development Manager The Sustainable Development Manager ensures the complete carried out a few months after the project delivery, allowing the To guide its environmental performance, BARJANE follows its action plans at different levels: monitoring of the environmental quality of all components of team to be part of a dynamic continuous improvement on the the project. The role of the Sustainable Development Manager technical and environmental quality of the BARJANE projects, 70% guarantees that the Sustainable Development Goals affixed to as well as on working and organisational methods. • Land-planners/Developers – an EMP is established for each project. This gathers 64% the project are achieved. An internal capitalisation meeting is all the initiatives to be carried out by the Operation Manager and Sustainable Development Manager at BARJANE, focusing as much on the design phase as the building construction, to controlling the environmental impacts of the project, • A Management EMP, led by BARJANE’s Property Management team, lists all the actions to be taken for a detailed check and maintenance of its assets, • And finally, a BARJANE 2018/2020 EMP groups the CSR initiatives at a corporate level to answer to our sustainable development responsibilities. 2018 2019 BARJANE EMP (1) A rate success indicator for each EMP is followed annually. This enables the Sustainable Development Director to check that the action plans defined are well followed and respected. (1) BARJANE EMP: % of the actions created in relation to the actions planned through the year. 14 15 MINIMISING DISTURBANCES AND Focus on: BARJANE’S LES CHANTIERS VERTS CONSTRUCTION SITES GREEN BARJANE EN 2018 IN 2019 PREVENTION OF POLLUTION Green worksite control sheets are filled out regularly by the BARJANE teams to check compliance with the requirements BARJANE requirements. On all sites, the sorting rates are systematically close to 100%, of the charter. In 2019, the satisfaction rate on the two showing an improvement in practices in the overall profession. BAJANE construction site in France was 72%. This drop in the A better traceability of waste also makes it possible to From design to asset management, the potential nuisances of the project satisfaction rate compared to 2018 (78%) is explained by a distinguish between energy or material recovery rates (reuse have been identified and actions taken in order to minimise them. new partnership with a contractor which is less accustomed to or recycling of materials). DESIGN PHASE COLISSIMO CÔTE D’AZUR PLATEFORM, BREGUIERES PARK, LES ARCS-SUR-ARGENS (83) 1 Focus on the architectural landscaping quality of projects and 73% 100% 88% 2 Be aware of residents and neighbouring businesses GREEN SITE MASS OF MASS OF WASTE VALUED 3 Carry out the necessary studies to SATISFACTION RATE SORTED WASTES IN MATERIALS anticipate nuisances in operations 4 Implement measures appropriate technical CONSTRUCTION WITH A SMALL IMPACT The objectives of BARJANE’s Green Building Initiative: 0 POLLUTION 0 ACCIDENTS 100% 100% BA&SH AND SED LOGISTIQUE PLATEFORM, LOUVRES (91) CLEAN CONSTRUCTION SITE SORTED WASTE 71% 97% 87% GREEN SITE MASS OF MASS OF WASTE VALUED SATISFACTION RATE SORTED WASTES IN MATERIALS MANAGEMENT OF RISKS 1 Identify risks during the operational phase (incident, pollution, flooding, 2 intrusion...) Instigate measures to limit these risks 3 Distribute safety instructions 4 Ensure emergency testing occurs 16 17 PRESERVATION OF WATER USING ENERGY RESOURCES SPARINGLY REDUCTION OF WATER CONSUMPTION ALTERNATIVE MANAGEMENT OF RAIN WATER REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION PHOTOVOLTAIC PRODUCTION In order to save water resources, several actions are The challenges of alternative water management mainly As a signatory of the Charter for Energy Efficiency in Tertiary BARJANE has chosen to engage in the production of implemented in the design of buildings: concern the quality of discharges created by the project. Buildings drawn up by the Plan Bâtiment Durable network, photovoltaic energy on its sites. The roofs of logistics platforms Cleaning water and rainwater from roads and car parks can be BARJANE is committed to improve the energy quality of its offer an ideal location for the installation of high-performance • The choice of water-saving sanitary equipment, loaded with suspended solids, hydrocarbons, and heavy metals. platforms in several ways: panels, thus creating new sources of renewable energy without impacting on the land. Solar power plants can also be installed • The recovery of rainwater for watering or sanitary In an alternative system, rainwater follows an open path: • Bioclimatic design of buildings, and maximisation of in car park shades on some of the sites. purposes, natural light to limit artificial lighting, • They are collected by a network of planted ditches As with its commercial real estate activities, BARJANE manages • The choice of a local and low-watering plant palette, (culverts) replacing conventional pipelines, • Reinforced insulation, the entire photovoltaic power plant project from start to finish, accompanied by its partners, design offices and constructors. • The connection of the projects to the raw water • They are then taken to pre-treatment basins that will • Use of high-performance refrigeration equipment and State services are consulted upstream of projects, in order to network (Canal de Provence, wells...) as soon as trap this pollution in an organic bed planted with reeds more energy-efficient LED lighting, integrate all their recommendations in design, implementation possible, and rhizome plants: these are natural hydrocarbon and management. Once the projects have been developed, separators, • Installation of building management systems which it is the internal BARJANE Property Management team that • The installation of control tools (type GTB) allowing a monitor the consumption and usage of energy per monitors the plants and takes charge of their financial and knowledge of the consumption by use and by zone. • Once treated, the water passes through vegetated zone. technical follow-up. retention basins that ensure a final abatement before The Property Management team also monitors the drinking being discharged into the natural environment. These At the end of 2019, BARJANE had an installed capacity of more water consumption of the assets under its responsibility, basins are themselves planted with helophytic species than 16 MWp (+33% compared to 2018), in roofs and shaded making it possible to manage consumption in the best possible but also with species with a high evapotranspiration areas. Each year, these plants produce the equivalent of the way, to quickly identify any deviation and to act as quick as capacity allowing a good oxygenation of the water annual electricity consumption of nearly 7,930 inhabitants. possible. mass, and thus the improvement of water quality. In addition to the innovative aspect of the phyto-treatment of pollutants by plants, these basins bring two benefits to the sites developed by BARJANE: • Landscaping quality and a very aesthetic, user-friendly appearance, • A very important reservoir of biodiversity. Biocoop platform, Ollainville (91) Auchan platform, Serris (77) Saint-Charles Park, Fuveau (13) 18 19 Focus on: THE PHOTOVOLTAIC PRODUCTION INDICATORS IN 2019 K BUILDING BREGUIERES PARK A BUILDING BREGUIERES PARK Power: 248 kWp Technology: polycristalline panels Power: 2,200 kWp Technology: polycristalline panels Surface of panels: 1,482 sqm Put into service: 20/12/2017 Surface of panels: 12,094 sqm Put into service: 03/05/2019 146% 267% Production equivalent Production equivalent to the annual electricity to the annual electricity consumption of consumption of 121 people of the electrical needs of the building covered (1) 758 people of the electrical needs of the building covered (1) Daher | Airbus Helicopters platform, Marignane (13) WAREHOUSE 3 SAINT-CHARLES PARK WAREHOUSE 1 SAINT-CHARLES PARK MARIGNANE PLATFORM G BUILDING BREGUIERES PARK Power: 1,400 kWp Technology: polycristalline panels Power: 1,000 kWp Technology: polycristalline panels Rooftop plant: Power 1,058 kWp Technology: rolled and amorphous Surface of panels: 8,457 sqm Put into service: 18/10/2017 Surface of panels: 5,987 sqm Put into service: 19/10/2017 Rolled surface: 16,000 sqm Put into service: 16/12/2010 Power: 54 kWp Technology: rolled and amorphous 45% 153% Carpark plant: Power: 648 kWp Technology: polycristalline pannels Rolled surface: 865 sqm Put into service: 01/07/2010 Production equivalent Production equivalent Surface of pannels: 3,251 sqm Put into service: 06/12/2017 to the annual electricity to the annual electricity 79% 86% consumption of consumption of 690 people 487 people Production equivalent Production equivalent of the electrical needs of of the electrical needs of to the annual electricity to the annual electricity the building covered the building covered (1) consumption of consumption of 859 people of the electrical needs of the building covered 27 people of the electrical needs of the building covered (1) F BUILDING BREGUIERES PARK SERVICES HUB BREGUIERES PARK Power: 100 kWp Technology: ploycrystalline pannels Power: 36 kWp Technology: polycristalline panels Surface of panels: 700 sqm Put into service: 09/01/2012 Surface of panels: 300 sqm Put into service: 27/06/2013 46% 41% Production equivalent Production equivalent to the annual electricity to the annual electricity consumption of consumption of 50 people of the electrical needs of the building covered (1) 17 people of the electrical needs of the building covered J BUILDING BREGUIERES PARK C BUILDING BREGUIERES PARK Power: 100 kWc Technology: polycristalline panels Power: 3,000 kWp Technology: polycristalline panels Surface of panels: 634 sqm Put into service: 16/06/2015 Surface of panels: 19,000 sqm Put into service: 29/03/2016 70% 169% Production equivalent Production equivalent to the annual electricity to the annual electricity consumption of consumption of 51 people of the electrical needs of the building covered (1) 1,445 people of the electrical needs of the building covered Breguieres Park, Les Arcs-sur-Argens (83) Buildings that cover more than 100% of their needs. (1) Based on the building’s 2018 electricity consumption. 20 21 HIGH QUALITY LANDSCAPING AND HIGH QUALITY LANDSCAPING AND PROMOTION OF BIODIVERSITY PROMOTION OF BIODIVERSITY Particular attention is paid to the landscape part of all our projects. The objective is to create quality spaces that allow for good PROMOTION OF BIODIVERSITY AND LPO ® SHELTERS landscaping integration of operations, encourage the development of biodiversity, and create a more pleasant environment for users. To encourage the development of biodiversity, BARJANE has set up wildlife refuges on its sites: insect hotels, birdhouses, bat lodges and stone walls for reptiles. These features all provide habitats for different kinds of insects, amphibians, birds and small mammals. LANDSCAPE QUALITY OF PROJECTS Since 2016, BARJANE has had a partnership with the League for the Protection of Birds (LPO). This has enabled the labelling of part of the green space found on two of BARJANE’s business parks as «LPO® Refuges»: The design of the landscape and the choice of plant species is done in consultation with a landscape gardener and an ecologist. Once the preservation of remarkable species has been achieved, the landscape gardener’s mission is to draw inspiration from the existing landscape, and the • The Breguieres Park (1) was labelled in March 2016. history of the territory, in order to recreate the gardens. Inventories carried out by LPO volunteers have led to the identification of 113 species of birds. An action The species chosen are local, non-invasive, water-saving, and non-allergenic. plan for their development has been put in place thanks The plant palette is diverse and conducive to biodiversity. Species that are to actions such as the installation of nesting boxes or sources of ecological interactions (such as melliferous plants or plants that complementary plantations for pollinating insects. provide food for birds) are favoured. In order to re-create the link between 113 Man and Nature, we plant orchards and aromatic plants, allowing each user to reconnect with Nature. species identified by the LPO • The Saint-Charles Park (2) was labelled in 2018. The ECOLOGICAL MANAGEMENT OF GREEN SPACES inventories carried out by LPO volunteers in the spring and summer of 2018 identified 83 species. As BARJANE carries out maintenance of the green spaces on its site, and uses ecological management to find a balance between the birds and butterflies represent most of the species cultivated and the wild. The maintenance teams strive to enhance and preserve spontaneous vegetation in order to improve the observed, the 2019-2021 action plan focuses mainly potential for biodiversity and the development of natural habitats for wildlife while limiting maintenance costs. on strengthening the nesting boxes, feeding stations, The main principles applied are as follow: and intensifying plantations providing them with habitats and food. • Adopting a «zero agrochemicals products» policy and preserving as 83 much of the weeds as is necessary to maintain a diverse ecosystem and avoid soil erosion, species identified by the LPO • Decreasing mowing frequency in order to obtain a diversification of plant strata (lawn, meadow, natural dynamics zone), and wildlife refuges, • Setting up an organic mulch at the base of the trees to limit soil erosion, provide nutrients and conserve moisture to limit watering, • Recovering maximum maintenance residue, by mulching, composting, or creating piles of dead wood to create habitats. (1) The Breguieres Park is located in Les Arcs-sur-Argens in the Var. With a surface area of 65 ​​ ha, BARJANE develops 236,000 sqm of logistics platforms and business buildings. (2) The Saint-Charles Park is located in Fuveau (13) near Aix-en-Provence. BARJANE has developed 4 logistics platforms on 25 hectares. 22 23 Focus on: THE BIODIVERCITY LABEL The BiodiverCity® label, created by the Conseil International Biodiversité & Immobilier (CIBI), evaluates and promotes real estate operations that consider biodiversity and the Human-Nature link as primordial assets. THE BIODIVERCITY LABEL ON THE BIOCOOP PLATFORM DEVELOPED IN OLLAINVILLE (91) • In 2018, BARJANE obtained its first Excellent level label on design phase, • In 2019, the completion audit led to the certification of the Biodivercity Excellent site. Four principles were assessed on the Biocoop project: AXIS 1 AXIS 2 Engagement Project All the project’s stakeholders have been involved The operation has been designed considering in the approach and have committed themselves biodiversity and Nature in architecture. A to preserving the site’s biodiversity as much patio with wooden cladding, planter boxes and as possible. Companies were made aware of wallpaper with a vegetal pattern, invite Nature this during the construction phase, Property inside the offices, a light charter reduces the Management teams were trained in the ecological impact of spotlights at night, and large outdoor management of their outdoor spaces and future glazed surfaces have been banned. Biocoop users will be trained. AXIS 3 AXIS 4 Ecological Potential Amenities An ecological study has revealed the species and The project’s outdoor spaces have been designed environments to be preserved on the site, and to bring users as close as possible to Nature: a the measures to be implemented to promote the vegetable garden is accessible from the refectory development of biodiversity. The landscaped area terrace, the offices are surrounded by gardens was designed in accordance with this study, and and fruit trees... The classified forest has been habitats for the site’s fauna were installed. integrated into the project, made safe and had a sports course and biodiversity trail installed. Auchan platform, Serris (77) 24 25 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY Focus on: THE COLISSIMO CÔTE D’AZUR PLATFORM OF BUILDINGS Since 2014, we have chosen to have all progress. With regards to the Colissimo Côte our projects certified according to HQE or d’Azur platform developed in the Breguieres BREEAM standards. Park, it has been awarded BREEAM Very Good for the Design Stage. The label of the These certifications allow BARJANE to Construction Stage is in the process of being improve the environmental and technical obtained. performance of the building and to ensure a follow-up of the quality in conception and In addition to the procedures for new buildings, realisation. since 2015, BARJANE has been committed to a process of progressive certification of its The two operations under construction in assets. This has materialised in the form of 2019 are representative of this strategy. opting for BREEAM In-Use certification. The logistics platform developed in Louvres This labelling is carried out on the logistics for BA&SH and SeD Supply Chain Solutions platforms developed by BARJANE prior to has been certified HQE Excellent in both 2014, and to those which did not already In 2019, BARJANE developed a new platform on the Breguieres Program and Design phases. The certification benefit from a double environmental Business Park. This site benefits from an exceptional location of the implementation phase is currently in certification. close to the main roads and motorways (notably the A8 and the RN7). ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH • Green Site approach to ensure the safety of workers and Equipped with the latest-generation sorter, capable of handling limit environmental pollution, up to 12,000 parcels per hour, the new site will receive one third of the Colissimo parcel flow in the Southern Region. All • Double certification: ISO 14001 and BREEAM Good. the equipment (conveyors, information systems...) will facilitate the activities, particularly those related to handling. These latest sorting technologies will improve the working conditions of employees. PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER PLANT ON THE ROOF 1 MWp The building will consist of approximately 11,000 sqm of Production equivalent surface area for parcel processing and 800 sqm of office spaces. to the annual electricity consumption of 450 people With the installation of a wooden frame, the natural lighting in of the electrical needs of the building covered the hall to maximise comfort or the reinforced insulation, the actions are in line with the sustainable logic of the Breguieres Park aimed at reducing the environmental impact of the project. 98% of the industrial and logistics portfolio is doubly certified Breguieres Park, Les Arcs-sur-Argens (83) 26 27 CO-CONSTRUCTING 3 QUALITY PROJECTS WITH OUR CLIENTS AND PARTNERS Daher | Dassault Aviation platform, AeroliansParis Tremblay-en-France (93) 28 29 CLIENT SATISFACTION USERS COMFORT Through its work as a planner and developer, BARJANE is Once the project is completed, BARJANE usually retains the The real estate projects that we develop are living and working spaces for thousands of employees. We want to give them the best committed in the long term to local authorities, which host the building in its portfolio and our team provides ongoing Property working environment possible, whether it is in the office or the warehouse. projects on their territory, and to the users of its buildings. Their Management services. We have chosen not to outsource satisfaction is our priority. To do so, we have decided to cothis strategic service, which guarantees our clients proper Our concern is to imagine and create a logistics project that considers the human, environmental and technical dimensions. construct our projects with our clients and partners, from land attention to any of their concerns and an effective response to search to management, including the design and realisation of their requests. Comfort and well-being in commercial real estate have been at the heart of the profession’s thinking for several years now. While the real estate assets. these two notions are subjective, several studies and labels have made it possible to define the expectations of users, and to have We offer our clients, if they so wish, the service of Facility a forward-looking vision of the «offices of tomorrow». These publications concern downtown office buildings, but we use them to Management, carried out by us on their behalf. In this context, enrich our reflections on the design of workplaces in logistics real estate. Our objectives are: we take care of the maintenance and upkeep of equipment on behalf of our tenants, allowing them to concentrate on their This is how we work on different axes: • to create a project that meets community expectations, core business and rely on us to manage their property. and the client’s requirements, by listening carefully to 1 their needs and requests, We have also set up a team of multi-skilled Operation/ Maintenance agents on our business parks. They offer our • to be present at their side throughout the project, to customers a multitude of services ranging from the mainteTECHNICAL COMFORT CRITERIA accompany them in the evolution of their needs and nance of green spaces, cleaning (offices, paving, photovoltaic to guarantee them our technical expertise to solve all In the process of the environmental quality certifications of power plants...), to small repairs or waste collection. The problems. our projects (HQE or BREEAM), the technical aspects related BARJANE team, available 24/7, also welcomes park users and to the comfort and health of the occupants are studied and runs the park’s activities. taken into account (hygrometric, acoustic, visual and olfactory comfort, sanitary quality of spaces, air and water). Thus, the important contribution of natural light, access to views of the outside and the fight against glare are all basic elements in our reflections. In the logistics cells, they are reflected in facade openings which, together with lightcoloured coatings and wooden frames, provide a warmer and more pleasant dimension in the logistics area. Auchan platform, Serris (77) Alain CARINI, Logistics Director Biocoop This Ollainville warehouse project is part of a logistics master plan that has been under study since 2015. At that time, that we did not know about, such as the Biodivercity label, which reinforces our commitment. 2 OFFICE DESIGN AND INTERIOR LAYOUT We work side by side with our tenants on office layout and Biocoop’s logistic network was already based on 4 platforms interior design, to create less traditional logistics offices. which were at saturation point. The study of the logistics plan At all stages of the project we were impressed by the quality If our tenants are managing the facilities, we co-construct confirmed the need to transfer the 4 sites to 4 new platforms of the teams. I remember the phase of deconstruction of the solutions with them to create different, more modern working to support the growth of the Biocoop network. This need was brick factory. Indeed, during these 3 months, it was a matter environments in line with the new expectations of employees. characterised, for the North-East quarter and the Ile-de-France of truly deconstructing and not destroying. This consisted of region, by a warehouse comprising 4 cells of 6,000 sqm, offices, isolating the materials so that they could be reused, as much The social premises designed in this way offer real added social and technical premises. All in all, this corresponded to as possible, for the construction of the new building and the value in terms of employee well-being at work and allow a real a 29,000 sqm building capable of storing 10,000 items and new traffic areas. The way this was done demonstrated the differentiation of the employer brand for our customers. meeting the needs of a fast-growing network of stores and, teams’ expertise in mastering ecological deconstruction. Many more particularly, able to respond to strong growth in the Ileproposals in terms of environmental approaches, green spaces deFrance, Centre & North-East region. The second objective of and biodiversity were then made to us. In addition, we have this platform was to hold a land reserve for possible expansion. a high requirement in terms of the working environment and office design, the BARJANE teams have been able to respond Biocoop platform, Ollainville (91) We chose BARJANE for its values, which we share, in terms to this by designing spaces that let in natural light through of environmental research and compliance with related complex architectural solutions. standards. The teams offered us environmental certifications 30 31 USERS COMFORT LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR PARTNERS 3 BIOPHILIA According to the latest study by the ESSEC Real Estate and Sustainable Development Chair published in 2018, 83% of respondents marked creating sustainable offices as ‘essential’. We have been working for some years now on the design of green spaces that not only bring value to the land and biodiversity, but also to the people who live there. Our reflections consider the innate connection that exists between the Human being and Nature. We draw on Terrapin Bright Green’s 14 biophilic design models to integrate elements into the building that will directly and indirectly reconnect users with Nature. This approach allows our clients to: • Actively increase the quality of life of employees, • Improve the attractiveness of their company to potential employees, • Prioritise the performance of their employees. Saint-Charles Park, Fuveau (13) 4 RELAXATION AREAS BARJANE seeks to promote the well-being of users in the With the desire to develop stable and long-term relationships with our suppliers and to include a social and environmental This responsible purchasing approach is a virtuous and collaborative initiative. It aims to encourage improved practices workspace by developing comfortable places to relax: accessible dimension to our purchasing approach, a Charter of throughout the value chain. and pleasant terraces, pétanque courts, sports ground, pingResponsible Purchasing was established. In line with our CSR pong tables... The buildings are designed in such a way so as commitments, it aims to make our partners jointly responsible In order to evaluate the performance of the construction to go above and beyond the classic framework of industrial for the following key issues: partners, «feedback» meetings are organised at the end of logistics buildings, and to obtain a warmer atmosphere. each project. These meetings bring together the entire project • Respect for human rights and labour standards, team (legal, commercial, technical, sustainable development, Beneficial to employees, this approach stimulates creativity management) and make it possible to assess the technical and equal opportunities, and fight against illegal and develops the spirit of initiative. environmental performance of each project, as well as the employment, service providers chosen for the operation. These «REXs» allow • Ensuring a healthy and safe working environment for continuous improvement of our partners’ practices. for employees and their subcontractors, especially on construction sites, Thanks to this approach, we have developed lasting relationships with our suppliers, and we are convinced that our • Commitment to better environmental performance partners are major assets in the quality of the projects we build. with measures for resource conservation, protection of biodiversity, or use of labelled We are proud to be able to grow and improve together by products, sharing common beliefs and values. • Establishment of balanced commercial relationships with subcontractors, by combating all forms of corruption and favouring local companies. Decathlon platform, Northampton (United-Kingdom) Biocoop platform, Ollainville (91) 32 33 ENTRENCHING 4 OURSELVES SUSTAINABLY IN COMMUNITIES Breguieres Park, Les Arcs-sur-Argens (83) 34 35 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES OF COMMUNITIES Creation of jobs Economic benefits Our projects create employment. By conceiving and developing For example, the courier service that BARJANE has developed SCHEME OF ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION quality real estate assets, our sites attract major companies, for TNT/FEDEX, in the AeroliansParis area, provides 200 jobs which are financially solid and a good provider of jobs. We have for 18,000 sqm of logistics space. Equipped with a high-tech created over 2,400 jobs in 13 years in our parks. sorting line, occupying the entire surface area of the building, the site handles 50,000 parcels per day, which arrive in the The profiles of our customers’ employees range from lowafternoon and are delivered on D+1 to the end customer SALES OF SOLAR RENTAL REVENUE SERVICES PRODUCTION OF skilled positions (unskilled Worker, Warehouseman...) to highthroughout France. This site is a perfect example of a state-ofELECTRICITY AND CHARGEBACKS PROVIDED PROPERTY ASSETS skilled positions (Logistics Manager, Site Manager...), and offer the-art logistics tool at the service of e-commerce. many opportunities for professional development for all. In France, logistics represents 10% of GDP and 1.8 million jobs While platforms are crucial industrial tools for the activity of (1). It is also a sector that employs more than 90% of people on companies, they must be able to respond to the current needs permanent contracts. Management jobs account for 9% of the of logistics. With the boom in e-commerce and the digitalisation workforce. of professions, this sector is undergoing major changes and represents a strategic challenge for our economy. (1) Source: France Logistique 2025 FINANCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS, COLLABORATORS EXTERNAL SUPPLIERS BARJANE FOUNDATION COMMUNITIES AND STATE SERVICES FINANCIAL COSTS, FEES, LABOUR TAXES AND SOCIAL SALARIES AND SUPPLIES CONTRIBUTIONS CHARGES 2 420 sustainable Through the establishment of logistics platforms, BARJANE creates economic value on a national and especially local Municipalities, inter-municipalities, and departments also benefit from taxes that serve local policies. Far from operating jobs scale: the jobs created in the area are occupied by people living mainly within a radius of 30 km, thus contributing to in autarky and without any link with its neighbourhood, BARJANE platforms invest themselves in the service of the local consumption. Similarly, suppliers, particularly in the territory through multiple actions. management phase, are mainly local companies, capable of intervening within a short time frame. 64.5 jobs per hectare of land 36 37 DEVELOPMENT OF LINKS BETWEEN DEVELOPMENT OF LINKS BETWEEN THE PROJECTS AND THE REGIONS THE PROJECTS AND THE REGIONS BARJANE wishes to bring social and societal value to the territories that host its projects. Thus, the BARJANE Corporate Foundation THE BIODIVERSITY GARDEN IN LONDON participates in the development of projects on two main themes: Nature and City. A biodiversity garden was developed in partnership with the In particular, the Foundation organises its own actions on the business parks set up by BARJANE to raise awareness of sustainable Emanuel School in London: the garden has been designed development issues. and activities for children aged 4 to 10 have been organised. It showcases multiple layouts and facilities promoting the EDUCATING ABOUT BIODIVERSITY development of local flora and fauna: a meadow of wild flowers, a small pond, piles of wood and rocks, an insect hotel, bird shelters, and soon, 2 beehives will be installed. Within its business parks BARJANE has large areas of green to make the youngest members of society aware of the need spaces that have been designed to promote biodiversity. for the protection of the species around us. Emanuel School deploys a programme called «Primary BARJANE has decided to make these spaces available to the Ambitions» which consists of inviting local schools lacking Foundation, in order to install educational equipment. Its aim is This year, we had the joy of welcoming the kindergarten and infrastructure to take advantage of its own. Sports facilities and to increase the awareness of young people to the challenges of primary school classes of the Jean-Jaurès school of Les Arcslaboratories are made available to them free of charge. sustainable development, and particularly efficient economic sur-Argens to the Breguieres Park. Through the biodiversity activity with enriched biodiversity. trail, the youngest children were able to discover the life cycle This garden is part of this program, the objective is to make of the insects and birds present in the park, their habitats, and children understand the importance of sustainability and On the Saint-Charles Park, in Fuveau, as well as on the their role in biodiversity. They also took part in workshops respect for biodiversity. The school hopes to welcome 120 Breguieres Park in Les Arcs-sur-Argens or in the listed wood of allowing them to better understand and respect the flora and pupils per week in its garden, the equivalent of 1,275 primary the Biocoop logistics platform in Ollainville, biodiversity trails fauna around them. school pupils per year. have been installed A few weeks later, primary school students were able to take These routes bring together various habitats for the different advantage of the educational apiary. Equipped with beespecies living on the site (birds, insects). Accompanied by keepers’ suits, the children observed the hives very closely. information kiosks, they help to raise visitor awareness and Thus, they were able to learn everything from our bees, in the preserve nature through learning. These trails are places of company of Pierre Rouvier, BARJANE’s partner beekeeper. experimentation, open on request to schools or summer camps, EDUCATING ABOUT LAND PLANNING The Breguieres Park is part of the Lower Sixth students program regarding their classes on the development of land. Every year, we have the pleasure of welcoming some students on the Park. This year, we were delighted to present this site to five Lower Sixth classes of the local colleges. On the program: • visits of several logistics platforms, warehouses, activity buildings and services hubs, in partnership with our customers, • exploration of the biodiversity trail and green spaces labelled LPO®, • discovery of the photovoltaic power plants installed on the roofs of buildings. Bestway, LIDL, La Poste, GLS and ID Logistics all took part and welcomed the young people to their facilities. The objective is to explain to the students the functions of a logistics park, and to help them understand the issues related to the sustainable development of the territory. 38 39 SUPPORT FOR LOCAL INITIATIVES SUPPORT FOR LOCAL INITIATIVES CULTURE Alongside the activities it hosts on the parks, the BARJANE Foundation supports more general projects of local associations, which correspond to the main lines of its missions: 1 Nature protection, re-creation and/or development of biodiversity, 2 Writers in Provence Jazz in Gréasque Development of cultural and sporting projects for local populations. From 5 to 8 September 2019 in Fuveau, the Écrivains en Provence On 4, 5 and 6 July, the town of Gréasque hosted the 17th edition association presented the 30th Salon littéraire du Pays d’Aix. of the «Jazz in G minor» Festival organised by the Tourist During this event, many authors came to sign their books, Office. French and American jazz, rhythm ‘blues, soul and Latin NATURE debate at the literary café and discuss themes with their readers. This year, on the 23rd meeting of « These letters from music gave rhythm to this edition. A programme combining quality and conviviality and offering many free concerts by elsewhere», Belgian literature was given pride of place during a groups of various musical colours. A fun and upbeat event that musical show, meetings, and a conference. the Foundation is proud to support! The Clean Calanques operation in Ensuès-la-Redonne For one day, the town hall of Ensuès-la-Redonne and 2000 years of history Châteauneuf-Le-Rouge Gastronomic Festival volunteers get together to paticipate in the clean-up of sea beds which form part of the Calanques coastal area. The From 19 to 22 July, the Cercle Saint Michel and the Association For 27 years, the best chefs of the region and of France have opportunity to maximise the number of participants linked 2000 years of History proposed a great night show on the been meeting in Châteauneuf-le-Rouge for the Gastronomic with sailing, tourism and the environment around a civilian theme of Gastronomy in Provence. Four evening meals took Festival. It is an opportunity for them to share their passion for approach. spectators to the heart of the history of Provençal gastronomy gastronomy with the public. The 2019 edition welcomed two through its great cooks (notably Auguste Escoffier), its great exceptional sponsors: Christelle Brua, pastry chef at the 3-star The BARJANE Corporate Foundation has supported the 2019 authors (Daudet, Mistral...) and its great historical figures (King restaurant Le Pré Catelan (Paris) and Alain Passard, chef at the edition of this action, which has already been running for René, Nostradamus...). 3-star restaurant L’Arpège (Paris). Visitors had the opportunity 17 years. This sound and light comedy resumed the careers of the great to meet chefs of great acclaim and to taste their cuisine through French cooks by mixing theatre, fights, and stunts at the same temporary restaurants. Provençal winegrowers and brewers The Albertas Gardens time. were also present to talk about their terroir. In Bouc Bel Air, between Aix-en-Provence and Marseille, the Albertas Gardens present a gentle blend of Italian influences The Esterelles Theatre Medieval Arcs in the spirit of the Renaissance. Created in 1640, these unique gardens have retained all their authenticity due to the use of Estiv’Arcs is a theatre festival that brings typical places in The village of Les Arcs welcomed from July 19th to 22nd the 32nd techniques specific to the 17th century and the planting of the town of Les Arcs-sur-Argens to life all summer long. The editon of the Medieval of Les Arcs on the theme of the Festes flora adapted to the Provence climate. A place to relax and Foundation supports Les Esterelles association which organises du Castrum d’Arcus. Guided tours, theatrical nocturnes by about stroll alone or with the family, this beautiful place, classified it and whose objective is to take the arts out of their context in forty actors and extras, medieval market, shooting of war as a Historic Monument, has been restored according to the order to bring the public, connoisseurs or not, to discover them. machines, tournaments, parades, and other activities delighted original plans for almost 35 years. The Foundation is proud to people, both young and old. participate in this wonderful heritage restoration campaign. Clean Fuveau At the instigation of the association Courir à Fuveau and the Town Hall as part of its Agenda 21, this operation to clean the streets and neighbourhoods of this beautiful village in Provence is held every year. It brings together dozens of volunteers who go out and collect, unfortunately, several tens of tons of waste in one day. The Foundation supported the December 2019 operation. 40 41 SUPPORT FOR LOCAL INITIATIVES INVOLVEMENT IN ASSOCIATIONS AND NETWORKS SPORT BARJANE is also involved in its ecosystem by being a member of professional associations and networks. The objective is to share experiences with our peers and partners, in order to continuously improve our practices. Charity Races 4L Trophy AFILOG CIBI The BARJANE Corporate Foundation helped two sporting Last February, on the 22nd edition of the 4L Trophy, Mehdi events, organised for the benefit of charities: Moudin and Yamine Ouermi completed a 6,000 km journey at BARJANE has been a member of the Afilog Association since The International Council on Biodiversity & Real Estate, CIBI the wheel of their 4L «Pépette». This great expedition is both 2007. Afilog brings together all the Supply Chain and logistics promotes urban biodiversity and the relationship between man • The Trail Sainte-Victoire in Rousset (13), an annual technical sporting and supportive of the community. In partnership with real estate businesses to: and nature in the areas of planning, construction and daily life race which allows 900 lucky people to run in an exceptional the association Enfant du Désert, the teams go to meet young • Make the link: between its members and give the in neighbourhoods and built-up areas. setting. The 2019 trail supported the association Parrains et Moroccan schoolchildren to distribute school supplies and opportunity to share and invent together the logistic The BiodiverCity® label is the main tool serving a strong Marraines du Népal, an association providing help to some sports equipment. We congratulate them for this beautiful solutions of tomorrow; between players in the supply objective: to create places and living spaces that welcome remote areas of Nepal: to educate the most disadavantaged action, as well as all the students of the CFA of Les Arcs-surchain to make it easier to consider all the issues at stake; living beings and are exemplary in economic, socio-cultural, and children, to build welcome shelters and to help old people, as Argens who have worked for the realisation of this project. between economic players and political decision-makers functional terms. well as to reconstructof villages following the 2015 earthquake. to provide them with decision-making tools, BARJANE has been a member of the IBC since 2016 and • Commit daily to make the potential of logistics dynamics participates in the process of informing, raising awareness and Ovalgreen recognised France’s second largest recruiter and the fifth mobilising the general public. • The Chancrouns race in Les Arcs-sur-Argens (83). In 2019, the profits of this race were shared between two charitable largest economic hub, associations: the rescuers federation of the Croix Blanche, On the 21st of June, the Foundation supported the 16th edition • Promote sustainable and responsible logistics. and the association Au Sein de la Rémission, which supports of the OVALGREEN Trophy in Belleville-sur-Saône. Sponsored women suffering from breast cancer by accompanying them by Frédéric Michalak and Iain Balshaw, the event brought www.afilog.org www.cibi-biodivercity.com throughout the fight of the disease. together many professionals around a golf competition. The profits from the day were donated to the association Le PALME LUCIE Community Petit Monde. Nearly 7,000 euros were earmarked to improve Budding champions the lives of hospitalised children, by helping families to stay National Association for Environmental Quality and BARJANE is a member of the LUCIE community, which brings Sustainable Development of Business Areas together organisations involved in CSR labelling via the LUCIE with them during their hospitalisation. PALME’s members work to improve the environmental quality label. Several times a year, this community organises regional The Foundation supports two sports teams. The Rugby club of of areas of economic activity, within the framework of global circles in order to discover the companies involved, and to Draguignan can thus benefit from the provision of equipment territorial strategies for sustainable development. share best practices and feedback. An annual convention brings and materials. The second team, la Boule Barquaise, brings BARJANE is an active member of the Auditors’ Club which together all the members from all over France. together petanque enthusiasts of all ages, including a team of organises cross audits between PALME structures which are young talents very promising. ISO14001 certified. www.palme-asso.eu www.labellucie.com APM Club GIHVA The APM club (Association Progrès du Management), of which The Gihva is an association that brings together companies in BARJANE is a member, brings together leaders from all types the Fuveau Rousset Peynier area and promotes the exchange of companies or sectors of activity. Its objective is to support of information. managers, through events, working groups, or feedback, BARJANE is a member of the Gihva as part of the establishment towards a more sustainable management of their projects and of the Parc Saint Charles sur Fuveau. The Gihva organises their teams. 8,000 managers are part of this network through events during the sustainable development week or meetings 380 clubs in 30 countries, based on common values: ambition between professionals and students during the Schoolfor one’s company, humility in behaviour, open-mindedness, Business week. shared trust, respect for people and exemplary behaviour. www.apm.fr www.gihva.com 42 43 5 SHARING OUR VALUES WITH OUR EMPLOYEES 44 45 COWORKERS RESPECT OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS BARJANE is a young and human-sized company. In 13 years, we have grown from a team of 5, to 45 people, united around a As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, In 2019, BARJANE signed the Diversity Charter promoted common corporate project: to carry out operations that we can be proud of. BARJANE is committed to respect human rights and by the Businesses for the City network, thereby making a international labour standards. public commitment to act in favour of diversity and to go beyond the legal and judicial framework of the fight against We feel it is fundamental to share the same values within the integral part of the hiring process, are detailed in the BARJANE Present in France and the United Kingdom, which have ratified discrimination. team. Simple values, respect for others and the words spoken, Welcome Booklet and discussed during the integration process the fundamental conventions of the ILO and transposed them honesty and uprightness, professionalism, and kindness. of new employees. into their Labour Laws, BARJANE strictly respects the law As part of its contribution to the elimination of all forms of and the fundamental rights of its employees. discrimination in employment and occupation, BARJANE These values are in line with the principles of ethics and They are part of the group’s identity and corporate culture. carries out actions on two themes: diversity and equality transparency encouraged by the ISO 26000 and the LUCIE between men and women. labels, and the principles defended by RICS. They are an DIVERSITY BARJANE’s Talent Management policy encourages diversity within the team, creating wealth and being a vector of creativity and innovation. It contributes to the development of a management style that respects differences and is based on trust. The RICS principles All managers must adhere to objectives and transparent criteria during the recruitment process BARJANE is RICS certified due to and respect the principle of non-discrimination in all its forms in the management of their teams. the accreditation of its President. This commitment is verified by BARJANE’s General Management on a regular basis. EQUALITY BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN 1 In line with its commitment to diversity, BARJANE is keen to promote gender equality. In a real Act with integrity estate sector that is often heavily male dominated, the BARJANE team is fortunate to have at To be honest and upright in all that is undertaken. the end of 2019: 50% of women as members of the BARJANE Management Committee, and 47% of women in the head office staff. The management is attentive to equal treatment and to facilitating the work-life balance of all its employees. 2 Always offer the best quality of service To ensure that our clients, or any other person to whom we have a professional 47% 50% obligation, receive the best possible advice, support or services, according to the terms of the commitment we have entered together. 3 of head office employees are women of female members of the MaAct to promote confidence in the profession nagement Committee To act, both professionally and personally, in a way that conveys a consistently positive and professional impression of ourselves, BARJANE and the profession. 45 98% 4 Treat others with respect Treat people with courtesy, politeness, and consideration regardless of their race, religion, origin, gender, age, or disability. It also means paying attention to different employees of the team in permanent contracts cultural sensitivities and work practices. 2.6%.. 73% (1) 5 Accountability Take responsibility for each of your actions do not blame others if things do not go well and, if a malfunction is foreseen, be prepared to act accordingly. rate of absenteeism of employees trained (1) The absenteeism rate is defined as the number of working days lost due to accidents at work, commuting accidents, occupational diseases, and illnesses as a percentage of BARJANE workforce. 46 47 WELL-BEING AND SAFETY AT WORK TALENT DEVELOPMENT Employee safety is a basic prerequisite. The BARJANE Single BARJANE combines the ambition of a large group with the In order to respond to the growing number of projects, Document is updated on an annual and collegial basis, which agility of a SME. Its team is one of its greatest strengths. It must BARJANE launched a recruitment programme in 2019 which makes it possible to have a pertinent evaluation of the risks and therefore attract, retain, unify and develop its talents in order concerns both operational and administrative positions. to establish adapted responses. to continue to excel. These should enable BARJANE to take a calm approach to its expansion. At BARJANE, well-being at work is essential: it is our Talent management at BARJANE is a team effort. It is the shared responsibility to create the right framework for the happiness responsibility of the members of the management committee The integration of these new employees into the BARJANE of all our employees. and meets several objectives: team is one of the priorities of the talent management in 2019 and 2020. We believe it is essential to continue to grow while As a real estate player, we have taken great care in the retaining the little extra soul that makes BARJANE special. • Successful recruitment: realisation of our head office. Nestling in the middle of the To do this, an onboarding program has been developed and Validating the skills of new employees and successfully vineyards, at the foot of the Sainte-Victoire and the Plateau du is shared by the entire team, making each person a key part integrating them into the team. Cengle, it gives pride of place to light and the relationship with of the implementation within the group. At the same time as Nature. A subtle blend of the old and the new. • Being innovative: recruitment, the development of the team’s skills was carried Developing tomorrow’s skills. out through internal and external training. Well-being in the workplace is also achieved through the many initiatives taken by employees. Attention to others is often at • Developing job-related skills: Internally, the Learn&Lunch cycle continued through 2019, the heart of ideas and leads all teams to meet regularly. The year Developing individual and collective skills. with a team member sharing his or her knowledge on a topic. 2019 was punctuated by convivial events: in addition to picnics These friendly sessions are organised monthly and allow team • Anticipating the strategy: under the trees, culinary competitions, walks in the surrounding members to share their skills and a pleasant moment. Aligning skills with the strategy at 3/5 years. hills, the annual Christmas dinner and ski weekend, in 2019 we celebrated the 40th birthday of three of our colleagues, Finally, the interviews at the end of 2019 provided an but also 25 years of three of our younger employees. These opportunity to redo a survey on the training needs of all the little moments of sharing come to reinforce the healthy and services, both individually and collectively. All responses benevolent work atmosphere and the BARJANE team spirit. were analysed and grouped together to build the training plan BARJANE 2020/2021. 48 49 ROAD MAP 2018-2020 ROAD MAP 2018-2020 Link with CSR commitment Associated 2018 2019 Targets Link with CSR commitment Associated 2018 2019 Targets the SDG (1) actions 2020 the SDG (1) actions 2020 ENVIRONMENT CLIENTS GOAL 13 Improving the environGetting 100% all builGOAL 9 Co-constructing a Measuring customer mental quality of our dings double-certified 97% 98% 100% quality project with satisfaction on 75% 100% 100% buildings our customers and 100% of the projects partners delivered (design implementation phase) GOALS 12 & 13 Preserving resources: Defining an energy energy, water, land, ... efficiency action plan Unrealised Ongoing Yes GOAL 3 Improving the comfort Rating the projects acfor buildings and working environcording to the «quality Unrealised Unrealised Yes ment for the users of of life at work» grid. our projects. GOAL 7 Developing renewable Increasing the installed energies photovoltaic power by 12MWc 16MWc 18MWc Accompanying our Measuring customer 50%. clients throughout the satisfaction on a trien75% 84% 100% life of the project nial basis (management phase) Minimising the nuiDefining a low carbon sance of our projects strategy for buildings Unrealised Ongoing Yes and preventing polluCOWORKERS tion GOAL 5 Sharing values and Raising CSR awareGOAL 15 Fostering the developIntegrating actions in professional ethics ness among 100% of 100% 100% 100% ment of biodiversity favour of biodiversity 75% 100% 100% employees on 100% of new projects Developing the skills of Providing at least 7 our teams hours of training per 45% 54% 80% year to our employees. TERRITORIES Developing the skills of Training 100% of our GOALS 8 & 17 Ensuring dialogue with Developing BARJANE’s our teams employees every year 72% 73% 100% our stakeholders involvement in educaUnrealised Unrealised Yes tional institutions GOAL 11 Creating a link between Organising at least the project and the one annual event with 100% 50% 100% territories (schools, a stakeholder on each residents, etc.). BARJANE park Supporting local initiaSupporting at least one tives association in each of 60% 58% 100% the territories where BARJANE is present. (1) The 17 SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) defined by the United Nations. Thanks to the actions taken by BARJANE and the Corporate Foundation, the group is now contributing to 10 of these 17 major global sustainable development goals. 50 51 Crédits photos et images : Adeline Lebel, Fred Nowak, Olivier de Vault, Bernard Mariette, Patrick Bedout, Nadine Darras, Draguidrones, Digiprod, Franck Perez, Jean-Pierre Léon, Morgane Buys Bour, Franck Bulteau, CEN PACA
