2019-2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT It is important to stress that a sustainable investment is only sustainable if it is economically sustainable TABLE OF CONTENTS About this document Contacts CEO statement of continued support English Press at a glance 3 English Press reporting to United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS ENVIROMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERAL OUTLOOK FEEDBACK About this Document Contacts Period covered by our communication on progress June 2019 to June 2020 Company Name I n April 2012 English press English Press Limited Limited committed itself to the Sector United Nations Global Compact. Manufacturing – Printing-For quality print work and all forms of colour works This commitment includes Number of employees 500 supporting the ten principles of 4 5 the UN Global Compact as well UN GC signatory since: 2012/4/4 as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on Contact Person(s) Mrs. Shreeti Patel / Ms.Veronica Mwanzia progress made to implement the principles. Address P.O. Box 30127–00100 Nairobi, Kenya English Press Limited (EPL) will E-Mail continue supporting the United shreeti@englishpress.com/ qmr@englishpress.com Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles Website www.englishpress.com English Press Limited COP 2019Phone : +254 20552266/7 2020 is available on our website : +254 206536914/5 www.englishpress.com Cell : +254 722509838 : +254 735339002 Fax : +2542065537141 CEO STATEMENT ENGLISH PRESS OF CONTINUED SUPPORT AT A GLANCE E E 6 nglish press limited became tolerance approach to corruption. committed to making progress on nglish Press Limited is your By investing heavily in both catalyze other businesses to follow 7 a signatory of the United This Communication on Progress each of these areas, for the benefit one stop print company, our people and our technology, our lead. It is a goal that we strive Nations Global Compact (“the Report describes English press of our employees, customers, providing customers with English Press is able to provide a for through our business strategy, UN Global Compact”) with effect limited actions to continually suppliers, shareholders and wider high quality products and services quality of service that we believe our values and our every-day from April 2012 and is currently improve the integration of the UN society. including pre-press, printing, to be unmatched in the market. activities an active participant in this Global Compact and its principles finishing, packaging and logistics Compact. I am pleased to reaffirm into its business strategy, culture This communication progress solutions. English Press Limited consists of English press limited support of and daily operations. English report covers the period of June a team of about 500 personnel the 10 principles of the UN Global press limited also commits to 2019 to June 2020. I look forward Founded 80 years ago, we have who are committed to delivering Compact in the areas of human sharing this information with its to providing you with a further grown to one of be the largest ISO the highest standards of service. rights, labour, environment and stakeholders using its primary update on our progress in 2020certified offset print house in the Our work ethic is founded on anti-corruption continent. Located in Nairobi, and collaborative partnerships with channels of communication. 2021. built on a strong foundation of publishers, clients and suppliers In its capacity as a participant of consistent quality and service, our to provide efficient and effective In this Communication on the UN Global Compact, English values have enabled us to compete print solutions. press limited, looks forward to Progress we signpost our most Yours sincerely, in the regional and international building on its existing reputation up-to-date disclosures on our print market. At EPL, we firmly believe that by for respecting basic human policies and performance on the rights, engaging in fair labour important issues enshrined in the Our vision: Think of applying our skills, expertise and resources to different causes, we practices, being environmentally UN Global Compact Principles. Mr. Kalpan Patel the Best...and Make it can not only make a difference responsible and having a zeroEnglish press limited remains Chief Executive Officer Better. in the world around us, but also Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT EPL has undertaken a comprehensive Hazard Identification and Risk protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; AND INITIATIVES OF OUTCOMES Assessment exercise, which attempts to improve occupational safety and and to protect against property and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Implement and observe codes of conduct EPL encourages employees and external infrastructure damage by providing stakeholders to report any breaches a tool that can be used to assess the human rights abuses. which are designed to protect employees consequences and frequency of a from harassment or discrimination in or suspected breaches of its Code of Conduct, including any possible human hazard. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS any form, and to provide equality of rights abuses or infringements. E opportunity. Tr a i n i n g o f e m p l o y e e s i s o n e nglish press limited adherence trading principles with the aim of minimizing risk of any activities that may All reported incidents are formally of the most effective tools for ensuring Ensure all employees are fully aware recorded and reported to the Human occupational health and safety. EPL has to fundamental human rights be antihuman rights. We are committed to ensuring that our workers are developed and executes an extensive of such codes and that they comply with resource for consideration. There have is enshrined in its Code of not exploited and our work environment is as safe as possible, abiding by all been no reports of human rights abuses training plan which lists the training them. topics (which includes topics on Conduct which confirms that English employment, health and safety, and human rights laws. or infringements during the past year (2019: nil). employee health and safety), frequency press limited supports and respects Operate remuneration that is of training, training materials, trainer HUMAN RIGHTS the protection of internationally English press limited corporate values promote a positive ethos amongst competitive and rewards good There are a number of other human details etc. According to this training proclaimed human and employment our people. We seek to create an environment which attracts and retains performance. Ensure all employees know resource and ethics-related policy plan, a total of 50 training has been documents, procedures and statements provided during the last 8 months rights and confirms its commitment employees of high caliber, and in which employees will feel valued for their what is expected of them and provide period. And approximately 90% of total a framework which fairly measures applicable which confirm EPL’s to respecting fundamental human contribution to the company’s performance. commitment to protecting basic human manpower received these training. rights and treating all employees and performance and assists employees in rights. These include, among others, the Delivery of training and evaluating the developing their capabilities. applicable grievance procedures and effectiveness of training is overseen by others with fairness, equality and the Human Resource department. respective recruitment and selection respect to foster an open, transparent, policies. Provide a safe work environment for EPL has a defined disciplinary and trusting environment which is all employees and ensure they fully Employee Handbook: To enhance EPL’S process. This process is explained to all free from prejudice, discrimination, understand their responsibilities in 8 bias, harassment and/or violation. support and respect the protection of employees in new employee orientation and is defined in employee handbook. 9 regards to health and safety matters. internationally proclaimed human rights an Employee Handbook The company does not and will not Aim to develop policies that will support was reviewed on February 2020 by engage in or support the use of corporal English press limited promotes a punishment, mental or physical employees in balancing their work and incorporating several agendas such positive culture with respect to as Equal Employment Opportunity coercion, or verbal abuse. human rights and the continuous domestic responsibilities. Policy, Employment at Will, Policy against Harassment & Discrimination, improvement of working conditions. Each member of staff is subject to Grievance Policy, Disciplinary Policy, Actions to be implemented in English press limited shall continue work checks and we operate PAYE as Confidentiality Policy, Drug & Alcohol the year 2020-2021 to encourage all suppliers and part of our payroll, to ensure all of our Policy, various HR processes & employee •Suggestion box to be made available. contractors to comply with the same employees are legally hired and paid. benefit, Work Related Accident & Injury, standards. Company Work Rules etc. •Regular awareness session on the EPL upholds a code of conduct, core Occupational health and safety: EPL principles of ISO 45001:2018, Workplace We hold ourselves, our partnerships, values, and a dignity at work policy as has a well-defined and established safety, Behavior Based Safety and our supply chain accountable and part of our overall employee handbook environment health & safety policy. We – this document outlines the steps which are committed to prevent injury & ill •Worker’s participation and are confident that as a responsible health of our workplace. all employees must follow to ensure this consultation to be put in places and done corporate business we are fully The causes of work related accidents once a month. principle is upheld. and injuries are looked at critically and compliant with the provisions of these preventive measures are in place. principles. •The next risk assessment review shall There were no major work related be carried out in August 2020 by a risk We actively collaborate with reputable injuries to staff members in the management company and corrective production team during the reporting action will then be taken on the findings service partners and suppliers who period. The re-training of staff in embrace robust, fair, and ethical 2019, especially those staff handling machinery has reduced errors. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT annual staff training in fire and safety, all of our employees have the opportunity recognition of the right to collective bargaining; AND INITIATIVES OF OUTCOMES to take part in these training sessions. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour: We migrated to the ISO 45001:2018 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; We consult with and, where appropriate, No reports of violations of labour standard. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation negotiate with employee representative rights were received in 2019. bodies. It is our policy to maintain English Press has not been involved ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS well-developed communications and EPL delivered training and awareness in any investigations, legal cases or E consultation programmes with all sessions related to diversity and other relevant events related to the nglish press Limited remains working at English press Limited to •EPL is committed to reducing workemployee representative bodies and wellbeing at all it’s of its employees. contravention of the Global Compact fully committed to ensuring be accountable for their actions in related muscular/skeletal pain there have been no material disruptions Labor principles to our operations from labour disputes No Labor strike or any kind of unrest free and fair labour rights for all matters regarding occupational experienced by employees. during the past five years. ever. all employees. We remain and are health and safety. •EPL wants to take on broader When recruiting a new member of increasingly focused on the education responsibility for our people’s wellstaff, we are scrupulous in respecting EPL is committed to building a valuesNumber of child worker is ZERO. of our employees, at all levels, English press Limited has a being and thereby develop a systematic that no discrimination against sex, age, driven high performance culture where religion or any other factor is made. actively bringing us in line with Goal management system in place for approach to supporting sustainable all employees are valued, respected and Defined procedure for disciplinary 4 of the United Nations Sustainable human resources and occupational business performance and the healthy where their opinions count. We report management. Perso nnel Ac ti on A n al y sis: EP L Development Goals (Quality health and safety, covering our growth of the company on our approach to employee diversity analyzes its hires, promotions, and Education). business. The company complies and and inclusion and other employee issues The human resource procedures were LABOUR terminations to determine whether one EPL’s equal opportunities policy reviewed and training conducted to all deals with changing local legislation or more groups are adversely affected English Press Code of Conduct guides employees. We consult with and, where and relevant requirements globally. outlines key elements to ensure equal by existing processes. Where potential all employees in understanding the adverse actions are identified, HR appropriate, negotiate with employee treatment and opportunities for staff, kind of activities that reflect our values In the year 2019, EPL has not been representative bodies. It is our EPL seeks to provide working regardless of sex, age, race, colour, investigates and recommends corrective 10 and principles, not forgetting legal subject to any statutory notice related to 11 conditions that guarantee the health ethnic origin or country of citizenship, action. policy to maintain well-developed requirements. labour or health and safety. communications and consultation and safety of its employees. This is disability, marital status or religion. Compensation Analysis: EPL conducts programmes with all employee also described in the Health and In 2019, we monitored hiring practices All new employees are familiarized No violations on freedom of a statistical analysis of employee representative bodies and here have Safety Policy and Standards, which and achieved our company KPI on with the Code during induction associations have been reported in the compensation and HR recommends been no material disruptions to our is regularly reviewed and was last gender diversity for new hires. EPL’s programs. reporting period. corrective action where necessary. operations from labour disputes updated in 2019. The health and safety open door policy invites employees The importance of equality and Support employee and worker in 2019. English press Limited is department strives to ensure that: to raise any issues for escalation and diversity is highlighted in English organizations and respected collective committed to building a values-driven follow-up (including issues related to Press Human Resource Policy and agreements. Actions to be implemented in high performance culture where all •EPL is committed to continuously labour and human rights). in the company’s recruitment and the year 2020-2021 employees are valued, respected and improving the working environment. remuneration principles. The shop stewards are allowed to hold •Training of employees on the net EPL where their opinions count. •EPL embraces a zero-injury mindset Zero tolerance of child labor and meetings with the employees during policy handbook. and will not accept people being discrimination is an absolute must for We guarantee all applicants equal work hours and attend union seminars English press Limited shall provide injured as a result of our working English Press. Even before its accession opportunities and fair and equal without pay deductions. •Training on the code of conduct a healthy and safe working conditions. to the UN Global Compact in 2012, treatment during the recruitment handbook. process. We also request that our employee environment by operating in •EPL is committed to a sustainable English Press committed itself. report and anomalies that they may accordance with high occupational health and safety strategy and falling Our factory is managed and operated see in the workplace to their Health & health and safety standards trends in injury frequency rate with Besides adequate and safe working according to ISO 45000 requirements. Safety Officer, these anomalies are then by ensuring that the working absence towards 2020 conditions, fair remuneration and published in the company newsletter for environment is not compromised for •Good workplace ergonomics is a key the right of assembly and collective full staff awareness. economic or productivity reasons, and element in ensuring long term health bargaining are high priorities for us. by motivating and educating people for employees. We take the safety and security of our employees very seriously, we set up Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. IMPLEMENTATION MEASUREMENT Actions to be implemented in Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental AND INITIATIVES OF OUTCOMES the year 2020-2021 responsibility. •Minimize energy costs Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally We are environmentally responsible: English press has continued its friendly technology. •All our actions are safe for our recycling efforts of it waste. •Raise awareness to employees to neighbors and the environment. reduce energy consumption •We are committed to the health, safety, ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS and security of our people and others English press made every effort to •Explore opportunities for renewable, W directly impacted by our activities, and conserve energy through the effective to protecting the natural environment monitoring of electricity usage and alternate and new energy resources e are committed to QEHS (Quality, Environment, Health conducting our business activities. where we operate. other utilities at its corporate office. understanding and reducing and Safety) management system •Monitoring and measuring the •We ensure sufficient risk treatment and our environmental impact drives us to ensure that we are quality of air emissions and waste control, especially in the areas of EHS Statutory electrical inspection. on the world starting with our own complaint on all environmental laws water discharge against benchmarked English Press monitors the status of footprint through to working with our at EPL. The EHS function is in charge standards and legal requirements environmental risks through review of Energy audit completed. clients and advocating for change. of company-wide environment, safety through accurate and effective systems material environmental management ENVIRONMENT Our environment strategy is a key and health management, which o measuring, reporting and controls. performance indicators at scheduled Saving from the energy audit. element of our broader corporate includes defining and implementing •The engagement of external intervals. responsibility strategy. EHs standards and initiatives. experts or consultants to seeking The Environmental health and safety List of Environmental aspect-impact dependent assurance on the levels of Committee assists the monitoring and control the significant impact. English press Limited Goods services English Press environmental environmental compliance and/or the adequacy of environmental management systems in English press Achievement of the objectives of continues to be heavily reliant on management promotes the following for value-added advice on technically and the extent to which these comply Environment management system. natural resources, in particular principles: complex matters pertaining to with relevant legislation. materials such as paper and environmental management. Periodic internal & External Audit 12 paperboard. We continued our efforts •Ensuring compliance with relevant •Responsible management of waste The Environmental health and conducted 13 safety manager responsible for in reducing waste by the application of environmental regulations and through the selection of effective and ensuring compliance with all relevant our reduce-reuse-recycle philosophy. legislation governing the responsible feasible methods of waste disposal. environmental legislation EPL has not experienced any manufacture and supply of English reportable incidents during the past Air quality been monitored onc per year and has not been subject to any This involves reducing the amount of press’s products. year to study trends and to monitor the environmental impact. In order to statutory notice or persecution packing material being used. English •Carrying out of environmental risk the practices set forth in the series of press Limited has a variety of packing assessments to identify actual and environment system ISO14001 Noise level survey results indicated training for employees which also potential environmental impacts that the noise levels are generally within educates them on the amount of emanating from our operations. All employees in the office practice occupational exposure limits. the 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) as material needed to be used to ensure •Conducting environmental audits to encouraged by company management that goods are properly protected. evaluate the level of environmental to support waste reduction. The environmental audit conclusion English press Limited has looked at a compliance and the effectiveness by the external independent auditor Communication of the EHS policy stated that the environmental number of opportunities for reusing. of the applied environmental through awareness session, poster and performance had not deteriorated for management system. newsletter. 2018 as confirmed by the waste water We have continued our efforts to •Promoting the efficient use of analysis, noise and air quality surveys. recycle as much waste as possible and resources such as energy, water, Periodic workplace inspections by our EHS committee. have built relationships with waste paper and production materials with All our waste collectors are approved management companies looking at due regard to the scarcity of natural We co nd uc ted o ur a nnua l no i se by NEMA and provide us with waste innovative ways to recycle different resources and the environmental surveys to ensure that noise emitted tracking documents. doesn’t exit exposure levels. types of waste. impact resulting from the utilization All solid waste that is generated is and application of such resources in We monitor, collate and disseminate segregated at the source into different information relating to our streams : paper wastes put in paper environmental initiatives. waste cages Principle 10: Business should work IMPLEMENTATION EPL complies with all legislation related to ethics, corporate governance We did not receive any report of discrepancies in 2019. against corruption in all its forms, AND INITIATIVES and anti-corruption. including extortion and bribery As member of various trade and Actions to be implemented in The Code of Conduct refers to EPL’s Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery industry bodies, we work with peers, the year 2020-2021 partners and independent organizations •Regular communications and guidance Policy, which sets out expected to create transparent and level playing to employees. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS behaviour and reporting processes. The fields. E policy reiterates EPL’s position against •Development of a culture of regular, nglish Press has an whether the recipient is a public free opportunity to be heard, with an corruption and bribery, as set out in Our code of conduct is made available open discussions between employees uncompromising commitment official or an employee of a private unbiased and fair decision reached. the Code of Conduct, and implements to all employees, to foster an ethical and management. to ethical behavior. English Press customer). All EPL employees are applicable anticorruption and anticulture based on our core values. bribery laws. ANTI-COURRPTION policies, procedures, and professional expected to: •Review and develop anti-bribery management of staff are designed To make sure that corruption practices processes and procedures. English Press is committed to are not developed EPL encourages to minimize vulnerability to fraud •Apply a zero-tolerance approach conducting all of its business in an Employees to report any suspicious •Continue to communicate English in financial transactions, reporting towards corruption, extortion and honest and ethical manner and ensures activities and we have established Press Anti-Bribery policy internally and results and the procurement of goods bribery. that it meets its legal obligations confidential reporting channel to the HR externally. and services. •Behave honestly, be trust worth and and averts notices and eradicates office. set a good example. corrupt practices, and collaborates to EPL’S CEO sets the tone for our •Do not pay or accept bribes in any reduce opportunities for bribery and ethical culture by holding managers form. corruption. MEASUREMENT accountable, communicating policy and conduct expectations. Our CEO •Do not accept or provide gifts, invitations or other advantages All interactions with licensing & regulatory authorities are carried out in OF OUTCOMES 14 communicates with employees and which could create a possible conflict 15 a transparent manner where no single English Press has not been involved managers about the importance of of interest. member handles communications in any legal cases, rulings or other ethics and legal compliance. This •Do not engage directly or indirectly and all information is shared with the events related to corruption and “tone from the top”—combined with in fraud against any of our partners relevant staff and the Board of Directors bribery. our Code of Conduct training and or government entities. where necessary. regular communications throughout •Do not engage directly or indirectly All licenses obtained are English Press requires all employees accompanied with official receipts helps to create an ethical and legally in bribery. at all times to act honestly and with compliant culture. •Refuse to pay any bribes, including of the payments made to relevant integrity and to safeguard the resources authorities. small amount bribes or facilitation for which they are responsible. Our policies on integrity and payments. EPL’s financial reporting is verified anti-corruption are essential for Engli sh Press d o es no t to lera te by external auditors to ensure embedding integrity within our daily All employees are expected to complete any form of corruption and takes the transparency and accuracy of business. English press has a zero training on the Code of Conduct when most serious view of any attempt to accounting practices.Our books and tolerance policy towards corruption they join the company and annually commit corrupt practices by employees, accounts are subjected to statutory contractors, agents and business external audit annually. and bribery. We have adopted this thereafter. Employees are encouraged partners. policy to communicate this message to raise ethical questions and Every year we submit our accounts to all our employees to uphold it. concerns, and have multiple channels Cases of suspected corruption are to be to independent external auditors to do so–anonymously, if they properly investigated and appropriate who check that our accounts are English Press’s Code of Conduct prefer–whilst actively ensuring any action taken, including reporting to the correctly managed and that there strictly forbids any form of bribery colleagues who may face accusations appropriate authorities, disciplinary are no discrepancies which could or corruption (irrespective of in this regard are given a fair and action, prosecution and active pursuit be related to bribery or corruption. of recovery. Overall Contact us: Outlook Let us know what you think E nglish press will continue to develop As a valued stakeholder and report the initiatives it has launched and reader, your thoughts and concerns to introduce new measures in the are important to us. We are interested coming reporting period. in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our In 2020-2021 we will continue progress performance overall as a responsible towards our strategic goals and we will business. If you would like to send us any focus our efforts to ensure progress in feedback on these issues, please write to 2021. The challenge presented by the us at qmr@englishpress.com economic environment is transforming 16 our business. The speed of innovation 17 across the entire business – from our manufacturing processes to product solutions is accelerating to address these challenges, creating more value and enhancing competitiveness. Sustainability will remain a key driver of value creation in English Press. English Press will be at the forefront in ensuring the needs of customers and markets are met in a sustainable way. P.O. Box 30127 -00100 Enterprise Road, Industrial Area, Nairobi, Kenya. www.englishpress.com
