Sustainability Report 2019 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 Foreword About this report In addition to this detailed Sustainability Report, This LEONI Sustainability Report is also our LEONI LEONI has submitted a Non-Financial Statement 5 The LEONI Group Global Compact Communication on Progress and in accordance with Section 315b of the German therefore documents our key activities in support of Commercial Code (HGB) to meet the statutory 7 Corporate sustainability at LEONI the ten principles of the UN Global Compact during requirements for CSR reporting. This is provided the period under review, providing a summary of as part of the 2019 Group Management Report in 10 Economic responsibility the various measures and outcomes. An index at the 2019 Annual Report , which can be accessed the end of this document provides references to the from our website. 14 Ecological responsibility relevant text passages that report on our progress in implementing the guiding principles. Sections We release our Sustainability Report exclusively in 25 Social responsibility containing information on the UN Sustainable Develdigital form. It is available as a PDF in German and opment Goals (SDGs) are marked with the relevant in English. This screen-optimised version can be 32 UN Global Compact Index UN symbols. navigated via the right-hand navigation pane. External reference Internal reference Contents Return to previous page Page back Page forward Contact informaiton 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Foreword The past 2019 financial year was an exceptionally The aim is to lastingly improve the Company’s However, the situation for LEONI has changed dramatdifficult one for LEONI. The Company had to confront profitability and its cash flow as well as simultaneically within just a few weeks since the confirmation huge challenges and concentrate hard on getting ously to align the Company with new, viable areas of given by the appraisal of our restructuring. Towards LEONI back on track, and some key milestones were business. Key progress was already made during 2019 the end of March in the current financial year, the reached in so doing: Sales and earnings were in line in implementing the programme. On the one hand, economic uncertainties related to spread of the with the forecast and free cash flow was positive in this weighed on the Company with higher costs. On coronavirus and the resulting challenges, especially the second half of the year. In a generally challenging the other hand, action like the significantly improved for the automotive industry, aggravated further. The financial year, significant progress was made in imreceivables and inventory management led to positive coronavirus’ spread led to major carmakers temporarplementing the VALUE 21 performance and strategy free cash flow in the second half of the year. We regret ily stopping production, causing serious sales decline programme, while an appraisal of restructuring at the that some of the measures also entailed considerable affecting many LEONI customers and products. We beginning of March simultaneously confirmed LEONI’s job cuts. In agreement with our employee representanticipate more heavy strain on our sales, earnings ability to restructure and its ongoing financing. atives, we made these cuts in a way that minimises and liquidity. At the same time, we managed to social hardship and were able to largely avoid protect the health of our staff and safeguard our Particularly the stresses stemming from the complex compulsory redundancies. business operation as a going concern with resolute ramp-up of a wiring systems project adversely and prompt action. affected the business situation. There was furtherThe programme also entailed changing the holding more a downturn in demand for wiring systems and company’s organisational structure, which led to automotive cables for the car industry as well as for complete realignment of our corporate governance cable systems and special cables for other industrial functions. This also affected the function of Corporate sectors. The Board of Directors launched the VALUE 21 Sustainability (cf. section headed Corporate Sustainabiperformance and strategy programme to counteract lity at LEONI). these developments and to stabilise the business. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Foreword Despite these tough underlying conditions, measures to ensure sustainable corporate governance were and will be continued. It remains our aspiration to always give sustainability appropriate weighting in our entrepreneurial conduct. To us, this also means to act on the ten key principles of the UN Global Compact and to continually improve with a view to driving forward the sustainable development goals of the UN Global Compact. In so doing, we aim to strike a balance between economic focus and social as well as ecological responsibility. In this Communication on Progress, we provide you in familiar fashion with a review of 2019 as well as a brief outlook on the further sustainability-related activity we have planned. The UN Global Compact remains our guiding principle and our guideline in this respect. Nuremberg, July 2020 LEONI AG The Board of Directors Aldo Kamper Ingrid Jägering Hans-Joachim Ziems Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Restructuring Officer 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The LEONI Group LEONI is a global provider of products, solutions and services for energy and data management in the automotive sector and other industries. Our portfolio includes wires, optical fibers, cables and cable systems as well as related components, connectors and services. On these foundations, we are increasingly offering our customers intelligent energy and data management solutions for vehicles and industrial applications. On 31 December 2019, our market-listed group of companies employed about 95,000 people in 31 countries and generated consolidated sales of EUR 4.8 billion in 2019. LEONI’s business is organised by two divisions (or segments), which are structured differently and operate in differing market environments. 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The LEONI Group The Wiring Systems Division (WSD) is one of the world’s The Wire & Cable Solutions Division (WCS) is a leading LEONI GROUP AND DIVISIONS 2019 leading providers of complete wiring systems and manufacturer of wire and cable systems that, as part customised cable harnesses for the motor vehicle of its strategic transformation, is gradually developing LEONI Sales: € 4.8 billion; approx. 95,000 employees industry. Its products and services comprise develinto a provider of safe and intelligent energy transopment and production of sophisticated cable mission and data management system solutions. Its WIRING SYSTEMS WIRE & CABLE SOLUTIONS Sales: € 3.0 billion; Sales: € 1.8 billion; harnesses through to integrated wiring systems, range of products and services encompasses wires, approx. 86,200 employees approx. 8,500 employees high-voltage (HV) wiring systems for hybrid and strands and optical fibers, standardised cables, electric vehicles, energy distribution components special cables and fully assembled systems as well and special connectors. as related services for customers in the automotive, capital goods, medical devices, telecommunications, As systems providers, we cover the entire spectrum energy and infrastructure industries. from design through to series production as well as complementary services. In so doing, we are The focus is on technologically sophisticated increasingly positioning ourselves as a provider for products as well as customer-specific applications in-vehicle data and energy management solutions to for niche markets. The portfolio is continually being supply our customers with innovative products and expanded to include intelligent cables and cable sysservices in line with the automotive megatrends of tems, software solutions as well as smart services to electromobility, connectivity and autonomous drivtake advantage of the opportunities for LEONI arising ing. We are also reinforcing our expertise in the fields from digitalization and other global megatrends. of electronics and software to enhance our position as a systems supplier. For detailed information about the structure, strategy and competitive situatio of the LEONI Group and its two divisions, see the 2019 Group Management Report. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate Sustainability at LEONI Sustainability management OUR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH LEONI has had a Group-wide Corporate Sustainability Management system in place since 2016. This system CSR STRATEGY provides uniform reporting for the Group and is Targets 2030 responsible for the strategic development of all of Major topics the Group’s sustainability aspects. We adopted our CSR Strategy in 2019; the targets through to 2030 Economic Ecological Social responsibility responsibility responsibility contained therein apply unchanged. In the past year, we worked on sustainability-related matters on the Strategic development of sustainability aspects three levels of the existing operational structure. Standards and guidelines In 2020, we will be pooling our governance functions much more distinctly as part of reorganising our holding company structures. The issues of ethics, risk & compliance will be combined in one department. Sustainability management will be a key sub-section ORGANISATION OF SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT IN THE LEONI GROUP in this core function. STRATEGIC Sustainability Steering Committee ORGANISATION Chairperson: Board Members: Members of senior management Tasks: Strategic orientation and decisions on long-term sustainability issues Sustainability Panel Chairperson: VP Corporate Sustainability Members: Heads of Compliance, Risk, Environmental and Communication Management Tasks: Prioritisation of sustainability issues and support for the decision-making process OPERATIONAL Sustainability Working Groups ORGANISATION Members: Specialists from various departments Tasks: Implementation of projects and processes to achieve sustainability goal 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate Sustainability at LEONI Stakeholders and key aspects In accordance with the requirements of the German Review of our materiality analysis did not yield LEONI’s global activities impact on various external Sustainability Code and based on the GRI standard, any new findings in 2019. This report is therefore and internal stakeholder groups. In particular, these aspects key to LEONI are reviewed annually and unchanged concerning our key aspects. The matrix include our customers, employees, investors, suppliers new issues are determined as the case may be. In below shows the findings of our materiality analysis. and other business partners, as well as legislators particular, a benchmark analysis, conversations and authorities in the countries in which we operate. with internal and external stakeholders as well as The needs of these groups are accounted for by our evaluation of sustainability questionnaires completed sustainability strategy and form part of decisionby our customers served as the basis for this review. making on the materiality of individual aspects. Furthermore, we follow the ten UNGC Guiding Principles and the UN Strategic Development Goals with LEONI-STAKEHOLDER the aim of prioritising their relevance for and impact on our business activities (materiality analysis). In so UNGC doing, we consider two perspectives: the relevance Customers/suppliers Rating agencies of the aspects for LEONI as well as their relevance for Employees NGOs our stakeholders. LEONI Stakeholder Legislators Investors MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Sustainable Corporate Growth Environmental issues Human Rights Social issues 2019 Relevance for external Innovation Certifications ISO standards Anti-Corruption Conflict minerals Modern Slavery Quality and Bribery stakeholders H&S standards Sustainability in Energy and Occupational accidents the supply chain Climate change Riskand process management high Water management Diversity at workplace Waste management Employee development Consumption of natural resources medium medium high Relevance for LEONI 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Corporate Sustainability at LEONI Sustainability strategy THE THREE PILLARS OF SUSTAINABILITY AT LEONI As a global provider of products, solutions and services for energy and data management to the ECONOMIC ECOLOGICAL SOCIAL automotive sector and other industries, sustainability RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY is given high priority at LEONI. We understand this We have set ourselves the goal of We consider climate and environWe consider the following to be to mean long-term and profit-oriented business ensuring our long-term market sucmental protection as constituting essential: diversity, employee cess, and thereby creating value for a key corporate goal and strive to satisfaction, equal opportunities growth (economic component) as well as assumption our shareholders and stakeholders. keep the impact of our activities and safe working conditions that of social and ecological responsibility. The objective Our dedication and our adherence on the natural world to an absolute are free of prejudice. In all of our is to reconcile the demands stemming from these to stringent compliance standards minimum. Our environmental initiaactivities worldwide, we comply in enable us to maximise benefit tives work continuously to improve full with the requirements of the three areas. In adopting this approach, we seek to for our customers by achieving our handling of water, energy, United Nations’ International Labour ensure stability, secure the future of our Company, excellence in quality and service. We natural resources and materials in Organisation (ILO), call on all of our develop and make well-engineered our plants. Our production facilities business partners to uphold our and contribute to the sustainable development of products and solutions that are social standards, and are committed are now increasingly certified to the economy and of society in general. This present increasingly deployed in environsuch internationally recognised to respecting and defending human mentally friendly technologies. standards as ISO 14001, EMAS and rights. In addition, LEONI supports report is also guided by these three pillars of our ISO 50001. and promotes a range of community sustainability strategy. projects around the world. CSR Strategy 2030 We intend to subject our concerns and the related obIn 2018, our Corporate Sustainability department jectives to an interim review in 2020 to adapt them to together with the responsible specialist departments new global requirements as the case may be. Detail prepared our CSR Strategy 2030 – a framework for of the objectives is presented in the sections below. comprehensive, structured and rigorous further development of the key non-financial aspects at LEONI through to the year 2030. This strategy defines targets, measures and key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas of employee-related matters, environmental issues, upholding human rights and compliance. The Board of Directors approved the CSR Strategy 2030 in January 2019. 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Economic responsibility Our Group-wide risk management system is set up to systematically identify risks at an early stage as well as to analyse and assess them with respect to probability of occurrence and impact. In so doing, we also consider material risks relating to sustainability. To make the assessment, the reported non-financial risks in operations are analysed together with the abstract risks as defined by a team of experts. The identified abstract risks will already have been recorded in our risk management system and integrated in the risk process. Based on our latest assessment, there are no such highly probable risks with seriously adverse consequences. More information on our existing risk management system as well as reporting on all material risks is contained in the Risk and opportunity report of the 2019 Group management report. 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Economic responsibility Compliance management and RISK OF CORRUPTION WITHIN THE COMPANY anti-corruption efforts LEONI commits all its employees to responsible, Objectives KPIs Trend honest and rule-compliant conduct with the intene-Learning course on anti-corruption completed by more than 90 % Ratio of completed training 86 % sessions to invited staff/year tion of observing all laws and avoiding any cases of corruption. To ensure and control adherence, LEONI Living Code Quiz more than 90 % completed Ratio of completed training 73 % sessions to invited staff/year has a systematic compliance management system. The compliance management system contains The LEONI Code of Conduct, introduced in 2017, To enhance understanding of the values presented multiple policies designed to prevent corruption. constitutes a fundamental part of the compliance in the LEONI Code of Conduct, we established our system. This Code of Conduct replaced the LEONI Living Code in 2018: an internal, interactive inforThe following guidelines were revised during the Code of Ethics introduced in 2007 and additionally mation platform that simultaneously serves as a period under report: combines several rules adopted by our 2003 Social training platform for the LEONI Code of Conduct. This ■ Guideline on combating corruption and bribery Charter. It defines responsible and lawful conduct information platform conveys the most important ■ Compliance guideline for business partners at LEONI, building on the external legal as well as compliance principles for staff using examples, ■ Compliance guideline for donations and market and customer-specific requirements for explanatory videos, charts, check-lists and links etc. sponsorship correct conduct, which are expected of the Company Among other subjects, the training course developed and all employees. Our Code of Conduct is based for the Living Code covers the subject of anti-corrupA newly formulated compliance guideline for hanon the guiding principle of integrity. It forms the tion and is obligatory for any active employee with a dling conflicts of interest complements the existing foundation of value-oriented corporate governance Windows account, which equates to about 20 percent set of rules. Indications of possible infringements and serves as a signpost, a behavioural standard and of our staff. In 2019, this training course could also of internal anti-corruption guidelines or of laws are as a decision-making aid. be assigned to employees who do not have internet resolved and – so far as an indication is confirmed – access, but who do have the required technical penalised. means. 73 percent of invited staff completed the course in 2019. 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Economic responsibility We introduced our Compliance Management DashAs part of work on our CSR Strategy 2030, we board for staff in 2018 and expanded it further in resolved to further increase awareness of compliance 2019. It already provided, among other things, guideboth within the Company and among our suppliers. lines for information and confirmation; it distributed We thus developed and published our LEONI Code of training materials, ran compliance checks of business Conduct for business partners in 2019. The business partners as well as being used to document and principles it contains will gradually be adopted in approve gifts, invitations, donations and sponsorship. the business relationships with our business partners A module for conflicts of interest has now been over the next few years. added. Group-wide, staff can document conflicts of interest encompassing sideline work, shareholdings in LEONI business partners or competitors, shareholdings of related parties and personal relationships. The process provides that the manager checks the conflict of interest together with the local HR or Compliance department (depending on the matter) and decides how to deal with it; for example, by ordering riskminimising measures. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Economic responsibility Sustainable product development with They are made at three LEONI facilities – two new Thanks to LEONiQ, sensor and electronic elements, electromobility as an example plants in Tunisia and on an existing production line simulation and data analysis can ensure by digital With numerous products, system solutions and in Romania. Also in that financial year, we expanded means that pertinent information is continuously services, LEONI can operate with more energy effiglobal capacity to produce high-voltage cables and recorded during operation and evaluated almost in ciency and be easier on resources, reduce emissions charging cables for electric vehicles in Asia and the real time. In the future, this will facilitate such error and thereby reduce environmental pollution. Such Americas. In Mexico, we began, among other things, sources as damage or overheating and possibly also solutions for drive concepts for the future as hybrid extension work for production of high voltage and adverse influence from connected systems being systems, electric motors and fuel cells form a key charging cables, which is to start production in 2020. recognised or avoided at an early stage. Energy building block in this respect. As long as roughly a Development of drive concepts for e-mobility is a transmission, for instance the charging of a vehicle decade ago, LEONI pooled the development and key innovation area for intelligent energy and data battery, will therefore be able to run more efficiently distribution capacity for e-mobility in its operating solutions in tomorrow’s cars and within our C.A.R.E.S and safer. divisions in combined units and now offers, as one of strategy programme. Alongside electrified mobility, the market leaders in this field, integrated solutions this includes (C)onnected mobility, (A)utonomous From the charging cable to battery management and for high-voltage wiring systems and the charging mobility, (R)evolutionizing productivity as well as through to sophisticated wiring system architectures infrastructure they require for all forms of alternative (S)mart solutions & services. For example, one of – forward-looking, high quality and environmentally drive systems – from the charging cable to high-volthe focal points of our R&D work involves the next friendly innovations for mobility of the future are tage cables and through to complex wiring systems. development stages of 48-volt technology and a key foundation for LEONI’s sustained growth. In comprehensive optimizations of HV systems. LEONI both of our divisions, we therefore have an efficient The significance that e-mobility has by now assumed is furthermore working on design and production for innovation organisation with the aim of developing for LEONI can be seen in the high proportion of cable energy and data transmission in HV batteries. solutions that meet the demands of new, global harnesses for electric and hybrid vehicles on its order trends as well as for use in sustainable, environmenbook. In LEONI’s Wiring Systems Division, this was alBased on its intelligent LEONiQ technology platform, tally-friendly products and technologies. ready as much as about 26 percent in 2019. ManufacLEONI is developing innovative solutions for energy ture of wiring systems for Volkswagen’s ID.3, which and data transmission that can be deployed in the began in 2019, launched an important production charging infrastructure and in electromobility just run for a car designed as a purely electric vehicle. The as they can in robotics, for example. project covers both high-voltage and low-voltage cable harnesses and thus the complete wiring systems. 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility LEONI recognises its ecological responsibility and regards environmental protection as an important corporate objective. Our environmental management is geared to keeping the impact of all our processes on the ecosystem to an absolute minimum. In particular, we make every effort to reduce energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions as our contribution to climate protection, with the aim of achieving optimum resource and material efficiency. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility We are running several initiatives to raise employGoals and key performance indicators The following targets are to be achieved by 2030: ees’ awareness of their responsibility concerning In 2017, we defined immediate, location-related ■ Certification of all production facilities to the ecological aspects. We furthermore aim to promote environmental objectives for all of the LEONI Group’s ISO 14001 environmental standard staff awareness of this issue with various measures at plants, which are to be achieved by 2020 (baseline ■ Reduction of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2-equivalents our facilities. Environmental protection at LEONI is to year is 2016 in each case): by 20 percent per € 1 million in sales be underpinned by a preventive approach in line with ■ Reduction of energy consumption by 15 percent ■ Reduction of energy consumption the UN Global Compact. Environmental protection is ■ Reduction of relative waste volume by 2 percent by 15 percent per € 1 million in sales embedded as a key corporate objective in our Code ■ Reduction in freshwater use of Conduct. To achieve these targets, plants are free to deby 10 percent per € 1 million in sales fine and complete one or more projects, so as to In addition, there are the respective SHE policies accommodate the differing strategies and infraof our two divisions, which contain the following structural circumstances applicable to the various principles for action on ecology: production facilities within the two divisions. We ■ Ongoing improvement of measures relating to have been measuring target attainment levels occupational safety, health and environmental internally since 2018. protection. ■ Reduction of the environmental impact of our We have extended our targets and key performance products and processes within the confines of indicators for environmental protection since adopwhat is economically and technically feasible. ting our CSR Strategy 2030. LEONI has thus set targets ■ Efficient use of environmental resources and for water and energy consumption as well as for energy. greenhouse gas emissions1. ■ Avoidance of waste comes before waste separation and disposal. ■ Adhering to all binding obligations concerning occupational safety, health and environmental protection (legal and other requirements). The applicable national standards are minimum requirements in this respect. 1 Baseline year is 2016 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility Certified management system ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION At most of our facilities, we run environmental manTarget KPIs Performance agement systems in line with such internationally recognised standards as ISO 14001, EMAS III and All operating LEONI production facilities 100 % ISO 14001 certified % certified facilities 88 % ISO 50001 to establish suitable foundations on which to realise these principles and to be able to monitor the ecological impact of our activity. The intention in the WCS Division is also for all facilities to gradually be audited to the ISO 14001 The Wiring Systems Division set itself the target of standard. Our Group certification, which includes having all its operating units ISO 14001 certified by 30 facilities, was successfully completed during the the end of 2019. In the wake of further integrating year under report and the corresponding matrix the management systems for quality and SHE, the certificate, which is valid until October 2022, certification process was reconstituted in 2019 and was issued. the impending matrix audit pursuant to ISO 14001 was postponed to the fourth quarter. This meant a As part of our CSR Strategy 2030, 88 percent of our three-month period without any valid certification surveyed locations Group-wide passed ISO 14001 cerbut had no material impact on the effectiveness of tification by the end of 2019. Furthermore, 6 percent the SHE management system because the operating of our surveyed facilities fulfil the ISO 50001 standard processes continued to run concurrently. All operatfor energy management systems and 6 percent have ing units included in the certifiers’ random sampling subjected themselves to the EU’s Eco-Management successfully passed the audit. The corresponding and Audit Scheme (EMAS III). certificates were issued in January 2020. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility Energy and power consumption ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION In addition to its manufacturing processes, LEONI also requires energy to power its heating, cooling, ventilaTarget KPIs Trend tion and compressed air systems, as well as electricity Reduction of energy consumption by per 15 % percent per € 1 million in sales MWh/€ 1 million in sales 4.6 % (baseline year is 2016) for its lighting. In 2019, we consumed 521,473 MWh2 of energy, which corresponded to a slight, 2 percent year-on-year increase in absolute terms. Under our ENERGY AND POWER CONSUMPTION We met energy needs with purchased electricity CSR Strategy, energy consumption dropped by specific (1,000 MWh /€ million sales) absolute (1,000 MWh) (75 per cent) and such fossil fuels as natural gas, 4.6 percent per € 1 million in sales compared wit heating oil and diesel (23 percent). District heating 2019 the 2016 baseline. and renewable energy sources in the form of wood 2018 pellets, which are used at our plants in Serbia and Having commissioned new production facilities, 2016 Ukraine, provided the remaining 2 percent. such as Merida 2 in Mexico and Menzel Hayet in 0 500 1,000 Tunisia, and consequently recruited more production ENERGY SOURCES AT LEONI personnel as well as expanding the spaces and their Electrcity air-conditioning or heating systems also increased 23 % Fossil fuels our energy consumption. Despite this increase, we District heating 1% Renewable energy sources 1% either applied or initiated numerous energy-efficient 75 % measures to lower our energy consumption. These included switching to LED technology at several locations, optimising generating and consumption of compressed air by means of modified, frequencyregulated control as well as ongoing training of staff on environmental matters. More activity is presented in the section headed Climate and environmental protection projects . 2 Energy consumption at the time our non-financial statement was reviewed stood at 502,574 MWh. There was no significant change to the situation, however. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) CLIMATE PROTECTION To measure3 our CO2 equivalents (CO2e), we take Target KPIs Trend into account emissions from energy consumption in production processes, which emit greenhouse gas Reduction of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (CO2e) by 20 % per € 181 million in sales t CO2e / per € 1 million 22 % (baseline year is 2016) in sales by heating, the supply of steam, surface treatment and cooling processes We include direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions from 84 production facilities. This number includes all operating facilities GHG EMISSIONS (CO2e) as well as R&D and administrative locations employspecific (1,000 tCO2e /€ million sales) absolute (1,000 tCO2e) ing more than 50 people. 2019 2018 In 2019, Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions together accounted for 191,972 tonnes CO2 equivalent. The 2016 switch to green electricity at our facilities in Jena, 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 Berlin and Sonneberg, Germany reduced their energy consumption to zero4, which equated to a 6 percent year-on-year decrease. As part of our CSR Strategy, We furthermore increased our Scope 3 emissions The table below shows the precise distribution of emissions (CO2e) were down by 22 per € 1 million in (CO2e) in 2019. In addition to emissions due to busiemissions: sales compared with the 2016 baseline. In 2019, the ness travel, we also, for the first time, calculated the emissions from burning wood pellets came to 50 tons emissions from acquired copper and PVC6 as well as Scope 3 – Categories 2018 2019 of CO2e . 5 the emissions from transmission loss while carrying Purchased copper + PVC 6 NA 626,000 7 and distributing purchased electricity. This totalled Transmission and distribution of NA 16,305 8 644,486 tons of CO2e in the year under report. purchased electricity Business travel 3,838 2,181 9 Emissions due to business travel were down by 43 percent year on year. 3 Our GHG accounting is prepared according to the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 4 The basis for calculating CO2e is provided by the Global Warming Potentials (GWPs), which 7 Emission factor Idematapp LCA Database 2019 are in turn based on the Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) of the Intergovernmental Panel 8 Emission factor IEA 2019 on Climate Change (IPCC) over a period of 100 years. 9 Emission factor DEFRA 2019. These emissions have been calculated without the Radiative 5 Emission factor of Stadtwerke Energie Jena-Pößneck jenaturStrom: 0g/kWh. Forcing (RF) factors (RF is a measure of the additional environmental impact of aviation Emissions are, under the GHG Protocol, not included in Scope 1. 6 Mainly suspension PVC They include emissions of nitrous oxides and water vapour when emitted at high altitude). 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility Water consumption ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION LEONI uses water for activities not related to producTarget KPIs Trend tion (e.g. drinking, sanitary purposes, catering), and for such production activities as cleaning, washing Fresh water saving of 10 % percent per € 1 million in sales (baseline year is 2016) m3/€ 1 million in sales 13 % and cooling. The amount of water consumed in 2019 was 1,624,650 m3, which equated to a 2 percent yearon-year drop in absolute terms. Relative consumption WATER CONSUMPTION per € 1 million in sales was up by 13 percent in the specific (1,000 m3 /€ million sales) absolute (1,000 m3) context of our CSR Strategy. 2019 2018 Various measures to reduce local water consumption were applied during the year, including maintenance 2016 work at several facilities to find or repair water leaks, 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 training staff and installation of water meters to improve future control of consumption as well as the WATER SOURCES AT LEONI use of purified process water to cut consumption of Groundwater 0% fresh water, as was done at our facility in Monticelli Surface water d’Ongina, Italy. More activity is presented in the Rain water section headed Climate and environmental protection 40 % projects . 60 % 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility Resource efficiency and waste generation WASTE LEONI’s operations require a lot of resources. A specific (1,000 t /€ million sales) absolute (1,000 t) variety of materials are used for our products and 2019 solutions, especially so copper and polymers. In 2019, 2018 we purchased about 160,000 tons of copper and 25,000 tons of PVC6. Our 2019 Annual Report contains 2016 information on other significant commodities and 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 materials used at LEONI. Most of the waste that we generate is non-hazardOur facilities nevertheless took action to reduce their ous – such as is generated in cafeterias or offices. waste. For instance, new equipment to desalinate A proportion of our waste is also hazardous, and process water was commissioned at our plant in involves galvanisation process waste, oils and lubriMonticelli d’Ongina, Italy to reduce the amount of cants as well as coolants for wire-drawing machines, water wasted, and waste separation was optimised at for example. In 2019, the total volume of waste (both our facility in Itú, Brazil. Measures were also applied non-hazardous and hazardous) was 43,605 tonnes, in offices; for example, introduction of recycling of which 31,311 tonnes (72 percent) was recovered containers at our facility in Busan, South Korea, or recycled. Compared with 2018, we therefore inand distribution of cups and glass bottles to staff at creased our total waste volume in absolute terms by our site in Cinderford, England to reduce the use of 12 percent. The total amount of waste was up in 2019 disposal cups made of paper and plastic. because we commissioned new production plant and there was a related increase in production personnel, and because we expanded projects. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility KEY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 absolute terms Facilities Unit 2016 (Baseline year) 2018 (Previous year) 2019 (Reporting year) Facilities included number 84 84 84 Management systems Facilities ISO 14001 certified % 71 % 70 % 88 % Facilities with EMAS validation % 7% 6% 6% Facilities ISO 5001 certified % 6% 6% 6% Facilities OHSAS 18001 & ISO 45001 certified % 12 % 13 % 32 % Energy consumption Electricity MWh 371,198 396,371 392,783 District heating MWh 5,240 9,152 7,640 Fossil fuels MWh 122,970 102,156 117,576 Renewable energy sources MWh 3,099 3,691 3,474 absolute (1,000 MWh) MWh 502,507 511,370 521,473 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 CO2e t CO2e 29,988 22,122 24,884 Scope 2 CO2e t CO2e 182,970 181,815 167,087 absolute (1,000 t CO2e) t CO2e 212,958 203,937 191,971 Water consumption Surface water m3 789,824 794,552 654,484 Groundwater m3 492,062 846,861 965,032 Rain water m3 21,758 25,302 5,134 absolute (1,000 m ) 3 m 3 1,303,644 1,666,715 1,624,650 Total waste volume Non-hazardous waste t 40,915 36,489 40,192 Recycled non-hazardous waste t 28,884 35,774 31,311 Hazardous waste t 16,763 2,529 3,413 Hazardous waste already diposed t 16,372 3,125 2,250 absolute (1,000 t) t 57,678 39,018 43,605 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility KEY ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2019 absolute terms Facilities Unit 2016 (Baseline year) 2018 (Previous year) 2019 (Reporting year) Facilities included number 84 84 84 Energy consumption Electricity MWh/€ million 83.8 77.7 80.4 Fossil fuels MWh/€ million 27.8 20.0 24.1 Renewable energy sources MWh/€ million NA 0.74 1.6 District heating MWh/€ million NA 1.79 0.7 specific (1,000 MW /€ million sales) MWh/€ million 112 100 107 Water consumption Surface water m3/€ million 178.2 155.8 134.0 Groundwater m3/€ million 111.0 166.0 197.6 Rain water m /€ million 3 4.9 5.0 1.1 specific (1,000 m3 /€ million sales) m3/€ million 294 327 333 Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 CO2e t CO2e/€ million 6.8 4.3 5.1 Scope 2 CO2e t CO2e/€ million 41 35.6 34.2 specific (1,000 t CO2e /€ million sales) t CO2e/€ million 48 40 38 Total waste volume Non-hazardous waste t/€ million 9.2 7.2 8.2 Recycled non-hazardous waste t/€ million 6.5 7.0 6.4 Hazardous waste t/€ million 3.8 0.5 0.7 Hazardous waste already diposed t/€ million 3.7 0.6 0.5 specific (1,000 t /€ million sales) t/€ million 12 8 9 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility Climate and environmental protection projects We were unable to reduce water consumption in 2019 Despite the 2019 increase in total waste volume, our In 2019, LEONI again launched a number of projects as compared with 2016 because we commissioned facilities took various measures to lower waste quanaround the world with the aim of contributing to new facilities and recruited additional production tities and to further increase the proportion of waste the conservation of natural resources and reducing staff, but several facilities carried out maintenance that is recycled. For example, our facility in Itù, Brazil greenhouse gas emissions. For instance, to cut energy work, monitoring and checks with a view to signififurther improved optimisation of its waste collection consumption, there was an ongoing campaign cantly reducing their local water consumption in the and disposal system, while a work instruction to at our facility in Hermosillo, Mexico to switch off future. Other reduction measures were applied at correctly separate and dispose of waste was drafted unused devices and lighting in the production areas. several facilities; for instance, replacing the irrigation and introduced at our location in Jena, Germany. Action to save energy was also taken at our plants in equipment at our facility in Tieling, China, closing off Jena, Germany. Above all, this focused on gradually unused valves at our site in Busan, South Korea and converting the lighting to LED technology and on improving the monitoring of water consumption by optimisation in the manufacture of certain preform installing water meters at our location in Cuauhtetypes, which are the basis for making glass fibers. moc, Mexico. 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Ecological responsibility 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS *Compared with 2016 Projects Country Description Facility savings* Energy savings Brazil Environmental training to make staff continuously aware of being sparing with energy resources 23 % South Korea Energy optimisation project 55 % Morocco Optimisation of production processes 54 % Mexico Campaign to switch off unused devices and lighting 9% Russia Installation of 38 LED lights in offices and production areas 14 % Germany Replacing lighting in the production shop with LEDs 13 % Process optimisation and lighting technology 35 % Hungary Saving of natural gas consumption by using residual heat from compressors 39 % Poland Changing the compressor operating sequence by reducing the pressure of the compressed air in the system 8% Water savings Brazil Environmental training to make staff continuously aware of being sparing with water resources 33 % China Changing the irrigation equipment for a sprinkler system and monitoring the water used by all of the staff 46 % (e.g. installation of a water meter in the canteen) South Korea Ongoing monitoring of water supplies and closing off unused water valves (e.g. showers) 63 % Morocco Relative optimisation of water consumption 18 % Hungary Replacing the water source for technological cooling 13 % Mexico Ongoing monitoring of water pipes as well as installation of water meters 56 % Renewable energy Germany Reduction of CO2 emissions by switching to green electricity in Jena, Berlin and Sonneberg 100 % Waste management Brazil Optimisation of the waste collection and disposal system at the facility 78 % South Korea Increase in recycling by placing recycling containers in the workplace 41 % Germany Preparation and introduction of “Work instruction to correctly separate and dispose of waste” with a corresponding contract with 12 % Jena’s municipal service 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility LEONI endeavours to provide its employees with interesting Significant restructuring and cost cutting measures in connection with our VALUE 21 performance and jobs that involve a high degree of personal responsibility in a strategy programme characterised 2019. Alongside motivating, supportive and constructive work environment. strategic realignment and measures to boost The aim is, as an appealing employer, to find skilled and comliquidity and profitability, the programme provides mitted staff, and to gain their long-term loyalty to the Company. for cutting about 2,000 jobs worldwide by 2021, of which approximately 500 in high wage countries. Diversity and employee satisfaction are key success factors for The primary objective is to make these job cuts in a our Company’s future viability. It is likewise our stated aim way that minimises social hardship. For instance, to to fulfil high standards of occupational health and safety avoid redundancies as far as possible, management and employee representatives reached an agreement throughout the Group. in Germany to reduce paid working hours over a nine-month period; to convert standard bonuses into time off work as well as to postpone salary and wage increases. A severance arrangement was furthermore agreed that financially backs affected staff in re-orienting themselves on the job market. Nearly 100 employees (on a full-time basis) have made use of this programme. Together with natural fluctuation and phased retirement agreements, this reduced the number of jobs in Germany by 383 while avoiding compulsory redundancies almost entirely. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility Diversity DIVERSITY We regard diversity – with respect to gender, age, Objectives KPIs Trend cultural background, ethnic as well as career backMaintaining the proportion of women in the Group workforce with a deviation in (%) overall proportion of 54 % grounds and mindset – as key to being able to master absolute terms of ± 5 % women an increasingly complex set of tasks and challenges Tripling the proportion of women in senior management by 6.5 % to about 20 % (%) proportion of women 6% within heterogeneous teams. Our focus in this in senior management respect is on senior management and here especially Relative increase in the proportion of non-German citizens in senior management (%) non-German citizens 22 % on promoting women and their appropriate particiby 5 % in senior management pation as well as on greater internationalisation and making it easier for employees to move between departments and job roles. To promote women in senior management, we conFurther internationalisation of management was tinue to support those with potential by providing again supported in 2019 with international employee As part of our CSR Strategy 2030, we have set ourtargeted training towards qualifications and with development talks and talent conferences as well as selves the goal of raising the proportion of women on such mentoring as the development programme for intercultural workshops and awareness training. The the top two management tiers (Level 1 and Level 2) to female (junior) managers of the Bavarian Industry proportion of non-Germans in senior management about 20 percent by 2030 and to maintain the already Association. Our recruitment consultants also currently stands at approx. 22 percent. existing, balanced ratio in the overall workforce. We remain called upon to identify and introduce female also intend to significantly increase the proportion of candidates for all of our vacancies. In 2019, women The corresponding measures were continued in non-German citizens in senior management. held about 6 percent of the senior management 2019, but not stepped up any further because of the positions within the LEONI Group worldwide, as in comprehensive cost cutting as part of our VALUE 21 the previous year. Since August 2019, LEONI’s Board programme. of Directors was 20 percent female. Since June 2020, this proportion has been up to one third. As in the previous year, about 54 percent of LEONI’s total, worldwide workforce was female. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility Employee satisfaction EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT * * The next survey will probably be carried out in 2021. LEONI strives to provide a working environment for Objectives KPIs Trend all its employees worldwide that is free of discrimiMaintaining the willingness to participate of the 1st Group-wide staff survey (%) response rate 70 % nation in both recruitment and during employment, at about 70 % as well as intended to safeguard the freedom of Slight increase in the employee engagement index from 76 points to about 80 points Employee engagement 76 points association and the right to collective bargaining. index A blanket ban on discrimination is therefore embedded in our Code of Conduct and in LEONI’s Due to our focus on the VALUE 21 programme, there Social Charter, among other places. The Social were no global initiatives to promote employee Charter furthermore prescribes support for employsatisfaction in 2019, but we did have local ones. The ees in gaining qualifications and demands that, at a next global survey combined with extrapolation from minimum, the respective national, legal requirements the findings of specific measures aimed at raising with respect to compensation and minimum wages, employee satisfaction is planned for 2020/2021. The safety at work and health protection as well as findings and especially also the roughly 950 change working and holiday times are observed. and promotional mea-sures worldwide extrapolated from the last global staff survey (2017/2018) are To enhance LEONI’s appeal as an employer, we also still available to managers and the organisation offer our staff conditions that recognise different lifevia a platform. Where there is specific demand or a styles, such as flexible working time, greater options particular problem at a facility, the best practices of for working part time or in a home office. other locations can be examined and applied. 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility Occupational health and safety OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Promoting occupational health and safety as well as Objectives KPIs Trend adhering to respective standards are key objectives 100% AMS certification of WSD facilities to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 (%) certified facilities 32 % of the respective SHE policy in both of our divisions. The specific principles for action contained therein Maintaining the accident rate of 0.5 # number of accidents at 0.67 % work/100 employees concerning safety at work and health protection were 100% medical care at all LEONI facilities (%) of facilities with 78 % updated in 2019 and are: medical care ■ Socially and ecologically responsible action is a core corporate objective. Despite the plan under our VALUE 21 programme to safety standard for the first time during the year under ■ Occupational safety, health and environmental separate our two segments into more distinct entities, report. In total, 32 percent of all the facilities surveyed protection are part of any management responsithey developed the operational principles of their Group-wide had an OH&S management system. In the bility. respective SHE policies jointly. The content of the Group-wide areas of safety at work, health protection ■ Providing safe and healthy places of work and two divisions’ SHE policies is identical. and emergency management, it has been our aim working conditions to avoid work-related injuries since 2018 to record both accidents at work as well and illnesses. Our pan-Group SHE approach and therefore also the as activity related to health and safety at work at the ■ Ongoing improvement of measures relating to work of our OneSHE network, which comprises those locations included in the survey (facilities with more occupational safety, health and environmental responsible for SHE regionally in both divisions and than 50 employees). This target was met in 2019. protection. met once more during the year under report, was ■ Adhering to all binding obligations concerning completed. The necessary work and environmental As part of our CSR Strategy 2030, a new target was set occupational safety, health and environmental protection-related activity will be continued in the for maintaining the accident rate at the respect facilprotection (legal and other requirements). The operating divisions. ities as well as meeting an improved Group accident applicable national standards are minimum rate of 0.5 per 100 employees by 2030. Various related requirements in this respect. We are increasingly applying internationally recogoccupational health and safety initiatives again took ■ Establishing and promoting mutual trust through nised standards to ensure the health and safety of place during the year under report. They ranged from dialogue with all concerned interest groups; inside our employees. In 2019, the Wiring Systems Division’s safety training through to health screening, with each the Company especially with our employees and OHSAS 18001 matrix was extended from 11 to 24 facility setting its particular emphases. The rate of their representatives. facilities. The widened OHSAS 18001 certificate was work accidents remained10 unchanged at 0.67 per 100 issued in the first quarter of 2020. In the Wire and employees in 2019. In addition, we stipulated cover of Cable Solutions Division, three facilities are certified; medical care at our facilities for the first time in 2019. one is OSHAS 18001 certified and two others were cerIt stood at 78 percent. tified to the new ISO 45001 occupational health and 10 By international standard, accidents must be reported from the first day of incapacity 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility Respect of human rights be approved only if the supplier accepts either the In addition, we participated in a customer project The LEONI Group commits itself to upholding guiding principles of the UN Global Compact or our to increase the transparency in our supply chain. internationally recognised human rights. ManageSocial Charter. LEONI is entitled to terminate the To this end, we scrutinised and analysed all stages ment, all staff and our suppliers are called upon to business relationship immediately when any serious in the copper supply chain by means of supply prevent modern slavery and human trafficking in our and repeated breaches of the principles stipulated chain mapping. business activities. Our Code of Conduct as well as therein come to light. No material breaches were the LEONI Social Charter stipulate than any forced found in 2019. or compulsory labour is prohibited at LEONI. In our statement on respecting human rights, we likewise LEONI furthermore strives to prevent the use of explicitly declare that we do not tolerate any human conflict minerals, which are mined with disregard for rights abuses, with violations being unequivocally human rights, and requires suppliers not to supply sanctioned. any components with raw materials sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or its neighbourWe continued the activity as part of our Modern ing states. This is set out in a Group-wide guideline Slavery Prevention project as far as was economically on conflict minerals, which is operationally applied feasible. In this regard, we complemented the already in both divisions. Since 2014, we have voluntarily existing platform for submitting complaints to informed customers pursuant to the U.S. Dodd-Frank include such other issues as discrimination and illegal Wall Street and Consumer Protection Act on the working conditions at the beginning of 2020. extent to which our products contain such conflict minerals as gold, tantalum, tin or tungsten that stem LEONI requires its suppliers to act sustainably and, from mines or smelting works in certain African in particular, to uphold human rights at all times. We countries. We ask our customers annually to furnish issued a corresponding Code of Conduct for business the necessary information in this regard. We thereby partners in 2019. Our standard terms and conditions facilitate the traceability of these substances as well require all our suppliers to observe our Social Charter as the transparency of the supply chain and support and/or the principles of the UN Global Compact. our customers in fulfilling their corresponding For instance, a new supplier to either division will requirements. 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility Community engagement Exertion of political influence LEONI supports community projects with donations LEONI does not support any political organisations or and sponsorship. We consider sustainability and local parties. We are involved in a number of associations relevance to be important. Activities are coordinated that promote the interests of various industrial on the one hand by a Group-wide sponsorship stratsectors. These include the German Association of the egy as well as, on the other hand, by the individual Automotive Industry (VDA), the German Electrical and facilities on a voluntary basis to ensure we meet the Electronic Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI) and the specific needs of each particular region. For instance, Employers’ Associations of the Metal and Electrical Industry LEONI supports such projects as building nursery in Bavaria (Bayme vbm). LEONI is an active member schools, improving educational infrastructure and of these associations but is not represented in the environment-related activity in many of its facilities’ respective political working groups; accordingly, our local communities worldwide. We also maintain a membership does not involve the exertion of direct range of partnerships with universities, technical political influence. colleges and research institutions. In developing and emerging economies in particular, LEONI’s facilities make significant contributions in economic terms, thereby helping to combat poverty and supporting sustainable development in these countries. Given the Company’s economic situation, the Board of Directors temporarily cut the funds made available for donations and sponsorship as of the second half of 2019. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Social responsibility 2019 COMMUNITY PROJECTS Serbia Support for the science festival in Niš Brazil Support for foundations aiding handicapped people and community projects Donations for nursery school, technical college and community centres that help people in need Russia Support for the local centre for handicapped children India Donation of clothing and essentials for flood victims Support for local athletes and excursions to the children’s holiday camp for the Support for tree-planting day children of employees. South Korea Support for low-income single parents Germany Support for the local green, tree-planting project Morocco Donation of food and clothing for the local community in Bouskoura Support for local students in difficulties and for handicapped children Mexico Support for the local community’s beach cleaning by collecting 140 kg of waste Support during the “Baby milk and sick children project” sponsorship run in Chicxulub Donation to a charity running a village for children and youth Donation to ENLAC Institute & CAM 4 for handicapped children Donation to a charity in Jena for children with cancer Support for the industrial estate’s environmental work by planting 20 trees 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 UN Global Compact Index UN Global Compact Principles Implementation by LEONI AG Information on guidelines, systems, results and key figures in this report Human rights: Companies shall … Principle 1 … support and observe the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence; LEONI Code of Conduct Page 29 and LEONI Social Charter Principle 2 … ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Statement on upholding human rights Page 29 Guideline on conflict materials Labour standards: Businesses shall … Principle 3 … uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, LEONI Code of Conduct Page 25 in addition to upholding the Principle 4 … elimination of all forms of forced labour, LEONI Code of Conduct Page 29 Principle 5 … the effective abolition of child labour and LEONI Code of Conduct Page 29 Principle 6 … the elimination of discrimination in recruitment and employment. LEONI Code of Conduct Page 26 Environmental protection: Businesses shall … Principle 7 … support a pre-emptive approach in dealing with environmental problems, ISO 14001, ISO 50001, EMAS certification Page 16 SHE guidelines Page 15 LEONI Code of Conduct Page 11 Principle 8 … undertake initiatives to instil greater awareness of responsibility for the environment, Accounting for GHG emissions Page 18 and Projects aimed at conserving resources and Page 21 reducing climate-related emissions LEONI Code of Conduct Page 11 Principle 9 … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sustainable product development Page 13 Anti-corruption: Businesses shall … Principle 10 … combat all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. LEONI Code of Conduct Page 11 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LEONI AG Marienstraße 7 D-90402 Nürnberg Phone +49 911 2023-0 Fax +49 911 2023-455 E-Mail info@leoni.com www.leoni.com 33
