ALGEDRA DUBAI COMMUNICATION IN PROGRESS SEPTEMBER -2019 SEPTEMBER 2020 ALGEDRA DUBAI COMMUNICATION IN PROGRESS SEPTEMBER -2019 SEPTEMBER 2020 “I am delighted to confirm that ALGEDRA Group continues committing to align its operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues. In this annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions of integrating the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely. Mohab Ayoub Managing Director ABOUT ALGEDRA ALGEDRA is a company that was established to guarantee its clients satisfaction in the region with vision of sustainable business, today operates in the UAE and the international market with highly qualified experienced and multi-national team. ALGEDRA core values are to develop and maintain strong, trusting relationships with its clients, suppliers and employees. Successfully managing growth and guiding operations with a strong central support team, while constantly pursuing customer satisfaction. ALGEDRA strives to offer the best working environment for its employees, allowing for creativity and individuality, investing in employees through ongoing development and training programs. Educating it employees on the business and encourage personal and professional growth within the company. ALGEDRA’s aim is to uphold the time-tested values of honesty, trust and personal integrity. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS As an active member of the United Nations Global Compact ALGEDRA is committed to respect and support Human Rights and comply with international standards, which is communicated within the code of conduct of the company and publicly on the corporate website. ALGEDRA has reinforced the internal Code of conduct approved by the company’s Managing Director and Operations Manager to ensure the working environment protected from physical, sexual, or psychological harassment. The human resource department is responsible for making sure workers are provided with safe, suitable, and sanitary work facilities, as well as overlooking the employee’s wellbeing. In response to the global outbreak of the novel COVID19in March of 2020, ensuring a safe environment for employees, clients, and partners, ALGEDRA took immediate measures and switched all operations to the remote mode. Ensuring the wellbeing of employees' changes has been applied to let the teamwork from home, promoting teleworking across the company, and practicing social distancing. All the necessary precautions following the recommendations of Governments and WHO (World Health Organization) were taken in company working environments to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. CEO of ALGEDRA Mr. Mohab Ayoub made an official statement through internal and external channels communicating the message to all employees and stakeholders encouraging all community to support global efforts to contain the spread of COVID19by adopting all preventive measures to reduce risk and to keep everyone safe and healthy. Company continues to spread awareness and taking all necessary measures to ensure a safe environment for the employees and community. Reinforcing company culture any employee may address any concern to the management directly or to the Human Recourses department via email, which will be reviewed by senior management and addressed back with a solution. ALGEDRA promoted inclusion and diversity as one of the keys to corporate sustainability by giving equitable access to resources and opportunities for all. The company enables individuals to feel safe, respected, engaged, motivated, and valued, for who they are and for their contributions toward organizational and societal goals. Through the year 2020-2019 ALGEDRA has organized numerous training and workshops for the employees for their personal and professional growth including remote trainings. Head of Departments provided trainings for their team members on a regular basis giving employees the possibility to increase their job competence. As part of the commitment to provide a possibility for education, ALGEDRA continued partnership with Universities giving opportunities for students to undergo internships within the company. As a result of the implementation of principles and actions taken, no cases of Human rights abuse were reported. ALGEDRA is planning to continue the commitment to respect and support Human Rights and comply with international standards. LABOUR With the devastating events of COVID19pandemic, ALGEDRA took measures to ensure the wellbeing of employees. As the operation was adjusted to remote work schedules were amended to ensure a healthy workload and comfort in an appropriate manner to avoid overload and stressful environment. Weekly planning schedule has been amended constantly according to business requirements in order to control the appropriate workload of employees and giving them more flexibility considering the circumstances. Operating according to UAE Labour Law and DMCC Rules and Regulations, ALGEDRA ensures the protection of human rights. ALGEDRA chooses business partners and suppliers who adhere to the same regulations and principles. Company provides all the employees with individual employment contracts stating the terms and conditions of service, the voluntary nature of employment, and the freedom to leave (including the appropriate procedures stated in the employment contracts). The human recourses department is reviewing and updating recruitment procedures and contracts according to UAE Law and DMCC rules updates regularly ensuring employees' human rights are protected and communicating those updates to the employees via internal communication channels in a written form. Company prevents discrimination of all kinds by giving induction to all the employees on the principles and policies that are incorporated into the code of conduct. Any case of discrimination is taken to the Human Recourses department for investigation for measures to be taken. As of now no cases of discrimination were reported. By using adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in recruitment procedures ALGEDRA verifies the age of applicants to uphold the effective abolition of child labor. No individuals younger than 18 years old are employed within a company. ALGEDRA is planning to continue protection of the human rights and labour within its operation as a part of commitment ensuring that all the employees are aware of their rights and are free to address any concerns to the management at any time if any arise. ENVIRONMENT ALGEDRA undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, such as actively promoting the importance of sustainable architecture and interior design through our media channels and corporate website. The team constantly being educated in order to promote innovation encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies towards sustainable environmentally friendly designs. Company is supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges by promoting environmental sustainability via all internal and external email communication by encouraging to reduce the printing and go green. To reduce the footprint, we continued minimizing our printing to the maximum, and all the printed paper is collected for re-use where possible. Internally ALGEDRA has a system of training and educating employees in a form of safety manuals to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. The production team of ALGEDRA is creating environmentally conscious designs eliminating potential harm to human health and the environment according to ISO 9001:2015 standards. ALGEDRA is planning to continue implementing the commitment to environmental by supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and promoting greater environmental responsibility by raising awareness, utilizing environmentally friendly technologies, and through the innovation of the operations. ANTI-CORRUPTION Being a committed participant of the United Nations Global Compact ALGEDRA continues to respect and support the Anti-Corruption principle and comply with international standards. ALGEDRA has a strict anti-corruption policy, which lies within the company’s values of honesty and integrity and is clearly communicated to the employees through the induction training process. Company is assessing the risk of corruption when doing business and eliminates the possibility of corruption by choosing business partners not involved in any corruption actions and sharing the same business values that comply with UN international standards. ALGEDRA is planning to continue the commitment to anti-corruption principles. MEASURMENTS OF OUTCOMES Through the period of the year, 2019 and 2020 continuing commitment to align its operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues ALGEDRA has managed to maintain already incorporated principles on sustainability. As part of the commitment to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all, ALGEDRA has participated and organized events to support education and spread awareness. Being a permanent member of Ajman University's Advisory Council, the CEO of ALGEDRA Mr. Mohab Ayoub, attended the review session where interior design students presented their graduation projects in support of educational processes. Two students were provided with possibility to undergo internship within the company through period of November 2019 to January 2020. As part of the sustainable development goal Vice Managing director of ALGEDRA Group Tarek Skaik provided training and lecture for the students in Sharjah Girl Guide. During the period of Covid19Lockdown ALGEDRA has provided 6 weekly online educational streams on the topic of interior design through social media channels giving opportunity for everyone to learn. In the period of 12 months, 25 trainings were provided through all departments providing employees with the possibility for personal and professional growth. As a result of principles incorporation and actions, no cases of Human rights abuse were reported. Through the period from September 2019 to September 2020, no corruption cases were reported. In circumstances of the pandemic, no cases of COVID19were recorded within the company respectively to the measures taken. In the upcoming year, ALGEDRA is planning to continue the commitment to respect and support universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, and to take action in support of UN goals and issues. For ALGEDRA, being part of the United Nation Global Compact is not only to apply the ten principles but further to invest in our creativity to innovate and create new methods that help humanity to live in a better environment regardless of the level of their lifestyle.
