2019United Nations 2020 Global Compact Report UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION Joint Statement from the Executive Chair & CEO Communicating Our Progress PART I: ABOUT APCO Mission & Values Our Offices Awards & Recognitions Governance & Responsible Business Global Leadership Team Members Codes of Conduct Employee Development Employee Engagement CONTENTS Citizenship & Community Engagement Championing Women & Girls for Sustainable Growth Highlights of APCO’s Client Work With Social Impact PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principles Labor Principles Environmental Principles Anti-Corruption Principles 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO Worldwide is pleased to present our 10th report on progress as a signatory of the UN Global Compact, especially during the milestone year of its 20th anniversary. As the largest majority women-owned advisory and advocacy communications firm in the world, we remain committed to working both internally and with our clients to promote the UN Global Compact Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as listed at the bottom of the page. From the beginning, APCO’s purpose has always navigate this process, the UN Global Compact As we focus on building back better and coming JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE been to have a place where really smart (and nice) is a vital resource to frame these issues, and to back stronger from the pandemic it is clear that people can come together; develop a fulfilling galvanize the support of a global community of this needs to be anchored in the vision of the career; create significant opportunities or solve like-minded organizations working to advance the SDGs. APCO is committed not just to a reinvigoimportant problems through creative collaboration world in a sustainable and equitable way. We are rated vision for a global partnership for developfor our clients; and, whenever possible, find soluproud supporters of the UN Global Compact and ment as envisioned by SDG 17, but one where the tions that contribute to a better world. look forward to another year of concerted work to SDGs are fully incorporated into our actions. achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals as This has never been more important than now, when Building on the experience of team members who we mark the beginning of the Decade of Action. the world finds itself in an unprecedented health negotiated the 2030 Agenda and who worked crisis that has exposed the fragile and unequal Bold action for the Decade of Action to develop its indicators, APCO will continue to nature of our societies and economies. We have support its clients to integrate the SDGs into their World leaders have renewed their commitment business strategy and processes, as well as into always known the disproportionate burden borne to make this coming decade one of action and our own work. by marginalized communities, but COVID-19 put delivery to accelerate sustainable solutions to a much sharper focus on this inequality and forced all the world’s biggest challenges—ranging from We are committed to take bold action to meet companies to reexamine their impact on society poverty and gender to climate change, inequalthe targets of the UN Decade of Action. and to rethink how they operate to ensure they are EXECUTIVE CHAIR AND CEO ity and closing the finance gap. Agenda 2030, living their values and improving the world. This its 17 Sustainable Development Goals and 231 has always been central to APCO’s work, but we indicators chart a clear blueprint for a fair globalare now increasingly being called upon to help our ization. APCO is committed to supporting the UN clients align on and articulate their social purpose Secretary-General’s vision of action through bold and advance justice across their organizations and leadership, both individual and collective. the communities they interact with. The COVID-19 pandemic did not just disrupt the At APCO, we offer advisory and advocacy commuworld—it brought to the fore the close interlinkagnications support to help leading public and private Margery Kraus Brad Staples es between people and planet. The economic and sector organizations act with agility and build Founder & Executive Chair Chief Executive Officer health crisis unleashed by the pandemic is threatorganizational brands, reputations, relationships ening to undermine progress made by the 2030 and solutions to succeed in today’s environment. Agenda but is also encouraging us to envision a We are proud to be a trusted partner to our clients, realistic way forward towards achieving the 2030 helping them anticipate, plan, execute and secure Agenda, including for building resilience against impact through our curiosity, insights and diverse shocks and avoiding backslides into poverty. expertise. As we advise our clients and help them 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATING APCO Worldwide joined the UN Global Compact in June 2011. This report is our 10th Communication on Progress (COP). All data contained in this document relates to the calendar year January–December 2019. In addition, some initiatives mentioned refer to the first quarter of 2020. THIS REPORT CONTAINS TWO PARTS: PART I OUR PROGRESS Provides a short overview about APCO, including our 2019—2020 organizational profile and our approach to governance, responsible business and citizenship. PART II Covers our policies, programs and actions to promote the UNGC’s 10 Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This section uses the Active level template provided by the UNGC. A global cross-functional team was responsible for developing this report, which was reviewed and approved by our Executive Chair and CEO. 4 APC UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES PART I: ABOUT APCO APCO Worldwide is an advisory and advocacy communications consultancy helping leading public and private sector organizations act with agility and build organizational reputations, brands, relationships and solutions to succeed. We are proud to be an independent and majority women-owned business and, most WOR importantly, a trusted partner to our clients. We help them anticipate, plan, execute and secure impact through our curiosity, insights and diverse expertise. 01 APCO is the only major consultancy of its kind headquartered in Washington, D.C., serving clients in more than 80 markets around the world. Our 786 permanent employees (as of December 31, 2019) operating in almost 30 offices globally come from diverse professional backgrounds, including: corporate, creative and digital experts; former elected leaders, government officials, ambassadors and journalists; business and nonprofit executives; and market researchers. APCO secured its independence in 2004 after more than a decade as an affiliate of Grey Global Group. Since its inception in 1984, it has grown from one employee to a diverse DWI global advisory firm servicing high-profile clients with mostly organic growth. APCO’s revenue has more than tripled since obtaining its independence in 2004. In 2017, APCO retained its independence through a buyout of its minority shareholders with the support of Citibank and Monroe Capital. And in 2019, APCO moved to a new finance partner, Brightwood Capital Advisors, to provide the potential for additional capital, which APCO can use for growth, acquisitions and continued innovation to meet the changing demands of the marketplace and to better service clients. This renewed commitment to independence is another step in APCO’s unique story and an exciting opportunity to continue to build a first-rate firm for the future. 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES Through regular communications and engagement across regions and practices, employees gained perspective on the importance of APCO’s mission and the values that employees adhere to in order to achieve APCO’s goals. We push boundaries and produce better ideas to solve MISSION & VALUES the really challenging problems of our time. APCO’S MISSION In a rapidly evolving global context and a time of transformational change, APCO strives to add value to our clients’ enterprises and benefit society. We enable clients to achieve their objectives through insightful counsel, compelling narratives and creative solutions. We hunger for learning and improvement in all we do, ACCOMPLISHING OUR MISSION keeping us at the cutting edge. We accomplish our mission by fostering a culture of critical and unconventional thinking, which is made possible because of our commitment to hiring, growing and retaining exceptional people from diverse backgrounds. We achieve results through a strategic understanding of our clients’ objectives and deep insights into their political, economic and social We seek to embrace and incorporate different customs and environments. In a recent internal survey, 67% of employees cited having a strong understanding of the approaches, and to understand the perspectives of others. company’s mission and how their daily work aligned with the company’s purpose. APCO’S VALUES APCO’s values are truly embedded into how the company operates and guide employees’ decisions and actions every day. In a recent internal survey, 85% Our culture embraces diversity of people, thoughts of employees cited having a strong awareness of the company’s values. and experiences. While we operate as one integrated company with offices around the world, we secure our clients’ license to operate and grow by delivering results that are both locally relevant and globally impactful. 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO’S OPERATING PRINCIPLES values in context, and notebooks are distributed The Council has successfully held a series of to all new hires that contain the company’s mission unconscious bias trainings for leaders of the firm; We conduct our daily business with these and values inside the front cover. The company’s taken steps to create a more diverse and inclusive Operating Principles in mind: performance review system incorporates living environment through recruitment and hiring; and APCO’s values and contribution to a positive created affinity groups to build communities that • Make client success our measurement workplace culture as key measurements of an reinforce an inclusive environment where all are of achievement. employee’s success, and APCO participates in the valued, included and empowered to succeed. In • Empower people to do great work. annual Gallup survey which gauges all colleagues’ 2020, we expanded our Diversity and Inclusion understanding of APCO’s values, as well as their Council to Europe and plan to introduce similar • Nurture an organization where everyone perspective on the firm’s commitment to them. councils across our regions. is valued. Each office also takes care to recognize and In the wake of recent events in the United States, • Rely on one another to achieve celebrate staff who particularly exemplify APCO’s APCO also undertook a program in its North personal potential. values. In communications from regional leads America region – “Accelerate What’s Right.” • Build relationships to build business. to corresponding offices, a different employee is First, the company held open town halls for all recognized on a regular basis for living APCO’s employees to listen to their colleagues share their • Tell the truth. values. At staff meetings, many offices present life experiences (personal and professional) with • Push the boundaries with innovative regular awards to a peer-nominated individual racism. The company made 10 commitments to technology and solutions. for exemplary work. Additionally, a global Impact do its part to fight systemic racism and advance Award competition takes place twice a year, inclusivity and equity within and beyond our • Provide global service culture by culture. giving colleagues the opportunity to nominate organization. We expanded our established D&I one another for exceptional work that showcases efforts, including: proactive employee learning and INTEGRATING VALUES APCO’s values. The winner is selected by the CEO ally development; local community collaborations; INTO ALL WE DO and featured in a video sharing a case study of the equity of opportunities in hiring at all levels; work involved. and convening change-makers, along with our Employees are constantly reminded of APCO’s clients, to forge solutions—efforts to accelerate values in their daily work, but also in larger A Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council was what’s right. And, our Board of Directors issued initiatives. Starting with visual reminders, all offices created in 2018 in North America to build a a resolution to support, embrace and hold display posters with APCO’s values and regionally more diverse and inclusive environment at APCO accountable the company and its leadership in its appropriate quotations that demonstrate those and to represent and promote the firm’s values. mission to advance racial equity. 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO OFFICES APCO works in every region of the world. APCO AMERICAS ASIA EMEA has offices in the following locations, in addition to pop-ups and work with partnerships across the world. Over the past year we have increased our work in Chicago Bangkok Abu Dhabi Milan Africa and Latin America. New York Beijing Brussels Moscow Raleigh Hanoi Berlin Mumbai Seattle Hong Kong Dubai New Delhi Washington, D.C. Jakarta Frankfurt Paris Shanghai Istanbul Riyadh Singapore London Rome Tokyo Manama Tel Aviv 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES ICCO Global Awards MEPRA Awards PR NEWS Top Places to Work Awards PR Report Awards TOP PLACES TO WORK MIDDLE EAST POWER MICHAEL L. HERMAN EMEA SABRE AWARDS, IN PR, 2020 BOOK, 2020 EXCELLENCE IN 2019 PR News Camilla d’Abo MENTORING AWARD, 2019 Corporate Consultancy PRWeek Kelly Williamson of the Year PRWEEK US POWER LIST, North Carolina Chapter of PRSA The Holmes Report 2020 PRCA WORKPLACE Margery Kraus CHAMPIONS, 2020 GLOBAL VOICE AWARDS, EMEA SABRE AWARDS, PRWeek Large Agency 2019 2019 Public Relations and Change Maker of the Year – Best EMEA Network EMEA SABRE AWARDS, Communications Association Margery Kraus to Work For 2020 AWARDS & (PRCA) World Woman Foundation The Holmes Report DACH Award for ‘Initiative Rosi—We are Looking for WOMEN WHO SHAPE MEPRA AWARDS, 2019 PRWEEK GLOBAL AWARDS, 40,000 Real Men’ BRUSSELS, 2020 Silver Winner for Best 2019 PRovoke Media Claire Boussagol Campaign in Kuwait for Best Agency in the POLITICO ‘Supporting Kuwait’s Vision Middle East NORTH AMERICA SABRE for Persons with Disability’ PRWeek AWARDS, 2020 THE GOLD STANDARD MEPRA Thought Leadership in PR AWARDS, 2019 PR AWARDS ASIA, 2019 Award for ‘APCO’s Stay Ahead NGO Engagement Award MEPRA FELLOWSHIP Japan/Korea PR Consultancy Thought Leadership’ for ‘Dignity March’ AWARD, 2019 of the Year PRovoke Media PublicAffairsAsia Mamoon Sbeih Campaign Asia RECOGNITIONS MEPRA NORTH AMERICA SABRE THE GOLD STANDARD NORTH AMERICA SABRE AWARDS, 2020 AWARDS, 2019 PR REPORT AWARDS, 2019 AWARDS, 2019 Pharmaceutical: RX Award Corporate Citizenship Nonprofit and Pro Bono Energy & Natural Re-sources for ‘Johnson & Johnson: (CSR and Sustainability) Award for Initiative Rosi Award for ‘How EPRI Building Reputation through Award for ‘Launching Japan’s Oberauer Electrified 2018’ Collaborative Action at the Next Generation of Women The Holmes Report World Economic Forum, 2020’ Leaders in STEM’ TOP PLACES TO WORK, PRovoke Media PublicAffairsAsia 2019 MIDDLE EAST POWER PR NEWS BOOK, 2019 PRWEEK’S 30 UNDER 30, THE GOLD STANDARD Mamoon Sbeih 2020 AWARDS, 2019 and Elizabeth Sen Hélène Legay Professional Excellence Award PRWeek PRWeek – Masayo Nagai PublicAffairsAsia 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES GOVERNANCE APCO is governed by a board of directors, which has the legal and fiduciary duties to oversee the company’s activities, management GOVERNANCE & practices and financial performance. The seven-member board has a unitary structure. Three of the board members (Margery Kraus, Brad Staples and Evan Kraus) are APCO executives; the other four members (Joseph Zimmel, Marcia Page, Peter Milton Sommerhauser and Terry Graunke) are outside directors. The chair of the board is Margery Kraus, APCO’s founder and executive chair. APCO’s financial partners (Damien Dwin and Sengal Selassie) from Brightwood Capital Advisors, a minority-owned firm, are also board observers. The board meets at least quarterly. At the start of 2015, APCO formed a Global Leadership Team (GLT) consisting of senior leaders who represent geographical, practice and operational areas of the company. The GLT defines and develops the company’s business strategy, incubates ideas and drives innovation and contributes to the annual budget development. The GLT meets three to four times a year, and the membership is reviewed on an annual basis. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS This leadership group reflects the diversity of APCO and reinforces the company’s commitment to the changing global nature of business and communications and a shift in corporate interests to new, international markets. It also empowers the next generation of leaders RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS at the company. As work is conducted across the globe, APCO strives to be a responsible company in everything it does. A commitment to conducting business at the highest level of ethics and integrity is derived from the core principles and values that have guided APCO since its founding. This commitment is embodied in its Code of Conduct, which sets forth the fundamental ethical principles that govern how business is done. Conscious that the world contains fast moving and complex business challenges that frequently require an evaluation or examination of working practices and client relationships, APCO is engaging with external industry and academic leaders in the ethics, business and the communications sectors. Their insights are part of a continuous feedback loop into how APCO’s values are embedded throughout its operations. Through these discussions, APCO wants to reinforce that our culture of inclusivity and respect for others requires intelligent decision-making and a common agreed denominator in how we Key Client Initiative Summit 2019 approach business and ethics. 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES BOARD OF DIRECTORS APCO’s board of directors consists of four external members: Marcia Page, executive chair of Värde Partners; Terry Graunke, chair & CEO of Erie Street Capital; Peter Milton Sommerhauser, shareholder at Godfrey & Margery Kraus Brad Staples Robert Ardelt Claire Boussagol Kahn and founding partner at Wing Capital President, Europe Group; and Joseph Zimmel, former managing GLOBAL LEADERSHIP Founder & Executive Chair Chief Executive Officer Managing Director, Germany director at Goldman, Sachs and Co. APCO founder and executive chair Margery Kraus; CEO Brad Staples; and president and managing director of operations Evan Kraus also sit on the board. In 2020, APCO added Damien Dwin and Sengal Selassie as financing partners and board observers. Debra Delman Marc Johnson GLOBAL LEADERSHIP TEAM Executive Director, Mara Hedgecoth Eliot Hoff Managing Director, New Worldwide Chief Senior Director, Global Executive Director, Global York and Global Digital Financial Officer Marketing & Communication Crisis Practice Lead Practice Lead Under the direction of the board, APCO’s Global Leadership Team (GLT) serves as the ideas engine of APCO and directs the future growth for the firm. In 2019 and 2020, TEAM MEMBERS APCO added three new members to its GLT: Elizabeth Sen, chief client officer for APCO’s MENA region; Nancy Turett, APCO’s chief health strategist; and Imad Lahad, global digital practice lead. Imad Lahad Evan Kraus Global Digital Practice Lead Mamoon Sbeih Elizabeth Sen President and Managing and Head of APCO’s President, Middle East Chief Client Officer, Director of Operations AI Comms Lab & North Africa Middle East & North Africa Anne Wang Nancy Turett Chief Operating Officer, Kelly Williamson Agnieszka Yank Chief Health Strategist Greater China President, North America Chief Talent Officer 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES A commitment to conducting business at the Degepol (Germany) Public Relations Council highest level of ethics and integrity is derived Code of Conduct Code of Ethics from the core values that have guided APCO European Public Affairs Consultancies Public Relations and Communications CODES OF CONDUCT since its founding. Association (EPACA) (Europe) Association (PRCA)’s Public Affairs In addition to its internal code of conduct, Code of Conduct Board (United Kingdom) APCO has endorsed and adheres to the Code of Conduct following codes of conduct in all of Haute Autorité de la Transparence de its activities: la Vie Publique (HATPB) (Paris) Public Relations Society of America Code of Conduct (United States) Association Française des Conseils en Member Code of Ethics lobbying (AFCL) (France) Independent Commission Against Code of Ethics Corruption (ICAC) (Hong Kong) World Economic Forum (International) Prevention of Bribery Ordinance (Pobo) Partnership Against Corruption Initiative Confederation of Indian Industry (India) Code of Conduct (PACI) Code of Business International Association of Business Communicators (International) Ethics Council of Public Relations Firms Code of Conduct (United States) Code of Ethics Public Communication and Institutional Relationship Management Association Council of Public Relations Firms in (Kiyed) (Turkey) Hong Kong (Hong Kong) Ethical Principles Code of Ethics 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Investing in staff’s learning and development remains a top practice sharing and knowledge transfer within the company. In the priority for APCO. Continuous learning and skills development are last year, we have added a number of new learner centered modules important components of an employee’s professional development on topics ranging from writing skills to budgeting to presentation and contribute to the firm’s success. APCO’s comprehensive training skills. This shift from passive content like recorded webinars or programs address business competencies, reflect the needs of the PDFs to interactive SCORM content, including built-in quizzes and organization, enhance client relationships and support professional simulations, have given APCO employees a much better online development. The goal is for 100% participation so that all learning experience. The investment in online learning also allowed employees continuously enhance their business competencies the company to continue to offer robust training options even during and grow as professionals. the global pandemic. SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN GLOBAL LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT In 2019, APCO held its inaugural Global Learning Summit. This convened three dedicated full-time learning and development team members, as well as APCO’s new Regional Learning & Development Partners. The Regional Partner program creates a unique leadership opportunity for a client-facing colleague who has a passion for learning and development to take on building and executing on a regional learning and development strategy. These leaders dedicate 25% of their time to creating a learning culture in their region. The allocation of this new and innovative resource model to learning and development expanded programming in ways we could not imagine. An Emerging Leaders Institute was held in late 2019 for our mid-level employees throughout all of Europe. A global group of leaders from around Asia and the Middle East convened in Dubai for a two-day High Performing Teams seminar. These are just a few programs our Regional Partners enacted over the last year. The Learning and Development team partnered with APCO’s Finance team to deliver an engaging business management certificate program. This three-phase program was delivered to a target audience of APCO’s Client Business Managers using both high quality on-demand e-learning modules and dynamic in-person institutes in three major cities. In addition, with the exciting hire of an e-learning expert on APCO’s Learning and Development team, we have expanded our online learning capabilities and offerings. To complement in-person and external training initiatives, APCO provides a state-of-the-art digital learning platform, called ARC. This platform serves as a central hub for learning and development. ARC is designed to promote best 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES having someone at work who encourages Tel Aviv to Brussels EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT their development. These sentiments reflect “For my global exchange, I visited the our on-going commitment to and investment Brussels office where I got the chance to work in learning and development initiatives. directly with colleagues that I’ve only met virtually before. While in Brussels, I was exposed Recognizing Employee Milestones to the different work culture of the EU region and Anniversaries and the policy-focused projects which are difAPCO celebrates its employees by recognizferent from what I was used to. Nevertheless, ing their anniversary of joining the company. the different work style felt very natural to Founder and Executive Chair Margery Kraus me, leaving me with the passion to get more handwrites personalized anniversary cards for involved in projects in this area. Keeping all employees across the globe. Additionally, in mind that APCO’s Global Exchange is she posts anniversary and milestone designed to be more of a social experience announcements to Workplace, APCO’s that promotes cultural exchange, it didn’t internal communications platform. stop the Brussels team and I to bring in a new business win worth over $120K that would Workplace not have happened in any other circumstance To foster collaboration and engagement except for me being physically there. Overall, across offices and teams, APCO uses I can confidently say that I enjoyed my Global Gallup Employee Engagement Workplace, Facebook’s online collaboration Exchange experience in Brussels so much Survey Score tool for business. Communication, announcethat a few months later I decided to permaments and knowledge sharing are made easy nently move and work in Brussels!” In November 2019, APCO worked with Gallup to deploy its fifth annual engagement with the platform, which offers next-generAlaa Khalaily, Associate Consultant, Brussels survey. By measuring employee engagement, ation, easy-to-use features and connection Office (Previously based in Tel Aviv Office) we gained data and insights to help us across desktop and mobile. Staff members understand where to continue to improve. from all regions of the world can connect and Tokyo to London, Frankfurt and Berlin learn more about what individuals in other According to the results of the Gallup offices are accomplishing and how they can “I visited our London, Frankfurt and Berlin Employee Engagement Survey in 2019, contribute. offices in July 2019 for my global exchange. APCO scored in the highest percentile During my trip I connected with team ranking for the question, “at work, my opinGlobal Exchange members with whom I shared the same global ions seem to count,” indicating high levels clients, as well as with colleagues that work Prior to the pandemic, to foster integration, of collaboration and mutual respect across in practices outside of what we provide from share best practices and enhance cultural the firm. The data also indicated that APCO’s the Tokyo office, such as Global Solutions, understanding, each year a committee at employees are committed to doing quality APCO Insight and creative works. All the new APCO selects 20 employees to spend time work and are aware that someone at work connections I made and the insight that I working at another APCO office around the cares about them. This is an organization that learned became valuable resources for me to world. Those selected individuals are expectcreates systems for collaboration across the bring back to Japan and empower our client ed to contribute to the host office by sharing globe. APCO’s efforts to refresh and commuwork and office development. In return, my best practices, reviewing client engagement, nicate its values in 2018 resulted in higher presentations on our Tokyo office and Japan’s experiencing the local culture and returning levels of understanding of the firm’s values. unique media landscape have been helpful to their home office to share their learnings A couple of other areas of strengths include to colleagues in the offices I visited. I believe and experiences with colleagues. having opportunities to learn and grow and that many APCO employees have also been 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES and will be benefiting from this wonderful program. University of Florida I am very grateful for this opportunity and APCO Partnership unforgettable experience.” Yaxi Lu, Consultant, Tokyo Office Understanding the importance of higher education to continue developing personal and professional growth, APCO’s Learning and Development team has partnered with the University of Florida’s College of Journalism and Communications since 2018 to offer staff members the opportunity to obtain a master’s degree in Communications and Public Affairs. The partnership connects particGlobal exchange participant in Berlin ipants with mentors, comprised of top APCO executives, who will help guide the next generation of communicators with cutting-edge strategies Myriam Ugeux-Gerault Fellowship employed by APCO. In addition to mentorship To promote creativity, build exposure to new ideas opportunities, APCO employees are eligible to and encourage collaboration across APCO’s global receive a scholarship that allows them to attend network, APCO’s talent management team partthe graduate program tuition free. The scholarship is posthumously named after the late Washington, another country or at a client location to become nered with our Paris office to establish the Myriam D.C., deputy managing director Alicia Peterson an integrated part of a specific client’s team. This Ugeux-Gerault Fellowship in 2010. The fellowship is Clark. We are pleased to report our first employprovides the client with an extremely high level of in honor of Myriam Ugeux-Gerault, a former APCO ee to enroll in the program, Amanda Loughran, service and the employee with a unique professionemployee in the Paris office who passed away in graduated with her Master’s degree. We continue al development experience. To ensure that oppor2009. The fellowship is awarded to one APCO to promote this opportunity to our employees and tunities for global mobility are at the cornerstone employee who is granted the opportunity to attend look forward to seeing more of them take advanof APCO’s global offering to existing and potential an international conference to build his or her tage of this exciting partnership. employees, a global mobility specialist is dedicated expertise in strategic communications, corporate to managing a database of employee skill sets that responsibility, innovation or digital communication. International Assignments and complement various international assignments and In addition, the employee spends one week in the Global Mobility carefully matches the right employees with the Paris office learning and sharing best practices that right opportunities. In addition, employees are fully promote creative communication strategies and To provide the best level of client service, employsupported through the process of moving from responsible business behavior/sustainability. ees are regularly offered the opportunity to work in their current location to a new one as well as when they are ready to return. Myriam Ugeux-Gerault fellowship recipient at SXSW In 2020, APCO instituted a resource management function, an initiative designed to empower employees with more flexibility to pursue their careers, optimize client engagement, better manage workflow and create transparency around expectations. These resource managers are colleagues dedicated to employees’ growth and development who work to ensure that we are balancing the interests of our employees, clients and business outcomes. 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO Academy The APCO Academy is a central component of the on-boarding process for employees in the APCO global network. Participants attend sessions, networking and team-building activities in their two-day program. Sessions cover important topics such as APCO’s approach to client success, and the academy works towards promoting job growth and productivity by offering the necessary training, support and relationship development. To accommodate the special circumstances during the COVID-19 pandemic, we launched the first virtual APCO Academy in Asia in 2020. All new joiners participated our virtual Academy in May 2020, which included five 90-minute webinar discussions. The learning objectives of the program are: APCO IS PROUD TO BE A MEMBER PARTNER IN THE FOLLOWING ORGANIZATIONS • To develop a deeper appreciation for APCO’s AND INITIATIVES: purpose and values. • To have a stronger understanding of APCO’s • Arthur W. Page Society • WEConnect International services, offerings and structure. • ColorComm • Women Business Leaders in Health Care • To feel more confident in one’s ability to grow • Committee of 200 • Women Entrepreneurs Grow Global (WEGG) their career at APCO and create a sustained, • Diversity Action Alliance • Women Presidents’ Organization inclusive environment with colleagues across the region. • Economic Initiative Frankfurt Rhine Main • World Economic Forum Gender Parity • To build meaningful connections with fellow • Enterprising Women • World Economic Forum Global Agenda Council colleagues in their region. on Anti-Corruption & Transparency • Institute for Public Relations • World Economic Forum Partnership Against • International Crisis Group Corruption Initiative (PACI) • LAGRANT Foundation Founder and Executive Chair Margery Kraus serves as • Paradigm for Parity 5-Point Action Pledge the Chair of the Women Presidents’ Organization (WPO), • PR Council focused on increasing opportunities available to WPO membership and growing WPO as an organization. • PRSA The WPO’s mission is to accelerate business growth, • Public Affairs Council enhance competitiveness, and promote economic security through confidential and collaborative peer• The Conference Board learning groups. APCO is a regular sponsor of the WPO’s • The Hispanic Promise annual conference, and has assisted WPO through a transformation period and more. • The Seminar 16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES The APCO Gives Back program empowers organization which collects unwanted goods employees to contribute to their and distributes them among 48 charitable communities through volunteering with organizations in the Beijing area, and many CITIZENSHIP & support from APCO in the form of time more throughout China, Inner Mongolia and and financial resources. Mongolia. The charity also sells some of the donated goods in-store, proceeds from which Singapore office volunteering at pay for the medical costs for orphans and GROUP AND INDIVIDUAL others less fortunate, sheltered housing for Chee Hoon Kog Moral Promotion Society VOLUNTEERISM the elderly, warm blankets, food and other Singapore basic needs items. All APCO offices are encouraged to organize APCO’s team in Southeast Asia volunteered APCO Gives Back group volunteer activiat the Chee Hoon Kog Moral Promotion ties for employee participation in hands-on Society, a local home for the elderly in projects (e.g., planting trees, serving meals, Singapore. The team spent the day at the mentoring youth). In addition to group elderly home, organizing a bingo tournament volunteering activities, APCO provides each as well as packing and donating essential employee with an opportunity to spend up to items for the elderly residents. eight working hours each year volunteering with a charity or cause of their choice. To Tokyo commemorate APCO’s 35th anniversary and On World Suicide Prevention Day 2019, the COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT engage employees in giving back to their Tokyo team took part in the Tokyo Tower local communities, we committed to underBeijing office gathering donations for Roundabout Climb to raise mental health awareness and taking 35 volunteer opportunities across The Shanghai team conducted a similar funds for TELL, a local nonprofit organization different offices around the world in 2019. initiative for the Renewal Centre, a charity dedicated to providing world-class, effective APCO also planted trees through One Tree which focuses on providing care and support support and counseling services to Japan’s Planted in the Amazon rainforest and neighfor homeless citizens across Shanghai. The international community and helping to boring forests in Latin America in honor of team’s donations went towards efforts to address the country’s growing mental each of its employees and each of its offices. offer safe, temporary accommodation, career healthcare needs. Every tree we planted was matched with the planting of an additional tree, doubling training, national identity card registration APCO’s impact to help support reforestation support, a satisfying job and sometimes in the Amazon rainforest and Latin America. even a permanent home to the less fortunate across the city. APAC Volunteer Work (SDGs 1,2,3,8,10) New Delhi and Mumbai APCO’s team in New Delhi held a clothes donation drive with local grassroot organizaBeijing and Shanghai tions, such as the Uday Foundation, to help out-patients from government hospitals like APCO’s Beijing and Shanghai teams made AIMS and Safdarjung Hospital who come substantive donations to highly impactful inito the capital city from different parts of the tiatives in their respective cities. The Beijing country for treatment. Along with Mumbai team donated bags of clothing and books to team members, the team donated clothes to Tokyo office at Tokyo Tower Climb a local Beijing charity called Roundabout, an Snehasadan shelter home in Mumbai. 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES European Volunteer Work (SDGs 1,3,10) that some people were also able to join the music which provides healthcare, information and finanand mobility therapy group sessions taking place cial support to people affected by cancer. The with residents on that day. The Halloween event Macmillan Coffee Morning, the charity’s biggest was a big success and the Brussels team came fundraising event, is hosted annually by people all away from the volunteering day having learned a over the UK to raise funds by collecting donations Brussels lot, had a good team-building experience in tent from guests who are invited to come and socialize APCO’s team in Brussels organized a Volunteering construction, and with many colleagues also having over homemade cakes and a cup of tea or coffee. Day for the office in October 2019. They supported enjoyed the opportunity to spend some quality Everyone in the London office was invited to join a local organization called Stichting Margueritetime with some of the residents. Shortly after the in by volunteering to buy or bake their own cakes, Marie Delacroix (in NL) which provides residential team-building day, two Brussels colleagues did a pies and brownies and coming together at the and therapeutic services for children and young sponsored 3km run to help raise funds for Stichting event which fostered employee engagement and adults with learning disabilities, many of whom also M.M. Delacroix. delivered on APCO’s values of empathy and incluhave physical disabilities. The choice of this organisivity. With a total of £27.5 million raised nationwide zation was made extra special for the team because London at Macmillan Coffee Mornings in 2019, APCO’s of a family link to a colleague. Stichting M.M. A small team of volunteers from the London office donation was equivalent to helping run the charity’s Delacroix was organizing a “Halloween Village” in took part in a day of employability skills training in online community forum for over two hours, giving their grounds so that local people and residents November 2019 to support clients from homeless nearly 750 people affected by cancer both emoand their families could enjoy an evening out. They charity The Passage, which offers a wide range of tional and practical support. needed help to construct 12 large marquee tents services and resources to encourage, inspire and for this to take place, but did not have enough of challenge rough sleepers in London’s Westminster their own staff available. The APCO team helped area to transform their lives. The clients were and worked in shifts for tent-building, which meant invited to APCO for mentoring sessions which helped them prepare for interviews by empowering them with valuable techniques to highlight their strengths, address any employment gaps in their resumes and deliver a good first impression. They were then able to put their learning into practice by attending a mock interview hosted by a panel of APCO volunteers. The clients reported feeling encouraged by the mentoring process and more confident following the mock interviews, while APCO’s volunteers benefited from the new learning and development opportunities gained through Tel Aviv skills-based volunteering. To raise further funds for The Passage, more than 20 members of the The Tel Aviv team organized a day of volunteerLondon team signed up for the “One Million Step ing to support healthcare workers and patients Challenge” to walk one million steps each over a at the Ichilov Medical Center Tel Aviv during the 100-day period, raising a total of £890 including gift Hanukkah festival in late December. The team aid and donations. visited the hospital’s maternity ward to provide cheerful company and distribute jelly doughnuts— In October 2019, APCO’s London office hosted a traditional holiday delicacy—to expectant and Brussels office volunteering for a “coffee morning” to raise funds for Macmillan new mothers and their spouses, along with Stichting Marguerite-Marie Delacroix Cancer Support, one of the UK’s largest charities attending medical staff. 18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES North America Volunteering (SDGs 1,2,3,10,15) APCO also supports a wide range of nonprofit organizations around the world. Below is a small selection of APCO’s global pro bono activity; other examples are included throughout Part II of this report. Chicago Amatrice (SDGs 8,9) APCO’s Chicago office volunteered at the AntiCruelty Society, a local nonprofit animal welfare organization and shelter. Our colleagues made dog and cat toys for the animals at the shelter. Besides Rome giving the animals something fun to play with, studies have shown that the presence of a toy in an APCO’s Rome team provided pro-bono support to animal’s crate at the shelter increases the likelihood Amatrice, a small town in the center of Italy that was of adoption. Washington, D.C. office volunteering at DC Central Kitchen destroyed by a devastating earthquake. Over four years after the disaster, only 4% of the town has helped to manage the “Pop-up Food Market” by been reconstructed. Families and communities have unloading dry goods and fresh produce, as well been forced to live in temporary homes or leave as creating “market bags” full of food and healthy town. APCO organized a meeting with the Deputy recipes for students and/or their parents to come Mayor in Amatrice to understand the needs of the pick up at the end of the day. administration, citizens and businesses and prepare a strategy specifically designed for the relaunch of In October 2019, the Washington, D.C., team the town. Through communication activities and participated in United Way’s Project Homeless institutional monitoring, APCO helped Amatrice Connect, a major initiative that connects people to connect with parliamentarians in the capital city Chicago office volunteering at the Anti-Cruelty Society experiencing homelessness in the Washington area and supported the administration’s communications with essential health, legal, financial, self-care and strategy. APCO also developed a detailed plan on New York job support services under one roof at the area’s how to organize, grow and develop the communilargest resource fair. APCO’s volunteers were each cations of the administration and provided timely The New York team participated in the Coalition matched with a participant to remain with and help information on parliamentary updates. As a result for the Homeless (CFH) annual Toy Drive. The CFH the individual during the event. In one day, particiof our pro bono work, the long and complicated is the nation’s oldest advocacy and direct service pants gain access to services that might otherwise reconstruction process has accelerated. organization helping homeless men, women and take months. children. Their annual toy drive has taken place for more than 20 years and in 2019, APCO’s donaThe APCO+ team comprised of entry-level protions contributed to CFH collecting over 13,000 fessionals and based in our global headquarters in toys for children in New York City experiencing Washington, D.C., spent their quarterly retreat in homelessness. March 2019 volunteering at the DC Central Kitchen. The team helped prepare over 500 meals to give Washington, D.C. back to the D.C. community. In December 2019, the North America-based Talent Team volunteered at Martha’s Table, a local nonprofit organization that serves the community by PRO BONO SERVICES increasing access to high-quality education, healthy APCO makes significant contributions to local Rome office visiting Amatrice food, and family and community support. The team communities and global causes via pro bono work. 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES Charité (SDGs 3,5,17) for the campaign. APCO also served as the press APCO in MENA also jointly hosted a webinar with office to promote the campaign across traditional GCC BDI, focusing on the legal implications on media outlets. This one-month pro bono campaign companies and employers while considering Force achieved a total reach of 20.7 million and raised Majeure as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Berlin about €70,000, nearly double our fund-raising target. APCO also secured widespread media coverage International Crisis Group (SDG 16) Charité in Berlin is one of Europe’s largest university and support on social media and, overall, sparked a hospitals. Patients suffering from ovarian cancer conversation about the importance of the hospital spend up to six to seven hours, several times a week, environment for patients fighting cancer. in dreary and uncomfortable chemotherapy rooms at Washington D.C. the women’s clinic. The founders of Charité’s “Rosi” GCC Board Directors Institute (SDGs 8,17) project asked APCO, their communications partner, APCO is a proud supporter of the International to launch a fundraising campaign to raise €40,000 Crisis Group’s efforts to prevent deadly conflict to improve the hospital environment for women and a member of its International Advisory fighting cancer. APCO developed and launched a Council. In addition to mainstreaming the Crisis Dubai and Saudi Arabia crowdfunding campaign with the goal of generating Group’s recommendation into our work, APCO an emotional response across a large number of APCO’s Dubai and Saudi teams have been working supports the dissemination of their work to individual donors. We developed a very specific call closely with the GCC Board Directors Institute (GCC different audiences. In December 2019, APCO to action: “We are looking for 40,000 real men.” BDI), a nonprofit organization that guides board sponsored the 5th annual conference on Europe This references the “real men” who would sit in directors of organizations—from family-owned and its Neighbourhood: Conflict Prevention and the waiting room every day to support their wives businesses to listed companies—to acquire the Crisis Management in the 21st Century, hosted by and family members. We worked with 27 influencknowledge and tools to sustain effective corporate Chatham House, International Crisis Group and Al ers, including some of Germany’s top celebrities governance. APCO’s senior leadership has been Sharq Forum. such as musician Herbert Grönemeyer, to record a regularly invited to speak to the 1,700 members of Mary’s Place (SDGs 1,2,5,10,17) crowdfunding video highlighting that “a real man” GCC BDI at their events in Dubai and Saudi Arabia. is not defined by stereotypes, but by his support Some APCO senior team members also successfor the project. A “real men” Rosi tattoo sticker, was fully completed certificate courses and workshops designed to drive donors to spread the message designed by GCC BDI for senior directors. online with their own photos showing support APCO’s United States Teams APCO provided support to Mary’s Place, a Seattle area family homeless shelter, to improve donor and volunteer participation and satisfaction. Mary’s Place, although a well-known organization, saw a growing need to understand and better engage those who give resources or time. With a decades-old database that included more than 20,000 individuals and companies who had interacted with the organization over the years, Mary’s Place staff were overwhelmed with how to segment and message their asks to various audiences. Thus, they relied on email and mailed newsletters to each and every contact, a costly and inefficient method of communication. Charité’s “Rosi” project 20 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO worked with Mary’s Place over the course of Multi-Nation Business Continuity (MNBC) policy recommendations for the UAE Government several months to survey a cross section of donors Task Force (SDGs 8,9,11,17) on a range of topics, including HR and talent and volunteers, first during two in-person focus retention, funding and financing, communications, groups, and later, with a 5,000-person survey. From supply chain and the digital economy. Along with this work, APCO identified “personas” of donors policy support, APCO provides communications, and volunteers most likely to commit to steady PR and government relations support to help Dubai and Abu Dhabi giving over long periods of time—a key audience raise awareness of the Task Force’s mission Mary’s Place wished to engage. Further, APCO The Multi-Nation Business Continuity (MNBC) and develop the necessary relationships with gleaned a set of messages most likely to influence Task Force aims to gauge sentiment, assess the UAE Government. giving behavior, plus desired communications business continuity challenges and support the frequency and style. wider business community on specific issues that require UAE government assistance. The Task HUMANITARIAN EMERGENCY Ultimately, Mary’s Place used the information to Force provides a channel of communication for its AND DISASTER RESPONSE recalibrate the type, frequency and targeting of members and is committed to supporting members external communications, with a goal of increasing APCO provides opportunities for employees on an individual basis where possible, in addition regular donors and adding to their volunteer lists. to support people impacted by humanitarian to presenting common strategic themes at the Mary’s Place continues to expand in Puget Sound by emergencies and disasters around the world by government level. The MNBC Task Force consists opening new shelters and day centers to meet the matching employee donations up to US $15,000. of 25+ business groups and councils that represent needs of homeless families, and can do so knowing If an employee or employees are directly impacted over 6,500 multinational corporations operating they now better understand how these critical stakewith a major loss as a result of a governmentally in the UAE. holders wish to be engaged. declared disaster, the employees may apply for APCO is the permanent secretariat of the MNBC special assistance from APCO for the disaster Task Force and supports the group by developing recovery process. COMMITMENT TO LEADERSHIP • America’s Charities • International Women’s Forum • Asia Society • Marketing Communications Executives International DEVELOPMENT AND CIVIC SERVICES • The Atlantic Council • Page Society Members of APCO’s senior management team • Children at Risk • Public Relations Society of America serve in leadership and advisory positions at • Close Up Foundation • Seattle Chamber of Commerce important civic and educational organizations, • Columbia University Mailman School of Public • Seattle Downtown Business Association including universities, educational foundations, civic Health • The Chicago Council on Foreign Affairs organizations, community foundations, industry • Community Development Roundtable • The Newseum oversight bodies and professional societies. • Council of 100 • Tikehau Capital International Advisory Board • Council on Foreign Relations • University of North Carolina Hussman School of Some examples of where APCO employees • Economic Club of Chicago Journalism and Media Board of Advisors participate in and contribute their professional • Executives’ Club of Chicago • Univision Communications Corporate Social know-how include the following organizations: • ID2020 Alliance Advisory Board • IDLO Mexico • U.S.-Afghan Women’s Council • Academy of Motion Pictures and Sciences • Kellogg School of Management Global Advisory • United Way of the National Capital Area • American Constitutional Rights Union Board • World Trade Council • American University • International Foundation for Electoral Systems • Women Entrepreneurs Grow Global 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES equality is recognized worldwide. At APCO, End violence against women we believe that inclusion is a path to economWe aid women in communities that are ic empowerment and women’s leadership. It’s plagued with poverty, inequity and abuse by CHAMPIONING WOMEN & GIRLS not just the right thing to do, it’s a business helping our clients in their efforts to connect and public policy imperative. Investing in and women with resources and opportunities. advocating for women, whether internally at APCO or as part of client and pro bono work, APCO is proud that its senior management helps strengthen business outcomes and is composed equally of women and men create benefits for families, communities and that its Global Leadership Team has a and countries. majority of female members. Founder and Executive Chair Margery Kraus is a deterAPCO supports women empowerment mined and consistent advocate for women in externally vis-à-vis the UN Sustainable business, as well as a mentor and role model Development Goals and UN Global Compact to many women in the company and beyond. Principles by developing and strengthening CERTIFIED MAJORITY global partnerships that will mobilize, redirect WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS and unlock global resources to realize the At APCO, Women Account For: 2030 Agenda. We work with organizations APCO is certified by the Women’s Business across the private, government, interna60.7% of APCO’s global workforce Enterprise National Council, in partnership tional and nonprofit sectors to navigate with the Women Presidents’ Educational 41% of APCO’s global leadership FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH this complex landscape by developing and Organization, as a women-owned business. implementing strategies to: (Leadership is defined as Senior Director, As the largest certified majority womExecutive Director and CEO level) en-owned global business in the industry, Equally promote women in the workplace APCO’s passion for women and girls is part of and drive economic empowerment its DNA as a firm. We view economic empowerment as a APCO supports women’s empowerment catalyst for navigating the challenges that internally through the Women’s Leadership In June 2019, APCO co-chaired the WBENC result from gender discrimination. We work Employee Resource Group (ERG), which National Conference and Business Fair in with companies to develop inclusive policies, was launched in our North America offices Baltimore. We hosted several panel discusleadership programs and employee engagein early 2020. It provides resources, support sions at our trade booth on the topics of ment strategies to advance women within and mentorship for women (of any identibuilding a business, personal brand, procuretheir organizations. fication) at APCO to support the retention, ment and agility. The conference was attendrecruitment and professional growth of APCO ed by procurement officers from the major Champion women and girls globally women with resources needed to continually Fortune 500 companies and select womWe develop initiatives and campaigns to grow their careers and reach their maximum en-owned businesses whose missions align combat the challenges facing women and potential. The group provides an opportunity with WBENC’s vision of expanding women’s girls around the world. to continue advancing a culture where all business opportunities in the workplace. Foster coordinated action employees empower one another equally We are dedicated to the creation of and support APCO women to lean into their INVESTING IN WOMEN public-private partnerships, coalitions and careers with confidence, knowing that they international campaigns that bring together have dedicated company support. As profound gender gaps persist around the key stakeholders to drive meaningful action world, women’s empowerment initiatives on women and girls’ issues. continue to grow and the need for gender 22 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES To celebrate Women’s History Month, APCO PARENTAL LEAVE a wise use of resources. As a result, APCO is seeing partnered with the Close Up Foundation and the clients shift their focus beyond simply making the American University to host A Century of Progress: APCO’s founder started the firm as a working case for investment in this space to trying to better The Next 100 Years event. This event not only mother with three children and has always believed understand how best to enhance their impact. celebrated the centennial of the American women’s that the best employees can be the most successActors in this area are digging deeper, tackling constitutional right to vote, but it also served as a ful when they know that their employer is a true bigger challenges and paving the way for a more platform for high school and college students to partner in their growth and development at work. prosperous future. Here are just a few examples: discuss political parity, gender equality and the APCO aims to empower employees to successfully perception of women leaders with seven members balance the demands of their growing families with Bayer/MSD (SDGs 3,4,5,17) of the U.S. Congress, including Rep. Jackie Speier the opportunities of developing their career. APCO and Rep. Sharice Davids. While stressing the imporis beyond proud to support all of its employees and tance of celebrating the past, the event focused on their families that commit their time to the firm. creating a better future for the next generation of Tokyo young female leaders. As a commitment to independence and its corporate values, APCO recently expanded its parental APCO’s Tokyo team was engaged by pharmaceutical leave to above industry standards and statutory companies Bayer and MSD since 2015 to support entitlement in several markets. For example, in their public affairs campaign in advocating for the North America we increased parental leave from improvement of health initiatives for working women three weeks to three months at full pay; in the UAE in Japan. APCO launched a 360-public affairs camwe increased paid maternity leave from 45 days paign, involving multi-stakeholder engagement, to 60 days; and in the UK we increased maternity research, content creation and establishing an advileave to three months at full pay then three months sory board of leaders in women’s health. In addition at 50% of salary, and we now offer UK employees to promoting health literacy for further advancement paternity leave at two weeks of full pay plus two of the women’s health initiatives, the campaign also weeks at 50% of their salary. focuses on promoting effective health education in schools. In partnership with the National Center for BENEFITS FOR WORKING MOMS Child Health and Development, APCO is working A Century of Progress: The Next 100 Years event In 2019 we initiated partnership with Milk Stork, a to spread the concept of “preconception care,” as breast milk shipping company for breastfeeding well as comprehensive sexuality and health educamoms, as a benefit to ship breast milk home when tion defined by UNESCO’s International Guidelines breastfeeding employees are away on business. on Sexuality Education. In November 2019, APCO held a symposium gathering around 50 participants consisting of a wide range of stakeholders, such as CLIENT, PRO BONO policymakers, medical experts, educators, companies, AND CHARITABLE WORK nonprofit organizations and journalists. In response to the growing risks of unintended pregnancies and vioChampioning the progress of women and girls lence against women and children under the COVIDglobally is part of APCO’s DNA and has been for 19 pandemic, APCO further engaged with media and over 35 years. policymakers, including members of the Cabinet’s Basic Act for Gender Equal Society Committee, to Heightened levels of activity and engagement have highlight the urgent need for the recognition of health been seen by businesses, governments and comeducation in schools, in order to equip children with munity organizations alike. There is now widespread awareness to protect their own health and rights. understanding that investing in women and girls is 23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES Blackmores (SDGs 3,5,17) strong commitment to public health, expanding its of GRC. During the third cycle, schools applied health communications and consumer education from as far away as Okayama Prefecture, six hours efforts since 2017. from Tokyo, and the GRC now continues to grow and draw interest from talented youth all over the Girls’ Rocketry Challenge (GRC) country. Shanghai (SDGs 4,5,10,17) Mental health has become an increasingly importThis long-term project continues to engage multiant issue in society, but remains an unfamiliar topic ple stakeholders to build the client’s reputation, so due to lack of understanding, education and low the company can fully extend its business in Japan awareness among Chinese people. Our research through win-win partnerships with Japanese comfound that the national literacy level for mental Tokyo panies and society. health is currently at only 12%. Mental health APCO supported Lockheed Martin in planning, resources and funding is also significantly lacking. #InclusioneDonna (SDGs 5,8,10,17) launching and currently running a STEM program Australian health supplement company Blackmores in Japan. The program, which launched in October wanted to build on its efforts to promote women’s 2016, aims to encourage female students to health and well-being in China and share explore their curiosity in the STEM field, utilizing insights that would resonate with the public model rocketry for a hands-on approach to scienItaly and policymakers. tific experimentation and practical application of theoretical knowledge outside of the classroom. APCO’s team in Italy launched a pro-bono project APCO’s Shanghai office worked with Blackmores to support #InclusioneDonna (#WomenInclusion)— to launch an educational campaign to raise public It is run in partnership with a local nonprofit a network involving more than 50,000 professionals awareness of women’s health, in particular, the organization, a local education business and an from different sectors. With the aim of raising awaremental well-being of Chinese career women. academic institution. ness on equality and gender representation in the This included the development and market of labor market, APCO supported the network to orgathe “Green Paper on the Mental Well-Being of From its onset, GRC has expanded its reach from nize the event “Meno occupate, meno pagate” (less Chinese Career Woman,” a study in collaborathe Kanto region of Japan to include schools employed, less paid) where the network and partiction with Tsinghua University International Center nationwide. In its first year, the program received ipants discussed topics such as eliminating gender of Communications (TICC) focused on Chinese applications from schools in the Tokyo metropolitan pay gap, income support for working mothers, career women’s mental health. The campaign was area, and the number of applications tripled to 10 compulsory paternity leave and the establishment of an important step to demonstrate the company’s applicants from the country in the second cycle 24 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES the parliamentary committee for equal opportunities. each sub-category with timeline for data collection, ship is led by WAGGGS and their networks of girls, In particular, #InclusioneDonna calls for the institudata review, content creation and design process young women and volunteers across 150 countries; tions to adopt policies and measures to promote the for the SoP. In three months, APCO completed supported by the UPS Foundation; and amplified inclusion of women and women’s businesses. The the process of data collection and review for the by UNICEF’s U-Report and additional thought leadnetwork also calls for the adoption of measures to three verticals. Based on the information, APCO ership from GenU. APCO’s role in this partnership promote equality between men and women in the created a detailed SoP containing: an overview was to ease communication between the partners labor market and welfare policies in favor of those of the model; a structure of the overall model; and assist with the media release announcing who dedicate themselves to family care. detailed roles and responsibilities; and a step-wise the program. process for each vertical with rationale, objectives, Thanks to APCO’s media relations efforts, the event challenges, solutions and measurement indicators. W20 (SDGs 3,4,5,8,10,16,17) gained widespread visibility in national media, genThe document was finalized through various brainerating over 30 media articles and over 6 million storming workshops with leads of the program, impressions from press agencies, newspapers, management and SNEHA’s veterans. Additionally, online media, web TV and radio. APCO also created a three-page document to Women 20 is a G20 engagement group made up communicate the model, its reach and impact to of a transnational network that brings together Society for Nutrition, Education and stakeholders from government, companies and women leaders of civil society, businesses, entreHealth Action (SDGs 3,5,10,17) civil society organizations. We also compiled a preneurship ventures and think tanks. The main well-researched and effectively-documented SoP goal of W20 is to influence the G20’s policies to report that showcases the organization’s work of 20 promote gender equality, women’s economic years in the field and the impact. empowerment and ultimately to create more incluMumbai sive societies. APCO was assigned to support the UPS Foundation (SDGs 4,5,10,17) communications functions of the W20 by providing The Society for Nutrition, Education and Health strategic advice on advocacy, stakeholder outAction (SNEHA) is a voluntary, nonprofit organizareach and editorial content. The W20’s efforts have tion that works to improve the health outcomes of delivered language in official G20 meetings and a urban slum populations with a special focus on its New York Communique from the G20 Finance Ministers that most vulnerable and adversely affected groups – called for international action for women’s ecowomen and children. Established in 1999, SNEHA’s In 2019-2020, APCO worked to help facilitate nomic empowerment, and joint statements with Maternal and Newborn Health (MNH) program has the launch of a partnership between the UPS other engagement groups. been successful in improving pregnancy care for Foundation, the World Association of Girl Guides low-income women by working with both the public and Girl Scouts (WAGGGS), Generation Unlimited healthcare system and communities in Maharashtra. (GenU) and UNICEF. The initiative will implement The MNH program is a successful bottom-ups non-formal education to benefit girls and young model and SNEHA realized that the program could women in underrepresented communities. The be hugely beneficial if adopted in other regions. program will initially enable young women across APCO partnered with SNEHA to create a standard five countries—Rwanda, Nigeria, South Africa, operating procedure (SoP) report for their MNH Mexico and India—to access quality non-formal model that could be shared with government offieducation and the opportunities it will bring them. cials and other stakeholders to help them adopt the By working directly at a country led level, bringing model in other parts of the country. together insights from a large pool of young people and using this data to advocate for positive change SNEHA’s MNH model is a huge program that can for girls and young women, the partners aim to be sub-categorized into three verticals. APCO globally advance the gender balance. The partneralong with SNEHA developed a detailed plan for 25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES WOMEN AND THOUGHT A LOOK AT APCO’S FEATURED FEATURED PIECES LEADERSHIP THOUGHT LEADERSHIP Building the Next 100 Years of To celebrate International Women’s Day, APCO Women’s Empowerment invited employees to participate in a social media Margery Kraus 2019 campaign around the global theme #EachForEqual. APCO’s employees across the world took selfies How Companies Can Help to Counter the and posted on their own social media capturing Gender Inequality Caused by COVID-19 what they would like to achieve for women over the next 12 months and how they would want to 42% Kim Kowal Perspectives From the 2019 UN contribute to furthering equality. Female Women’s Summit In 2020, APCO hosted “An Equal World is an Judit Arenas, Killian MacDonald, Shivangi Gupta 333 Enabled World”, two global panels in honor of Juggling Life During the COVID-19 International Women’s Day as well as Women’s Outbreak History Month in the United States. CONTRIBUTORS Katie Sprehe, Vaishali Udani In February 2020, Margery Kraus hosted an Public Affairs in the COVID World Interactive panel discussion on career, leadership Masayo Nagai and overcoming obstacles with leading women industry experts in the Middle East and marked the launch of her book. Additionally, Margery regularly 58% Working for Balance – APCO’s North America Advice Report 2019 hosted and participated in thought leadership Grace Boyle Male sessions through different platforms, including the 2020 Women Leaders Reception at Davos, Empowerment Through Advocacy 2019 ColorComm Conference and World Woman Casey Johnson Summit 2019. Q1 2020 Wealth and Influence: Women Leading in Over the past year, the Corporate Marketing team and Diversity & Inclusion Council partnered to 51% the Financial Sector Grace Boyle proactively garner greater diversity in thought Female leadership contributions. There’s Always Room for Women at the Table: Celebrating Women’s History Month Since launching the Stay Ahead monthly newsletter Ginna Royalty in 2019, APCO has been on a mission to improve participation and visibility of women in thought 113 Tackling Gender-Based Discrimination leadership. Overall, there was an increase in genCONTRIBUTORS During Recruitment Processes: Potential der-based ratios of APCO’s thought leadership Risk and Solutions from 64% male and 36% female in 2018 to a Moeka Iida 49%-51% male-female authorship rate in the You, Me and Equality: The APCO Way first quarter of 2020. 49% Uzma Lodhi, Dominique Scott, Kanika Arora Male 26 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES We strengthened our social impact expertise, Internet Essentials program, which delivers and corporate advisory and management high speed internet to low-income commuconsulting capabilities through the acquisinities across the country. Since 2011, the tion of The Tembo Group, a leading social program has connected more than 8 million impact advisory firm based in New York. In people to the Internet at home. Internet HIGHLIGHTS OF APCO’S CLIENT today’s complex environment, we’re seeing Essentials targets the three main barriers to immense pressure and expectations for broadband access: 1) digital literacy, or the entities in all sectors to go beyond their lack of a perceived need for, or even fear of, business objectives and make a positive the Internet, 2) the lack of a computer, and 3) impact on society. There’s rising demands the monthly cost of service. Cooper Tires’ partnership with the Gary Sinese Foundation from our clients on developing and executing best-in-class philanthropic and corporate As a part of the Internet Essentials program, responsibility programs that manage social Comcast also invested more than $650 Cooper Tires (SDGs 9,12) and environmental opportunities and risks. million in digital literacy training and awareAdding Tembo helps us strengthen our ness, reaching more than 9.5 million people. approach to social opportunity and risk, and In addition, Comcast has provided low-inhelp clients align their operations with their come Americans with 100,000 subsidized broader societal purpose. computers throughout the program’s history. Chicago When the COVID-19 pandemic required Cooper Tires wanted to celebrate the Comcast Internet Essentials students to turn to online learning, Comcast attributes of “durability and reliability” by (SDGs 1,4,10) guaranteed free service to new Internet giving back to local communities. APCO WORK WITH SOCIAL IMPACT Essentials customers, ensuring that no helped by establishing and facilitating a student was disconnected from their classpartnership with the Gary Sinise Foundation, room. Through a bespoke paid media strata nonprofit which serves first responders egy, APCO’s team partnered with Comcast Washington, D.C. and their families, to donate and install 26 to tell the story of Internet Essentials, and new tires at three volunteer fire stations APCO was engaged in 2019 as Comcast’s support them on their mission to close the across the country. To further recognize first strategic partner to develop a paid media Digital Divide, a topic that has never been responders and raise awareness of Cooper’s strategy to increase awareness of Comcast’s more relevant than during the pandemic. donations, APCO tied the initiative to Public Service Recognition Week and coordinated a radio media tour which reached 34 million people across the United States. During that timeframe, donation transactions to the Gary Sinise Foundation increased by 12%. The donations also generated significant positive social media engagement among donation recipients and those in their local communities, highlighting the impact a creative approach can have to spark excitement and gratitude among consumers. Internet Essentials from Comast event 27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES Follow Me to Be Healthy With Europe infographics, tips and videos, which showcase the Gilead Sciences (SDGs 3,10,17) (SDGs 3,17) health benefits of fruit and vegetables in an engaging and relatable format across the campaign’s six social media channels. The promotion of the materials is also supported by collaborations with Southeast Asia relatable social media influencers. The campaign is Brussels still ongoing, but has already been successful with Gilead Sciences (Gilead) is a leading innovator in the The “Follow Me to Be Healthy With Europe” over 2.5k 1-1 engagements with young people, 58k field of HIV, driving advances in treatment, prevenproject was launched in 2019 by Freshfel Europe, views of the website and over 800k views of videos. tion, testing and linkage to care, and cure research. Aprifel, and the European Commission. The APCO’s Southeast Asia team helped Gilead to GAP Japan—Diversity and Inclusion create and launch Gilead Asia Pacific Rainbow three-year campaign aimed to encourage young Promotion (SDGs 10,12,17) Grant, an innovative grant program focused on Europeans from ages 18 to 30 to increase their consumption of fruit and vegetables to a minimum supporting vulnerable and underserved NGOs and of 400g a day, to improve and ultimately transform digital communities. The goal of the program is to millennials’ dietary habits. APCO launched the provide better support for people living with HIV #400gChallenge campaign in July 2019 at Les especially youths due to the increasing number Tokyo Eurockéennes music festival in France where we of cases in this age group. With the resounding organized and ran a stand to engage with young APCO’s Tokyo office designed and implemented success of the initial run, the Asia Pacific Rainbow people face-to-face and raise awareness about the an integrated communications campaign for Gap Grant program has now expanded from 10 to 18 campaign. Online followers were also challenged Japan. The campaign was grounded in the comcountries for its second iteration. The grant attracted to include more fruits and vegetables in their daily pany’s key values and highlighted the Gap Japan more than 40 grant submissions across the region diet. These challenges are promoted by monthly executive’s personal story as an openly gay man with over $1 million disbursed across Asia. living with his partner and children, which served to deliver the company’s message of respect, as Global Leading Healthcare Company well as promoting diversity and inclusion (D&I) in at Davos (SDGs 3,4,5,8,10,17) Japan. APCO also leveraged Gap Japan’s corporate initiatives, such as its inclusive company policies and its first LGBT ally employee training program, in engaging media and highlighting proactive New York and Washington, D.C. corporate D&I promotion. Media highlights included an in-depth interview of Gap Japan’s executive For the last three years, a global leading healthcare with HuffPost Japan, which told his powerful story company has partnered with APCO to create a as one of the very few openly LGBTQ+ business unique convening in Davos. The platform brought leaders in Japan. This media engagement also together world leaders in conversations and resulted in additional coverage in a wide range of action-oriented partnerships focused on ending major media outlets. This campaign successfully epidemics including HIV and tuberculosis, support strengthened Gap Japan’s position as a pioneer for frontline health care workers, diversity and for a more inclusive workplace and served as a role inclusion in science, mentoring women in STEM, model in implementing workplace reforms in Japan. improving mental health, and responsible digital This encouraged more individuals and business leadership in the next decade. players to realize the necessity of and become more involved in D&I promotion. We brought together leading experts to educate country leaders on under-addressed challenges and 28 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES launched new multi-stakeholder initiatives to solve tegic partner to MIT Solve, committing a portion of complex epidemics, including: an initiative with the our time and resources pro-bono, APCO developed State Department, PepsiCo and others to support a robust global reputation strategy utilizing earned mentorship and engagement for women and girls media relations, thought leadership opportunities in India in Science, Tech, Engineering and Math and multiplier engagement to build and sustain careers, and a new initiative to advance healthy awareness about MIT Solve’s innovative platform workplace behaviors and testing for tuberculosis in and work. Working with MIT Solve Communications an effort to stop its spread. & Marketing team, we built awareness and name-recognition for MIT Solve and its flagship Together, the company and APCO developed 10 event in May 2019 by securing major media unique events highlighting work happening across partners, placing an op-ed in the Boston Globe, the company itself and in collaboration with more coordinating more than 30 interviews, securing 27 than 30 partners. We produced more than two reporters on-site between attendees and moderdozen pieces of original video content, and dozens ators/speakers, promoting three major announceof blogs, LinkedIn stories, WEForum blogs and ments and much more. These efforts resulted in other content that reinforces the company’s com40 articles with 669.8 million impressions, includmitment to global public health and helped bring ing pieces in the Boston Globe, The Chronicle the Davos conversations to the world – with more of Philanthropy, CGTN, and start-up trades like than 1.3 million views of the content produced in American Innovation. The media coverage, partnerthe platform. We engaged nearly 400 of the most ships and recognition solidified MIT Solve’s place as influential decision makers in business, policy, a leading marketplace for global tech entrepreneurs media, academia and nonprofits to drive importto solve the world’s most pressing challenges. ant discussions and actions in addressing health through diverse mediums. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, MIT Solve launched a dedicate challenge focused on Health MIT Solve (SDGs 2,3,5,10,16,17) Security and Pandemics. APCO’s team developed a robust media outreach strategy and engagement, promoting the challenge to potential applicants and corporate supporters. New York Opa Health (SDGs 3,16,17) MIT Solve is a flagship initiative of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It is a marketplace that identifies, connects and invests in global early-stage social good entrepreneurs with Global innovative tech solutions that address some of the biggest challenges in health, food security, climate, Half of all future cancers and other diseases can diversity and inclusion, and other pressing global be prevented simply by applying the knowledge issues of our time. and technologies already in hand today. However, studies show it often takes many years for this The organization turned to APCO to shine a light knowledge to be translated into real-world practice on the impactful work of its leadership and Solver (“doing”)—and even then, not everyone is beneteams on the national and global stage. As a strafiting, particularly the underserved. There is clear Solve at MIT event 29 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES evidence this gap between “knowing and doing” Rotary (SDGs 3,17) The Athena Fund (SDGs 4,8,10) is widening instead of closing. Opa Health (spin off from Unite to Prevent Cancer) is a global health and wellness initiative focused on the elimination of preventable cancers, heart APCO’s European Team Tel Aviv disease, diabetes, and other diseases. In collaboraRotary is the co-founder of the Global Polio The Athena Fund is a local nonprofit organization tion with partners, the Bridge, Opa Health’s novel Eradication Initiative (GPEI). APCO is a longempowering teachers in Israel, sub-Saharan Africa, approach, will provide innovative health tools and standing partner in Rotary’s advocacy activities in and other regions with a “digital toolbox” of STEM services that address common health barriers to Germany. In the beginning, the goal was to increase education resources and materials. Teachers utilize entry around the world, especially in underserved the German funding for the Polio Eradication the materials to enhance their digital literacy, improvgeographies where lack of resources and capacity, Endgame Strategic Plan and to also raise awareness ing interactions with their mostly tech-savvy students insufficient access, and difficulty in collecting data of Rotary as initiator of the GPEI. Today, a strong and overall strengthening the quality of education. are prevalent. stakeholder network has been established and Rotary managed to interconnect their contacts to APCO undertook a comprehensive evaluation of APCO helped Opa Health complete the first phase build further synergies. With the help of APCO, potentially suitable stakeholders for partnerships and of a comprehensive landscape mapping, identifying Rotary was able to put polio eradication on the collaborative ventures for the Athena Fund, mapping potential allies and key organizations. Building on policy agenda. The largest success so far was the out prominent global international organizations, this initial mapping, Opa Health have consulted inclusion of GPEI into the annual federal budget foundations, corporations, and philanthropies that with nearly 300 leaders and organizations and valiunder an own budget title in fall 2019. Rotary support the Fund’s goals to empower teachers and dated the urgent need and broad support for received excellent feedback for their advocacy communities. APCO further guided the Athena its proposition. efforts from various stakeholders. The campaign Fund in building its brand awareness among target By December 2021 the Bridge will have been is ongoing with APCO supporting Rotary in advoaudiences, while identifying key opportunities to beta-tested in 3-5 diverse locations in the United cating for stable funding for polio eradication, in establish new successful relationships through its States and one additional country (TBD). Specially Germany, France, EU and Canada. participation in prominent international events, designed tools will allow each community to track self-convened forums and speaking engagements its progress towards the goals it has established, in the field of digital education. provide real-time operational results, identify areas for improvement, and incorporate lessons learned from other participating communities. 30 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES 02 In the pages that follow, we provide a summary of APCO’s internal policies and practices aligned to support the UNGC Principles. We also include examples of how we apply the principles to our work with clients around the world, particularly our work focused on human rights and labor practices. 31 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO’S POLICIES, orientation, gender identity or expression, family responsibility, disability, veteran status, PRINCIPLE 1 OPERATIONS AND GOALS education, political affiliation, genetic inforHUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Businesses should support and respect APCO’s values transcend geographic boundmation or any other classification protected the protection of internationally aries and are embraced in every office. by applicable law. These policies ensure all proclaimed human rights Support and respect for human rights is an individuals receive the same opportunities integral part of APCO’s values. At the core of with regard to recruitment, hiring, promotion and compensation. In addition, many of PRINCIPLE 2 APCO’s governance are two essential poliAPCO’s offices around the world have concies that all APCO employees are required Make sure they are not complicit to comply with: APCO’s Code of Conduct tributed to anti-discrimination causes via pro in human rights abuses and APCO’s Anti-Discrimination and Equal bono support, client work or fundraising. Employment Opportunity Policy. APCO’s Code of Conduct details the high standards APPLICATIONS IN of behavior expected of all APCO employees in their interactions with each other, vendors, EXTERNAL WORK clients, prospective clients, government In addition to respecting human rights in officials, etc. Underlying the Code of Conduct its own operations, APCO contributes to is a belief in treating others with respect and promoting awareness and respect for interacting in good faith and with transparency in national human rights through pro bono and all transactions. client assignments, including: A Global Philanthropic Organization APCO’S ANTI-DISCRIMINATION (SDGs 2,3,4) AND EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY APCO’s anti-discrimination and equal employment opportunity policy prohibits Delhi APCO employees from engaging in or APCO supported a global philanthropic supporting discrimination. Specifically, it is organization on the issues of child nutrition APCO’s policy to: (i) recruit, hire and promote and healthcare, and child trafficking. On child the most qualified staff for all jobs; and (ii) nutrition and healthcare, APCO worked in ensure that all staff actions (including, but not the state of Uttar Pradesh to increase awarelimited to, recruitment, hiring, compensation, ness around the issue of teenage pregnancy benefits, transfers, layoffs, company-sponand achieved political support for adoption sored trainings, social and recreational of strategies to improve implementation programs) are administered in a nondiscrimof programs that enhance access to Sexual inatory way without regard to an applicant’s Reproductive Health (SRH) services in adoor employee’s race, color, creed, religion, lescent girls. APCO closely engaged with national origin, ancestry, citizenship status, the government at the highest levels in the sex or gender (including pregnancy, childstate and the media to create visibility around APCO employee participating in the birth and related medical conditions), age, enhancing access to Sexual Reproductive #EachForEqual social media campaign marital status, personal appearance, sexual Health services in the state. The efforts con32 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES tributed to the state adopting a model of adolescent union who agreed to share the content. The social INTERNAL IMPLEMENTATION friendly health clinics and renaming it throughout the media campaign resulted in over 775k impressions state for effective care of teenage girls. and 25k video views, with the number of Instagram In order to keep APCO’s values at the forefront of followers increasing by 140%. A total of 582 tests its actions, the company has taken several steps to To support on the issue of child trafficking, APCO were requested in August and a further 606 were ensure employees understand the importance of worked in the state of Bihar to increase focus on requested in September, a significant increase from the company’s values, the spirit it intends by living alternate care method such as village child protecthe 244 tests ordered in June. Based on the success its values and that its actions match its words. It tion committees (VCPCs) and sponsorship scheme. of the campaign, APCO is now creating a toolkit for began with a launch of refreshed values in 2018. On-the-ground learnings and experiences were Public Health England and BD hopes to replicate presented at both the political and bureaucratic this success in other areas of England. levels, which resulted in the government extending support to make the district as a model for the state The Public Authority of the Disabled to combat child trafficking. (SDG 10) BD (SDG 3) Kuwait London APCO overturned stereotypical perceptions towards people with disabilities in Kuwait. Before Chlamydia is the most common sexually transthe launch of our Qodraty campaign, more than a mitted infection in England and is particularly third of Kuwaitis believed that people with disabiliprevalent in young people. APCO’s London team ties were incapable of contributing to the economy. was appointed by BD, a global medical technology APCO’s digitally-led campaign featured people with company, to develop a digital campaign to raise disabilities from an array of fields—from media to awareness of chlamydia screening and increase sport to music—to show that this is not the case. testing rates among young people aged 16-24 in Our campaign generated more than 1 million social England. Partnering with East Riding of Yorkshire, media impressions and resulted in drastic change in where testing rates have been particularly low, and media narrative and public perception. By placing Refreshed Values its healthcare service, Conifer, APCO engaged successful people with disabilities at the center of As a commitment to stay ahead of the curve in former Love Island contestant, Dr. Alex George, our campaign, Kuwaitis had nowhere else to look to times of transformational and disruptive change an NHS doctor who covers health and wellbeing realize the truth of the matter: that people are only and to meet society’s changing expectations of on social media and has over 1.3 million followers limited by their ambitions. how corporations operate and position themselves, on Instagram. A social media content calendar APCO updated its values, (referred to previously was created for Instagram and Twitter to coincide In addition to achieving significant engagement, in this report). The new values are comprised of: with the end of Love Island in August and Sexual multiple NGOs and individuals reached out to curiosity, inclusivity, boldness and empathy. Health Awareness Month in September, taking support the cause. Overall, our 22 posts on Twitter common Love Island phrases and adapting them generated 2,831 interactions, over 118,000 videos With the refreshed values clearly articulated, we to the topic of sexual health to maximize engageand 1,096 following—starting from zero totaling took a holistic approach to implementing them ment. APCO worked with Dr. George to develop a in over 1 million impressions. The 14 posts on across the company. We worked with regional series of Instagram clips about the importance of Instagram generated 1,653 interactions, over teams to develop materials for every office that getting tested, the services Conifer provides and 132,000 videos and 1,246 followers—starting from showcases the company’s values and uses quotes a link to the testing site in each of his stories, with zero totaling in over 89,000 impressions. from local figures so the values would resonate additional support from Hull University’s student easily with employees and generate clearer under33 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES standing as they identified the local figures. The training in the past year and we incorporated the values were printed and placed in the office in a STAR method into the interview process to ensure variety of ways, including calendars, posters in consistent and unbiased evaluation of candidates. meeting rooms and welcome packs for new joiners. We have established targets for diverse pools of Once this step was complete, we encouraged each candidates and are working diligently toward MD to talk about the values in their regular staff those targets. meetings and highlight an employee who had been shown to be living the values in their day-to-day New Employee Orientation life and explain why, so it became something they During the first few days of joining APCO, the talked about regularly and spotlighted the behavfirm’s values, as well as APCO’s Code of Conduct, iors we hoped employees would emulate. We highAnti-Harassment Policy, and Anti-Discrimination lighted colleagues who live the company’s values in and Respectful Workplace policies are reviewed regular regional business update emails, asking for with all employees as part of the standard Global nominations from teams with an explanation about Orientation Program. This underscores the imporhow they have been living the values. The regional tance of following and abiding by these principles business updates are either weekly or fortnightly or in employees’ interactions from the very start of monthly depending on the region. their employment. We also added a measurement of how employees Reporting and Compliance live the company’s values to annual performance reviews. Employees and managers are evaluated APCO has STOPit, a global reporting tool that based on how they are living the APCO values in enables employees to raise serious issues safely in their role. This contributes to their overall perfora supportive environment and to be able to do so mance score and we run a competition twice a year anonymously if need be. We continue to encourcalled the Impact Award. These awards celebrate age staff to address issues directly and openly the work done by individuals or teams that has had with colleagues and to reach out to managers or a positive impact on the business and embodies to HR as needed, but for very serious issues such our core values. These are awards are open to client as whistleblowing (e.g., suspecting fraud or unethfacing or operational staff, are peer nominated ical behavior), discrimination, harassment or any and are selected and celebrated by the company’s other inappropriate workplace behaviors that an global CEO. employee may have either experienced or been a witness to, we want them to have another option Before Joining the Firm for reporting and sharing concerns. This year, APCO reinforced the visibility of this tool and provided During the hiring process, candidates are intercommunication and training to all staff on this tool viewed not only by the hiring manager, but also by and encouraged each staff member to download their potential peers. This screening helps to ensure the STOPit app to his/her phone. Reports of claims that candidates understand the importance of inteare received anonymously and in real time via gration and respecting diverse viewpoints as a core phone app or email and reviewed immediately value of the firm. Regular interview skills training is by HR, the General Counsel or management, provided to interviewers to ensure candidates are and the appropriate course of inquiry or action is treated fairly and have a positive interview expedetermined. Annually, a report is prepared for the rience. Additionally, a large number of our North company’s Global Leadership Team on usage of this New Years at APCO’s Dubai office America leaders participated in unconscious bias new tool. 34 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO’S POLICIES AND GOALS Diversity PRINCIPLE 3 Labor Principles APCO implemented a Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Program in 2009 and clearly stated its Businesses should uphold the freedom APCO adheres to the employment laws in D&I goals to be the employer of choice in its of association and the effective each of the countries in which it operates industry for diverse talent. As a clear leader recognition of the right to collective to ensure that individuals meet country in diversity, APCO firmly believes the very bargaining and local employment eligibility standards, best solutions, products and contributions such as regulations governing age, among come from the diversity of people and their PRINCIPLE 4 other things. Furthermore, APCO’s equal backgrounds and experiences, and APCO opportunity policy provides the framework has a competitive distinction when it fully The elimination of all forms of forced for nondiscriminatory actions affecting labor. embraces and leverages this belief. In 2018, and compulsory labor APCO does not prevent employees from APCO hired external consultants to review joining trade unions. Its approach to human and suggest improvements to its diversity PRINCIPLE 5 resources is to foster and maintain an open and inclusion initiatives. As a result, in the and transparent work environment to address past two years APCO has rolled out a new The effective abolition of child labor any issues raised by employees in accordance approach to D&I with the formation of a LABOR PRINCIPLES with applicable law and with its values and Diversity Council and unconscious bias trainPRINCIPLE 6 policies. ings for all leadership. This effort has been activated across our North America offices The elimination of discrimination in APCO does not promote, engage or employ with the support of our Global Leadership respect of employment and occupation child labor in any of the countries in which Team and will expand to international it operates and its anti-discrimination policy markets in the future. clearly defines the company’s position on employment practices that may harm comIn 2019 and 2020, our North America D&I munities or individuals on a broad range of priorities included: personal characteristics. • Building on our legacy of diverse, inclusive Additionally, as of Q1 2020, APCO is commitculture environments within the workplace ted to rolling out use of the STAR Method for by enhancing hiring processes and intenfuture hires. The STAR method is a structured tionally working to eliminate bias from manner of responding to a behavioral-based talent selection. We implemented on-line interview question by discussing the speunconscious bias training for managers and cific situation, task, action and result of the launched STAR method to eliminate bias in situation being described. APCO has already the interviewing and hiring process. trained North America hiring managers and members of the Diversity & Inclusion Council • We partnered with regional leadership to in the STAR method and plans to roll out establish specific D&I KPIs for our senior training for additional employees throughout leaders who will be evaluated on their con2020 and 2021. tributions during the annual performance review process. • Launched a Regional Intern Guide with oriWashington, D.C. office entations for all U.S. Intern Coordinators to volunteering at Martha’s Table ensure the inclusive material is used to give 35 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES consistency and inclusive structure to the intern • Developed a robust program of APCO-tailored ergonomic work stations and standing desks were program across North America. workshops to cultivate workplace free of unconinstalled for all employees in the Washington, D.C., scious bias and micro-aggressions. Due to the headquarters office space, as well as other offices • Established three employee resource groups pandemic, these highly interactive small group such as Berlin and Raleigh. (ERGs) to advance engagement and discussions sessions will be postponed until it is safe to bring on facets of identity within APCO (Parents, teams together. APCO also encourages its employees to lead a LGBTQ+, Women in Leadership). We hope to healthy lifestyle. We provide a number of resources launch additional ERGs in the coming months. • Became a founding signatory of the Hispanic to our employees related to mental health, mindPromise, a corporate pledge to create a more fulness, healthy eating habits, exercise, financial • Developed robust programming around signifiinclusive work environment for Hispanics through planning, and much more. In addition, some offices cant months that matter to APCO employees like hiring, promoting, retaining and celebrating organize fun and healthy competitions for losing Black History Month, Women’s History Month, Hispanics in the workplace. weight, regular healthy snack days, playing on Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month, organized sports teams and even walking treadHispanic Heritage Month and Pride Month. This Health & Safety mills. Colleagues who are certified yoga or meditaincluded educational events, inviting external tion instructors offer free sessions available to their APCO remains committed to a healthy and safe speakers and generating thought leadership. office teams. In addition to formal procedures and work environment for all employees and takes pride In 2019 and 2020, APCO hosted interactive directed opportunities, the firm was built on a spirit in creating environments that are both compliant panels on “Examining Black Leadership in of mutual respect and caring, which is an essential with various country regulatory standards in this Communications,” “Hispanic Heritage Month part of how employees collaborate so well together respect and pleasant to work in. Celebration: Roles and Opportunities to Improve across projects and continents. Diversity in Media, Government and Business,” APCO has several policies and procedures in “Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month place to address healthand safety-related issues. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, APCO Panel,” “An Equal World is an Enabled World,” Whether it is complying with Belgian standards of also allows its employees to work remotely and and two global panels in honor of International ensuring employee work spaces have access to utilizes technology to bring teams together in this Women’s Day as well as Women’s History Month natural light or confirming that hallways and furnipandemic environment. At the time of submitting in the United States. ture are laid out with adequate distance to meet this report, we have a predominantly remote U.S. fire standards, APCO is diligent in its practices workforce and will return to the workplace in • Signed on as a corporate partner with ColorComm markets as health metrics allow. The health, safety to create a healthy and safe work environment for and co-hosted a recruitment event in December and wellbeing of our employees are of the utmost APCO employees around the world. In fact, new 2019 and plan more activations in 2020. importance and guide our decision-making around returning to the workplace. IMPLEMENTATION Nondiscrimination, Child and Forced Labor APCO takes a number of actions to ensure a work environment free of discriminatory practices and does not allow or condone the engagement of child or forced labor. Employees at all APCO offices enter willingly into employment contracts (in jurisdictions where it is APCO’s London office team customary) reflective of the laws of the country 36 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES in which they work and reside, and the company It presents specific policy recommendations to the narrative into business-focused announcements follows market standard practices with regard to G20 and fosters dialogue between the public such as Remitly’s partnership with Visa, the launch notice period requirements and other legal requireand private sector. of Passbook, a modern banking solution made for ments. The STOPit app (referenced previously) was immigrant communities to help level the financial launched at the beginning of 2019 and has been APCO’s founder and executive chair, Margery Kraus, playing field, and Remitly’s Series E funding round; promoted and heavily communicated about as served on the Future of Work and Education task consumer-focused announcements such as the a mechanism to report issues or concerns about force that seeks to develop recommendations to rollout of a new mobile money transfer service inappropriate or disrespectful behavior. The app is improve the parameters for more and better employdesigned specifically for the unique needs of cruise monitored by the senior human resources executive ment, to provide adequate work conditions and to ship workers; and market expansion announcefor follow up and action, as necessary. prepare the labor force for the challenges ahead. ments such as Remitly’s entry into France. Health and Safety Other senior APCO colleagues provided insights Remitly’s key moments were highly successful, and recommendations to the Action Council on resulting in a combined readership and viewerDuring APCO’s standard orientation program, all Women in Business around measures to promote ship of 113 million across 40+ media placements new hires globally are provided with information the economic empowerment of women, and to within the first six months of our partnership. on health and safety practices for their local office, ensure women’s participation in the workforce and APCO secured stories in priority outlets, including including: fire evacuation routes, alarm testing their representation in leadership positions. The Economist, Financial Times, Business Insider, procedures, leave reporting procedures for employTechCrunch, GeekWire, BFM TV (France), Seatrade ees to follow in the event of national emergenRemitly (SDGs 8,17) Cruise News and The Maritime Executive, among cies, inclement weather procedures and policies others. APCO’s support helped to effectively deliver prohibiting drug use at work. APCO takes steps Remitly’s key messages, grow and expand the comto abide by health and safety requirements on an pany’s presence in key markets and further connect ongoing basis, including, but not limited to, parAPCO’s United States and European Teams customers to the company’s technology-based ticipation in emergency drills, confirming the ban solutions. of any weapons or dangerous instruments on work APCO was engaged by Seattle-based start-up grounds, ensuring smoke-free work environments in Remitly, the largest independent digital remittance all countries where smoking in buildings is banned, company based in North America, to serve as MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES checking that all building dimensions continue to agency of record. Remitly sought to raise brand FOCUS AREA meet the building code standards for emergency awareness and recognition among financial, techevacuation and accommodating individuals with nology and consumer audiences about its services, Health and Safety mobility impairments. which offer international money transfers faster, In 2019, there were no serious incidences or cheaper and more transparently than traditional work-related injuries. APPLICATIONS IN EXTERNAL WORK competitors. The company also wanted help expanding its reach among immigrant communities, Business 20 (SDGs 1,4,5,8,10,17) as well as assistance establishing a strong presence in new international markets as it embarked on an Diversity and Nondiscrimination ambitious global expansion. 30.4% of APCO’s North America team was classified as a minority as of the end APCO worked with Remitly to refine and deploy the Global of Q1 2020. company’s narrative around its relentless focus on The Business 20 (B20) engagement group presents the financial needs of immigrants and their families the perspective of the private sector to the G20, through key media moments that reached business representing the global business community across and consumer audiences in the United States and all G20 member states and all economic sectors. abroad. Our earned media strategy infused this 37 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO’S POLICIES AND GOALS and reduce overhead costs and carbon emissions. Under the new policy, APCO PRINCIPLE 7 Environmental Principles discourages all but essential travel, with Business should support a precautionary technology being used to a greater extent APCO’s environmental footprint arises approach to environmental challenges to bridge the gap. primarily from office operations and business travel. Accordingly, its global policy is based • Most offices have separate receptacles ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 8 on adhering to all applicable environmenfor paper, glass/plastic/metal, cardboard tal laws and regulations and applying the and trash. Many offices feature motion-deBusiness should undertake initiatives principles of reducing, reusing and recycling tecting lights which saves electricity when to promote greater environmental in the workplace. Specifically, APCO uses a rooms are not in use. responsibility Green Office checklist to promote office and IT energy efficiency; recycles office supplies; • Individual offices have instituted local PRINCIPLE 9 and monitors travel preferences and large policies and programs to improve our company meetings to minimize the comenvironmental footprint. For instance, Business should encourage the pany’s impact on the environment. A pilot APCO’s Paris team provides all employees development and diffusion of program conducted with several of APCO’s with recycling-only bins, trains cleaning staff environmentally friendly technologies mid-sized offices showed that office energy on waste sorting and provides information usage, business air travel and paper usage on recycling to all French employees. Used constitute the main elements of APCO’s IT devices are now donated to Emmaus, carbon footprint (scope 2 and 3 emissions). one of the leading French nonprofit organiWhile the capacity for a consistent internal zations that employs marginalized workers environmental data collection system has to refurbish IT devices and resell them at not yet been developed, individual offices low prices—also contributing to the fight have taken steps to decrease air travel and against unemployment. The team is now paper use. focusing on further reducing waste generation and energy consumption, notably by APCO is currently reviewing RFP responses optimizing electricity usage and reducing from three global travel management comthe amount of packaging in the food and panies. One of the selection criteria includes beverages offered to employees and visithe ability to provide us with company-level tors. The Paris office works with a company reporting related to APCO’s carbon footprint, called LOXY that recycles all telecommuniso we have greater visibility and hence, be cations and digital equipment and disposable to establish a plan, in conjunction with able coffee capsules. APCO’s travel policy to reduce all but essential travel. APCO also works with landlords • APCO continues to move the remains of its and property owners to address office energy IT infrastructure to the cloud, with very little use. Some examples of APCO’s environmenon-premise hardware, aside laptops and tal policies include: desktops. The most recent example of this is the decommissioning of all PBX systems • APCO implemented an updated travel in North America and in most of Europe. policy to encourage the use of Zoom, a video-conferencing software, to gain the greatest efficiency of employee time, 38 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES • APCO is also undertaking a digital transformation Designing Water’s Future (SDGs 11,13,14,17) also supported media relations, including securing initiative which aims to better streamline the private interviews and publishing op-eds. APCO business through workflow and digitization. This successfully secured the participation of multiple will help the firm reduce the number of printers, stakeholders, including high-level speakers. printer consumables and paper. New York Global Cement and Concrete Association (SDGs 11,12,13,17) APPLICATIONS IN EXTERNAL WORK The World Economic Forum ranks water crises as the world’s top risk of greatest impact and it is In addition to focusing on our own operations, worsening. Designing Water’s Future unites frontline APCO contributes to promoting environmental storytelling, citizen science, data collection, and AI responsibility and greener technology through pro analysis to quickly shift the world’s dangerous course London and Chicago bono and client assignments, which in 2019 and and connect the global water crisis to solutions early 2020 included: The Global Cement and Concrete Association at scale. APCO hosted and sponsored Designing (GCCA) was founded in 2018, with members Water’s Future, a workshop organized by Circle of Barilla Center for Food & Nutrition including leading cement and concrete manufacBlue, an internationally recognized organization Foundation (SDGs 2,3,12,13,15,17) turers, with national and regional cement trade that reports on the global competition between associations as affiliates. The association works water, food, and energy in a changing climate. In with its members to find new, lower-impact ways of this multi-stakeholder engagement event, participroduction as the industry moves to reduce carbon pants addressed emerging topics at the core of the emissions. APCO has been advising GCCA since Brussels, New York, Washington, D.C. purpose and climate agenda, including identify a big January 2020 on its sustainability communications and undeniable change that has occurred or is hapAPCO proudly supported the launch of the report and helps the organization build relationships with pening right now that can be leveraged to design Fixing the Business of Food – The Food Industry environmental and sustainability journalists and water’s future. and the SDG Challenge prepared by the Barilla stakeholders. APCO also developed a communicaCenter for Food & Nutrition Foundation (BCFN) and Foundation for European tions and advocacy program with an emphasis on its partners: the Sustainable Development Solutions Progressive Studies (SDGs 13,16,17) showing the association’s commitment to sustainNetwork (SDSN), Sustainable Development ability and emissions reductions. Solutions Network (SDSN), the Columbia Center on International Copper Alliance Sustainable Investment (CCSI) and the Santa Chiara (SDGs 11,12,13,17) Lab University of Siena. The report launch marked the first phase of a two-year project to raise awareNew York ness of the main challenges and opportunities for During Climate Week and UN General Assembly the food sector and identify effective sustainability Week 2019, APCO supported the Foundation for pathways towards the achievement of the SDGs. European Progressive Studies (FEPS) in the planning New York and Brussels The report was presented at an event to coincide and execution of their event, UNited for Climate with the 74th U.N. General Assembly that brought APCO has been supporting the International Copper Justice. The event consisted of a series of dialogues together delegates from government and the Alliance (ICA), the voice of the copper industry, on climate justice and the presentation of FEPS’s United Nations, food sector industry leaders, as well in rolling out a communications and engagement Policy Paper and Declaration for Progressive Climate as representatives of private sector, civil society, plan. The copper industry felt that its reputation was Action. The event spanned three days and included think tanks, academia and CSR organizations. ill-founded, but was not effective in changing the bringing speakers and participants together to march perception among its target audiences and in comin the Climate March on September 20, 2019. APCO municating about the positive stories, particularly in was responsible for the logistics, planning, marketing the field of sustainable development. of the event and management of attendees. APCO 39 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES For the ICA’s third year sponsoring Climate Week Major Foundation (SDGs 12,13,14,15) APCO also conducted digital research for NYC, APCO developed an integrated campaign McDonald’s, to help increase their competitiveness to tackle two main challenges: unawareness of and thought leadership within four issues areas copper’s importance and presence in almost of relevance to the company’s internal initiatives. everything we see and touch and its recyclable APCO’s Telescope research involved identifying key properties. Using in-person opportunities like Mumbai, New York subtopics within the larger issue areas, and identifyan augmented reality pop-up activation with India is currently the third three largest emitter of ing 50 existing, new and emerging influencers speakdigital amplification, APCO’s strategy focused carbon dioxide. APCO’s global team supported ing on each of the subjects. The issue areas focused on maximizing the ROI of the sponsorship. The a major philanthropic organization by expanding on were: deforestation; plastics, packaging, and approach was met with significant impact and the capacity of its grantees in India to effectively recycling; beef sustainability; and sexual harassment. these activities contributed to more than 1.9 million communicate their work. APCO shared the results These subjects were particularly relevant to issues impressions, 8,000 engagements across social of a research project about the key factors influencand initiatives which McDonald’s was tackling at the media platforms and more than 800 additional ing issue-based communication on climate issues time. McDonald’s was then able to leverage this followers. Additionally, key stakeholders—including and recommendations for impactful narratives and research to better position themselves in the media Former U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and an communication around climate change and climate across these four issue areas as they continued to Apple representative—shared positive feedback on policy. APCO provided communication counsel make internal advancements towards ESG initiatives. ICA messages and how they were presented. to various organizations around how to effectively Portland Cement Association International Council on Mining and Metals communicate their policy solutions to tackle the (SDGs 11,12,13,17) (SDGs 11,12,14,15,17) climate emergency. McDonald’s (SDGs 5,10,11,12,13,17) Chicago London APCO works with the Portland Cement Association Working with the International Council on Mining London and New York (PCA) to support its efforts in telling the positive and Metals (ICMM), APCO is helping the industry McDonald’s engaged APCO in 2020 to build a comstory around cement and concrete, the industry and to respond to rapidly changing marketplaces and munications plan to bring attention to its achieveefforts to be a part of a more sustainable future. communicate its responsible mining initiatives ments on tackling deforestation in its supply chains. Concrete made with cement is the most consumed which focus on building resilient communities, The project is ongoing, but has involved an initial man-made material in the world and a critical part engaging with indigenous peoples, water stewardperiod of research taking existing material and of infrastructure globally, and infrastructure either ship and protecting biodiversity. In the wake of the using digital tools to carefully assess the external directly or indirectly influences all 17 of the UN’s dam collapse tragedy at Brumadinho in Brazil last landscape. During the next phase of work, APCO Sustainable Development Goals. year, ICMM appointed APCO to communicate its will use this insight to develop an approach that resMining with Principles change program to media, onates with target audiences and will be activated APCO has created a communications and public stakeholders, NGOs and members globally. Since at global and market levels. Ultimately, APCO will affairs program for PCA to generate awareness and May 2019, we have helped ICMM to communicate deliver a comprehensive strategy and timed action consideration for concrete made with cement and an both in traditional and digital media, securing plan with the content and materials for McDonald’s understanding of its true impact on the environment. regular coverage in the FT and Wall Street Journal to start communicating on this important and highly Some key campaign activities included creating on mining change and growing their followers on sensitive issue, including McDonald’s active particiconsumer-friendly messaging, working with research social media. pation at Climate Week and other similar events. groups to identify and incorporate relevant findings, launching a website and proactive media relations with reporters covering topics related to sustainability. 40 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES In addition to educating target consumer audiences is to inform and enrich the discussions of national The APCO team also handles media inquiries, and on the role that concrete plays in building a more leaders at the G20 Summit through unique urban prepares, reviews and distributes a wide variety sustainable and resilient future, APCO is also perspectives. APCO was enlisted by U20 2020 of materials in English and Arabic, including supporting PCA to create new and impactful Chair, Riyadh City, to provide communications press releases, op-eds, Q&As, articles, features, relationships and partnerships with relevant third support ahead of the G20 Leaders’ Summit in presentations, biographies, speeches, MC scripts, parties, including industry groups, nonprofits and Riyadh. APCO deployed an in-house press office reports, studies, crisis communications, templates, other influencers focused on the environment to support the U20 Riyadh Team, in addition to fact sheets, branding materials, video scripts, and and sustainability. providing a full-scale website and app building website and social media content. operation. With APCO’s support, the U20 has in Shizen Energy Group (SDGs 7,13,17) place a fully functioning press office managing APCO provided MOCCAE with the communications communications and telling its story through plan and press office support during the Abu compelling bespoke content. The outreach has Dhabi Climate Meeting, hosted by the Ministry led to increased engagement with U20 target in partnership with the UN. The event laid the audiences across both traditional and digital groundwork for the UN Climate Action Summit that Tokyo was convened by His Excellency António Guterres, media platforms, as well as an increased Twitter Shizen Energy Group is a Japanese renewable presence of more than 12,000 followers. With the UN Secretary-General, in September 2019. energy company involved in the development, onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, APCO turned At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, APCO construction and operation of photovoltaic, wind U20 communications functions completely digital, convened a group of its engagement, tech and and small hydro power plants, with a vision to to ensure continued participation of international digital experts to create a task force on moving to a create a world of 100% renewable energy. The city representatives and partner organizations. virtual workspace. The Virtual Gatherings Taskforce company is beginning to expand beyond Japan APCO developed a comprehensive, Zoomhas worked to support APCO’s clients across the to areas such as South America and Southeast integrated website and mobile application—both globe to seamlessly transition into a virtual space. Asia, providing innovative solutions for energy from scratch—that now serve as content hubs and In addition, the team has supported nonprofit self-sufficiency and enabling the economic collaboration platforms. organizations to maintain their important work in development of local communities. Since UAE Ministry of Climate Change a non-physical setting. spring 2018, APCO’s Tokyo team has supported Shizen Energy by developing a new digital and Environment (SDGs 11,13,17) communications strategy, reaching out to media for interviews surrounding Shizen Energy’s role in key policy issues surrounding the renewable energy space, and facilitating a series of media Dubai audit meetings to establish key relations with target media in order for Shizen Energy to more effectively APCO is the strategic communications partner of share its renewable energy vision. the Ministry of Climate Change and Environment (MOCCAE) of the United Arab Emirates. APCO’s U20 (SDGs 11,13,17) Dubai team designs and delivers MOCCAE’s external communications, and develops strategies to build support and raise awareness of the Ministry’s work among audiences at home and abroad, particularly at major events – the World Government Summit, Saudi Arabia Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week, the UN General The Urban 20 (U20) is one of the eight official Assembly, the UN Climate Action Summit and the Engagement Groups of the G20 whose objective UN Climate Change Conference (COP). 41 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES APCO’s Code of Conduct and policies dealing • Extra training attention given to those offices with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and in countries where there is a known culture PRINCIPLE 10 the UK Bribery Act clearly state that a breach of corruption. of their anti-corruption, bribery and extortion Business should work against standards is grounds for immediate termi• Legal alerts written by APCO’s legal team ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES corruption in all its forms, including nation. APCO is also a signatory to several and sent to all staff reminding them of extortion and bribery industry codes that have provisions relevant anti-corruption requirements. to anti-corruption, i.e., the World Economic • Procedures for evaluating entertainment, Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption hospitality and gift expenses for clients to Initiative (PACI) supporting the PACI Principles As indicated earlier in this document, APCO distinguish between reasonable expenses for Countering Bribery; the UK Association focuses on anti-corruption efforts. Society and lavish expenditure that could be of Professional Political Consultants Code will not be able to address the critical issues considered a bribe. of Conduct; the International Association facing the world today (poverty, global health, of Business Communicators (IABC) Code of Responsibility for anti-corruption implementauniversal education and economic opportunity) Ethics for Professional Communicators; and tion within APCO rests with APCO’s Board and unless we are able to continuously minimize the Confederation of Indian Industry Code of the office of the General Counsel. However, corruption, extortion and bribery in both the Business Ethics. each individual at APCO is responsible for public and private sectors around the world. abiding by APCO’s anti-corruption policies, its Code of Conduct and the law and for reporting APCO’S POLICIES AND GOALS APCO has procedures in place any perceived misconduct. to ensure compliance with the As a professional services company with requirements of the UK Bribery subsidiaries around the world, APCO’s legal Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt APPLICATIONS IN EXTERNAL team undertakes ongoing risk assessments. Practices Act. WORK It pays close attention to those countries where APCO does business, especially where APCO requires its business partners to adhere the Transparency International’s Corruption Implementation to anti-corruption principles and has instituted Perception Index shows increased risk of procedures to implement compliance. APCO’s corruption. APCO considers the totality of the Business ethics and transparency are embedpolicy is to conduct due diligence on third-parcircumstances in managing bribery risk. Factors ded in APCO’s culture. Its compliance program ty consultants, agents, affiliates and strategic taken into consideration in the necessary risk takes many forms, including: partners where it does business in counassessment include the sector in which APCO tries with scores below 60 on Transparency • Implementation in 2018 of the STOPit is providing services, the value and duration of International’s Corruption Perception Index. app and training around its continued the project, the economic structure of engageAPCO also requires its affiliates and strause in 2019. ment and whether third-party consultants, tegic partners to sign onto its Charter for agents and/or affiliates are participating • Regular executive memos to all staff on Professional Ethics & Conduct for Strategic in the work. APCO’s commitment to ethics, integrity Partnerships, which includes anti-corruption and corporate responsibility. requirements, and to contractually represent and warrant that they will not participate in • Ethics and compliance training for all corrupt acts. APCO has zero tolerance for employees that includes APCO’s Code of corruption, bribery and extortion. APCO has been advancing global policy and Conduct, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act policies. strategic initiatives on transparency, anti-corruption and business ethics. APCO has been 42 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES a member and a signatory to the World Economic • Strengthening corporate culture and longer SDG 16 Review Conference (SDGs 16,17) Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Principles for term incentives, driving continuous Learning over a decade. and Improvement By signing the PACI Principles, APCO has committed • Leveraging New Technologies and Supporting to having a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery Collective Action New York, Rome, Washington, D.C. and to developing, implementing or maintaining a Delivering the 2030 Agenda is a shared responsibilbroad-based, anti-corruption program to guide the In addition to APCO’s extensive work on anti-corrupity by all actors of society. Rooted in its firm combehavior of employees. These principles also apply tion through World Economic Forum’s global platmitment to all SDGs and in particular to SDG 17 on to key business relationships with controlled subsidform, a senior member of our team served in 2020 revitalizing the global partnership for sustainable iaries, joint ventures, agents and other intermediaries, on the B20 Taskforce on Integrity and Compliance, development, APCO supported the conference, as well as contractors and suppliers. contributing to the recommendations submitted to “SDG 16 implementation and the path towards the G20 on Integrity & Compliance Agenda. leaving no one behind,” held in preparation for the Our founder and executive chair, Margery Kraus Democracy Fund Voice (SDG 16) July 2019 High-level Political Forum, co-organized serves on the CEO Vanguard Board of the World by the UN Department of Economic and Social Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Affairs and the International Development Law Initiative. The PACI Vanguard Board is the ultimate Organization (IDLO) and hosted by the Government decision-making body that mandates the PACI of Italy in Rome. In addition to providing communiagenda and includes new projects, events and other Washington, D.C. cation support, APCO convened a diverse group of areas of public-private cooperation. CEOs commit to: APCO was chosen by the Democracy Fund as the representatives of the judiciary, international orga• Help shape the Forum’s anti-corruption and communications firm supporting a new cohort nizations, private sector and civil society to discuss transparency strategies at the global, regional and of organizations backing campaign called “Fix the interconnection between SDG 16 on peaceful industry levels. Congress” in the United States. The goal of this and inclusive societies and a sustainable economic cohort is to support the work of the bipartisan Select role, as well as contributions the private sector can • Serve as a spokesperson on anti-corruption with Committee on the Modernization of Congress, to make to realizing goals 16 and 17. global and national media. propose relevant policy ideas, and to enhance the chances of success in the Select Committee’s goals • Participate in the PACI Vanguard meeting in Davosof improving the first branch of the United States Klosters and serve as an anti-corruption champion government. This cohort of groups and individuals at other Forum meetings in which they participate. includes representatives of nonprofits, think tanks, A senior member of our team serves as a board congressional experts, academics and advocacy delegate and also was asked by the World organizations. APCO worked to provide overall Economic Forum to join its Global Future Council on management of the cohort, strategic guidance, Transparency and Anti-Corruption. The Global Future message building, media outreach, social media Council, along with the broader PACI team develsupport, event planning and product development, oped an important blueprint initiative and Agenda for ultimately resulting in several rounds of unanimousBusiness Integrity during 2019-2020 that focuses on: ly-passed recommendations for Congress from the Select Committee and getting the Select Committee • Commitment to ethics and integrity beyond extended for an additional year by the U.S. House of compliance Representatives. 43 UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2019–2020 INTRODUCTION PART I: ABOUT APCO PART II: UNGC PRINCIPLES Measurement tions that will lead to inclusive decision-making and improve the rule of law, including by creating The various initiatives APCO supported APCO believes that its extensive compliance training enabling conditions for corporate social responsicovered key global issues such as the program, which includes training on the STOPit app, bility, good governance and transparency. As such, environment, gender, technology & has been successful. No incidents of corruption have APCO participates and actively supports the work innovation, food security, sustainability, been reported and there have not been any legal of the Action Platform as part of its commitment to youth and much more. cases, rulings or fines assessed on APCO related to strengthen the implementation of Goal 16. corruption. APCO’s external auditors conduct audits of the company each year and have not observed any A senior APCO colleague participated in a session incidents of corruption. convened by the UN Global Compact at the United Nations SDG Media Zone Business Leadership for APCO’s anti-corruption training program is led by Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions. Held during APCO’s legal and human resources teams. Antithe World Economic Forum’s Annual Meeting in corruption training is conducted online through Davos in January 2020, the panel discussed how APCO’s easily accessible internal portal. The anti-corto articulate and galvanize support for business ruption training is mandatory for all employees leadership on SDG 16. and requires the completion of an exam, which the employees must pass in order to meet APCO’s compliance training requirements. APCO AT THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY As part of its commitment to multilateralism, APCO was an active participant during the 74th session of APCO continues to work with a number the UN General Assembly (UNGA 74), including key of confidential clients on transparency high-level events during the week of the high-level and anti corruption initiatives, helping General Debate in particular the Climate Action foster an internal and external culture Summit and the meeting of the UN High-level of ethics and accountability. Political Forum on Sustainable Development. This annual moment on the international Action Platform for Peace, Justice and calendar provides an invaluable opportunity for Strong Institutions stakeholders across government, the private sector, civil society, media and academia to The UN Global Compact Action Platform for become part of the multilateral dialogue which Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions provides “a in 2019 focused on the important moment of forum for policy dialogue between Governments, accelerating action on the SDGs. businesses, the UN and civil society that results in concrete action towards improving accountability, On September 24-25, 2019 world leaders called integrity and transparency within businesses and for a decade of action to deliver the SDGs by the countries where they operate”. 2030. Bringing together a multinational team. APCO supported several global platform events For APCO, Sustainable Development Goal 16: and worked with leading organizations to build Peace, Justice & Strong Institutions is essential for opportunities for engagement and collaboration the delivery of the entire 2030 Agenda. In particular focused on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals we believe that companies can help achieve Goal (SDGs) and their 169 targets. 16 by preventing corruption and creating condi44 Moving Forward On this important anniversary for both the UN Global Compact and the important landmark to commit to make concerted progress for the 2030 Agenda, we hope this summary of our work to date demonstrates both how important the UNGC Principles and UN Sustainable Development Goals are to us as a firm and the full range of things we do to support them. We look forward to sharing our continued progress—not only in what we do, but in how we do it. FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: JUDIT ARENAS LICEA + 1 646 556 9320 jarenas@apcoworldwide.com
