Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 Editorial Michel Giannuzzi / Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Verallia Group 3 6 10 EDITORIAL MISSION, VALUES, GOVERNANCE CSR STRATEGY AND DASHBOARD 4 8 OUR BUSINESS MODEL KEY CSR RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Verallia had a pivotal year in 2019. The initial public offering process confirmed the interest of our stakeholders, and in particular that of investors, in the virtuous model of our glass packaging. Being 100% and infinitely recyclable, glass lies at the heart of the circular economy. In all our market segments and geographical areas, our customers have told us of their growing ACTING FOR HELPING TO PRESERVE NURTURING concerns about the environmental impact of their THE SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT BY RELATIONSHIPS WITH products. More and more of them are making DEVELOPMENT OF BEING A BENCHMARK IN OUR STAKEHOLDERS strong commitments to reduce their carbon footOUR TEAMS THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY print. These concerns and roadmaps reflect the urgency of the climate crisis that compels us all. Our teams are passionate about this responsibility 12 18 32 throughout our value chain. For 2019, we even exceeded our carbon footprint reduction target with a decrease in our CO2 emissions beyond the 1% target.1 ENSURING THE HEALTH PROMOTING THE CIRCULAR STRIVING FOR EXCELLENCE AND SAFETY OF ALL ECONOMY BY BEING A DRIVING IN THE QUALITY OF Our dual industrial expertise – both in the proFORCE IN THE COLLECTION OUR PRODUCTS duction of glass packaging and the procesAND USE OF CULLET sing of collected household glass – is a stren15 35 gth because the more cullet we use, the less 22 raw materials and energy we consume. In 2019, we also built our 8th cullet2 processing center ATTRACTING AND COMPLYING WITH APPLICABLE DEVELOPING OUR TALENT near Madrid in collaboration with a partner. REGULATIONS AND ANTIDEVELOPING ECO-DESIGN CORRUPTION MEASURES FOR RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS We have also developed a climate programme that reinforces our goal of reducing CO2. In partnership 25 40 with PUR Projet, this is built around two distinct lines of action: a climate programme in Latin America and an environmental integration programme for HAVING RESPONSIBLE Verallia sites. These two components promote the IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY PURCHASING PRACTICES AND REDUCING OUR CO2 socio-economic development of communities while EMISSIONS preserving local ecosystems. In 2019, the climate 42 programme successfully offset 1% of the Group's 29 emissions and planted more than 100,000 trees. As for our sites, we have redesigned the green spaces CONTRIBUTING TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF of our Seville facility to increase plant biodiversity OPTIMISING WATER USE COMMUNITIES and better integrate the site into the local landscape. AND REDUCING WASTE 1. O  bjective: -1% in CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) per tonne of packed 47 glass per year over the 2019–2030 period. 2. C ullet is broken glass added to the raw materials (sand, soda ash, OPINION OF THE ITO etc.) used to make glass OUR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL: Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA AT THE HEART OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY OUR Our goal: to assert ourselves as the preferred glass packaging supplier of the food and beverage production sectors, by relying on cutting-edge industrial performance and solid financial performance while ensuring the development of the diversity and talent of its teams and by actively contributing to the preservation of the environment THE VALUE RESOURCES and development of the community. CREATED Employees who make Extraction Collection Workplace safety Verallia successful and processing Eco-design and awareness Frequency rate of TF2 workplace Nearly 10,000 employees and production accidents: 5.53 of raw materials of sorting and recycling 4 shared values: (sand, limestone, of quality glass packaging sodium carbonate) Healthy, aesthetically pleasing customer care, and infinitely recyclable products r espect for individuals, 16 law and the environment, BILLION 2.6 billion in revenue BOTTLES AND e  mpowerment and JARS PRODUCED 16 billion bottles and jars produced accountability, 12.4% of our products are ecoteamwork designed4 Results for shared growth 177 professions1 EMPLOYEES 819 employees recruited, including 213 women 486 million in wages paid (incl. social security contributions) 29% female executives An average of 37 hours of training per employee An international industrial Internal promotion: 4% of the total presence in 11 countries workforce and 7% of the manager 32 glass production facilities population 57 furnaces SUPPLIERS 1.6 billion in purchases 8 cullet processing centers 252.5 million in capital expenditure 3 decoration plants 5 technical centers 49% INVESTORS EXTERNAL 100 million in dividends5 13 product development centers CULLET (0.85 per share)6 INTEGRATED INTO OUR PRODUCTION A local player Special attention paid to More than 300 employees OR the environment in the sales teams2 780,000 t Water consumption: OF CO2 AVOIDED 0.63 m3/tpg7 Processing of collected Packaging and marketing Energy consumption: A healthy financial situation glass into cullet, Verallia helps to showcase 1.88 MWh/tpg 125 million net result through the recovery of its customers' products Q  uantity of non-recycled waste: 420 million equity 4.3kg8/tpg household glass at processing 219 million cash and cash equivalents plants (of Verallia or its CO2 emissions: 0.510 tonnes/tpg 408 million operating cash flow partners) scope 1 and 29 1. Categories: technical production, trade, R&D, purchasing, 3.  F2 refers to the ratio of the number of accidents with and T 5. Dividends to be paid in 2020 for 2019 financial year. 7. t pg = tonne of packed glass or 'tonne of good glass': One tonne of packed glass corresponds 9. S  cope 1 “Direct emissions” = CO2 emissions within the physical boundaries of the plant = supply chain, Environment/Hygiene/Safety, internal audit without time off work per million hours worked. 6. P  roposal to pay a dividend of 0.85 per share subject to approval to one tonne of pulled glass measured straight out of the furnace and taking into account carbonated raw materials, heavy and domestic fuel, natural gas (fusion and non-fusion). and internal control, finance. 4. P  roportion of sales of the Ecova and EGO ranges of total sales. of the annual general meeting of shareholders to be held on 10 production losses linked in particular to shutdowns of the furnace or other equipment for Scope 2 “Indirect emissions” = emissions related to electricity consumption required 2. Functions identified in the sales and marketing channels. Eco-designed = with an optimised glass weight with equivalent June 2020, corresponding to a total amount of€100 million. maintenance or quality issues. for the plant's operation. shape. 8. Including waste from furnace reconstructions. 4 5 Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA THE MISSION OUR CSR GOVERNANCE OF VERALLIA 4 VALUES Every day, Verallia enables people to enjoy beverages and is under the responsibility of the food with healthy, attractive and sustainable glass packaChairman and Chief Executive Officer ging. This mission is consistent with the four values of Verallia. In line with these values, the Group's commitment whose policy is validated and monitored by in terms of social responsibility is based on three pillars: • Acting for the safety and development of our teams • Helping to preserve the environment by being a benchmark in the circular economy Care for customers • Nurturing relationships with our THE stakeholders Chief Legal EXECUTIVE Chief Financial As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, the Group has decided to focus particularly on the following Officer COMMITTEE Officer five Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Respect for people, laws Segment General and the environment Managers Secretary Chief Industrial Officer CERTIFICATION Wo rk in coordination CSR NETWORK OF CSR MANAGER correspondents in each country Empowerment and accountability BOARD OF DIRECTORS In 2019, the Group's achievements in terms of sustainable development were assessed on the EcoVadis1 platform as being “Gold Medal” standard with a score SUSTAINABLE of 62/100. DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE Its main mission is to ensure that the social and environmental Teamwork responsibility issues are taken into account in the Group's strategy and that the objectives set in this area are robust and in line with the company's overall strategy. 1.  ECOVADIS is a platform for rating the social and environmental performance of global supply chains. 6 7 OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR KEY CSR RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA This table provides a summary of the objectives and key performance indicators relating to the key CSR risks and opportunities. The results are explained on the following pages. Key risks and Pillar of the strategy SDG Commitments Quantified targets Performance indicators Values Development opportunities 2019 2018 Occupational • Move towards zero accidents health Ensure the health • TF2 5.5 4.8 and safety and safety of all • Reduce our TF2 by 33% between 2015 and 2020 ACTING FOR THE SAFETY • More than 50% of employees • Engagement index survey Attracting AND DEVELOPMENT reporting as committed every 2 years 43% – and developing employees OF TEAMS Attract and develop Not comparable with 2017 our talent (survey only of the manager population). Incorporating • Increase the rate of use • Rate of use of external 49% 47% the circular of external cullet in our cullet in production economy into worldwide production by (glassmaking sites) our value chain Promote the circular economy 1% per year by leading the collection and use of cullet Eco-design of our products HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT • Reduce CO2 emissions per tonne • Tonne of CO2 emitted 0.510 0.523 of packed glass (scope 1 and 2) per tonne of packed glass BY BEING from glassmaking sites worldwide (scope 1 and 2) A BENCHMARK by 2% per year Improve energy efficiency Energy and reduce our CO2 emissions efficiency PLAYER IN and carbon THE CIRCULAR footprint of ECONOMY our operations • Reduce water consumption per tpg in glass plants worldwide • Water consumption by 5% between 2015 and 2020 (m3/t of packed glass) 0.630 0.583 Optimisation Optimise water use • Increase the share of recycled waste • Share of recycled waste (%) of water use in glass plants worldwide by 5% 62% 51% and reduction and reducing waste between 2015 and 2020 of waste • % of ISO 22000–certified • 100% of ISO 22000-certified sites 78% 68% sites Quality of Strive for excellence our products in the quality of our products • % improvement • Reduction in complaints by 50% between 2017 and 2020 in complaints -45% vs 17 -25% vs 17 NURTURING • Training of 100% of new managers • % of new managers RELATIONSHIPS Comply – compliance with trained – Comply 62% 79% WITH OUR Comply with our competition law and ABC: anticode of conduct corruption and compliance with • % of new managers 57% 77% STAKEHOLDERS rules on economic sanctions trained – ABC Business ethics Have responsible procurement practices Contribute to the development of communities 1. Number of justified complaints per 100,000,000 containers delivered 8 9 KEY CSR RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA THE 7 KEY RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES IDENTIFIED ARE: In 2018, a materiality analysis was performed in Pillar of the strategy Key risks Definition three stages: • Identification of priority issues based on the analysis of the available documentation and interviews of the main stakeholders in the Group Occupational The industrial processes used at our sites can expose employees to accidental events that could have (analysis of Group activities and environment), health consequences for their health and/or safety (such as cuts, burns, noise pollution or high temperatures). supplemented by an industry benchmark conducand safety ted by a consulting firm – sector risk bases (MSCI ACTING FOR and SASB) and working with the Risk department THE SAFETY at Verallia Group level. AND DEVELOPMENT The risk relating to human capital within the Verallia Group is characterised by the issue of attracting • S  haring of these issues with the main Attracting stakeholders. OF TEAMS and developing employees, the issue of developing, maintaining and transforming skills and an environment of social • Prioritisation of these issues through the confrontaemployees dialogue specific to certain countries. tion between the expectations of stakeholders and the vision of Group management A rating scale was defined by criteria, in conjuncIncorporating The Group is striving to reduce its environmental impact, in particular through the increasing use of tion with the Risk department. Different compothe circular cullet1, a key link in the circular chain of the glass industry. It is made up of glass from selective collection nents were taken into account to determine the economy into (collection from individuals and CHRs: (Cafés, Hotels & Restaurants) known as external cullet ) or our value chain manufacturing waste known as internal cullet . priority risks and opportunities. The impact on people, operations, the environment, the image/ reputation of the Group was discussed and factored in. A consensus was reached by using the The need for more sustainable packaging requires Verallia to improve the environmental performance results of an electronic vote carried out during a Eco-design of of its products under constant pressure from stakeholders. The Group supports its customers in their HELPING TO our products responsible approach through its range of eco-designed containers, consisting in particular of a reduction joint workshop led by a consultancy firm, where the participants included the members of the PRESERVE THE in the weight of the containers. Group's Executive Committee as well as the main ENVIRONMENT support and operational functions of the French BY BEING A and Spanish entities. BENCHMARK Energy efficiency PLAYER IN THE and carbon In a climate change context where energy consumption needs to be limited, reducing energy In order to make them easier to read, the issues footprint of consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is a strategic priority for Verallia. identified were grouped and summarised in 2018, CIRCULAR our operations then updated in 2019 based on the three pillars of ECONOMY long-term commitment associated with CSR: Water and waste are not currently identified among the major risks according to the criteria • Acting for the safety and development Optimisation of the materiality analysis. However, the Group has set objectives and associated performance of teams of water use indicators because reducing water consumption, as well as reducing waste and increasing its • Helping to preserve the environment and reduction recycling contribute to the overall objective of reducing the Group's environmental footprint. • Nurturing relationships with our of waste Preserving resources and, in particular, water resources in the context of climate change and stakeholders increasing water stress zones is at the heart of Verallia's actions. The materiality matrix reflects the strong identity of the Group as well as the specific issues relating Despite these procedures, a critical production defect can occur without detection, a situation all the more to its activities and local presence. It also made it Quality of serious because our completed products are intended to be marketed and consumed on the end market. possible to highlight seven key CSR risks and opour products This would lead to substantial and lasting damage to Verallia's reputation in the eyes of the customer portunities for the Group within these priority isNURTURING and even the public at home and abroad. sues – see table opposite. RELATIONSHIPS Indicators for monitoring these key risks have been WITH OUR defined in order to measure their development and Verallia is one of the major international players in the glass industry. As a partner to its customers, STAKEHOLDERS the achievement of the improvement objectives Business the Group seeks to anticipate their needs and fulfil the promise made to them: quality, logistical service set by Group management. ethics and design that meet their expectations. Its long-term viability depends on everyone embracing the shared values and principles common to the whole of the Group. 10 11 ACTING FOR THE SAFETY AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TEAMS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA ENSURING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF ALL The industrial processes used at our sites can expose An EHS policy that aims Our action plans  Subcontractor accident follow-up employees to accidental events that could have conseand training quences for their health and/or safety (such as cuts, burns, for zero accidents Quarterly coaching Contractor accidents are integrated into internal follow-ups exposure to noise pollution or to high temperatures). Updated in 2018, the EHS (Environment, Industrial HyFollowing the update of our health and safety standards and monthly follow-ups. They are analysed in the same way Respect for occupational health and safety is one of Vegiene-Health, Safety) policy targets zero accidents, based using the Root Cause Analysis (RCA) methodology. They are all in 2018, a phase of coaching of site EHS managers was rallia's four values. Making safety a constant concern for on compliance with rules, commitment and dialogue. As covered in the Group's Health and Safety Rules. deployed throughout 2019. all employees, so that they protect themselves and their part of the Group's industrial excellence programme, this These coaching sessions were held on a quarterly basis: Our new standards also improve the protection of subcontraccolleagues, is therefore one of the Group's priority objecpolicy concerns all people working on the sites (Verallia one day of coaching per quarter per site. The coaching fotors by requiring risk assessment, preventive measures for tives. The Group supports each man and woman working employees, temporary workers and subcontractors). cused on all standards but with a priority on four safety toeach of their activities, mandatory controls at least daily and on its sites by providing them with the information and The Health and Safety policy is based on around 20 EHS pics and seven standards corresponding to the typology of increased awareness of these workers. All of our subcontractools necessary for their protection. standards, including 17 safety standards and one health the most frequent and serious accidents. Approximately tors are trained in the Group's Health and Safety Rules. standard defined by the Group. For example, work per90 coaching sessions were carried out. In 2020, non-glassmits, pedestrian and vehicle traffic (forklifts) and the remaking sites will be included in this approach. Governance porting of unsafe situations are governed by these stan R&D actions for employee health dards. They were updated in 2018 from a more operational R&D management actions are carried out at our different The Group Environment, Industrial Hygiene-Health, perspective and translated into all languages spoken witAwareness campaigns sites in order to improve our manufacturing processes and Safety (EHS) manager reports to the Chief Industrial Offihin the Group. They form the basis of the EHS framework their impact on the health and safety of our employees. cer, who is himself a member of the Executive Committee Through awareness campaigns, the sites encourage their for all our sites. and reports to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. employees to ensure their own safety and that of their • Automatic mould lubrication: this action continues The Group EHS manager relies on a network of five regiocolleagues by reporting each EHS danger (to the departto be performed at our sites and aims to reduce the nal EHS managers and EHS managers from each of the The Health and Safety approach is based on three pillars: ment manager or the person concerned) and intervening frequency of mould lubrication by operators and thus Group's glassmaking and non-glassmaking sites. immediately in the event of a situation or behaviour deetheir exposure to noise and heat. It also reduces the • Risk analysis concerns all routine tasks at all our sites. The importance of safety is also reflected in its integraOur plant staff are also trained and encouraged to med to be hazardous. The proportion of employees reporrisk of a large amount of grease accumulating on mation into the compensation of all employees including the use the minute of reflection, as a risk analysis tool ting risky situations increased from 19% in 2017, to 28% in chines and thus the risk of fire. Executive Committee eligible for variable compensation, for non-routine tasks. 2018 and to 81% in 2019. • Mould cooling optimisation aims to reduce noise at and through the profit-sharing policy on the basis of the • Respect and application of the four golden rules: the workstation. TF2 performance results. > Do  not disable or render ineffective the safety • Use of the hot treatment tunnel to reduce exposure devices THE 5-METRE RULE to chemicals. > Always wear suitable personal protection OUR KEY OBJECTIVES  equipment Film of forklift and pedestrian > Our goal > Apply  the LoTo (Lock out Tag out) procedure for all The five-metre rule is one of the most important to protect interventions pedestrians from the risk of collision with a forklift. move towards zero accidents > Do  not misuse equipment or tools It is strictly forbidden to go within five metres of a forklift without having been able to communicate with the driver > 2015–2020 targets • Internal audits and the site evaluation system: interto ensure that he/she has seen the pedestrian and that the nal audits are planned by the Group EHS manager for TF21: -33%. and conducted by him/herself and the regional EHS pedestrian can pass safely with the forklift at a sufficient managers. The purpose of the audit is to assess the distance. This film shows how to apply this rule in different application of EHS Group rules at the sites using the situations. It was shown to all employees on World EHS Group EHS audit framework. Day on 10 October 2019. At the end of 2018, our accident reporting guide was revised to account for all accidents (previously, accidents with and without lost time consisting of a very mild injury could be declassified under certain circumstances). Therefore, our 2018 framework is more stringent than 2017. 1. Frequency rate TF2 = ratio of the number of accidents involving permanent and temporary workers with and without lost-time per million hours worked 12 13 ACTING FOR THE SAFETY AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TEAMS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA ENSURING THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF ALL ATTRACTING AND DEVELOPING OUR TALENT KEY FIGURES The risk related to human capital within the Verallia Group is characterised by: Governance The issue of attracting employees: the Group has recently The Human Resources (HR) department reports to the 100% of our glassmaking sites are ISO 14001 (environment) and OHSAS 18001 (health and safety) certified +50% in near-accidents reported  between 2018 and 2019 become independent and does not yet have a high profile on the job market. It is involved in a relatively unknown and inconspicuous B2B environment in schools and universities. The Group's sites are sometimes located in Group General Secretary, who is a member of the Executive Committee. The HR functions managed and directed at the Group level are: employee compensation and benefits, international remote areas. As a result, the employer brand needs to mobility, the HR information system, and international strengthen and develop in order to attract and acquire training. Other HR functions such as recruitment, personOUR PERFORMANCE new talent. nel administration, payroll, training, and social relations A challenge of developing, maintaining, and transforming are managed locally. 2017 2018 2019 skills through: In terms of the workforce of the Group HR function, there is one HR director in charge of each region. When the re2.6 4.4 (new framework) 5.2 >  the transfer of skills from older technical employees Frequency rate 1 (TF1) 1 gion includes more than one country, there is also a local with strong technical expertise to new generations HR Director reporting to the Managing Director of the Frequency rate 1 (TF2) 2.8 4.8 (new framework) 5.5 country. > t he acquisition upon hiring of specific skills with a strong impact on performance and quality > t he development of skills and the use of artificial intelAn HR policy at the heart Analysis of our results ligence in connection with a 4.0 industry that will reof the company's strategy The accident rate increased in 2019. In fact, many accidents Training and manager involvement are the main levers quire greater complementarity between human skills are related to the non-application of the rules established for improving our results, by ensuring that the rules are and the technical input of the machine The human resources management policy is a key part for routine operations, including lubrication and machine applied. One of the focuses for 2020 will be to push the of the Group's strategy. It seeks to anticipate skills An environment of social dialogue specific to certain counshutdowns for interventions. The type of accidents shows minute of reflection , also among subcontractors, to requirements, ensuring that critical posts are filled, tries of the Group: there is a strong will in all companies that many of them could have been prevented by strict broaden communications, and to be particularly vigilant fostering the conditions for employee buy-in and meeting and at the highest level of the Group to establish a resapplication of the standards and corresponding behaviour. during in-factory training. employee expectations, notably by taking their career pectful social dialogue and transparent communication. plans and working conditions into account. The Group Please note: a new method of reporting workplace acciframes the compensation policy in line with the markets dents has been incorporated since 2018. The new reporting in which it operates, while respecting internal fairness. framework has incorporated a broader definition of workplace accidents with and without lost time. Thanks to this This policy is managed by the regional HR directors, in new guide, all accidents with and without lost time must compliance with the Group's overall framework regarding be carried over and analysed, which was not systematicalrespect for values, key skills, and commitment. ly done in some countries. From now on, all accidents must Employee engagement is assessed every two years be reported at Group level. Reclassifications are therefore through a satisfaction survey (the last one carried out in very rare and only correspond to cases where social secuMarch 2019) that results in corrective action plans and rity deems the work accident null or where there is doubt a common compensation policy aimed at internal and about the accident/work relationship (e.g. pre-existing external equity. injury). All other accidents are accounted for. Verallia's training policy places employees at the heart of their learning and development path. To do so, it is based on a training offer that can be personalised, individual or collective. E-learning modules are developed by the Group and 1. Frequency rate TF1 = number of lost-time work accidents among permanent and temporary workers per million hours worked. At the end of 2018, our accident reporting guide was revised to account for all accidents (previously, accidents with and without lost time consisting of a very mild injury could be declassified under certain circumstances). Therefore, our 2018 framework is more stringent than 2017. 14 15 ACTING FOR THE SAFETY AND DEVELOPMENT OF OUR TEAMS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA ATTRACTING AND DEVELOPING OUR TALENT then rolled out locally by the training teams (e.g. Risk EMPLOYER BRAND Management module deployed in 2019). Our action plans Social dialogue The Group looks after its employer brand through a LinkedIn Social dialogue is being held within the established bodies in A people review process (succession and talent page, a Facebook page and the presentation of the Verallia Employee attraction accordance with local laws in all countries, at the national or management plans) is conducted twice a year to review Group. Each division has the responsibility to create its own COMPENSATION POLICY local level in factories and at headquarters. It is the regional people and succession plans. communications and to manage its school relationships and or country HR directors' responsibility to organise and host The Group's compensation policy, including the remunerecruitment. Technical training (industry 4.0, EHS, glass-making discussions. process) is available to employees according to their ration of its executive director, aims to ensure competitive levels of compensation, in accordance with the Company's Skills management In 2016, the Group established a European body of 16 emneeds. social interest and in line with market and industry pracSeveral programmes are offered: ployee representatives from the six European Union member tices. It also ensures that a strong link to the company's countries where Verallia is industrially based (Germany, • Soft skills training: feedback culture, management, Spain, France, Italy, Portugal, and Poland). This body helps performance is preserved and that balance is maintained The Chalon-sur-Saône training center leadership ability, embodying Verallia's four values. create a regular and respectful social dialogue and meets between short-term and medium/long-term performance, and contributes to supporting the Group's business strategy • Development programmes related to specific popuonce a year except in exceptional circumstances. Its select and future. lations (young people, potential employees, etc.). committee, composed of five representatives from the four Established in 1969, the Chalon-sur-Saône training main countries, meets two to three times a year. center (France) guides the skill-building of our worThe Group has therefore implemented a compensation po• T  alent management tool since 2019, allowing for the kers and supervisors at our seven French factories. Inlicy consisting, where appropriate, of: performance and potential of each employee to be ternal trainers and expert instructors from across the assessed and for specific training programmes to be value chain pass on their knowledge to promote the >  base salary that pays for job holding and is attractive a implemented. for recruiting and retaining talent; capitalisation and dissemination of glass-making expertise. Every year at the Chalon-sur-Saône site, some >  variable annual share that pays for individual and a The Group's key training programmes: 400 trainees participate in 10,000 hours of internship collective performance based on the achievement of training with particularly innovative teaching methods: ambitious goals while being capped at a maximum levirtual reality, use of school machines, role-play, etc. vel, therefore preventing excessive risk-taking. A source Programme Description and target Programmes to accelerate career paths are developed of motivation for teams, this variable annual share is based on annual criteria including safety, the reduction Glass-making techniques Newcomers at the center. This was the case with the Verallia Glass School created in 2013, which trained future technical of CO2 emissions (from 2020), financial and operational Glass school Young graduates managers and supervisors at our factories. In the near performance, and personal goals. future, the center plans to integrate all managerial traiBusiness Leaders Experienced employees ning into the core of its technical training programmes In addition to this variable compensation, the Group intends in order to broaden its scope and better guide our staff to fully associate its employees with its development by maMeet Verallia Newcomers – Executives (1–4 years of seniority) in the management of their teams. king them shareholders. The employee shareholding policy is therefore a strategic approach to support the Group's proLeaders at Verallia Experienced executives (5–10 years of seniority) fitable and sustainable growth, which it intends to pursue actively (as of 31 December 2019, Verallia's corporate mutual fund, which includes employee shareholding in the Company, holds 2.6% of the Company's capital). In particular, the OUR PERFORMANCE Company intends to offer Group employees, during the first half of 2020, the possibility of subscribing to a reserved capi2017 2018 2019 tal increase via Verallia's corporate mutual fund, under the discount and employer matching contribution conditions Recruitment rate 9.5% 10.6% 11.3% approved by the Board of Directors. Percentage of permanent contracts 5.3% 6.1% 6.8% Average training hours per person (permanent and temporary employees) 1 37h 45h 37h Voluntary turnover of permanent staff (resignations) 2.7% 3.4% 3.5% Engagement index (every two years) 60%2 — 43% 1. The entities VOA, SAGA DECOR, SCD, EVERLASS, SALOMON and TBE are not included in the final 2. In 2017, only executives were consulted. In 2019, 9,208 questionnaires were sent out, 6,018 indicator Average training hours per person . employees responded with a commitment rate of 43% committed or very committed . These figures exclude the USA, India and Vicsa. 16 17 HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT BY BEING A BENCHMARK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA PROMOTING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY BY BEING A DRIVING FORCE IN THE COLLECTION AND USE OF CULLET Glass is the container of choice for spirits, wines, beer and As a circular economy actor, Verallia strives to reduce its Governance KEY FIGURES food. 100% and infinitely recyclable in new food packaenvironmental impact, particularly through the growing ging, bottles and jars, it is at the heart of the circular ecouse of external cullet, a key link in the glass industry's circuIn 2017, the household glass collection rate was The CEO defines the cullet strategy with the purchasing nomy. In 2019, Europe had 160 glass manufacturing plants lar chain. Cullet consists of glass from selective collection and now has the highest glass recycling rate in the world. The collection rate at European level (collection from individuals and CHRs Cafés Hôtels Restaurants) reached 76% (external cullet: individuals and CHRs) or manufacturing scrap internal cullet . Cullet reduces the consumption of natural materials such as sand, or synthetic materials such and industrial departments, which then deploy it locally. The industrial department is in charge of investments concerning cullet treatment sites. 76% in the EU member states, making it the most recycled food packaging in Europe (FEVE) in 20171. The glass recycling rate at European level was 52% as sodium carbonate. It helps to reduce the erosion of naThe Raw Materials Procurement Director coordinates in 20172: the challenge is therefore to raise the collection rate in order to raise the recycling rate. The European directive on packaging and waste packaging tural resources. By replacing the raw materials required to manufacture glass, cullet helps to reduce carbon dioxide emissions at two levels: by reducing the energy required for melting and by reducing the use of raw materials that the cullet purchases from different countries. Part of the Director's bonus is linked to the achievement of the defined objectives. In order to reach the glass collection and recycling objectives, an international task force with the 2.9 million tonnes of cullet used by our sites in 2019, 4.4% more is a major step forward, bringing the recycling targets for emit carbon dioxide when melted. As a result, the increase objective of improving recycling and production chain outthan in 2017 glass containers to 75% by 2030 for Member States. In orin the level of cullet in raw materials saves energy, leading puts has been set up within FEVE. Verallia's Raw Materials der to reach this recycling objective at European level, the quality and quantity of glass collected must increase significantly. To this end, FEVE, the European Container Glass Federation, created the Close the Glass Loop 3 platform, to a reduction of 2.5% in energy consumption at the plant and 5% in carbon dioxide emissions for each additional 10% of cullet. Procurement Director is a member of this task force. 780,000 tonnes an ambitious effort to boost glass collection and recyThe circular economy of CO2 avoided thanks to cullet cling. This industrial platform brings together the various at the heart of EHS policy stakeholders in the glass value chain, which will enable the establishment of a material management programme Verallia's EHS policy incorporates a chapter dedicated to and increase the recycling of closed-loop container glass. the circular economy policy with the objective of reduThe objectives set for 2030 are: > Increase the rate of use of external cullet in cing the Group's environmental footprint, in particular by our world-wide productions by 1% per year using cullet. between 2018 and 2023. OUR KEY OBJECTIVES This policy is structured as follows: • 90% of the EU's container glass collection rate (com> Help improve collection rate to achieve the pared to the current 76%); • Produce 100% infinitely recyclable container glass objective set at European level by the FEVE: • Improved quality of recycled glass (which would al90% of bottles collected for recycling • Promote glass recycling on every internal and exterlow the use of more cullet in a new production loop). by 2030. nal occasion > Help improve the quality of the glass • Preserve natural resources collected through awareness-raising activities through the collection agencies, • Improve our energy consumption and reduce emissions at all our production sites local authorities and the Group's employees (interventions in schools, at our sites). > Continue investing in cullet treatment centers by leveraging the best technologies available on the market. 1. Press release from the European Container Glass Federation (FEVE) on 12 April 2018. 3. https://feve.org/about-glass/introducing-close-the-glass-loop/ 2. https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/bitstream/JRC78091/lfna25786enn.pdf 18 19 HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT BY BEING A BENCHMARK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA PROMOTING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY BY BEING A DRIVING FORCE IN THE COLLECTION AND USE OF CULLET Our action plans • Increase the amount of glass collected; An Italian partnership created in 2019 The Commitments Charter Invest in cullet treatment centers • Improve glass quality to optimise its integration into between Costa Crociere, Oleificio Zucchi Glass, 100% Solutions productions. Verallia takes advantage of all events and Verallia Italia. In order to optimise the cullet treatment process (better qua(fairs, inaugurations, customer events and training, lity, better output, minimum waste) and thus increase the In 2019 in France, the actors in the container glass value student designers, etc.) to encourage sorting and integration of cullet into its production, the Group has made The container glass collected on Costa Crociere boats is sent chain (glass producers, eco-organisations, communities, recruit new recycling ambassadors. long-term investments in its eight cullet processing centers directly to Ecoglass, the Italian cullet processing center. It is marketers and professional organisations representing located in Europe. then cleaned and transformed into cullet, which is directly distributors) signed the Glass, 100% Solutions Verallia works in partnership with glass industry assoused to produce new olive oil bottles in the Italian plant VeCommitments Charter. The purpose of the charter is to Share best practices ciations (FEVE, the European Container Glass Federation, rallia Carcare. These bottles are then purchased by the olive accelerate and mobilise all levers so that glass never Verallia relies on the expertise of its various business units ABIVIDRO in Brazil), local authorities, glass eco-organisaoil producer Oleificio Zucchi, which fills them and sells them becomes waste. The Commitment Charter serves as the around the world to share best practices and knowledge tions (CITEO in France, ECOVIDRIO in Spain, etc.) and cullet to Costa Crociere. framework for a continuous progress momentum, sets out among the sites, and to optimise the sorting, processing and processing companies. In the absence of a household glass collection system, such as in Chile or Argentina, Verallia 30 tonnes of cullet were collected in 2019 to produce nearly concrete and measurable commitments, and establishes therefore the integration of cullet into our productions. a transparent and regular monitoring mechanism. By acts on its own behalf by launching collection campaigns 100,000 olive oil bottles. Example of Spanish sites that are enriched by the expertise of in partnership with cities close to plants. In Europe, it is supporting sorting, re-use and recycling, the charter is at French and Italian sites (Everglass and Ecoglass). mainly through the actions of FEVE that the Group carries This pilot project is intended to be replicated in Italy and the heart of the Circular Economy Roadmap strategy and out its awareness-raising actions with the general public. In other European countries. the objectives of the draft bill on combating waste and  Educate customers and end users about 2018, the international communication campaign Friends promoting the circular economy. the importance of glass recycling of Glass focused on protecting the oceans and had more Raising awareness of recycling is a priority for the Group, with than 5.8 million views on social media. The aim was to ena view to attaining a two-fold objective: courage consumers to change their behaviour. OUR PERFORMANCE OUR UNIQUE EXPERTISE IN CULLET PROCESSING 8 processing centers External cullet usage rate in production (at our 32 glassmaking sites, all colours and all models) 2017 49% 2018 47% 2019 49% Over the period 2018-2019, the Group is investing nearly €12.4 million in its cullet processing centers. in 4 countries Analysis of our results + Bad Wurzach We depend on the available deposit, and therefore on collection from individuals and Cafés, Hotels & Restaurants (CHR). Collection rates vary greatly depending on the countries and collection systems in place. 10% cullet Lonigo Dego (Everglass) Supino (Everglass)* In 2017, the collection rate in Europe was 76%. It had previously remained flat at 74% for three years – 2014, 2015 and 2016. Rozet-Saint-Albin -5% CO2 emitted Châteaubernard (Everglass) Agüimes (Canary Islands) -2.5% consumption of (Recictadora de vidrio de Canaries) Guadalajara (Calcin Ibérico)* under construction the plant * Joint ventures 20 21 HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT BY BEING A BENCHMARK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA DEVELOPING ECO-DESIGN FOR RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS In the food and beverage sector, glass packaging is esGovernance Verallia's room for manoeuvre is narrower for specific  Continue to educate our stakeholders sential: it ensures containment, quality and safety and container glass, also known as customer specialities, which about eco-design conveys product identity. The global need to make packaare developed at the customer's request based on detailed Raising awareness among its stakeholders and especially its ging more sustainable is thus accompanied by Verallia's The eco-design approach is decentralised and integrated specifications. However, Verallia plays an advisory role in customers about eco-design is a priority for the Group. desire to reduce its carbon footprint by improving the enwithin each subsidiary. Each country has its own organithese particular development cases. In addition, customers vironmental performance of its products; a shared desire sation to deploy the product eco-design approach. This increasingly incorporate environmental performance criteria In 2019, Verallia carried out about 20 interventions in France intensified by the expectations of the Group's stakeholis often carried out by the design offices (13 product deinto their specifications; Verallia has developed 131 eco-moto raise the awareness of various actors to CSR and eco-deders. This translates, in particular, into less weight for velopment centers working on eco-designed products) dels since 2015, referred to as ECOVA . sign issues. In addition to regular exchanges with its cusbottles and jars, while maintaining an equivalent level of and subject matter experts. R&D supports the design oftomers, Verallia also met with associations, institutions and value perceived by the end consumer: eco-design. fices and provides design tools that are tailored to these trainee designers. The glass container – healthy and inert – is already in itchallenges (e.g. resistance simulation tools). Marketing  Co-build eco-designed products with becomes involved for standard products and sales for our customers self a model of circular economy because it is 100% and customer specialties. In France, Verallia designed a lightweight bottle for the Bainfinitely recyclable. However, the application of a rigorous eco-design approach reduces its environmental footdet Clément house. Badet Clément wanted to improve the The EGO range eco-designed print, including its carbon impact. environmental impact of its Jamelles brand, which exports Our action plans more than 70% of its production. by Verallia Chile The Group encourages its subsidiaries to initiate eco-design approaches, which it is interesting to support with In Chile, Verallia developed a range of bottles in studies and in particular life cycle analyses. In 2019, Ve Implement a rigorous eco-design approach 2015, called Enhanced Geometric Objects (EGO), rallia France therefore commissioned the firm Quantis to with the ECOVA product line conduct a Life Cycle Analysis as an example on a 495 g to meet the demand for high-end wines without Verallia acts on environmental impact improvement levers, violating its environmental pledge. ECOVA bottle produced by Verallia France, used to pacand in particular those related to its standard articles, devekage wine and consumed in France. loped internally and available to all customers. The standard The EGO range is characterised by: To reduce these environmental impacts, the integration ECOVA ( Eco for eco-design and Va for product valuaof recycled materials – cullet – is a major driving force for tion) range offers a good example of the eco-designed mo> Bottles with very deep push-up (61 the Group. Choices related to the product's characteristics dels promoted by Verallia. This range of products, available mm) create an optical effect to keep the can also significantly improve its impact throughout the for all countries, is lightweight and developed to maximise impression of weight and preciousness of cycle: reducing its weight, choosing its tint, optimising its the number of items per pallet. These eco-designed products high-end bottles. palletisation, are points that Verallia incorporates when reduce the CO2 production and transportation emissions by an average of 15%. In 2019, the ECOVA range continued > Bottles on average 20% lighter than developing its product ranges. to expand internationally. Since its launch in 2009, nearly similar-looking bottles. Using this approach, the French subsidiary of Verallia 21 billion products have been sold (12.4% of Verallia's sales A premium eco-design range up from 100,000 is formalising its eco-design approach and intensifying in 2019). in 2015 to over six million bottles in 2019. its awareness-raising activities for various stakeholders with the aim of increasing the number of eco-designed products placed on the market each year. It is then up Bouteille EGO 1865 VSPT to customers to choose (or not) to develop or select an eco-designed product from our references. 22 23 HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT BY BEING A BENCHMARK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA DEVELOPING ECO-DESIGN IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND REDUCE FOR RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS OUR CO2 EMISSIONS We are strengthening our environmental strategy in the We currently measure our scopes 1 and 21 CO2 emission The ECOVA range light of major climate change, with the aim of minimising levels as we strive to reduce them. Our highest emission Level 2 Glass School days the environmental footprint of our products to meet the destation in our plants is the glass melting station (as fuat Pernod Ricard Spain mands of our customers and the aspirations of consumers. sion entails raising the temperature of solids – sand, cullet, In France, Verallia launched its Glass School II days, deGlass is a healthy, infinitely recyclable material with no soda ash, calcium carbonate – to arrive at a homogeneous dicated to the discovery of the container glass circular For Campo Viejo, an iconic vineyard in La Rioja (Spaniloss of value, which has the primary role of packing, provitrified mixture). economy. These Glass School II days are organised in the sh wine region), Pernod Ricard Bodegas chose eco-detecting and transporting food and beverages; however, The simplified diagram below shows the distribution of our cullet treatment centers of the Everglass Group. A one-day signed bottles from Verallia's Ecova range. The weight its manufacture now involves a high carbon footprint. It carbon emissions; percentages are for information purpoawareness campaign is offered: customers can learn about of the bottles decreased from 550 g to 390 g, which is therefore essential to change the current industrial tool ses and may change. The percentages for scopes 1 and 2 are the circular economy of the glass industry and its recycling reduced CO2 emissions from the full life cycle of these to bring about a massive reduction in CO2 emissions. provided with respect to the total (fusion and non-fusion). process from theoretical and practical points of view. The bottles by more than 30%. Bottle transport has also afternoon of the day is dedicated to a course on the eco-debeen optimised, allowing more bottles to be transported sign of glass products: good practices, impact levers. by lorry. Électricité —> Co2scope 1 FUSION 25% NON-FUSION FUSION ENERGY VIRGIN RAW MATERIALS OUR PERFORMANCE Soda ash + Heavy fuel 2017 2018 2019 + Natural gas Electricity Calcium carbonate + Coke + Natural gas Electricity Number of bottles and jars sold from the Ecova and EGO ranges 1,906,653,593 1,876,491,345 1,893,540,812 Dolomite Proportion of sales of the Ecova and EGO ranges of total sales 12.6 % 12.6 % 12.4 % 70 % of CO scope 1 25 % of CO scope 2 20 % of CO scope 1 10 % of CO scope 1 75 % of CO scope 2 These results relate to all subsidiaries producing glass packaging excluding Russia. 2 2 2 2 2 All our plants operate with 84% gas, 10% fuel oil and 6% electricity on the fusion side. OUR KEY OBJECTIVES >  Worldwide Objective: for 2019–2030, 20% reduction in scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions per tonne of packed glass per year, or 2%/tpg/year. >  At the end of 2019, this objective was enhanced compared with the initial target announced: for 2018–2019, 1% reduction in scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions. 1. Scopes  1 and 2 Scope 1 Direct emissions = CO2 emissions within the physical boundaries of the plant = carbonated raw materials, heavy and domestic fuel, natural gas (fusion and non-fusion). Scope 2 Indirect emissions = emissions related to electricity consumption required for the plant’s operation. 24 25 HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT BY BEING A BENCHMARK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA IMPROVE ENERGY EFFICIENCY A policy to adapt our different Our specific action plans industrial tools to climate AND REDUCE OUR CO2 EMISSIONS change Actions based on circular economy principles. Initiatives based on circular economy principles enable the Today, only our scope 1 and scope 2 impact is measured. Our recovery of energy consumed, by extracting the waste heat2 objectives and action plans are mainly established on the from our installations to heat the buildings of the Group or Governance basis of scope 1 and 2 data. neighbouring cities, as implemented in Germany a few years ago or in France recently. Global EHS policy is initiated by the Chairman and CEO and The Climate Mural is another way of educating colleagues. The Group's approach to energy efficiency targets: the CSR department, and then deployed and facilitated at This is a two-and-a-half hour workshop hosted by external 1. Eradicating all energy losses identified  F irst steps towards greener transport the level of each department. See governance of the EHS consultants, which consists of three sequences: alignment With regard to commodity suppliers, Verallia always looks function Acting for the safety and development of our of knowledge about the climate crisis and the need for acA structured method has been put in place to enable comfor local actors in order to reduce the impact of transport teams . tion; presentation of the various driving forces for Verallia prehensive identification of energy losses. This programme and thus minimise the environmental impact. For exaon these subjects; and collective reflection on concrete souses different types of tools (energy auditing, equipment In 2019, the Group decided to strengthen its actions to remple, Italy's choice of multimodal transport allows the lutions to activate these forces. The 32 site managers have efficiency, leak detection, etc.). duce its environmental footprint by giving priority to redutransfer of certain lorry flows to other transport modes, already participated in this mural. We have also organised cing CO2 emissions. The reduction target applicable from The next step is to define projects to eradicate the idensuch as shipping and rail. This helps to reduce the carbon workshops in four of our countries (Germany, France, Ita2020 has become -2% for scope 1 and 2 per year between tified losses. A project is characterised by the definition footprint of the Group, which also prioritises the use of ly and Spain), bringing together various functions of the 2019 and 2030. Accordingly, the Group has set up a special of objectives, the creation of a team, work planning and a new generation of lorries powered by liquefied natural Group (EHS, Purchasing, Marketing, Industrial, Manageorganisation, defined in line with the various project maindustrial key performance indicators. Performance is meagas (LNG), less polluting than gasoline. ment Control, etc.). These workshops have enabled us to nagers. The global approach and objectives are determined sured every month. raise awareness and examine 70 views, allowing us to align by the CEO and are forwarded to all relevant departments: knowledge and identify actions to contribute to the objec2. Improving existing industrial tools industrial, technical, R&D, EHS, procurement (in charge of tive of reducing CO2 emissions. This workshop will also be Waste heat recovery2 renewable energy purchases), and finance. This steering Throughout the service life of our furnaces (10 to 12 years, offered to Executive Committee members in the first half committee meets every three months. or even 14 years), the Group makes improvements to reduce of 2020. At the Neuburg (Germany) site, thanks to a heat exchanenergy consumption. This can be achieved through improA specific industrial excellence network in the Technical To improve the measurement of our CO2 impacts and to vements in sealing and thermal insulation, glass temperager set up in 2015, the heat from furnaces is recovered and Department is in place to ensure the deployment and imcommunicate our climate energy pledge to our large-scale ture optimisation, combustion settings, and adjustment of used for the city's heat network. plementation of projects and actions, including those with a customers and investors, as of 2020, we will use the global combustion air volume. direct impact on the reduction of energy consumption and benchmark for impact collection and assessment: The CDP Benefit for the city: 23.7 GWh in 2019 (about 7% of CO2 emissions. This network is led by a manager on each In regions with fluctuating Lower Calorific Value (LCV), the consumption of the plant) (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project1). The frequency of Group continued to deploy a real-time LCV regulation sysregion of the Group and by a coordinator at each plant. MonCO2 reporting will also be increased by 2020 through monOn the site in Wirges, Germany, a waste heat recovery unit tem, to optimise continuous combustion. Furnaces are thus thly and quarterly reviews are performed by the Director of thly versus quarterly reporting by EHS managers to the EHS was installed on both furnaces of the plant in late 2013, helless energy-intensive and more environmentally friendly. Industrial Excellence in order to attain the annual objectives. Group Manager. ping to drastically reduce gas consumption for heating the By the end of 2019, 35% of Verallia furnaces had been fitted Building on its new CO2 emission reduction objectives, the All Industrial, Technical, R&D and EHS departments strive site (86% reduction corresponding to 10 GWh of natural with this system. An identical programme will be deployed Group has stepped up its strategy through three key steps: daily to reduce the Group’s CO2 emissions. In 2019, this was gas and CO2 emissions reduced by 2000 tonnes per year). for feeders1 from 2020. 1/ Raise awareness, reflected in a significant decrease in the share of fuel oil in At the Saint-Romain-Le-Puy site (France), thanks to the the energy mix used. 3. Research and development in a less 2/ Measure, energy-intensive 4.0 industry investment in 2018 of a system to recover waste heat from All our plants operate with 84% gas, 10% fuel oil and 6% annealing arches to heat the plant and produce domes3/ Reduce. electricity on the fusion side. Five countries have completed As energy is mainly consumed during glass melting, each tic hot water, the emission of almost 500t of CO2 could be Raising awareness is the first step in the process of ensuring their full conversion with furnaces operating with 95% gas new furnace construction is an opportunity to improve the avoided in 2019 (i.e. halving the natural gas consumption of that each Verallia employee, including top management, and 5% electricity (Germany, Ukraine, Russia, Spain – excluGroup's performance in these areas. these stations = -2500 MWh). shares a common level of knowledge on environmental isding the Canary Islands – and Portugal). 2019 also marked The Group is investing to introduce artificial intelligence sues and the acceleration of climate change. This first of all the worldwide deployment of industrial solutions described into its plants Industry 4.0. Sensors progressively installed involves understanding the concept of CSR and the various below in our policy. New actions will be added to attain the throughout the production line contribute to the regulation lines of action during special meetings held in the Group. new objective of reducing CO2 emissions by at least 2% per of production in real time. This approach makes it possible to This presentation is relayed by each CSR expert worldwide tonne of packed glass from 2020. stabilise production, quality and energy consumption. to raise awareness among as many employees as possible. 1. Feeder  = distribution channel that supplies glass to the machines from the front end of the 2. The waste heat is the residual heat produced by a process and not used by it. 1. https://www.cdp.net/fr furnace. Their role is to maintain the temperature and homogenise the glass until it arrives at the machine. 26 27 HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT BY BEING A BENCHMARK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA Towards “greener” energy Sustainable access to competitive renewable energy sources supply by defining a panel of solutions (solar, wind, etc.), the OPTIMISING WATER USE AND REDUCING WASTE is an important lever to achieve our goal of reducing our CO2 implementation of which will depend on each country. emissions. Thus, reducing the carbon content of our energy Protecting water resources is one of the most important mix will complement the virtuous effect of improving the energy efficiency of our production units. That is why we Please note: the Mendoza plant in Argentina chose to reduce its scope 2 impact starting in 2019. Half of its electricity environmental issues for Verallia. Fourteen Verallia sites are A policy to reduce water use are launching a renewable energy assessment and integrais wind energy. exposed to a risk of medium to high water stress. No site is and waste tion project in 2020. The objective is to secure green energy located in an extremely high water stress zone1. Verallia's water standard provides rules for conserving this With regard to waste, our sites produce very little waste (exvital resource: 11 golden rules for all industrial sites. cluding furnace reconstructions). However, the Group strives to minimise and recycle waste based on circular economy Six golden rules specific to glass production sites. MeaKEY FIGURES principles. sures are in place to ensure compliance with sampling and discharge limits and to identify non-compliance: ISO 50001 certifications: 25%  • Sampling facilities must be equipped with meters 4 German 3 Iberian of the 2019 R&D budget invested in furnace energy (with computerised data processing) by the end of 2021. OUR KEY OBJECTIVES sites sites efficiency > 2015–2020 target • Discharged volumes are monitored weekly. • An accredited body performs an analysis of discharge -5% water consumption from industrial water and stormwater at least once in the glass plants yearly (temperature, pH, suspended solids, five-day OUR PERFORMANCE biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand and total hydrocarbons). 2017 2018 2019 > 2015–2020 target Preventive and corrective actions are taken to ensure compliance with limits, effective effluent treatment, tCO2 emitted per tonne of packed glass, scope 11 0.444 0.438 0.426 +5% waste recycled and safe storage of products (labelled containers, empty in glass plants containment tanks, fuel oil pipes in good condition, spill tCO2 emitted per tonne of packed glass, scope 22 0.098 0.085 0.084 kits in hazardous areas). tCO2 emitted per tonne of packed glass, scope 1 and 2 0.542 0.523 0.510 Our action plans Direct CO2 emissions 2,532,736 2 548,698 2,479,512 Governance Protect water resources Indirect GHG emissions (purchases of electricity, steam, hot water) 557,376 496,217 487,825 EHS officials manage water and waste governance. Executive management is the decision-maker on investment Verallia's water systems operate in semi-closed loops to issues. See simplified organisational chart of the EHS funccool the cullet and equipment, saving water resources: tion in chapter Acting for the safety and development of In most of our plants, water is recycled for many cooling our teams . uses; after treatment and cooling it can be reused. To enAnalysis of our results sure a satisfactory level of quality, external water supplies are necessary. CO2 emissions: On scope 1, we saw a 2.8% reduction between Some actions to explain the improvements: 2018 and 2019. The largest use of water is for the cooling of production • Maximum conversion of furnaces to natural gas instead of waste. If part of the production does not have the expecStarting in 2019, we will integrate scope 2 into our objectives, heavy fuel oil, while respecting atmospheric emission limits ted level of quality, the glass considered as waste is cooled and use as our energy-related CO2 emission factors those of through primary measurements before it is transported and then recycled in the furnace. the IEA: International Energy Agency. We used these same The cooling water is cleaned of oil and particle residues • Reconstruction of four furnaces (Lagnieu, Burgos, Villa IEA emission factors to calculate our scope 2 CO2 emissions and reused to cool new production waste. Poma, Rosario) for 2018. Of the total scope 1 and 2, we note a reduction of 2.5% tCO2/ tpg between 2018 and 2019. If we look at absolute value, scope 2 amounted to 496,217 tonnes of CO2 in 2018. Our last CSR report mentioned the value of 442,322 for 2018, which corresponded to the use of a different source of emission factors than that of the IEA currently used, which explains the variation. 1. Scope 1 Direct emissions = CO2 emissions within the physical boundaries of the plant = 2. S  cope 2 Indirect emissions = emissions related to electricity consumption required for the carbonated raw materials, heavy and domestic fuel, natural gas (fusion and non-fusion). plant's operation. 1. source: http://www.wri.org/applications/maps/aqueduct-atlas 28 29 HELPING TO PRESERVE THE ENVIRONMENT BY BEING A BENCHMARK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA OPTIMISING WATER USE AND REDUCING WASTE Cooling water from equipment (compressors, for example) is the second most important item of water consumption.  Reduce waste Analysis of our results These circuits operate in closed loops thanks to air cooling Several actions have been taken to minimise waste, treat it Water use : In 2019, an average of 0.63 m3 of water was Waste towers. and return it to the internal circuit; they are listed together used per tonne of packaged glass. After several years of in a catalogue of best practices. In 2019, we recycled 62% of our waste, an increase of 11% Other occasional water uses are intended for the reconstrucimprovement (-5% between 2015 and 2018), use increased compared with 2018. The Lagnieu plant particularly improtion of furnaces. Examples of best practices include the following: by 8% between 2018 and 2019. Specific issues in three ved, recycling 100% of its electrostatic precipitator dust. plants contributed to more than 60% of the degradation: Monitoring of the implementation of the actions in the wa• Organisation of storage areas Another important performance indicator: The amount • At one site, pipes dating to 1970 and cooling towers of non-recycled waste per tonne of packaged glass is 13% ter standard has begun and will continue through coaching • Identification of waste collection containers with in poor condition were a source of major leaks, relower in 2019 than in 2018. This decrease demonstrates in environmental standards (as done for safety and health). common colours solved at the end of 2019 and early 2020. To address waste reduction at source, for example, by recycling cullet Technical improvement actions are also in place: For exa• Best methods of waste management, by waste type this issue, regular inspections are conducted and new sludge, electrostatic precipitator dust and waste of various mple, for gob cutting water, the benchmark between sites cooling towers will be installed in 2020. compositions in the furnace. has reduced water use by four to five times. • Reduction at source (sorting and washing soiled rags • Another site has encountered quality problems; theand gloves, replacing hazardous with non-hazardous refore, there is no internal cullet to cool. materials) • Finally, at one of our sites, end-of-life furnaces unKEY FIGURES Example: Waste disposal, Italy (Villa Poma site) derwent hot repairs (six in one year for two furnaces) requiring large amounts of water. 4.3 kg 1 of non-recycled waste per tonne of packed glass • Some sites reduced consumption significantly in 2019 by implementing actions: Chalon-sur-Saône (France) : -19% >  Cleaning  of settling ponds and sludge removal >  Pipe  cleaning OUR PERFORMANCE >  Refurbishment  of instrumentation for make-up water on IS machines 2017 2018 2019 >  Staff  awareness building 3 Water consumption (m /tonne of packed glass) 0.569 0.583 0.630 Zorya (Ukraine): -11% thanks to more frequent checks of water volumes used. Percentage of our waste recycled 69% 51% 62% Total water extractions (m3) 3,241,798 3,389,114 3,671,417 Quantity of waste produced (tonnes) 66,864 53,010 65,385 1. Including waste from furnace reconstructions 30 31 NURTURING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA STRIVING FOR EXCELLENCE IN THE QUALITY OF OUR PRODUCTS Verallia monitors the quality of its products on a daily basis. Comprehensive, sound procedures are in place to guide Governance Four lines of action of the quality  product manufacturing and quality control. In 2019, we created a Group Quality department that reports improvement plan Despite these procedures, a critical production defect can to the Chief Industrial Officer. Quality teams for countries 1. Root Cause Analysis (RCA), more than a method of re3. Prevention and adaptation of our monitoring plans occur without detection, a situation all the more serious and our individual sites are operationally attached to the solving problems, it's a genuine change in attitude towarbecause our completed products are intended to be marGroup Quality Department. ds them. In 2019, change intensified and included: Group R&D has developed simulation tools. These tools keted and consumed on the end market. This could lead assess the mechanical and thermal specifications of bottThere is similar vertical organisation for each division worThe review and implementation of the RCA Next Step, into substantial and lasting damage to Verallia's reputation les and jars virtually, and optimise the results to achieve ldwide: The Quality Director of each division reports to the corporating “San Gen Shugi” concepts and the first steps in the eyes of the customer and even the public at home the level of quality expected by our customers. Chief Industrial Officer who communicates directly with the in preparing for the use of best practices. San Gen Shugi and abroad. Striving for excellence in the quality of our We launched a training plan for all our industrial desiGroup Quality department. is a mindset that guides an individual's behaviour when products addresses two major challenges: gners at the end of 2019. Every month, quality committees that bring into play the confronting a problem. The principle is that you cannot • The first relates to new customer requirements that understand a problem without observing it yourself based Industrial department and Executive Management of each By 2020, our goal is to adjust and improve our existing are linked to the markets in which they operate. Veon real facts and figures. monitoring plans. division are organised. They improve current standards by rallia is increasingly called on to provide certifications, building on internal quality issues and customer complaints. Guidance of staff through the implementation of a traias specifications become ever more exacting. ning module and its deployment by the regions. • The second involves strict food safety regulations 4. Compliance with food safety regulations (Regulation (EC) No. 178/2002 of the European ParEstablishment of an RCA Next Step framework to evaluate liament and of the Council of 28 January 2002). The Quality policy each committed stakeholder (from simple participant to As a food packaging manufacturer, Verallia must comply coach) and to monitor upskilling in the approach. with European food regulations. The existing monitoring ISO 22000 certifications we earned cover compliance To achieve the highest excellence in our products, we system is designed to implement all necessary safety with this Regulation. launched a quality improvement plan in 2019 with four The implementation of a global customer complaint mameasures for the certification of our plants. lines of action for the entire Group. Each site creates its local nagement process at the Group level involving the regions and the Technical department. In 2019, 25 of the Group's 32 glass plants are ISO 22000 quality policy, following the guidance in the quality improcertified (food safety). vement plan. A focal point network involving each site will be establi2.Quality control throughout the manufacturing shed in 2020 to develop consistent reference documents process on the key operating principles for regulatory requireThis requires: ments. Technical audits of all inspection machines to correct An e-learning module will be created to educate emnon-conformities immediately and establish a plan to ployees about the responsibilities of food packaging maoptimise our tools. nufacturers. The priority targeted areas are production, OUR KEY OBJECTIVES >  Constantly improve customer supply chain, sales and purchasing. Determination and implementation of inspection masatisfaction through continuous chine adjustment standards across all glass plants. improvement of the company Assessment of the skills and guidance of users of inspec> 2017-2020 target: a 50% tion machines. reduction in complaints1 Implementation of a forming parameter simulation tool for anticipating equipment settings and optimising them > 100% of sites ISO 22000 certified with respect to the risk of defect generation. (food safety) in 2021 Installation of sensors throughout the production line to control production and quality. 1. N  umber of justified complaints per 100 million containers delivered 32 33 NURTURING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA STRIVING FOR EXCELLENCE IN THE QUALITY COMPLYING WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS OF OUR PRODUCTS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES KEY FIGURES 2019 Verallia's sustainability is inconceivable without sharing values common to the entire Group. Verallia thus reaffirmed the principles that have guided all its companies and 100%  of our glass plants are ISO 9001 certified  teams since the 2000s, restating in 2017 the four cardinal values that underpin its Code of Conduct: customer care; OUR KEY OBJECTIVE > Train all new managers hired in 2020 in the Comply 32 technical audits were conducted on respect for people, laws and the environment; empower(competition law) and ABC FOR 2020 78%  of our glass plants are ISO 22000 certified (food safety) more than 800 units of monitoring equipment in all our glass plants. ment and accountability; and teamwork. This Code of Conduct is the foundation of the Group's actions in terms of business ethics, which is the common thread that unites the community of people who work at (anti-bribery and corruption and compliance with economic sanctions) compliance training programmes in their first year and for Verallia. Its objective is compliance with laws and in the Group1. regulations as well as the policies and values of the Group. The compliance culture that drives the Group is expanOUR PERFORMANCE ding through this code and is bolstered by a compliance programme that strengthens the value of respecting laws 2017 2018 2019 and their related obligations. % of ISO 22000–certified sites 68% 68% 78% In this context, Verallia's signing of the United Nations Governance Global Compact demonstrates its four values and deepens Reduction in complaints* its commitment to promoting, through its compliance The implementation of the Group's compliance programme Reference -25% -45% is based on a compliance network of about 50 correspon(number of justified complaints per 100 million containers delivered) programme, the principles of human rights and respect year for the environment, labour standards and anti-corrupdents (functional or operational managers). tion. Similarly, the Group is particularly attentive to worThe actions of the correspondents are coordinated by the *Reductions expressed compared with our 2017 reference king on the five United Nations Sustainable Development policies of Group Executive Management and driven by reGoals (SDGs) that it has chosen as focal areas. Finally, the gional and country executive management. They ensure the Group is acting in accordance with the tax rules in the dissemination of policies and the facilitation of operational Analysis of our results countries in which it operates and fulfilling its reporting teams that address compliance issues, actions for which obligations on time. The Verallia Group does not therefore they are supported and coordinated by a compliance comSo far, the results are in line with our ambitions and areas for improvement in the final plan, meeting the requirements of our have a structure for tax evasion. mittee (regional or country) on which the company they beexternal and internal customers. The continuous improvement process aims at the dual goal of building on and strengthening our knowledge and expertise, while challenging, when necessary, our achievements in the pursuit of quality excellence. long to depends. Compliance committees have been set up in the Group in France, Northern and Eastern Europe, Italy, the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America. These committees can suggest any means of improving the effectiveness of the Code of Conduct and complying with applicable laws, rules and policies in the areas covered by the Group compliance programme or any other they may identify. These committees generally bring together, at a minimum, the Chief Executive Officer of the company or region, Chief Financial Officer, Legal Director, Director of Human Relations, risk officers, audit and internal control managers for the same area, and compliance correspondents. Compliance correspondents are members of the compliance committee in their regions or the company they belong to. 1. Except India and the United States 34 35 NURTURING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA COMPLYING WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES The correspondents also rely operationally on the Audit The Group compliance committee includes members of To date, the compliance programme has been monitored by the and Internal Control Department, which checks the effecthe Executive Committee, the Legal Director, the Group compliance network organised around the following main topics: tiveness of rules and procedures and the managers who Compliance Officer, the Internal Control Director, the Risk • Prevention of corruption, are trained in compliance programmes. The Group aims Director and one or more operational staff. to train all new managers in compliance policies in their • Compliance with competition law, To strengthen the governance of the Group's compliance first year in the Group. • Compliance with rules on economic sanctions programme following admission to trading of common A Group compliance committee, whose work until the end shares comprising the share capital of Verallia SA on the and embargoes. of 2019 was merged with that on Company risks, monitors Euronext Paris regulated market, it was decided that, as the actions taken and validates the topics to support and of 2020, the compliance programme would be monitored the future action plans. It proposes additional measures by the Board of Directors of the Company established as to ensure the effectiveness of the implementation of the a result of this admission. Code of Conduct and to comply with applicable laws and policies in the areas of, among others, competition law, prevention of corruption, management of personal data, and financial embargoes and sanctions. One compliance programme: the basis of the Group's policies All Group compliance policies are disseminated throughout the regions and subsidiaries in the same manner, as follows: Policy It is defined at the Group level by Executive Management with the support of the organisation described below. The Group's policy is rooted in local and international regulations to which the Group is subject and feedback from the regions and countries. Deployment This is updating the procedures, codes or processes that support the Group's policy and initiating its deployment through compliance correspondents. Various tools are also available to implement the Group compliance programme, including a dedicated intranet entitled Compliance, where policies and tools, PRACTICAL GUIDE publication of practical guides, and a whistleblowing system are available. Compliance with Training The educational content, methods (classroom or e-learning, or both), population to be trained competition law and proposed scheduling. Monitoring The integration of new processes into internal audit programmes and the conduct of internal or external audits by specialised firms to ensure the proper implementation of Group processes and policies. September 2017 V ERA L L IA Com p l i ance w i t h com p et i t i on l aw page 1 36 37 NURTURING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA COMPLYING WITH APPLICABLE REGULATIONS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES In 2018 and 2019, classroom training was chosen for sales Prevention of corruption people working on exports and purchases. This training A first action programme was implemented in the early has been made available on the Compliance intranet so OUR PERFORMANCE 2010s. It has recently been expanded based on French law that each employee can access it. In addition, a screening on transparency, anti-corruption and influence peddling tool has been made available and can be used for auditing 2018 2019 and modernisation of economic life. new suppliers and customers. Team classroom training in the topic and use of the screening tool was organised. % of new managers hired during the year trained in our compliance programme Comply: Comply: This programme is based on risk analysis, an anti-cor(Comply and ABC) 79% 62% ruption code of conduct, a code included in the rules of procedure of companies in France, internal policies (gifts, conflicts of interest, intermediaries) and a whistleblowing Main actions in 2019: ABC: 77% ABC: 57% line. In 2020, it will be extended by a complementary classroom training programme in all the countries where the  Executive Committee classroom training Except India and the United States. Group operates on a common foundation presented to the in anti-corruption Group Executive Committee in 2019. This training will be translated into the languages of the Group. The programme used will be the common core of training deployed in 2020 in all countries of the Group for at-risk populations. Analysis of our results  Compliance with competition law Internal audit of sales agents The Univerra platform that hosts e-learning courses makes it possible to see the percentage of registered The action plan on compliance with competition law is The audit was conducted on the main companies of the employees who completed the training and the success based on basic training available in e-learning modules two European regions of the Group based on the sales rate. The Human Resources Departments choose the emthat each new manager must complete within a year of agent/intermediary policy implemented in 2016. After reployees to train in accordance with the compliance polijoining the Group. Work took place in 2019 on e-learning ceiving results of an audit, the sales agent/intermediary cy determined by the Group. The platform is open to all and employee management tools, with the aim of asking policy was reviewed and action plans were implemented Group countries1. each manager to repeat the training if they belong to an for some companies in the audited scope. at-risk population and completed the online training more Based on the 2019 results, training objectives for new than two years ago. Moreover, in 2019, following audits of managers were maintained and strengthened: Train all the proper application of competition law by an external new managers hired in the Comply (competition law) and consulting firm, specific topics were selected and gave rise  Training of sales agents in specific topics ABC (anti-bribery and corruption and compliance with in competition law to classroom training in France and Italy. A policy on partieconomic sanctions) compliance training programmes in cipation in professional associations and a best practices Classroom training in France and Italy in the relationship their first year in the Group2. It was decided to relaunch guide (revised in 2018) were developed and made available of sales agents with their distribution channels and in the a campaign for managers targeted in 2019 who have not to the sales departments. management of information concerning competitors. undergone online training. New e-learning modules, including competition law and   Compliance with rules on economic sanctions compliance with economic sanctions, will be established. and embargoes A policy on compliance with rules on economic sanctions and embargoes was established in 2016. 1. Except India and the United States because of the small size of subsidiaries in these countries. 2. Except India and the United States. 38 39 NURTURING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA HAVING RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING PRACTICES As part of the enhancement of its CSR approach, the VeGovernance Our action plans rallia Group strengthened the responsible procurement component in 2019. Verallia now has 10,000 active supThe Group's purchases and supplies are under the resIdentification of CSR risk in our panel Mobilising our suppliers around a virtuous CSR pliers, mainly in the countries where we operate (Europe, ponsibility of the Procurement Department, which of suppliers approach Latin America, Russia). Purchases account for 1.6 billion in consists of a director who coordinates the entire Group's annual spending, half of which are energy and raw mateprocurement function and a team of buyers responsible Training and dissemination of our supplier CSR risk mapping rials. These two categories add up to nearly 1,000 active Inclusion of CSR criteria in our procurement procedures relating for the strategic procurement families. tool (AFNOR tool) in our subsidiaries (France, Germany, Iberian to the conduct of our calls for tenders. suppliers. Most of these suppliers are local, except for the Peninsula, Italy, Ukraine, Russia, Poland, Brazil, Argentina and suppliers of soda ash or certain chemicals. The Group also has procurement departments within its subsidiaries. Some purchases are pooled regionally Chile). The other main spending segments are capital expendibetween the Group's various companies (e.g. Iberia, SouLaunch of CSR assessment campaigns for our suppliers with the Systematic signing of the supplier charter, including a CSR ture (1,500 suppliers), transport (700 suppliers), producth America), particularly those for energy, raw materials section, by all new approved suppliers. EcoVadis tool (160 suppliers invited, including 54 assessed since tion (2,000 suppliers), including consumables, packaging and overheads. September 2019). (1,700 suppliers) and general purchases and low-value procurement (3,500 suppliers). Inclusion of recycling and waste recovery criteria in our calls for A whistleblower channel is in place that allows Verallia tenders and procurement contracts for computer equipment (e.g., The actions put in place this year aimed at extending the One policy employees to escalate bad CSR behaviour observed when call for tenders for IT equipment for the Group). application of one of the Group's four values throughout working at our supplier sites ( The Responsible Eye ). To date, our supply chains: respect for people and the environment. Verallia has a responsible procurement policy, valid for all subsidiaries. It is based on the environmental, legal and three employees have provided feedback. social requirements of the Group. Campaign to assess our suppliers' compliance with regulatory The launch of CSR audits of suppliers will begin in 2020 based on the assessments performed (suppliers with poor EcoVadis arrangements related to conflict minerals . (Example: sourcing ratings (<30), country alert or AFNOR score (>80) will be monitoring for tin-containing surface treatment solutions to audited). ensure that our suppliers are not sourcing from conflict areas.) KEY FIGURES > S ystematic monitoring of our supplier €1.6   One internal action for the Group's purchasing OUR KEY OBJECTIVES base using the AFNOR risk mapping billion in purchases functions tool tested and deployed in 2019. Every buyer or newcomer and all employees exposed to supplier relationships are aware of CSR issues. They are > If the risk is greater than 80% More than required to sign the Supplier Relationship Charter, which in the AFNOR tool, use CSR assessments of the rating agencies EcoVadis and ACESIA for suppliers identified 10,000 active suppliers includes a CSR section. They must also complete a Purchasing for All training module, which has a CSR section, and sign the mandatory charter at the end of the module. as high risk. > In addition, systematically assess in 2020 all our suppliers of critical raw materials. 40 41 NURTURING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA CONTRIBUTING TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITIES Our action plans In 2019, two Verallia sites were selected, with The Verallia climate programme consists of two separate OUR KEY OBJECTIVES > Continue the climate programme an allocated budget of more than €100,000: schemes. partnership with PUR Projet to offset 1 % The first is for reforestation and agroforestry projects in of the Group's CO21 emissions In Seville, Spain, to preserve the natural and cultural Latin America (Peru, Honduras, Colombia and Brazil) for every year and plant more than 500,000 which Verallia has committed to an initial five-year period. heritage, the green spaces available were redesigned It will offset 1% of the Group's total CO21 emissions every to increase the plant biodiversity of the site and bettrees in the initial five-year period. ter integrate it into the local landscape. This included year and plant more than 100,000 trees per year. In addi> Continue engaging with local tion, in Brazil, we support the local partner of PUR Projet, planting olive trees, tracts of aromatics, and local plants Nordesta, which acts for the protection of water resources, and shrubs, and removing and recycling synthetic lawns communities in Latin America. to regenerate soil. The employees were provided with a biodiversity and education in Minas Gerais, near our plant > Ensure the best integration of Verallia sites in Jacutinga. The planting project, of which 16,500 trees space that was reserved for them to transform into a are funded by Verallia, is not a part of CO2 offsetting. It field of olive trees. into their local environments. consists of restoring forests adjacent to the Rio São FranIn Cognac, France, different projects have been offered © PUR Projet cisco River and raising awareness of their importance in to local teams who selected four areas of their site to maintaining the quantity and quality of water. Our Brazigreen, like the commercial office area that will have lian team will participate in the planting as early as March 2020. This project also promotes the socioeconomic dea true rest area with fruit trees, aromatic plants and Among the Group's four values, respect people, laws and the servation of ecosystems, PUR Projet is creating economic eco-designed furniture. Planting and installation are environment underscores Verallia's importance to commuvalue for local communities. This provides, for example, an velopment of local communities while preserving local ecosystems. planned for March 2020. nity development. additional source of income for farmers through agroforestry, a support programme and empowerment to the The second is a programme for integrating Verallia proVerallia reflects a long tradition of commitment to all its sites local communities concerned (skills transfer, productivity duction sites into their environments and territories. Vearound the world, which are mostly located in the heart of improvement, empowerment, climate change adaptation, rallia participates in the regeneration and preservation wine regions. Beyond their economic contribution to the loetc.). of the local ecosystem through the planting of endemic cal economy, the sites are involved in various actions that contribute to the development of communities. These acspecies and creation of corridors of biodiversity2 while tions, performed mainly by employees, take various forms: better integrating sites into the local landscape. public awareness of the properties of glass and its recycling, Governance donations to voluntary and charitable associations, solidaLocal CSR managers in each region manage the projects rity campaigns, factory visits, and campaigns to pass on the developed for local communities to best meet specific passion for glass to younger generations. needs. For example, Verallia Chile and Verallia Argentina KEY FIGURES To face the climate emergency, a major concern for the organise the collection of household glass in the absence Group, Verallia is strengthening its environmental strateof a recovery system. gy. By partnering with PUR Projet in 2019 in a climate programme, Verallia wants to take concrete actions to voluntarily offset a portion of its CO2 emissions while supporting Regarding the inclusion of production sites in their ecosystem, the CSR manager, in conjunction with country 110,000 trees planted executive management and country managers, selects the local economy. This programme is part of an insetting (or integrated carbon offset) process that aims to offset internally all the imthe Verallia sites that meet various criteria: environment, employee well-being, availability of green areas, ease of programme deployment and others. Local CSR managers 30,910 tonnes of CO2 equivalent voluntarily offset pacts on sustainable development, both to secure Verallia's and site managers complete the application files together, growth and participate in building a more sustainable worwhich are reviewed by executive management. ld. This means a commitment to reduce its environmental footprint, strengthen CSR positioning with employees and customers, and share the value created beyond its own economic sphere. Indeed, beyond the restoration and pre1. (Scope 1 et 2): scope 1 Direct emissions = CO2 emissions within the physical boundaries of the plant = carbonated raw materials, heavy and domestic fuel, natural gas (fusion and non-fusion). 2. A  ll the habitats necessary to achieve the lifecycles of a species that are functionally interrelated. 42 43 NURTURING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA CONTRIBUTING TO THE DEVELOPMENT SCOPE OF THE ISSUES COVERED BY OUR SNFP OF COMMUNITIES Given the nature of our activities, we consider that the fight against food insecurity, respect for animal welfare and the subject of responsible, fair and sustainable food, are not major CSR risks and do not justify development in this SNFP. Examples of actions taken by Verallia teams for local authorities Donation to charities LATAM recycling programme: Legal text List of mandatory items Implementation by Verallia in SNFP 2019 At Christmas, the Azuqueca plant (Spain) collected more Glass: a transparent action than one tonne of food for the Red Cross. All employees have This programme has two objectives: raising awareness of invested in achieving this result. At the same time, the plant glass recycling and support for the Notti Foundation, an NGO. Impact on climate change See the chapters Promoting the circular economy by being a donated €10,000 to the confederation Caritas Internationalis. Verallia Argentina purchases recycled glass and donates its of the Company's activity and driving force in the collection and use of cullet on pages 18 to 21, equivalent in pesos to the Notti Foundation. The foundation the use of the goods and services Developing eco-design for responsible products on pages 22 to Gift of €20,000 to local food banks in Germany is using this assistance to build a hydrotherapy center for it produces (contribution and 24, Improving energy efficiency and reducing our CO2 emissions Verallia Deutschland supports the national organisation Die the rehabilitation of children. More than half a million pesos adaptation) on pages 25 to 28 and Optimising water use and reducing Tafel by donating a total of €20,000 to food banks at its four have been given to the Notti Foundation, corresponding to waste on pages 29 to 31. industrial sites. Thanks to the commitment of volunteers 640 metric tons of glass, deposited in 35 containers located and the support of private companies and donors, Die Tafel in different places in Mendoza. Circular economy See the chapter Promoting the circular economy by being a can offer food products and basic necessities to the poor at driving force in the collection and use of cullet on pages 18 to 21. reasonable prices. Given the nature of our activities, we consider that the fight The fight against food waste against food waste is not our main CSR risks and does not justify development in this management report. Collective agreements concluded Decree in the Group and their impact on its See the chapter Attracting and developing our talent on implementing economic performance and the work pages 15 to 17. the transposition of employees. of the European Directive The Group felt that these were not among the CSR issues (No. 2017-1265) identified as priorities in 2019. Actions to promote diversity and disability are, of course, undertaken in the various Group entities and managed locally. Actions to combat Therefore, diversity is an issue during the recruitment process and discrimination special attention is paid to it when selecting the promotions made and promote diversity during the people review twice a year. A women's forum was and measures taken organised in 2019, as well as a dedicated mentoring scheme. to support people with Raising employees' awareness of disability is a desire of the disabilities. Group and is reflected in interventions throughout the year, in particular during World EHS Day on 10 October, 2019. Various initiatives have been undertaken around the world, for example in France, Verallia has supported the French wheelchair rugby team, which has been selected for the Tokyo Paralympic Games. Societal commitments to See the chapter Contributing to the development of promote sustainable development communities on pages 42 to 44. Sustainable The fight against food insecurity, Given the nature of our activities, we consider that the fight Food Law of respect for animal welfare against food insecurity, respect for animal welfare and the 30 October, 2018 and the subject of responsible, subject of responsible, fair and sustainable food, are not major fair and sustainable food CSR risks and do not justify development in this SNFP. 44 45 GLOSSARY Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA CORRIDOR OF BIODIVERSITY INTERNAL CULLET All the habitats necessary for the functionally Glass from manufacturing scrap. interrelated lifecycles of a species. ISO 22000 CULLET Standard that guarantees that food risk to consumers is Means the crushed glass added to the raw materials considered throughout the entire production process. used in the production of glass. LCV lower calorific value. ECOVA Range of bottles – Eco for eco-design and VA for Verallia SA value added. SALES TEAMS Report by one of the statutory auditors, appointed Functions identified in the sales and marketing channels. ECOVADIS as an independent third-party body, on the consolidated Platform for rating the social and environmental RCA statement of extra-financial performance contained performance of global supply chains. Root Cause Analysis in the Group's management report. EGO SCOPE 1 Year ended 31 December 2019 Range of Chilean eco-designed products, standing for Direct emissions = CO2 emissions within the physical Enhanced Geometric Objects . boundaries of the plant, meaning carbonated raw materials, heavy and domestic fuel, natural gas (fusion EHS and non-fusion). Refers to the Environment, Hygiene and Safety policy. SCOPE 2 Indirect emissions = emissions related to the EXTERNAL CULLET electricity consumption necessary for the plant's Glass collected from individuals and cafés, hotels and operation. restaurants (CHR). TF1 FEEDER Number of accidents resulting in lost workdays, by Distribution channel that feeds glass to the machines millions of worked hours. from the front end of the furnace. Its role is to maintain the temperature and homogenise the glass until it arrives at the machine. TF2 Ratio of the number of accidents with and without lost workdays per million hours worked. FEVE European Container Glass Federation. TPG Tonne of packaged glass or tonne of good glass. FUSION Means the first step in the melting of glass in production furnaces. VERALLIA DIVISIONS Fusion entails raising the temperature of solids – sand, There are three: cullet, sodium carbonate, calcium carbonate – to arrive • Southern and Western Europe, at a homogeneous vitrified mixture. • Northern and Eastern Europe, • Latin America. GLASS SAND Very small cullet (fraction 0–4 mm). VERALLIA REGIONS There are five: France, Italy, Northern Europe, Iberian GOB Peninsula, Latin America. Means a compact mass of molten glass. INSETTING Identifying business impacts (social, climate, water, biodiversity, etc.) and engaging in socio-economic and environmental projects that mitigate the impacts. 46 47 Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA Verallia SA Rapport de l’un des commissaires aux comptes, désigné organisme tiers indépendant, sur la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion du groupe Exercice clos le 31 décembre 2019 Page 3 Rapport de l’un des commissaires aux comptes, désigné organisme tiers indépendant, sur la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion du groupe Exercice clos le 31 décembre 2019 Il ne nous appartient pas en revanche de nous prononcer sur : A l’assemblée générale de la société Verallia SA le respect par l’entité des autres dispositions légales et réglementaires applicables, notamment, en matière de plan de vigilance et de lutte contre la corruption et de fiscalité ; En notre qualité de commissaire aux comptes de la société Verallia SA (ci-après « l’entité ») la conformité des produits et services aux réglementations applicables. désigné organisme tiers indépendant, accrédité par le COFRAC sous le numéro 3-1060 rév.2 (portée d’accréditation disponible sur le site www.cofrac.fr), nous vous présentons notre rapport sur la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière relative à l’exercice clos le 31 Nature et étendue des travaux décembre 2019 (ci-après la « Déclaration »), présentée dans le rapport de gestion du groupe en application des dispositions légales et réglementaires des articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 et R. Nos travaux décrits ci-après ont été effectués conformément aux dispositions des articles 225-105-1 du code de commerce. A. 225-1 et suivants du code de commerce déterminant les modalités dans lesquelles l’organisme tiers indépendant conduit sa mission et selon la doctrine professionnelle de la Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes relative à cette intervention ainsi qu’à la norme internationale ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical Responsabilité de l’entité financial information. Il appartient au Conseil d’administration d’établir une Déclaration conforme aux dispositions Nous avons mené des travaux nous permettant d’apprécier la conformité de la Déclaration aux légales et réglementaires, incluant une présentation du modèle d’affaires, une description des dispositions réglementaires et la sincérité des Informations : principaux risques extra-financiers, une présentation des politiques appliquées au regard de ces risques ainsi que les résultats de ces politiques, incluant des indicateurs clés de performance. − nous avons pris connaissance de l’activité de l’ensemble des entreprises incluses dans le périmètre de consolidation, de l’exposé des principaux risques sociaux et environnementaux La Déclaration a été établie en appliquant les procédures de l’entité, (ci-après le « Référentiel ») liés à cette activité, et de ses effets quant au respect des droits de l’homme et à la lutte contre dont les éléments significatifs sont disponibles sur demande au siège de la société. la corruption et l’évasion fiscale, ainsi que des politiques qui en découlent et de leurs résultats ; Indépendance et contrôle qualité − nous avons apprécié le caractère approprié du Référentiel au regard de sa pertinence, son exhaustivité, sa fiabilité, sa neutralité et son caractère compréhensible, en prenant en Notre indépendance est définie par les dispositions prévues à l’article L. 822-11-3 du code de considération, le cas échéant, les bonnes pratiques du secteur ; commerce et le code de déontologie de la profession. Par ailleurs, nous avons mis en place un système de contrôle qualité qui comprend des politiques et des procédures documentées visant à − nous avons vérifié que la Déclaration couvre chaque catégorie d’information prévue au III de assurer le respect des règles déontologiques, de la doctrine professionnelle et des textes légaux l’article L. 225-102-1 en matière sociale et environnementale ainsi que de respect des droits et réglementaires applicables. de l’homme et de lutte contre la corruption et l’évasion fiscale ; − nous avons vérifié que la Déclaration présente le modèle d’affaires et les principaux risques liés à l’activité de l’ensemble des entités incluses dans le périmètre de consolidation, y Responsabilité du commissaire aux comptes désigné OTI compris, lorsque cela s’avère pertinent et proportionné, les risques créés par ses relations Il nous appartient, sur la base de nos travaux, de formuler un avis motivé exprimant une d’affaires, ses produits ou ses services ainsi que les politiques, les actions et les résultats, conclusion d’assurance modérée sur : incluant des indicateurs clés de performance ; la conformité de la Déclaration aux dispositions prévues à l’article R. 225-105 du code de − nous avons vérifié, lorsqu’elles sont pertinentes au regard des principaux risques ou des commerce ; politiques présentés, que la Déclaration présente les informations prévues au II de l’article R. 225-105 ; la sincérité des informations fournies en application du 3° du I et du II de l’article R. 225-105 du code de commerce, à savoir les résultats des politiques, incluant des − nous avons apprécié le processus de sélection et de validation des principaux risques ; indicateurs clés de performance, et les actions, relatifs aux principaux risques, ci-après les − nous nous sommes enquis de l’existence de procédures de contrôle interne et de gestion des « Informations ». risques mises en place par l’entité ; − nous avons apprécié la cohérence des résultats et des indicateurs clés de performance PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex retenus au regard des principaux risques et politiques présentés ; Téléphone: +33 (0)1 56 57 58 59, Fax: +33 (0)1 56 57 58 60, www.pwc.fr − nous avons vérifié que la Déclaration couvre le périmètre consolidé, à savoir l’ensemble des Société d’expertise comptable inscrite au tableau de l’ordre de Paris Ile de France. Société de commissariat aux comptes membre de la compagnie régionale deVersailles. Société par Actions Simplifiée au capital de 2 510 460 €. Siège social : 63, rue de Villiers 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine. RCS Nanterre 672 006 483. entreprises incluses dans le périmètre de consolidation conformément à l’article L. 233-16 TVA n° FR 76 672 006 483. Siret 672 006 483 00362. Code APE 6920 Z. Bureaux : Bordeaux, Grenoble, Lille, Lyon, Marseille, Metz, Nantes, Neuilly-SurSeine, Nice, Poitiers, Rennes, Rouen, Strasbourg, Toulouse. avec les limites précisées dans la Déclaration ; 48 49 Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA Verallia SA Verallia SA Rapport de l’un des commissaires aux comptes, désigné organisme tiers indépendant, sur la Rapport de l’un des commissaires aux comptes, désigné organisme tiers indépendant, sur la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion du groupe déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion du groupe Exercice clos le 31 décembre 2019 Exercice clos le 31 décembre 2019 Page 4 Page 5 − nous avons apprécié le processus de collecte mis en place par l’entité visant à l’exhaustivité et à la sincérité des Informations ; − nous avons mis en œuvre pour les indicateurs clés de performance et les autres résultats Conclusion quantitatifs que nous avons considérés les plus importants et dont la liste est donnée en annexe : Sur la base de nos travaux, nous n'avons pas relevé d'anomalie significative de nature à remettre en cause le fait que la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière est conforme aux o des procédures analytiques consistant à vérifier la correcte consolidation des données dispositions réglementaires applicables et que les Informations, prises dans leur ensemble, sont collectées ainsi que la cohérence de leurs évolutions ; présentées, de manière sincère, conformément au Référentiel. o des tests de détail sur la base de sondages, consistant à vérifier la correcte application des définitions et procédures et à rapprocher les données des pièces justificatives. Ces travaux ont été menés auprès d’une sélection d’entités contributrices, à savoir les sites de Neuilly-sur-Seine, le 17 mars 2020 production de Azuqueca (Espagne), Bad Wurzach (Allemagne), Cognac (France), Dego (Italie), Figueira da Foz (Portugal), Lagnieu (France), Wirges (Allemagne), pour les informations environnementales et les sociétés Verallia Deutschland AG, Verallia France, Verallia Italia S.p.A., Verallia Portugal, Verallia Spain, pour les informations sociales, et L’un des Commissaires aux comptes couvrent entre 20% et 68% des données consolidées des indicateurs clés de performance PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit et résultats sélectionnés pour ces tests ; − nous avons consulté les sources documentaires et mené des entretiens pour corroborer les informations qualitatives (actions et résultats) que nous avons considérées les plus importantes et dont la liste est donnée en annexe ; − nous avons apprécié la cohérence d’ensemble de la Déclaration par rapport à notre connaissance de l’ensemble des entreprises incluses dans le périmètre de consolidation. Nous estimons que les travaux que nous avons menés en exerçant notre jugement professionnel nous permettent de formuler une conclusion d’assurance modérée ; une assurance de niveau supérieur aurait nécessité des travaux de vérification plus étendus. Itto El Hariri Émilie Bobin Associée Associée du Département Développement Durable Moyens et ressources Nos travaux ont mobilisé les compétences de 6 personnes et se sont déroulés entre mi-février et mi-mars 2020 sur une durée totale d’intervention de 5 semaines. Nous avons fait appel, pour nous assister dans la réalisation de nos travaux, à nos spécialistes en matière de développement durable et de responsabilité sociétale. Nous avons mené une dizaine d’entretiens avec les personnes responsables de la préparation de la Déclaration, représentant notamment le Secrétariat Général et les Directions des Ressources Humaines, des Achats, de la RSE, du Juridique et de la Concurrence, de la HSE, du Marketing, de la Qualité et de la Programmation, Logistique et Recyclage verre. 50 51 Statement of Extra-Financial Performance 2019 VERALLIA Verallia SA Verallia SA Rapport de l’un des commissaires aux comptes, désigné organisme tiers indépendant, sur la Rapport de l’un des commissaires aux comptes, désigné organisme tiers indépendant, sur la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion du groupe déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion du groupe Exercice clos le 31 décembre 2019 Exercice clos le 31 décembre 2019 Page 6 Page 7 Annexe : Liste des informations que nous avons considérées comme les plus de l’eau et réduire les Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : importantes déchets Consommation d’eau par tonne de verre produite Sélection d’informations qualitatives et quantitatives, associées aux politiques, actions et Prélèvements totaux d’eau résultats relatifs aux sept risques principaux identifiés et trois principaux autres engagements Part des déchets recyclés complétant la Déclaration pour l’activité du Groupe, présentées dans les sections suivantes du Quantité de déchets produits rapport de gestion Qualité de nos • Chapitre « Viser l’excellence dans la qualité de nos produits » Principaux risques produits Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : Rubriques du rapport de gestion traitant des politiques, actions et identifiés et autres résultats associés revues dans le cadre de nos travaux Pourcentage d’usines en France certifiées ISO 9001 et IS0 22 000 engagements Nombre d'audits techniques réalisés Santé et sécurité des • Chapitre « Garantir la santé et la sécurité de tous » Evolution des réclamations employés Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : • Chapitre « Respecter les réglementations applicables et lutter Ethique des affaires Pourcentage de sites de production verriers en France certifiés contre la corruption » OHSAS 18001 et ISO 14001 Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : Taux de fréquence des accidents du travail avec et sans arrêt des Part des nouveaux cadres embauchés dans l’année formés au salariés et intérimaires (TF1 et TF2) programme conformité (comply et ABC) dans leur première Attraction et • Chapitre « Attirer et développer nos talents » année de travail au sein du Groupe développement des Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : Achats Responsables • Chapitre « Avoir des pratiques d’achats responsables » collaborateurs Moyenne des heures de formation par personne (CDI et CDD) Turnover volontaire CDI (démissions) Développement des • Chapitre « Contribuer au développement des communautés » Indice d'engagement communautés Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : Intégration de • Chapitre « Promouvoir l’économie circulaire en étant moteur Nombre d’arbres plantés l’économie circulaire dans la collecte et l’utilisation du calcin » Emissions de carbone compensées volontairement dans notre chaîne de Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : valeur Taux de collecte du verre ménager dans l’Europe des 28 (2018) Taux de recyclage du verre au niveau européen (2017) Economie d’énergie et d'émissions de carbone liée à l'incorporation de calcin Tonnes de calcin externe utilisées par les sites Taux d’utilisation du calcin externe dans la production Eco-conception des • Chapitre « Développer l’éco-conception pour des produits produits responsables » Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : Nombre de bouteilles vendues des gammes Ecova et EGO Part des gammes Ecova et EGO dans les ventes Groupe Efficacité énergétique • Chapitre « Améliorer l’efficacité énergétique et réduire nos et empreinte carbone émissions de CO2 » de nos opérations Dont les résultats et indicateurs clés de performance : Emissions de tonnes de CO2 (scope 1 et scope 2) Evolution des émissions de tonnes de CO2 par tonne de verre produite (scope 1 et scope 2) Optimiser l’utilisation • Chapitre « Optimiser l’utilisation de l’eau et réduire les déchets » 52 53
