2019 Sustainability report Martela in brief MARTELA IS A NORDIC LEADER SPECIALISING in user centric working and learning environments. We offer our customers a single point of contact throughout the workplace lifecycle, from specifying needs to maintenance and optimisation of the workplace. Martela is a family company founded in 1945 and its shares are quoted on the OMX Nordic Exchange Helsinki. Our main market areas are Finland, Sweden and Norway, and our solutions are also sold globally through our network of dealers. Our production facilities are located in Finland and Poland. In 2019, the Martela Group’s revenue was EUR 106.2 million and it employed an average of 494 employees. Content Martela in brief 2 Management of Contents and scope Sustainability 13 of report 3 Key responsibility CEO’s and sustainability indicators 15 team’s interview 4 Sustainability programme 16 Martela Lifecycle® 6 Economic responsibility 17 Values 8 Social responsibility 21 Sustainability at Martela 9 Environmental Materiality assessment 10 responsibility 26 Value creation 11 GRI-index 32 Stakeholders and their Contact details 36 expectations 12 Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 3 Contents and scope of report THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT , Martela’s tenth, component logistics was studied, although it and information on its values, strategy and of the main targets. The sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the is included in the footprint of material use. governance. After that, you can find the stakepresents the progress of the sustainability GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards We explain other deviations and limitations holder analysis prepared by the Sustainability programme for 2019 – 2030 and the new procore option. The report covers all Martela’s in connection with the indicators in question Steering Group and descriptions of the core gramme for 2020 – 2030. operations. Martela’s Sustainability Steering and in the GRI standard index. risks and opportunities regarding corporate Group has reviewed and selected the perforresponsibility. The related management prinAssurance of the report mance indicators for the GRI standard index Global Compact reporting ciples and the nature of the commitments are There is no external assurance of the sustainbased on the materiality assessment. We base Martela joined the United Nations’ Globsummarised. The full texts of our principles ability indicators. We compile our economic the assessment on the expectations of Maral Compact Initiative in 2011. We also use can be found at Martela home pages. The Marresponsibility metrics from information used tela’s key stakeholders and the significance this report as Global Compact reporting to tela Annual Report presents the governance in the Board of Directors’ Report and the conof the most essential factors for business. measure the extent to which the principles and risk management principles. In the sec solidated financial statements that KPMG It was mainly the company’s internal specialof human rights, labour rights, environmental tion ‘Management of Sustainability’, you have audited. ists who carried out the assessment and the protection and anti-corruption are in place in can find the roles and duties of the Board of Sustainability Steering Group has updated it Martela. The GRI standard index includes the Directors (Board), the Group Management Publication of the report annually based on stakeholder interviews and indicators that Global Compact has approved Team (GMT) and the Sustainability Steering The annual sustainability report is published discussions. for measurement of the level and progress of Group in developing corporate responsibility. in PDF format in Finnish and English. We do The disclosed results include monitoractions. The economic, social and environmental secnot print copies of the report. The 2020 reing data for a period of at least three years. tions of this report contain information on the port will be published in spring 2021. Compared to the previous report published Reporting structure performance in said areas of operation. In the on 16 May 2019, the biggest change is the At the beginning of the report, you can find beginning of each section, there is a materialnew company values. The carbon footprint of a brief introduction of Martela as a company, ity assessment of indicators used and a list Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 4 Responsibility at the core of our offering and operations On the left Matti Rantaniemi, Ville Taipale and Anne-Maria Peitsalo Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 5 The increase in knowledge-intensive work and technological advances are fundamentally changing the way we work and study. Many tasks can be performed regardless of time and place. On the other hand, work environments must provide facilities for a diverse range of needs and circumstances. The transformation of working life is proceeding at an accelerating pace. As a result, the outlook for future needs is becoming increasingly shorter. Martela addresses its customers’ needs with its products and services, taking the impacts of their entire life cycle into consideration. Responsibility and the promotion of sustainable development are at the core of Martela’s operations. In the following section, Matti Rantaniemi, CEO, Ville Taipale, Chair of the Sustainability Steering Group, and Anne-Maria Peitsalo, Secretary, discuss Martela’s key sustainability themes. The key megatrends shaping our world today cordingly, I believe these megatrends will offer facilities as a service, meaning they do not cruiting highly competent employees. In other are globalisation, urbanisation, ecological more opportunities than threats. We promote need to invest in furniture. Acquiring a workwords, user-centric facilities enhance the cuschallenges and technological advances. How progress that aims at reducing the environplace as a service enables you to react swiftly tomer’s competitive advantage in many ways. are these reflected in Martela’s operations? mental load and increasing the wellbeing of to changes detected through monitoring. Matti: All of these trends impact our operaworking communities. What were your most important successes in tions, especially through the changing needs How is the user-centricity of premises enthe area of responsibility in 2019? of our customers. Urbanisation means that the Creating customer value is important for sured? Matti: Our customer satisfaction rose to a cost of office premises in growth centres is inMartela. How is this evident in practice? Ville: We start by reviewing the customer’s very high level: our Net Promoter Score (NPS) creasing all the time. New technologies enable Matti: Our goal is to create customer value overall situation. We familiarise ourselves with increased to 48. As a purchasing decision criteleworking while, at the same time, combatthrough customerand user-centric working the customer’s operations, strategy and goals, terion, responsibility has become equally imting climate change requires us to reduce enerand learning environments. To achieve this taking into account the needs of the organisaportant as more traditional criteria. This tells gy consumption. Martela’s idea of an efficient goal, we created the Martela Lifecycle® strattion and the individual. This enables us to deus that our customers value our responsible workplace that promotes wellbeing makes it egy a few years ago, which demonstrated pisign and implement a solution that best meets offering and operations. possible to take all these megatrends into cononeering thinking in the industry even on an the customer’s needs. Once the workplace is Ville: We have actively studied and developed sideration. Our customers gain more functional international level. The strategy takes into acin use, we measure the usage of the facilities responsibility in our industry. That’s why it premises at a lower cost and manage to shrink count the development of working and learnand develop them based on the feedback we is great to see that its importance is clearly their carbon footprint in the process. ing environments as a whole and is evident in receive. In other words, the optimisation of growing. Customers are setting increasingly Anne-Maria: The progress of globalisation is our offering as well as our operations. Every facilities is a continuous process, as ways of stricter criteria for products and services and most evident in our sourcing. Although we proMartela employee is involved in executing this working also continue to change. are willing to invest in flexible and comfortacure most of our materials and components strategy every day. Matti: User-centricity is based on precisely the ble workplaces. We believe that, in the future, from very nearby, some of the components of Anne-Maria: An important cornerstone of our review, measurement and collection of feedour customer base will place more value on the our suppliers may come from afar. It is imporstrategy is taking the impacts and costs of back that Ville mentioned. Since the transforeffects of the high quality of products on life tant for us to monitor the responsibility of the the entire life cycle of working and learning mation of the way people work is so extensive cycle costs than on the procurement cost. procedures used in our supply chains and to environments into consideration. According to and is advancing rapidly, our customers rarely Anne-Maria: We track our systematic responrequire the same of our suppliers. Continuous this model, decisions on furniture are based know in advance what kind of solution would sibility development with our responsibility improvement, the high quality of our products on studied needs, the products are durable suit them best. That is why we implement our report, which is published annually. Our 2018 and mitigation of environmental impacts are and of high quality and discarded furniture planning in close cooperation with our cusreport won the Best Value Creation award in important not only in our own design and can find a home with a new user. Responsitomers. Participatory planning is key to achievthe Responsibility Reporting Competition held production, but also in the operations of our bility is right at the core of Martela’s strategy. ing a successful outcome. by Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum contract suppliers. Ville: Our continuously developing service ofAnne-Maria: We now know that wellbeing at (Finsif). This was a pleasant surprise and a Ville: Since we have always emphasised refering is an integral part of our strategy. Our work plays an important role in efficiency, great tribute to the long-term work performed sponsibility and developed our offering accustomers can acquire their work or learning which is why wellbeing is emphasised when reby Martela. Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 6 Transformation of Optimal workplaces are created using workplaces continues the latest technology, analytics and IoT services. A modern workplace boosts productivity DIFFERENT TRENDS HAVE a strong influence on clude a group of two or three people, whereas These changes require comfortable workplacble workplaces that improve productivity and how the way we work changes. Digitalisation traditional meeting rooms are built to accomes that consider individual needs. User-centric renew the work culture and management culhas enabled us to work no matter where we modate large groups. workplaces have areas for collaboration, conture, and that are also ecological and cost-efare and at any time. Urbanisation is increasing centration, communication and chilling out. ficient. Optimal workplaces are created using the cost of office space, especially in growth Workplaces undergoing a continuous The workplace is a strong tool for managers the latest technology, analytics and IoT sercentres, and measures taken to curb climate transformation with which they can profoundly impact an orvices. Smart solutions are employed to collect change mean that we have to consume less There has been a massive change in the ganisation’s working methods, job satisfaction real-time information on the usage and funcenergy. As a result, companies want to avoid content of work and work-related roles. This and productivity. A comfortable workplace is tionality of premises, and this data is used to wasting floor space and increase the efficienchange is continuous and its pace is accelalso a factor that can help employers stand further adjust the premises to suit the organcy of their premises. erating. Working is increasingly made up of out when competing for new talents. As fuisation’s needs better. Progress has advanced from individual thinking, exchange of ideas and collaboration ture needs are impossible to predict, acquiring offices to open-plan spaces and now to acamong colleagues. Tasks requiring concentraa Workplace as a Service will become more Learning environments are changing tivity-based offices. Various open-plan and tion alternate with moments of interaction common. This will allow companies to impleThe operating culture at educational instishared spaces have become more common and it is impossible to avoid interruptions. Orment continuous changes flexibly and in a way tutes is radically changing, and teaching and and these days very few have a personal ofganisations have flat hierarchies and success that saves money. learning methods are increasingly varied. New fice. Telecommuting means that fewer workis rated by results rather than hours spent at practices and methods also require a new type stations are needed in relation to the number the office, so there is more need for self-manSmart solutions of learning environment. Its renewal should be of employees. There is less need for storage agement. Knowledge workers experience more An optimal workplace boosts efficiency in the done in a user-centric and participatory way. furniture as paperless methods of working strain on their mental wellbeing than on their company’s operations. Workplace planning is Schools and learning environments have trahave increased, which has also enabled shared physical wellbeing, both of which are an inbased on the company’s goals, the nature of ditionally been designed to last for decades. workstations. The way we use meeting rooms creasingly important factor from the perspecthe work carried out in the work community However, the current pace of change makes has also changed thanks to the increase in tive of productivity. and various work roles. By understanding the it difficult to predict when and how ways of telecommuting and video conferencing. MeetMethods of working, the roles and duties requirements of the workplace as a whole and teaching and learning will change and what ings are shorter, involve fewer people and are related to work and management methods are taking all the needs of the work community demands this will place on learning environoften spontaneous. Nowadays they usually inall changing, so workplaces must also change. into consideration, we can create comfortaments. Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 7 Service models Workplace as a Service Workplaces have traditionally been designed to last five to seven years. However, today’s rapidly changing work Specification environment makes it impossible to tell when and how your Optimisation of needed organisation, the size of its personnel and the way work is change done will change. Martela’s Workplace as a Service ensures that a company’s workplace is ­always optimal. Under this service model, the customer will switch from individual furniture orders to a comprehensive solution for the entire lifecycle of the office that focuses on the premises, the Martela furniture – and the people. An essential aspect of the service is the continuous optimisation of the workplace in accordance with the Lifecycle® changing needs of the users. The service model enables the organisation to pay only for what it genuinely needs, doing away with the problems related to owning furniture and thereby ensuring that the workplace always meets current needs and goals. Learning environment as a Service The operating culture at educational institutes is radically changing and teaching and learning methods are increasingly varied. New practices and methods call for new learning Implementation User-centred environments. Developed in 2018 through service design and planning together with customers, Martela’s Learning environment as a Service responds to this challenge. The new service model means that schools and educational institutes no longer need to own a single piece of furniture, as the whole package can be leased as a service instead. The greatest benefit of the Learning environment as a Service model is that it creates the framework for redesigning learning environments in a practical way and introduces the circular economy to schools in a concrete manner. Value for customer Durable and recycleble Improved user-experience Increase in productivity the space is renewed Space efficiency reducing furniture to meet the real and increased wellbeing and ability to innovate based on utilization climate impact user needs rate monitoring and optimization Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 8 Values Together Respect and trust for one another are at the heart of our culture. Diversity and learning from one another are our strengths. Together we will succeed and make it happen. Boldly Visionary thinking has always driven us forward. It inspires us to be curious and innovative. We are the forerunner in creating better working and learning environments. Listening Listening is the key to understanding our customers’ needs. Our solutions are built on data and customer insights. This is how we make the difference and create a world-class customer experience. Caring We are committed to sustainability in everything we do. Our solutions support ecological choices and the circular economy. Together we will createa brighter future. Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 9 Sustainability at Martela Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 10 Agenda 2030 goals Martela contributes to reaching Agenda 4 2030 goals with Martela Lifecycle®model. 12 8 We develop material efficienWe help our clients to create The learning environment supports cy and recycling business and workplaces that promote collabthat we create, support the pupils’ create new service models to oration and productivity without insight, experimentality and communalminimize the material use by sacrificing resource efficiency. ity. Read our case study how Martela customers. Read our case study Read our case study how Martela Lifecycle® -model was used to create how WaaS service is an alternaLifecycle® -model was used to crean adaptable learning environment that tive to the purchase of furniture ate solutions to support working is becoming a functional hub for the https://martela.com/reference/ https://martela.com/reference/ entire neighborhood https://martela. enfo-espoo-2019 holte-consulting com/reference/hiltulanlahti-school Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 11 Value creation RESOURCES AND CAPABILITIES MARTELA’S ACTIVITIES OUTPUT AND IT’S DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT AND SUBASSEMBLIES MARTELA LIFECYCLE® CUSTOMERS • 10 million kg (wood based 58%, metal based 27%) • Workplace specifications, layout planning, implementation, maintenance, wellbeing, cost savings, PRODUCTION FACILITIES new and re-manufactured furniture • Laminate and melamine component production in Kitee, Finland Specification of • Final assembly of new and re-manufacturing of used furniture in Nummela Optimisation needed change SUPPLIERS OF GOODS AND SERVICES • Upholstered furniture component manufacturing in Piaseczno, Poland • Purchases total EUR 77 million incl. materials, components, energy costs, fuels, waste management, PERSONNEL property rentals, rental of vehicles, services and IT • An average of 494 employees, including 258 factory employees and 235 office licenses employees • 154 External resources in manyears PERSONNEL • Investments in staff development EUR 181 000 per year • EUR 21 746 000 salaries paid including share-paid contributions PARTNER NETWORK • EUR 4 735 000 employee social security and pension • 150 suppliers, 50 re-sellers, 8 freelancer designers OWNERS Martela SOCIETY • EUR 159 000 taxes • 3 312 owners, of which 94.9% households, 4.2% companies, 0.3% foreign investors Lifecycle® FOR OWNERS AND FINANCIERS • 78.3% owns 500 shares of less, 2.8% over 5000 shares • EUR 414 000 dividends • EUR 772 000 interest expenses INCOMPATIBLE CAPITAL • Martela brand, Martela Lifecycle -strategy, 6 utility models, 1 registered design WASTE • Versatile expertise • 1.9 million kg, recovered 99.8%, less than 0.1% hazardous waste FINANCE • EUR 55 million equity and liabilities RECYCLING SERVICE FOR CUSTOMERS • 3.1 million kg, of which 96% wood, metal and energy INVESTMENTS AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT fractions • EUR 2.3 million investments, EUR 2.2 million research and product Implementation User-centred planning development NATURAL RESOURCES • Electricity 5 278 MWh • District heating 4 587 MWh • Heating by gas 197 MWh • 87% renewable energy, 12% fossil energy and nuclear power 1% Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 12 Stakeholders and their expectations OWNERS AND OTHER INTEREST CUSTOMERS SPECIFIERS EMPLOYEES DEALERS SUPPLIERS INVESTORS GROUPS QUANTITY AND • Companies and public • People responsible for • 464 employees in • About 30 dealers, mainly • About 150 suppliers, • Major owners are Martela • Media, areas DESCRIPTION purchasers. Private customers customer definitions, the end of the year: in Martela home market of which about 70% family and pension of operations, only through the Martela architects, interior 52% factory workers, • A third working under in Martela’s home insurance company industry Outlet channel. 78.3% of architects and 48% knowledge Martela brand and others market, ie Norway, Ilmarinen and funding by organisations, turnover from Finland, 10.0% workers offer Martela products Sweden, Poland and the well-known Nordic schools and from Sweden, 7.3% from • 154 manyears of as part of their other Finland banks educational Norway and 4.3% from other external resources offering institutions countries THEIR • High quality products and • Information on • Continuity of • High quality products and • Stable development • Stable development • Promotion of EXPECTATIONS services products, materials, employment services and trust • Successful risk local social • Information on products, supply environmental trends relationship • Information on products, • Clear management wellbeing by, chain and materials and brand value • Professional supply chain and materials communication of • Profitable business and among others, • Compliance with laws, principles • Possibility to realise development • Compliance with instructions and ability to pay dividends employment of corporate governance and new ideas with opportunities laws, agreements and expectations • Open communiagreements both internally and respect to Finnish • Training on new sustainable business • Clarification of cation in the supply chain design traditions skills and best principles changing market • Availability of eco labelled practices in • Reliable business expectations products, especially in Sweden, occupational safety relationship Denmark and Norway • Availability of eco labelled • Some expect especially Finnish products, especially in design Sweden, Denmark and Norway OUR • Ensuring availability of product • Material and brand • Employee • Reliability of • Investments • Close monitoring of • Co-operation ACTIONS information studies satisfaction and deliveries in long-term competitiveness and with • Ensuring compliance with Code • Design events to wellbeing studies • Exceeding the cooperation performance and open representatives of Conduct enable interaction • Training performance of • Communication, communication of other • Open communication focusing • Designers’ ideas and • Appraisal other suppliers tracking and • Development of stakeholders on materiality influence to offering discussions • Open discussion discussion of sustainability and its • Third party environmental • Open internal on operational sustainable reporting markings and labels for origins communication development procurement • Constant development of to facilitate the selection principles Sustainability indicators Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 13 Management of MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY is normal everyday work at Martela. Sustainability is an integral part of Martela’s values, operating annual sustainability objectives and gives them a longer time perspective. Operations implement the sustainability programme quirements for room efficiency, wellbeing at work and work efficiency. Sustainability in the whole value chain of production also sustainability principles and strategy. In addition, the company has defined specific management in the annual planning and monitor implementation at the management level. Since plays an important role in corporate responsibility. Martela continued to communicate principles for guiding corporate responsithe beginning of 2018, the Vice President, the principles for sustainability of the supbility work. Martela reviews annually and, if Customer Supply Management has been ply chain clarified at the beginning of 2018 necessary, revises the management princiresponsible for sustainability matters in to its supply chain. ples originally drawn up in 2011. the GMT. Annual training sessions on manageMartela Corporation’s Board, together Martela’s goal is to provide responsible ment principles are organised to increase with the CEO, leads the sustainability work. solutions for its customers’ workplaces and awareness and to engage the whole organiThe Sustainability Steering Group prepares learning environments through the Martela sation. The goal is to ensure the correct and and coordinates practical development Lifecycle® model. With the Martela Lifecysufficient level of knowledge of each emmeasures. The company’s normal organisacle® model, we can implement the changes ployee regarding the sustainability aspects tion controls the implementation of these. in the workplace required by the transforof their duties and to involve them in the The sustainability programme summarises mation of work, while also fulfilling the redevelopment of the company. Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 14 Corporate Code of Conduct MARTELA CORPORATION’S BOARD approved the Risk management vices. The principles deal with suppliers’ comof the Sustainability Team with the Martela Martela Corporate Code of Conduct for the The Annual Report and the Board of Directors’ pliance with laws, regulations and the Martela Management Team. Martela’s Sustainability first time in 2011. In February 2020, the Board Report describe risk management in more deCorporate Code of Conduct, as well as delivery Manager acts as secretary for the Sustainaapproved updated version with the new values tail, so it has not been included in this report. reliability, environmental issues and other isbility Steering Group and prepares the necesand renewed whistleblowing procedures. The sues. In addition to the general procurement sary material. The chair of the Steering Group Code states a position on good financial manHuman resources policy principles, suppliers and their supply chain is the Vice President, Customer Supply Management, responsibility in personnel issues, Martela’s People Policy, approved by the GMT, are subject to social responsibility obligations. agement. environmental responsibility, cooperation with outlines the principles on which responsible Suppliers are required to comply with national The GMT follows the progress of the sussuppliers of goods and services, customer HR management is founded. These principles labour laws and ILO conventions. The areas tainability programme and considers proposrelations, communications and stakeholder clarify and harmonise the HR management that we monitor include working time, pay, als put forward by the Sustainability Steerrelations, among other things. The Code also process and describe how to maintain and child labour, forced labour, discrimination, the ing Group, the Management Team member records Martela’s international commitments. develop a good corporate and employer image. right to organise and collective bargaining, as in charge of sustainability matters, the Vice The Martela Management Team defined the Martela’s success is dependent on skilled and well as health and safety at work. The polPresident, Customer Supply Management or set of CR policies that support the Code in motivated personnel who enjoy their work. icy describes supplier selection and control other GMT members. The GMT approves the 2011. In June 2019 the Management Team apThe company ensures the maintenance of models. We apply the Sustainability Policy principles guiding sustainability, except those proved the updated environmental policy with these personnel qualities with responsible HR for the Supply Chain to suppliers of products that require approval by the Board. highlights on climate impact and logistics. In management in both the short and long run. with the Martela label and contract suppliOf the principles guiding sustainability, November, the Management Team confirmed ers whose products are included in Martela’s the Board approves the Corporate Code of the People Policy in the form in which it was Environmental policy product programme. Conduct, the governance policy and the risk updated in 2016 and the Social Requirements The Environmental Policy, approved by the management policy. The GMT will submit othfor Suppliers approved in 2018. In February GMT, aims to decrease the company’s enviSustainability organisation er sustainability proposals to the Board as 2020 the Management Team approved upronmental impacts and promote recycling. Martela manages sustainability as part of the necessary. The Board has not nominated any dated Quality Policy with the new company Martela manages its environmental activities normal planning process and everyday work. of its members to specialize in CR issues. values. You can find the complete text of the in accordance with the ISO 14001 manageWe have set up a Sustainability Steering Corporate Code of Conduct, and the Policies ment system. We present it in more detail in Group to prepare development measures, cothat support it, on Martela’s website at www. the environmental section of this report. The ordinate these in the operations and make all martela.com/responsibility. policy gives guidance on how we apply an enthe necessary proposals to the GMT. vironmental approach to developing Martela’s The Sustainability Steering Group also acts Corporate governance principles offering, with which the company indirectly as the management review group for quality, Martela’s Annual Report, the Board of Direcaffects the environmental impact of its cusenvironmental and occupational safety mantors’ Report, stock exchange releases and tomers. These indirect effects are the best agement systems. the resolutions passed by the organisational way that Martela can fight global warming. Once a year, the Sustainability Steering meeting of Martela’s Group reviews the results of the sustainabiliBoard and by the Annual General Meeting Sustainability policy for the supply chain ty work undertaken, the plans for further work explain corporate governance principles and Martela’s Sustainability Policy for the Supply and the reporting. The Sustainability Steering issues, thus they are not treated separately in Chain, approved by the GMT, presents our core Group approves the report before we publish this report. requirements for suppliers of goods and serit. The Sustainability Steering Group consists Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 15 Key responsibility indicators 2016 2017 2018 2019 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Revenue (EUR million) 129.1 109.5 103.1 106.2 Profit before taxes (EUR million) 5.6 0.0 -2.5 -2.6 Income Taxes (EUR million) 2.3 -0.7 0.1 0.2 Return on investment, % 18.2 1.6 -4.9 -6.4 Equity to assets ratio, % 45.3 40.8 39.2 30.9 Dividends paid (EUR million) 1.0 1.5 1.3 0.4 Wages and salaries (EUR million) 23.8 21.9 21.5 21.7 Number of employees (average in man-years) 544.1 497.8 505.4 494 Purchases 2017, (EUR million) 87.8 77.7 76.1 76.8 Gross investments (EUR million) 2.9 2.1 1.7 2.3 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Average age of employees (years) 45.1 44.0 45.0 45.0 Number of employees with more than 10 years’ service, % 49.7 49.2 51.9 47.5 Employee turnover, % 26.2 17.8 14.7 17.5 Reasons for leaving (incidents) • terminated by employer 53 12 6 13 • terminated by employee 85 73 65 59 • retirement 12 8 6 12 Absences due to illness (% of work time) 3.0 2.5 2.8 3.5 Investment in training (EUR / person) 333 376 221 392 Development discussions (% of staff) 87 64 66 75 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Material use (1 000 kg) 10 423 10 928 9 215 9 726 Direct energy (GJ) 0 0 0 0 Indirect energy (GJ) • district heating 23 231 17 331 16 339 16 515 • electricity 22 291 19 019 18 820 19 001 • gas 682 702 757 708 Carbon dioxide emissions (1 000 kg) • from direct energy 0 0 0 0 • from indirect energy 1 742 1 268 477 495 • from own transport equipment 1 058 1 035 928 880 • from company cars 114 114 98 105 • from business flights 116 97 105 81 • from material use 11 826 18 314 13 214 12 393 Waste • total (1 000 kg) 1 288 1 237 1 670 1911 • hazardous waste % 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.1 • recovery, % 95.5 95.7 99.6 99.8 Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 16 Sustainability Programme 2020–2030 The Sustainability Steering Group has approved Martela’s new CR action plan for 2020–2030. The plan includes overall goals including economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability. GOAL SCHEDULE EBIT level of 8% excluding non-recurring items Long term Increase the share of the service business Customer employee wellbeing, knowledge workers Mid term • 50% of new Martela Lifecycle® customer workplace change specifications lead to implementation • Minimum 30% of employees say that wellbeing has increased and minimum 50% of employees say that working efficiency has increased according to a user experience study Martela employee wellbeing: Mid term • People Power® rating to reach AAA level in People Spirit survey • Annual survey, action plans and implementation Improvements in working and learning environments and reducing environmental impact Mid term with Martela Lifecycle® ensuring the best customer experience • To identify the real need to develop efficient environment that suppprt work, taking into account the opportunities offered by new working methods • Promoting the space efficiency with sustainable and multifunctional solutions, utilising existing and avoiding unnecessary • Continuous improvement of value chain to ensure the best customer experience optimising the use of materials and energy • Knowledge based optimisation, continuous development and maintenance of working environment, taking into account the circular economy Minimising climate impacts in logistics and in use of materials Mid term Developing occupational safety towards accident free working Mid term Demonstrating the social responsibility of the supply chain and fight against bribery and corruption Short term • Written commitment on respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery of the supply chain • Clear discount terms and decision patterns in the sales process • Training and raising awareness throughout the value chain Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 17 Economic responsibility Materiality assessment A Evaluation of stakeholders B A Customers’ cost savings through space efficiency improvements C E B Customer satisfaction C Analyses of corruption risks D D Purchases from local suppliers E Financial results Impact on Martela Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 18 and the degree and method of refinement of was 48, an increase of 14% on the previous rience is the follow-up of users’ actions. We Goals each product. Of the companies providing products and year, with 57% of the respondents being willing to recommend Martela, while 33% can achieve our desired results only by developing work and learning environments based • EBIT 8% level excluding nonservices, more than 70% are based in Martewere neutral and 11% were critical. Martela’s on monitoring the actual user experience. New recurring items la’s countries of operation (Finland, Sweden, Customer Satisfaction Score (CSAT) was 4.1 services are continuously being developed for • To identify the real need to develop Poland and Norway) and around a quarter in on a scale of 0–5. The relative number of these purposes. efficient environment that support other European countries. Martela seeks to be complaints decreased by almost a quarter work a reliable partner for its suppliers, service proin 2019, returning to the longer-term median Supply chain management viders and financiers, a fair and encouraging level. Martela fared well in the TEP 2019 surAn efficient, high-quality supply chain is one • To increase the share of the service business employer for its employees, and a profitable vey conducted by Taloustutkimus, a market of Martela’s key success factors. In its own investment for its shareholders. The distriburesearch company. Among the 12 office furoperations, Martela focuses on final assembly • Continuous improvement of value tion of financial benefits is presented in more niture suppliers included in the survey, Marand the service business. Purchases of matechain to ensure the best customer detail in the value-creation diagram on page 11 tela received the best overall score, as well rials related to products and services sold by experience optimising the use of materials and energy of the report. as scoring highest in half of the individual Martela represented around 64% of Martela’s assessment criteria. total purchases, with the share of other prodA high level of customer satisfaction ucts and services being 36%. Martela’s purMartela aims to offer the best customer exProduct offering changes with chasing function is responsible for acquiring Economic value by stakeholder group perience in its field by providing working and customers’ needs sustainably produced products, materials and Martela seeks to create economic value for learning environments that support customers’ Martela’s product and service development is components that meet customers’ needs. Its its customers, shareholders, employees, partproductive work. For this reason, the custombased on customers’ changing needs. Usabilipurchasing criteria are strict, and its suppliers ners and surrounding societies. User-centric er experience is measured regularly, developed ty, durability and aesthetic and physical qualiare selected carefully. work and learning environments designed based on feedback and managed so as to inty are the most important factors in products. A network of around 150 reliable suppliers and implemented for customers increase crease customer loyalty. Martela’s unique corpoThese requirements remain unchanged, even delivers materials and components for prodwellbeing at work and, consequently, cusrate culture and its way of working lay a strong though the trends are changing, and more funcucts in Martela’s standard range. To a signifitomers’ productivity and operational capacfoundation that its competitors cannot imitate. tionalities are being added. Martela’s offering is cant degree, the supply chain is based on partity. Of this economic value, more than 70% Martela monitors customer satisfaction updated and new products are designed in renerships with a history of several decades. is distributed to providers of products and through customer surveys carried out after sponse to customers’ needs. Martela’s portfolio The role of suppliers varies greatly. In terms services, and around a quarter is distributed deliveries, occasional extensive customer constitutes a solid basis which can be adapted of sustainability, Martela’s key suppliers proas salaries and social security contributions experience surveys and continuous monito trends with relatively minor modifications. In duce custom components based on materials to employees. Out of every 100 euros spent toring of complaints. The results of contin2019, the product portfolio was expanded with and product structures chosen by Martela’s by customers on products and services, 25 uous customer satisfaction monitoring fell the unveiling of the PodBooth phone booth and designers. This means that the cooperation euros went towards the current or future inby about 1% in 2019, to an average general new products to Pod family. A new version of begins as early as the product development come of Martela’s direct employees. A similar customer satisfaction score of 8.52 (1–10). the popular Grip collection was also launched, phase. At the other end of the supplier speccontribution to indirect work in Martela’s supNearly 700 customers responded to an exand the Bit series was expanded with new trum are companies that supply their standply chain has not been calculated, as in practensive customer experience survey carried products. In addition to physical products, an ard components and that Martela chooses tice it fluctuates depending on the service out in 2019. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) important area for influencing customer expebased on product specifications. Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 19 REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT, KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 2019 ECONOMIC VALUE BY STAKEHOLDER GROUP EUR MILLION 2017 2018 2019 150 Revenue, EUR million 106.2 109.5 106.2 Operating profit, EUR million -2 103.1 Payments to product and service providers 71.6% 71.6% 72.1% 100 Equity to assets ratio, % 30.6 Employee wages 19.4% 20.3% 20.4% Gearing, % 31.5 50 Employee social security & pension 4.4% 4.6% 4.4% Investments, EUR million 2.3 Dividends paid, EUR million 0 Dividends paid to shareholders 1.4% 1.2% 0.4% 0.3 -2.1 -2.0 0 Market value in the end of 2019, 2017 2018 2019 13.92 Other (taxes, paid interests, investments) 3.0% 2.3% 2.7% EUR million To ensure efficiency and sustainability, country as where its components, sub-assemhave been sent a sustainability survey through ket Association in 2015. Most indicators of Martela develops its supply chain in cooperblies and products are manufactured. The key which Martela has received a commitment economic sustainability are derived from the ation with the suppliers. As in previous years, suppliers related to Martela’s supply chain are from more than 170 suppliers of materials, consolidated financial statements, which are the goals for purchasing operations in 2019 required to commit to Martela’s sustainability components and products to compliance with prepared and presented in accordance with included cost savings and high delivery reliapolicy for the supply chain. Based on self-asthe requirements of the sustainability policy the International Financial Reporting Standbility. To achieve these goals, the company fosessments carried out by suppliers, the most for the supply chain. Further discussions with ards (IFRS). Martela’s auditor, KPMG, annually cused on increasing the efficiency of logistics, significant environmental aspects of corpospecific suppliers have been held especially inspects the accounts and transactions of its which will simultaneously reduce the resulting rate responsibility in Martela’s supply chain with regard to the special requirements for subsidiaries. An auditor’s report is presented environmental load. Martela developed its own are usually related to the sorting of waste, the Möbelfakta label. These measures and at Martela’s Annual General Meeting. production capacity by launching an investenergy consumption, safety at work and cooperation further strengthen the suppliers’ Through its membership of the Association ment project for centralising the manufacture employment relationships. Martela monitors commitment to compliance with Martela’s of Finnish Furniture and Joinery Industries of wood panel components in Finland. During supply chain operations and compliance with sustainability requirements. and the Service Sector Employers of Finland, 2020, it will be possible to shorten the supthe jointly agreed rules by conducting assessMartela has an influence on legislation and ply chain of storage unit and desktop compoments of its suppliers, if necessary. Through Laws and rules guide operations collective bargaining. In Sweden, Martela is a nents and further improve delivery reliability. supervision, Martela can ensure that laws, Martela’s decision-making and governance member of the Swedish Federation of Wood When selecting new suppliers, their ability operating principles and joint agreements are comply with the laws of Finland and the Limand Furniture Industry. to deliver products and produce quality is asfollowed under all circumstances. ited Liability Companies Act in particular and Martela does not condone bribery in its sessed, along with their financial background. Analysis of sustainability aspects is an imwith other regulations concerning public listbusiness operations in any market area. Its The operations of major suppliers are also portant part of continuous interaction with ed companies, as well as its Articles of Asanti-corruption and sustainable business generally assessed by finding out the counsuppliers. In Martela’s sustainability policy for sociation. In addition, Martela has a Code of principles are discussed in conjunction with try-specific responsibility risks and, if necesthe supply chain that was updated in 2018, Conduct, which includes sound financial manan annual sustainability training programme. sary, becoming familiar with supplier-specific the importance of social responsibility in the agement policies. As a listed company, Martela Martela does not support politicians or politimanufacturing conditions. Social risks are suppliers’ own supply chains is also emphacomplies with Nasdaq Helsinki’s guidelines for cal parties in any of its countries of operation assessed specific to each supplier, as the sised. The policy is communicated with each insiders and the Finnish Corporate Governand was not granted state subsidies for its supplier is not necessarily based in the same purchase order. Additionally, the key suppliers ance Code published by the Securities Marbusiness operations during 2019. Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 20 TOTAL PURCHASES MATERIAL PURCHASES BY AREAS, % 80 36% 64% 60 40 20 0 2017 2018 2019 Materials Other Finland, Europe (others) Non Europe Sweden, Poland Case: Funtional furnishing with reverse tendering IN THE SUMMER OF 2019, a new school building was completed in Kuopio, MATERIAL SPEND, % SALARIES, EMPLOYEE COSTS AND TAXES Finland as a lifecycle project. The starting point for the project was BY COUNTRIES, EUR 1 000 the efficient use of the facilities and flexibility, considering the needs of all user groups – the new school building will be a functional centre 2017 2018 2019 for the residential area. 30 000 Wood 11.9% 9.6% 9.7% One of the key elements of user-centric planning is to involve various user groups in the process at a very early stage of the project. Plastics 2.7% 2.1% 1.9% 20 000 The entire staff of the school participated in Martela’s specification Metal 30.4% 26.2% 21.4% workshop and the resulting information was created into material for reverse tendering. Upholstery 10 000 4.0% 5.6% 5.8% A pleasant environment supports learning processes and improves materials Contract learning outcomes, promotes the holistic development of individuals, 7.9% 8.7% 10.5% manufacturing and motivates all staff to achieve positive change. “Community spir0 Trading 19.4% 28.9% 29.1% 2017 2018 2019 it, the interaction of both adults and children, is an important part of our school’s operating culture”, says Harri Korteniemi, the school’s Supplies 7.8% 5.4% 5.2% principal. Finland Sweden and Norway Other 15.7% 13.5% 12.2% Poland Other Read more https://martela.com/reference/hiltulanlahti-school Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 21 Social responsibility Materiality assessment A Evaluation of stakeholders E A Improved employee wellbeing C B Health & safety at work C Equal opportunities D B D Freedom of association and collective bargaining E Product safety Impact on Martela Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 22 the Martela Lifecycle® strategy, are unique in changes taking place in the surrounding enviin personnel satisfaction between countries the world. Martela has developed from a manronment. The purpose was to produce a better and locations. Martela aims to reach the AAA Goals ufacturer of office furniture into a designer description of what kind of values the compalevel, meaning that work remains to be done. and provider of working and learning environny adheres to. Based on the survey results, the most signif• To increase wellbeing at work in ments. This change in its operations offers The value journey was launched by involvicant development needs are related to the working and learning environments new opportunities for its employees to develop ing the entire personnel from all countries of flow of information and the functionality of with Martela Lifecycle® model their knowledge and skills, and Martela works operation. Employees were asked to answer tools. In terms of their own capabilities, the • Occupational safety target is to provide everyone with equal opportunities four questions: what is important for and charemployees felt that expectations had been accident free working for professional and career development. As a acterises us, what are we known for, what do exceeded. There was positive feedback on workplace community, Martela seeks to offer we want to cherish and what do customers cooperation between departments, and the • To improve wellbeing at work at an encouraging and inspiring environment that and society expect from us. The survey was sharing of expertise was, in fact, one of the Martela: annual People Spirit survey, makes use of everyone’s knowledge, skills and a success, generating more than a thousand most positive results of the year. The work action plans and implementation ideas. This guarantees the continuous developresponses. When we began to make our choicenvironment was generally considered to be ment of the company’s operations and offering. es through a vote, we received more than ten good. Based on the clear outlines provided by Martela’s employees have broad and varied thousand votes. the results, practical measures for improving expertise and experience. Their job descripOnce the common denominators were eswellbeing at work have been planned in teams. A valued employer tions vary from experts and designers to protablished, the values were further refined at The goal of performance and development apAt the end of 2019, Martela had 464 employduction and removal service employees. The joint workshops with personnel and supervipraisals and internal events is to strengthen ees (501), of whom 385 were based in Finland, changes in its operating environment call for sors. The value candidates that were created each employee’s commitment to their work. 36 were based in Sweden and Norway and 39 the continuous development of knowledge in the workshops were then proposed to the Other development needs include the further were based in Poland. Martela hired 48 new and skills in terms of individual employees and management and the Board of Directors. Afdevelopment of work facilities to better meet employees in Finland, 11 in total in Sweden and the company. Martela aims to encourage and ter some final tweaks, we managed to come the changing needs related to ways of workNorway and four in Poland. Personnel expenssupport its employees’ continuous developup with the values which the entire personnel ing and interaction. es totalled EUR 26.7 million (26.7). In 2019, the ment. To serve this purpose, its Martela Talbelieve in. focus in HR was on developing expertise, iment programme is based on the organisation’s In 2020, we will proceed with implementConsistent safety guidelines proving wellbeing at work and strengthening strategic competencies, as well as individual ing the values in everything we do. Value amThe stress factors of work vary between difdialogue within the organisation through the employees’ strengths and interests. Individubassadors have been nominated to offer their ferent jobs at Martela. Work in production is value process. al training needs are discussed, and personal support to the entire organisation in carrying repetitive, and removal services involve movMartela has a strong employer brand, and development plans are created during personout this task. ing furniture in varied customer premises. In the availability of new employees is at a good al Talent discussions. In addition to external office work, the stress factors are often relatlevel. Martela is highly appreciated, especially training, Martela makes use of internal informaMonitoring wellbeing at work ed to the mental aspects of work and its dewithin its industry. Its employee turnover rate tion-sharing through job rotation, for example The annual People Spirit personnel survey mands. Due to the varied work environments, increased to 17.5% (14.7) in 2019. Turnover was was carried out during the spring. The resafety at work is monitored by four different clearly the highest in the under-30 age group, New values to define our operations sponse rate dropped slightly this time to occupational health and safety committees at especially in Finland. Martela set out to define its values in early 73.6%. The overall score remained unchanged Martela in Finland. A similar operating model Martela leads the way in its industry: its 2019, aiming to find the values that provide from the previous year, reaching the satisfacwill be launched at the unit in Poland this year. approach and offering, which are based on stability to its operations amid the constant tory A level. There were no major differences Occupational health and safety are extremeMartela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 23 en’s average total income representing 101% furniture, such as office chairs and electrically Martela was aiming Equality and fair rules of that of men. Among white-collar employees, adjustable desks. to find the values Corporate responsibility is promoted and monof whom slightly more than half are women, In assessing the volatile substances in itored through annual training and surveys. In women’s average total income was 88% comproducts, Martela usually relies on suppliers’ that provide stability 2019, nearly 80% of the employees participatpared with men, which is the same figure as material-specific emission tests. Various prodto its operations ed in a survey mapping out awareness of the in the previous year. Income differences were uct-specific tests are performed to meet cuskey responsibility indicators. Three-quarters of surveyed only in Finland for 2019. tomer and market expectations. In 2019, the amid the constant the respondents knew how Martela’s economIn 2019 the Martela Group’s Board of Direcinternational shared-office space company changes taking place ic benefits are distributed to the stakeholders tors comprised seven members (four men and WeWork banned the use of the phone booths and more than 85% recognised the key social three women). The Group Management Team in its offices. Due to the resulting controversy, in the surrounding responsibility indicators. The survey also meahad five members, all of whom are men. Of MarMartela decided to commission a study from environment. sured the personnel’s experience of how antela’s entire personnel, 65% are men and 35% the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health ti-extortion and anti-bribery rules affect their are women. The largest age group is 50–59, on the quality of the indoor air in the phone work. 3% felt that corporate gifts and rewards representing 36% of all employees, with the booths included in its product portfolio. The ly important, and the related guidelines and related to work can be considered bribery. The average age being 45. The oldest employee was study simulated normal use of a booth from practices must be updated frequently. The survey also aimed to measure the impact of aged 70. In 2019, 392 euros per person-year the perspective of the person working inside right attitude and an awareness of the risks supervisor training and discussions held since were invested in training for employees, i.e. it. The booth’s normal ventilation was turned are the primary means of ensuring safety at the previous survey on the personnel’s expemore money than in any of the ten years in on, and the heat load of the user was simulatwork. During 2019, the functions in Finland riences of inappropriate behaviour. 17% of the which this statistic has been measured. ed with a heat lamp. Under the Finnish Minintroduced a web-based logging system for personnel felt they had experienced inapproistry of Social Affairs and Health’s decree on safety observations, through which more than priate behaviour or witnessed such behaviour Product safety housing health (545/2015), the average short400 observations were made. The likelihood towards a colleague during 2019. The expeThe physical products offered by Martela time concentration of formaldehyde in indoor of accidents can be reduced by carefully proriences were related to behaviour belittling are mainly furniture items intended for use conditions during a 30-minute measurement cessing every observation. others in general or their gender, experiences in normal office and learning environments, may not exceed 100 g/m. Based on the tests There have been no fatal accidents at or professional skills, and to impressions of and do not involve any specific risks for their performed, the measured formaldehyde and Martela during its history. The most recent whether the dismissals carried out during the users. Product safety is ensured during prodVOC concentration, including TVOC, in Marteserious accident, i.e. an accident resulting in year were fair. The responses to the survey uct development by following the European la’s PodBooth was at a level that represented more than 30 days of sickness absence, oc were discussed in a meeting attended by the product standards for product groups and good indoor air quality. Higher concentrations curred in January 2019, when an employee occupational health and safety personnel and purposes of use. This also promotes ergowere measured in Hush phone booths than in leaving for work slipped in their yard at home. shop stewards and then communicated to the nomics and long useful lives. In connection other phone booths, but the concentrations No work-related, serious accidents have takentire personnel. with its Nummela unit, Martela has a laborawere below the official limits for households en place since 2017. Most of the accidents All Martela employees in Finland, Sweden tory for testing the durability and stability of and workplaces. that occurred in 2019 were strains, bruises, and Norway are covered by jointly negotiated furniture products and their compliance with At the end of 2018, Martela expanded the wounds or superficial injuries. Martela’s lost collective agreements. Poland does not yet dimensional requirements. There are as yet availability of its product variants with the workday injury frequency (LWIF) rate in Finhave an applicable collective agreement. In no harmonised European standards for the Nordic Ecolabel to cover the Finnish market. In land was 18.8. The number of accidents and restructuring situations, Martela follows the furniture types in Martela’s offering for the 2019, no customers selected the Nordic Ecolaabsences due to accidents nearly doubled. In notice periods based on the local legislation in basis of CE marking. bel product variants, which have a limited range 2019, Martela began building an ISO 45001 each country of operation. In 2019, the lowest Martela’s products are shipped, installed and of materials and colours. Emissions into indoor compliant occupational safety management wages paid by Martela in Finland were 14% adjusted ready for use by professional installaair are one of the key criteria for the Nordic system, aiming to certify it in autumn 2020. In higher than the minimum wage in the industry. tion personnel. The health effects of Martela’s Ecolabel, also known as the “swan label”. To addition, the company has invested in coping In Finland, where men represent a clear majorproducts are mainly related to their ergonomcontrol this, the classification requirement for at work by creating various flexibility models ity of the employees, the difference between ic use and adjustment. Instructions for use, chipboard components used in products with that serve the needs of both the employer and women’s and men’s average total income was maintenance and ergonomics are available on the Nordic Ecolabel is E0.5, which guarantees the employees. reversed from the previous year, with womMartela’s website for the adjustable pieces of lower formaldehyde emissions. Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 24 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL AT YEAR END PERSONNEL GROUPS AT YEAR END GENDER DISTRIBUTION, % GENDER DISTRIBUTION IN THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM, % 600 600 100 80 35% 65% 500 500 70 400 400 60 50 300 300 40 200 200 30 20 100 100 10 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Board of directors Group 2019 2019 On duty Unpaid leave Office employees Factory employees Men Women Men Women EXTERNAL RESOURCES PERSONNEL BY COUNTRIES YEARS IN SERVICE, % EMPLOYEE TURNOVER, % 200 40 30 42 30 25 150 25 41 20 20 100 15 15 398 10 50 10 5 5 0 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Manyears Finland Sweden and Norway 0–5 6 – 10 11 –15 16–20 Poland 21 –25 26– 30 > 30 Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 25 OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS AND TRAINING, EUR/EMPLOYEE RESULTING SICK LEAVE DAYS 400 550 500 450 300 400 350 200 300 250 200 100 150 100 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Accidents Sick leave in days 2019 PERSONNEL BY GROUPS Number of personnel 481 Finland Poland Sweden & Norway Case: Work satisfaction at year end Number of contractual Personnel, men, % 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 69 68 69 55 63 61 39 40 42 with spaces that work employment relationships at 464 year end Personnel, women, % 31 32 31 45 37 39 61 60 58 ”HOLTE CONSULTING AND HOLTE ACADEMY needed new premises which Office employees, men % 49 48 46 45 50 63 39 40 42 Number of employees on 17 support our business and adapt to possible future changes. We unpaid leave at year end Office employees, women, % 51 52 54 55 50 37 61 60 58 chose Martela as our partner to optimise the new premises”, says Office employees at year end 239 Factory employees, men % 85 86 87 58 66 61 0 0 0 Anne Tvedt, Administration Manager of Holte Consulting. Factory employees, women, % 15 14 13 42 34 38 0 0 0 Factory employees at year end 225 Martela had overall project responsibility and used parts of the Personnel, 18–29 years, % 9 9 8 14 5 12 15 12 7 Full time employees at year end 456 Lifecycle model for planning and designing the office and implePersonnel, 30–39 years, % 24 23 21 29 30 21 32 35 31 menting the change. Part time employees at year 8 Personnel, 40–49 years, % 24 24 23 33 33 36 32 28 31 end “It was very important for us that the premises reflect who we Permanent employees at Personnel, 50–59 years, % 37 37 39 22 30 21 17 30 17 are. In the design process, several workshops were conducted to 457 year end Personnel, over 60 years, % 6 7 9 2 3 10 5 5 14 engage our key people and we found the Martela team to be both Temporary employees at Personnel, average age 45 45.5 46 42 44.0 43 41 42.0 44 very creative and solution-oriented”, says Tvedt. 7 year end Personnel, eldest 65 66 64 64 65 66 61 63 70 “We are very pleased with our new premises, which is also Average personnel, manyears 462 New employees 39 30 48 4 3 4 6 7 11 shown by various results of the work satisfaction survey. In the Temporary agency workers, 154 Injuries 36 7 15 0 0 0 0 0 0 latest employee survey, our premises scored an average of 5.5 manyears Lost workday due injuries 510 45 88 0 0 0 0 0 0 (scale 1-6). We can highly recommend Martela as a workplace No longer employed 84 Training costs per manyear 270 231 398 120 111 500 329 227 392 development partner”, says Tvedt. Employee turnover, % 17.5 Development discussion, % 63 66 76 64 73 93 70 58 45 of work force Read more https://martela.com/reference/holte-consulting Resigned 59 Given notice 13 Retired 12 Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 26 Environmental responsibility Materiality assessment A Combating climate change by improving space efficiency of customers Evaluation of stakeholders A B Material efficiency with sustainable and environmentally friendly products C D C Reducing the use of materials by B replacing products with services D Extending product use life by E developing recycling services E Reducing direct environmental impacts Impact on Martela Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 27 Sustainable, environmentally friendly hensive service, Martela also offers a furniture appropriately. In 2019, the production waste products recycling service to its customer companies. generated by the entire group amounted to 1.9 Goals Over the past 75 years, Martela’s operations In 2019, the amount of used furniture received million kilos, of which 99.8% was recovered and • Workplace optimisation, continuous have been developed with environmental asfrom customers grew on the previous year, to only 0.1% was hazardous waste resulting mainly improvement and maintenance withpects in mind. Sustainability is reflected in its 3.2 million kilos. from the maintenance of equipment and buildattention to circular economy comprehensive assessment of environmental ings. Most of the increase in waste came from • Promoting space efficiency as effects throughout the value chain and in its Efficient production an increase in the amount of Kidex Oy’s chipwell as sustainable and versatile measures to reduce its environmental impact. In 2019, Martela’s production volumes of new board fractions. solutions using existing and avoiding Martela’s products and services are designed products decreased slightly compared with Delivery times for products are determined unnecessary to be environmentally friendly, from produc2018, mainly because of delays in contract based on the planned supply chains. Compo• Minimising climate impacts in the tion to distribution. negotiations concerning public procurement. nents for products with a one-week delivery logistics chain and material use By producing durable, high-quality furniture In recycling production, on the other hand, time are stored in Martela’s logistics centre, Martela is taking a stand against the modern volumes increased by about 16% on the previand components for products with two-week throwaway culture. Its products have been deous year. Quality and delivery times remained or three-week delivery times are stored in their signed for long-lasting, heavy-duty use. Product at a good level. Martela further developed its standard supply chain. Special products often Reducing the environmental impact design at Martela also aims to create products warehouse management process and utilised require design work, which is why they have of Martela’s offering that can be used for decades. Good examples software robotics. Its product development longer delivery times that depend on the prodThe main idea behind the Martela Lifecycle® of timeless design include the Kilta chairs from and production departments cooperated more uct and quantity ordered. strategy is to provide customers with efficient, 1955 and the Kari chairs from 1969, which are closely, as the number of new products deThe products’ packaging materials are optiuser-centric work facility solutions and related still in production. Classic design is timeless. signed in 2019 was higher than in the previous mised so that they guarantee product quality services. Efficient use of space in working and Recycling furniture is also key to Martela’s year. The quality of new products was ensured during transportation using as little packaging learning environments reduces rental costs and operations. Martela’s furniture has been dein Martela’s own test laboratory in Nummela as possible. The packaging is made of easily maintenance expenses, such as the cost of heatsigned to be refurbished and restored, and its before they were introduced to the market. recyclable or reusable materials that are as ing and electricity. Maintenance services help materials can be recycled or used to produce Martela manufactures products based on light as possible. Products are mainly packed customers extend the useful lives of facilities energy. When designing new facility solutions customers’ orders, and some materials are puron wooden pallets during transportation and and furniture while also ensuring their optimal for customers, their old furniture can either chased according to customers’ own selection. protected with wooden boards, cardboard or use continuously. Martela’s most significant enbe included in the new design or recycled reFor example, customers can always choose the plastic. The packaging is subsequently recycled vironmental performance lies in helping its cussponsibly through Martela. Used furniture in upholstery materials used in seats and space or used to produce energy after reuse. tomers use their facilities more efficiently and good condition is cleaned and refurbished at dividers from Martela’s comprehensive standreduce their climate effects through the Martela the Nummela remanufacturing facility and then ard fabric selection or its extensive range of Management systems of operations Lifecycle® model. However, as Martela does not made available to corporate and private cusspecial-order fabrics. Most of the upholstery Martela’s head office, Martela House, is in Pitähave measurement data on the development of tomers through the Martela Outlet online sermaterials used in 2019 had an EU Ecolabel, jänmäki in Helsinki. The Nummela logistics its customers’ efficient use of space or reduced vice and shops. In 2019, around 20,000 pieces an Oeko-Tex label or both. In its use of matecentre focuses on the final assembly of new energy consumption, the company focuses on of used furniture, from tiny Trailer side table to rials, Martela aims for minimal waste, and any products and the remanufacture of used prodthe environmental effects of its own operations indoor phone booth, found new homes through surplus materials are use in remanufacturing ucts. Upholstery components are assembled at in its reporting on environmental responsibility. the Martela Outlet chain. As part of its compreprocess. All waste from production is recycled Martela’s own plant in Poland, and tabletop and Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 28 storage unit components are manufactured in and the production in Piaseczno, Poland. In the als used are recyclable. Nearly all production Materials are responsible for the Kitee, Finland. Martela has several sales offices development of operations, Martela has particuwaste and packaging materials can be either majority of climate impacts in Finland, Sweden and Norway. Martela’s prodlarly focused on improving occupational safety recycled or used to produce energy. Martela’s own production generates practicalucts are also sold through a strong network of during last year with the aim of achieving ISO In 2019, the amount of material used for ly no emissions into the air, and no hazardous dealers. Martela’s Groupwide operations have 45001 certification in 2020. production rose by 5% on the previous year, substances are used. Even as missions of volcontinuously had a third-party auditor’s certifireaching around 9.7 million kilograms. Purchase atile organic compounds (VOCs) at Kidex Oy’s cate for their environmental and quality systems Sustainable and recyclable materials item data reveals that nearly 60% of the maplant more than tripled due to the deployment since the 1990s. The Group’s structure and opThe materials Martela procures for its prodterials used were wood-based and nearly 30% of its surface finishing line, VOC emissions toerating models have evolved over the years, and ucts are wood-based board and components, were metal-based. Comprehensive material or talled only 265 kilos last year. the Group companies’ quality and environmental metal and plastic components and upholstery weight information is not recorded in the sysMartela’s most significant climate impact management systems have been integrated into materials. The company favours sustainable tem for customer-specific products and traded arises from the use of materials related to a consistent, comprehensive operating model. and recyclable materials that have been proproducts. As the recycled material content of products and services offered to customers. Since 2017, Martela has had a third-party enviduced responsibly. Materials and components metals is estimated to be at around 33% on Martela’s greenhouse gas emissions totalled ronmental and quality management system with are purchased from a well-established chain average, the recycled materials used by Martela nearly 14 million kilos in 2019, representing a multi-site certifications in accordance with the of reliable suppliers located as close to the can be calculated to be around 9% of the total decrease of about 6% from the previous year. ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards, ensuring production facilities as possible. This ensures material usage. In addition, the acoustic panel The decrease came from lower climate impacts that consistent operating models are used at quick purchasing with a predictable quality, in the Face screen contains recycled matericaused by the use of materials, business flights all levels of operations within the Group. The the shortest possible delivery times and the als, as the panel is made from recycled PET and distribution of goods. certification covers the Group functions manlowest possible environmental load. Wood bottles. Customers can also choose from an Of these emissions, 89% were related to the aged at the headquarters, the operations in the materials are sourced from sustainably grown expanding range of upholstery materials made use of materials (scope 3), 4% arose from the logistics centre in Nummela, at Kidex Oy in Kitee commercial forests, and most of the materifrom recycled fibres. indirect use of energy (scope 2) and 6% were Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 29 Over the past 75 years, Martela’s operations have been developed with environmental aspects in mind. Sustainability is reflected in its comprehensive assessment of environmental effects throughout the value chain and in its measures to reduce its environmental impact. related to the delivery of finished products to plant area is leased to another operator. EnScope 1 emissions partly disappeared but the results are not fully comparable. All the customers (scope 1). Carbon dioxide emissions ergy measurements per user have not been Six years ago, Martela produced about 14,500 emissions from the distribution of goods have from the use of materials have been calculated technically arranged. The electricity for MarGJ of direct energy to heat its properties with all been included in scope 1. using the coefficients for material use provided tela’s head office is purchased by the lessor. emission of more than 1,100 tons of carbon by the Footprinter software. The coefficients The Nummela and Kitee sites purchase their dioxide. The premises have been heated for Monitoring commuting and business for the climate impacts of the use of materials electricity, which is generated solely from reseveral years entirely with purchased energy, travel include the carbon emissions of material and newable sources, from a single supplier. The resulting disappearance of this part of scope Martela also seeks to reduce its environmental component logistics on a general level for each unit in Poland purchases its electricity from a 1 emissions. impacts by promoting teleworking and videotype of material. local supplier. The premises in Nummela and The environmental effects of Martela’s disconferencing opportunities, which decrease the Detailed environmental impacts of the maKitee mainly use district heating generated tribution operations have been monitored acneed for business travel, and by encouraging terial and component logistics have not been from renewable sources of energy. In Poland, tively since the 1990s, and the company has employees to commute using public transporstudied previously. In 2019, Martela launched a the production facilities are heated with gas. aimed to mitigate these effects through optitation. Emissions from company cars are also large-scale project for developing its own logisGreenhouse gas emissions from energy use mised fleet and distribution plans as well as by monitored closely. The number of leased comtics, aiming to boost its efficiency by increasin Finland have been calculated using actual designing packaging and planning loading operpany cars used in Finland decreased during ing load factors for transports. With higher coefficients provided by the main supplier of ations carefully. In addition to its own transpor2019, but their average carbon dioxide emisload factors, the number of kilometres driven, electricity. The coefficients for district heattation fleet, Martela uses leased vehicles and sions increased to 125 g/km. This change was and thus climate impacts, can be reduced. As ing have been provided by district heating the services of partners. In 2018, the indicator mostly due to the new WLTP emission values a starting point for measurement, 62% of the suppliers in Helsinki, Kitee and Nummela, and for emissions from transportation was calcuapplied to cars that entered into service after value of logistics procurement comes from supthe coefficients for gas are based on the fuel lated using three different methods. The highSeptember 2018, which are higher than the pliers who calculate the CO2 emissions of their classification published by Statistics Finland. est result for greenhouse gas emissions was previously used values. Accordingly, the maxishipments, and the calculated amount was Average coefficients published by Motiva have reached using the measured fuel consumption mum emission limit in Martela’s company car 402 tonnes in 2019. More than 80% of these been used in other respects. and coefficients from the EMEP/EEA air pollutguidelines was increased to 170 g/km following emissions are compensated for by the logistics The total amount of indirect energy used ant emission inventory guidebook (2013), while the adoption of WLTP values. Only one compartner through its own internal emissions refor heating, lighting and ventilation in Martela’s the lowest result was achieved with a measurepany car produces emissions that exceed the ductions or compensation. premises was slightly over 36,000 GJ in 2019. ment method that accounts for the emissions guidelines. Total carbon dioxide emissions from Of the total amount of energy used, 87% was categories of the company’s own fleet with Liall leased company cars used by Martela’s emScope 2 emissions diminished from renewable energy sources, 12% was from pasto coefficients and estimated mileages. ployees were calculated at around 105 tonnes The amount of indirect greenhouse gas emisfossil sources and 1% was nuclear power. The In 2019, Martela increased the accuracy with in total. sions under Martela’s scope 2 has decreased renewable energy comes from district heating which it monitors the mileage per vehicle in its Around 80% of the business trips made by by 80% in six years as indirect energy congeneration and the nuclear energy is calculatown fleet, but with many of its partners, it still Martela’s employees are booked via a centralsumption has fallen by 10%. The largest reed from the average figures for electric power had to resort to estimates of kilometres drivised reservation system. The CO2 emissions duction in greenhouse gas emissions has used. The consumption of electric energy and en. When the partially measured and partially of work-related flights booked through the been achieved by purchasing emission-free district heating increased by 1%. The use of estimated mileages were multiplied with Lipasreservation system in 2019 decreased by alelectricity. heating energy produced from gas decreased to coefficients, the carbon dioxide emissions most a quarter to 81 tonnes. SOx emissions In the case of Martela’s head office and by 6% due to the warm winter season. Regional of the distribution logistics in all of Finland from business flights were 15 kilos and NOx the Nummela unit, energy consumption is environmental working groups monitor the imamounted to 880 tonnes, while NOx emissions emissions 230 kilos. an estimated figure, as a large part of the plementation of measures related to reducing totalled 4 tonnes and SOx emissions were 3 head office building is used by other compaenergy consumption, as well as other measures kilos. Compared to the figures six years ago, the nies and the office building in the Nummela related to environmental protection. carbon dioxide emissions are about 10% lower, Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 30 PURCHASED MATERIALS, 1 000 KG USE OF INDIRECT ENERGY, GJ CO 2 EMISSION DIVISION 2018, 1 000 KG 50 000 2017 2018 2019 0.8% 3.5% 0.6% 6.3% 40 000 88.8% Wood 4 906 5 485 5 673 30 000 Metals 4 038 2 649 2 583 Plastic components and paddings 5 886 305 381 20 000 Glass components 5 125 176 10 000 Other 1 394 652 913 0 2017 2018 2019 Finland Sweden Poland Material use Customer deliveries Purchased energy Company cars Business flights SOURCES OF INDIRECT ENERGY, % CO 2 EMISSIONS OF MATERIALS, 1 000 KG CO 2 EMISSIONS OF CUSTOMER EMISSIONS TO THE AIR, 1 000 KG DELIVERIES, 1 000 KG 1% 18 000 1 250 6,00 12% 15 000 5,00 1 000 12 000 4,00 750 9 000 3,00 87% 500 6 000 2,00 250 3 000 1,00 0 0 0,00 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Renewable Fossil Nuclear power Wood Metals Plastics Glass CO2 ekv VOC NOx SOx Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 31 PRODUCTION WASTE, 1 000 KG RECOVERED WASTE, FINLAND, % 1 800 1% 1% 1% 1 600 0% 4% 1 400 6% 1 200 1 000 7% 800 600 80% 400 200 0 2017 2018 2019 Case: Continuously evolving Recovered, Finland Recovered, Poland Wood Cardboard Energy workplace as a service Landfill, Finland Landfill, Poland Metal Bio Plastic Hazardous, Finland Hazardous, Poland Paper Glass MARTELA’S WORKPLACE SURVEY showed that the utilisation rate was low in Enfo’s office in Espoo, when the lease agreement on was ending. The decision was made to reduce the amount of space and cut unnecessary costs. Another target was to create a responsibly implemented workplace RECOVERED WASTE, POLAND, % SERVICE RECYCLING DISTRIBUTION IN FINLAND, % that would support various types of work and situations. Early in the project it became clear that the development would also 0% 0% 5% allow changes to be made in Enfo’s work culture. The results of the workplace survey showed that the greatest need for development was in sup9% porting peaceful workspaces and the information flow and interaction between teams. Zones for different ways of working were planned for the 33% user-centric activity-based office and, in particular, more suitable spaces 48% for making telephone calls and holding Skype meetings. Existing re-upholstered furniture was used in the implementation and unnecessary furniture was recycled for new users. The employees have enthusiastically embraced the new premises. The Workplace as a Service model allows improvements and updates to be made flexibly as needs change” says Miisa Helenius, who was in charge of 67% 38% the transformation. The NPS survey that was carried on the employees at the Espoo office after the project produced the best results of the year. Read more https://martela.com/reference/enfo-espoo-2019 Energy and insulation Paper and cardboard Wood Energy Plastic Other Metal Other Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 32 GRI-standard content index CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Martela in brief p. 2 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Martela in brief p. 2 102-3 Location of headquarters Martela in brief p. 2 102-4 Location of operations Martela in brief p. 2 102-5 Ownership and legal form Martela in brief p. 2 102-6 Markets served Martela in brief p. 2 102-7 Scale of the organization Martela in brief p. 2 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social responsibility p. 21-25 x 102-9 Supply chain Economic responsibility p. 17-20 102-10 No major changes in organisation or supply chain Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain during 2019 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Annual report 2019 p. 10–15 102-12 External initiatives Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-13 Membership of associations Economic responsibility p. 19 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s and sustainability team’s interview p. 5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities CEO’s and sustainability team’s interview p. 5 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Values p. 8 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Corporate Code of Conduct Governance 102-18 Governance structure Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-19 Delegating authority Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Management of Sustainability p. 13 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Stakeholders and their expectations p. 12, Management of Sustainability p. 13 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Annual report 2019 p. 66 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Annual report 2019 p. 66 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-25 Conflicts of interest Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 33 CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Management of Sustainability p. 14 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Management of Sustainability p. 14 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns No critical concerns were detected or received during 2019 102-35 Remuneration policies Annual report 2019 p. 42 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Annual report 2019 p. 61–64 102-37 Shareholders whose voting rights exceed 50% of the voting rights have Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration possibility to affect the remuneration of the Board of Directors 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio (of highest local to median) Decreased to 5.93 (2018: 5.29) 102-39 0: the CEO’s remuneration remained the same and the average annual earnings Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio decreased by approx. 10% Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders and their expectations p. 12 x 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 91%, personnel in the Nordic countries 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders and their expectations p. 12 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual report 2019 p. 19–24 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-47 List of material topics Contents and scope of report p. 3, GRI-standard content index p. 32–35 102-48 Restatements of information Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-49 Changes in reporting Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-50 Reporting period Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-51 Date of most recent report Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-52 Reporting cycle Contents and scope of report p. 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact details p. 37 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI-index p. 32–35 102-55 GRI content index GRI-index p. 32–36 102-56 External assurance Contents and scope of report p. 3 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Economic, social and environmental responsibility p. 17–21 103-2 The management approach and its components Management of Sustainability p. 13–14 Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 34 CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT 200 – ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic responsibility p. 17–22 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Annual report 2019 p. 37 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic responsibility p. 19 Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Social responsibility p. 23 x 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 100% Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Economic responsibility p. 17–22 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Management of Sustainability p. 14, Economic responsibility p. 19 x There have been no detected cases of corruption in Martela’s 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken operations during 2019 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental responsibility p. 28 x 301-2 Recycled input materials used Environmental responsibility p. 28 x 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials Environmental responsibility p. 27–31 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental responsibility p. 29 x 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental responsibility p. 29 302-3 Energy intensity The energy purchased (district heating, electricity, gas) by Martela in relation to net sales was 341 GJ / million € Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Martela does not have activities in nature reserves or in areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas biodiversity value Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental responsibility p. 27–31 x 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental responsibility p. 27–31 x 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Environmental responsibility p. 27–31 x Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Martela has no discharge to waterways 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental responsibility p. 27–31 x Martela 2019 • Sustainability at Martela • Economic responsibility • Social responsibility • Environmental responsibility • GRI 35 CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION AND COMMENTS GLOBAL COMPACT 400 – SOCIAL IMPACTS GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social responsibility p. 22–25 x GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Martela follows the notice periods defined by its operating countries x GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2019 there were occupational safety committees in Finland and Norway, x 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system covering 85% of the Group’s total personnel 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Social responsibility p. 22–25 x GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Training is not followed in hours, but as training costs. In 2019, the average cost Average hours of training per year per employee was EUR 392 per manyear 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social responsibility p. 21 404-3 The development discussion model covers all employees. Metrics: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Social responsibility p. 25 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Social responsibility p. 23 x 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Social responsibility p. 23 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken In 2019 there were no detected incidents of discrimination in Martela GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Economic responsibility p. 18–20 GRI 415: Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Economic responsibility p. 29 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories Social responsibility p. 23 416-2 There were no detected incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services safety impacts of Martela products and services GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Social responsibility p. 23 x Contact details Sustainability Steering Group chairman VP, Customer Supply Management, Ville Taipale Sustainability Steering Group secretary Sustainability Manager, Anne-Maria Peitsalo tel. +358 (0)50 55 72 611, ville.taipale@martela.com tel. +358 (0)40 720 1491, anne-maria.peitsalo@martela.com Contact Finland Sweden Martela Oyj Martela AB Takkatie 1 Storgatan 49A P.O.Box 44 57132 Nässjö FI-00371 Helsinki tel. +46 380 37 19 00 tel. +358 (0)10 345 50 www.martela.se www.martela.fi Norway Kidex Oy Savikontie 25 Martela AS FI-82500 Kitee Drammensveien 130 puh. +358 (0)10 345 7211 N-0277 Oslo tel. +47 23 28 38 50 www.martela.no Muuttopalvelu Grundell Oy (Martela’s Removals service) Poland Tikkurilantie 146 FI-01530 Vantaa Martela Sp. z o.o. tel. +358 (0)10 480 4200 ul Geodetów 156 www.martela.fi/muuttopalvelu 05-500 Józefosław www.martela.com
