2019 ANN UAL REPORT ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF COUNTRY We acknowledge the Traditional Owners of the country on which Intrepid’s Melbourne office is located, the Wurundjeri and Boon Wurrung people of the Kulin Nation, and recognise their continuing connection to the land, waters and culture. We pay our respects to their Elders past, present and emerging. 1 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 2 CONTENTS Luxor, Egypt INTRODUCTION OUR PERFORMANCE 41 Welcome 5 Financial 43 Who We Are 7 Environment 49 Vision, Purpose and Values 9 Social and Relationships 55 2019 at a Glance 11 Customer 63 From our Chairman and Co-Founder 13 People 67 From our CEO 15 Brand and Know-How 71 OUR BUSINESS 17 OUR GOVERNANCE 75 The Journey So Far 19 The Board 77 Sustainable Development Goals 23 Risk Management 79 How We Create Value 25 Our Material Risks 81 Who is Intrepid Group 29 Policies and Guidelines 85 Corporate Governance 87 OUR STRATEGY 33 2020 Strategy 35 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 2025 Strategy 37 Directors’ Declaration 92 Market Trends 39 Auditor’s Report 93 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION 95 2019 Annual Report 97 Results and Goals 99 Management Structure 102 Financial Statements 103 Directors’ Declaration 105 Auditor’s Report 107 APPENDIX 109 MATERIALITY IN THIS REPORT This report focuses on the matters that • Financial performance are deemed the most valuable and • Customer satisfaction relevant for the stakeholders of Intrepid. • Employee engagement The following outlines the material items that are included within this report: • Employee wellbeing • Our relationship with the communities • Our external environment in which we operate • Responsible business practices • Corporate governance • Actions on climate change • Impacts of Covid-19 INTRODUCTION WELCOME OUR 2019 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT Our 2019 Integrated Annual Report aims to provide a balanced insight into our vision, our journey to date, our performance in 2019, and the outlook for our global business in 2020 and beyond. This report includes The Intrepid Foundation, a stand-alone not-for-profit, which Intrepid supports. OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING This report draws on the International Integrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) International <IR> This report has been produced with a wide Framework to explain the Group’s performance variety of stakeholders in mind, including our during the year ended 31 December 2019. Our partners and staff, and presents a holistic view value creation resources are: of our business. FINANCIAL We’ve been a signatory to the United Nations ENVIRONMENT Global Compact (UNGC) since 2008. As the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS the UNGC is both a practical framework for action PEOPLE and a platform for demonstrating corporate CUSTOMER commitment and leadership. BRAND AND KNOW-HOW Our integrated annual report combines An independent audit of Intrepid’s annual our financial results with Intrepid’s tenth financial statements was performed by PwC Communication on Progress Report for the and a summary of these financial statements UNGC. We produce this each year to show the is included within this report. The rest of this progress we’ve made in each of the sustainability integrated annual report has not been subjected areas we’ve committed to tackling as a business. to independent audit or review. Information By combining our sustainability reporting with reported has been derived from Intrepid’s own our financial results, this report shows how we internal records and from information available create both short-term and long-term value in the public domain. THIS REPORT FOCUSES ON SIX VALUE CREATION RESOURCES OF: for all our stakeholders, including, employees, The Intrepid Group Board acknowledges its customers, supply chain partners, travel industry responsibilities to ensure the integrity of this FINANCIAL PEOPLE partners, shareholders and regulators and report, which we believe is prepared in reference We maintain a healthy balance We invest in our people, culture and government bodies. to the IIRC IR Framework. sheet to enable growth and training so that our team are safe, happy Importantly, it builds on our accountability and expansion of the business. and able to deliver against business goals. Intrepid Group is an independently-owned transparency as a business; sharing the business Australian company and all figures are reported ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMER strategies that worked, and those that didn’t. As in Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. We commit to being carbon neutral We invest in innovative products and a privately-owned company, this report is also a and to the sensitive design of trips leader training to deliver exceptional useful marketing tool that we use to introduce For an explanation of financial and travel to minimise our footprint on the experiences to our customers. our business to potential new stakeholders, industry terms, please refer to the Appendix. environment. including partners and governments. Amman, Jordan SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS BRAND AND KNOW-HOW We commit to giving back to the We invest in our brands and operations to communities we travel to by employing ensure that we deliver the right product locally, buying locally and investing in to the right market at the right time. community projects. 5 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 6 INTRODUCTION WHO WE ARE e w a n t t o WTHE BEST TRAVELb e COMPANY FOR THE WORLD Independently owned by the founders and staff of Intrepid Travel, Intrepid Group is a collection of three tour operator brands and 25 destination management companies united by the vision of Changing the Way People See the World. Intrepid offers more than 2,800 trips and 130 countries and on all seven continents through Intrepid Travel, Peregrine Adventures and Urban Adventures. Globally renowned as a leader in responsible travel, in 2018 Intrepid become the world’s largest travel business that was B Corporation certified and joined a growing community of businesses looking beyond the bottom line. Intrepid is a carbon-neutral business and is committed to a published seven-point climate emergency action plan. Our not-for-profit, The Intrepid Foundation, has raised more than $10m for more than 130 communities around the world. Kathmandu, Nepal 7 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 8 INTRODUCTION VISION, PURPOSE AND VALUES OUR VISION IS TO O U R S H A R E D V A L U E S D R I V E U S E V E R Y D AY GROWTH PASSION Stakeholders in our We are inspired by the work own success we do and the trips we offer RESPONSIBILITY FUN Think global, It’s ingrained into who act local we are and what we do INNOVATION INTEGRITY OUR PURPOSE IS TO Thriving on new ideas Doing the right thing and embracing change Book. Operate. Manage. Build. Share. Lead. Create. Live. See. TO DELIVER THE BEST TRAVEL EXPERIENCE EVER High Atlas Mountains, Morocco 9 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 10 INTRODUCTION 2019 AT A GLANCE SNAPSHOT OF 2019 $491m 18% $28m FINANCIAL Total transactional CAGR since 2016 EBITDA value 460,000+ 74 81 CUSTOMER Customers travelled Intrepid Urban Adventures with Intrepid Group NPS NPS THE INTREPID $1.6m $600,000+ 100% FOUNDATION Total disbursed Raised for an innovative Of administrative in 2019 marine carbon costs covered by drawdown project Intrepid Group 77% 79 2,400 PEOPLE Global employee Different Staff and leaders engagement score nationalities globally BRAND & 7 67% 23% KNOW-HOW Continents Increase in Peak Increase in visited DMC sales tailormade sales 4.3 TCO2E-/FTE 99.2% 44 ENVIRONMENT Greenhouse gas Post-consumer Offices' emissions emissions intensity recycled and FSC® assessed certified paper used Mexico City, Mexico SOCIAL AND 1st 2nd 58% RELATIONSHIPS Reconciliation Year as a B Corp Increase in Action Plan volunteering hours 11 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 12 INTRODUCTION FROM OUR CHAIRMAN AND CO-FOUNDER A BALANCING ACT When Manch and I co-founded Intrepid more than three decades ago, we never imagined it would grow to nearly half a million customers and thousands of staff and leaders, located all over the world. Intrepid has been on an incredible journey over For the most part, our 2019 Integrated Annual the years – from our early days as a small startReport focuses on last year, as we continued up to becoming a truly global business, which to expand into new products, markets and actually still operates a lot like a start-up. destinations. It reports on our ongoing commitment to being a business that is a force We’ve been committed to transparency since the for good, a certified B Corp that is leading the beginning, not only because it’s the right thing industry on climate action. to do by our stakeholders, but also because it makes us a better business. This is the third year The report also touches on what will happen in that we’re demonstrating that commitment to 2020. Despite Intrepid’s financial strength, which transparency by publishing an integrated annual is outlined in this report, we will not be immune report, which is signed off by Intrepid’s Board. to the economic impacts of a global pandemic. Right now, that commitment to communicating As I write this, it’s impossible to predict how long transparently with our staff, our customers, our or how deep the impacts of Covid-19 will be felt. communities and our industry partners is helping But what I do know is that the world will always us through the toughest situation our business need Intrepid people. has faced. We need to trust that we’re all doing I write this with the firm belief that Intrepid will get our best in difficult circumstances. through these tough times, with the support of our Over the past 31 years Intrepid has seen a lot community of customers, staff, industry partners, of change in the industry, but the impacts of and suppliers. We will emerge stronger, more Covid-19 are unlike anything we’ve seen before. innovative and even more committed to ensuring that our style of travel benefits our travellers and In these moments, it’s important to remember the people that they visit along the way. who we are, what our values are, and why we do what we do. Manch and I started Intrepid because Thank you for your continued support. we wanted people to be able to discover the world in a new way. We wanted to Change the Way People See the World. We still do. And we always will. It has never been clearer that to be a responsible travel company is a great balancing act. In 2019, the balance was in our favour – we DARRELL WADE achieved record financial results, record CHAIRMAN & CO-FOUNDER customer feedback, and record donations to our communities through The Intrepid Foundation. 13 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 14 INTRODUCTION CEO REPORT A YEAR OF RECORD RESULTS It feels almost surreal to look back on 2019, which was a year of huge growth for Intrepid, with plenty of highlights along the way. In comparison, 2020 is shaping up to be the most challenging year the travel industry has ever faced. A different time calls for a different approach, As an Australian business, we recognise that and our solid foundation and purpose-led reducing inequalities in this country is vital. I’m approach sets us up well to respond to this proud that Intrepid’s Reconciliation Action Plan changed landscape. (RAP) was endorsed in 2019 – this provides a framework to foster positive relationships and It is also important to a take step back, take a create more equity with Aboriginal and Torres breath and reflect on 2019 – looking back, I’m Strait Islander peoples and sets our direction as exceptionally proud of what we achieved. It was a business in this important area. Intrepid’s most successful year – we carried more than 460,000 travellers to the world’s And, we’ve taken a number of significant steps seven continents, achieved record financial on climate change. Intrepid has been carbon results and, as a result, paid out more than neutral since 2010 and in 2019 we committed $3.5m in staff bonuses. to becoming climate positive. We’re a founding member of the Tourism Declares collective and Importantly, as a certified B Corp that is have adopted a seven-point climate action plan. I committed to growing with purpose, we hope this provides the groundwork for other travel contributed to many communities around the companies to follow, as effective action on climate world, made significant steps on climate change change requires a collective response. and advocated on a number of environmental and social issues. These are just a few highlights from the past year, there’s truly too many for me to mention here We also realised our four-year 2020 Strategy, – but this integrated annual report provides a which we put in place after we returned to transparent view of all parts of our business. independent ownership in 2015. That set out a number of goals to grow with purpose, which, As I sign off this report, it is clear that 2020 will thanks to our teams and partners around the be the most challenging year the travel industry world, we’ve achieved – and more. has ever faced. That doesn't change the fact that Intrepid's vision now and always is to Change the I’m proud to reaffirm our commitment to the Way People See the World. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), I can’t think of a time when that vision has which underpins our strategies and activities. been more important. Intrepid joined the UNGC in 2008 and we’ve adopted eight SDGs that are most relevant to our business. We’ve made progress on many of these and they will continue to underpin our business in the year ahead. Some of our SDGs are particularly worth highlighting. In 2019 we deepened our commitment to gender equality. We doubled our number of female tour leaders, boosted our Board diversity JAMES THORNTON to 40 per cent female members; and helped more CEO women become job ready or gain new skills through the work of The Intrepid Foundation. 15 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 16 OUR BUSINESS BALANCING PURPOSE WITH PROFIT Intrepid Group is the world’s largest travel B Corp. We balance purpose and profit, with sustainability and developing local economies through responsible tourism at the core of what we do. Sapa, Vietnam 17 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 18 OUR BUSINESS THE JOURNEY SO FAR THREE DECADES OF GROWING WITH PURPOSE A lot has changed, but the big things haven’t. We still create sustainable experience-rich trips and look after the destinations and communities we visit. Our founders didn’t start out with a plan to create initiative, the United Nations Global Compact. Two the world’s largest adventure travel company. years later, we became a carbon neutral travel company. In 2018 we achieved B Corp certification, The year was 1989. Darrell Wade and Geoff ‘Manch’ which means we’re part of a global community of Manchester had just returned from travelling with companies who are redefining success in business a group of friends through Africa in a converted to build a more inclusive and sustainable economy rubbish truck. During their adventure, they had for the long-term. an idea for a new style of small group travel. From the start, they believed travel could benefit both THE NOT-FOR-PROFIT INTREPID FOUNDATION travellers and the communities they visit. As we grew, our travellers told us they wanted In fact, Intrepid’s first business plan had us donating to give back to communities, too. In 2002 we money to local projects before we were even set up The Intrepid Foundation and covering all making a profit. Our founders didn’t really know administration costs. The Foundation continues to how the travel industry worked, so right from the have a big impact on the partners and communities start they were selling and operating their own trips it works with around the world. – Darrell from a kitchen table in Melbourne and TRAVEL AS A FORCE FOR GOOD Manch as our first leader in Thailand. We believe that our whole business can be a RESPONSIBLE TRAVEL force for good. Over the years we’ve advocated on Intrepid’s style has always been to travel the local issues such as climate action, animal welfare, child way: using local accommodation and transport, protection and gender equality. We were the first eating in neighbourhood restaurants, travelling global tour operator to end elephant rides – with local leaders. This approach ensures more it was a risky decision at the time, but doing the authentic experiences and means more money right thing not only helped to grow our business, generated through tourism stays where it belongs: it has changed the industry. More recently, we in local pockets. declared a climate emergency as part of our action with Tourism Declares, a global collective of tourism GROWING WITH PURPOSE businesses, organisations and individuals who have We had 46 travellers in our first year and quickly pledged urgent action on climate change. added destinations and sales regions, launched our We pursue partnerships that genuinely empower own destination management company to deliver communities and we’ve seen that this shared trips and created a day-tour brand. As the appetite value approach to community-based tourism is for our style of authentic, immersive travel has also a competitive advantage. grown, so has our product offering. Just like any good journey, ours is still going. Khama Lodge, Botswana And with this growth, we’ve recognised that we Although we’re a bit larger these days, we’re still run have a responsibility beyond just our product. by travellers, for travellers, and we still get a kick out We always believed we could be more than just a of responsible travel and very (very) big adventures. travel company. In 2008 we became a signatory of the world’s largest corporate sustainability 19 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 20 OUR BUSINESS THE JOURNEY SO FAR Bali rice terraces, Indonesia CELEBRATING Intrepid has evolved over three decades but growing with purpose has always been 30 YEARS OF at the heart of everything we do. Today, Intrepid is a vertically-integrated global ADVENTURE travel business with future growth plans. Intrepid travel is the first global Intrepid tour operator Travel Intrepid to introduce a becomes becomes responsible travel carbon Peak Adventure a certified department neutral Travel is B Corp Our first formed – a joint destination venture with management TUI group Elephant company is rides are established in ended on Vietnam all trips 1989 2002 2008 2013 2015 2019 1998 2005 2010 2011 2014 2018 The Intrepid Our co-founders Foundation is take 100% founded ownership of Intrepid Group Intrepid Travel is Intrepid The multiIntrepid Travel born, inspired by an becomes a brand Intrepid celebrates epic overland Africa UN Global Group is 30 years of adventure. Our Compact formed sustainable first destination is Signatory experienceThailand rich trips 21 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 OUR BUSINESS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Created by the United Nations in 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comprise 17 goals and 169 actionable targets to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. Intrepid has identified eight SDGs that best align to our key focus areas and we work to contribute to, rather than diminish, their health and value. Antarctica 5. GENDER EQUALITY 11. SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 10. REDUCED INEQUALITIES 14. LIFE BELOW WATER Achieve gender equality and Make cities and human settlements Reduce inequalities within Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, empower all women and girls inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable and among countries seas and marine resources Intrepid has committed to gender equality in its business In line with one of the aims of this goal to strengthen Our inaugural Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) addresses Intrepid is funding research with the University of and operations. We have increased our number of senior efforts to protect and safeguard the world’s cultural and the target of sustained income growth for the bottom Tasmania, in partnership with The Climate Foundation, into female leaders in the boardroom and offices, and doubled natural heritage, Intrepid actively develops product in less 40 per cent of the population at a higher rate than the Australia’s first marine permaculture program: a seaweed our number of female tour leaders. Many trips include heavily visited cities and destinations. This aims to reduce national average. We focus on job creation, our supply farm off the coast of Tasmania. This supports two of this female empowerment experiences, and we continue pollution and overcrowding and preserve culturally and chain and training for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander goal’s aims of minimising the impacts of ocean acidification to expand our offerings of women-only expeditions ecologically significant sites. Urban Adventures operates in peoples. Intrepid’s trips include destinations beyond the and protecting marine and coastal ecosystems and taking in key destinations. The Intrepid Foundation supports city environments and 70 per cent of its tours are plastictourist paths, which allows more local communities to earn action to restore them in order to achieve healthy and women focused projects, particularly around economic free, and the brand is committed to being single-use income from tourism. All Intrepid employees participate in productive oceans. Intrepid also contributed $100K to the empowerment. We’re setting more ambitious gender plastic free across its day tours by 2022. mandatory discrimination training to ensure an inclusive production of the documentary 2040. equality targets and examining our supply chain to identify work environment. opportunities to support more female-owned businesses. 8. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 13. CLIMATE CHANGE 15. LIFE ON LAND 17: PARTNERSHIP FOR GOALS Promote sustained, inclusive and Take urgent action to combat climate Sustainably manage forests, combat Revitalise the global partnership sustainable economic growth, employment change and its impacts desertification, halt and reverse land for sustainable development and decent work for all degradation, halt biodiversity loss Intrepid has accepted the science that we have one Intrepid works with a number of partners on sustainable Intrepid is committed to creating inclusive and safe Intrepid has partnered with Offset Earth on reforestation development, including B Lab on B Corp Climate Collective, decade to act on climate change. We have adopted workplaces for all employees, contractors and other projects through The Intrepid Foundation. Trees are a group of certified B Corps that are working together Science Based Target initiatives and invested in capacity stakeholders. To provide career pathways, we've created planted in Kenya’s Kijabe Forest in partnership with the to take action on the climate emergency. This group is training, including 240 staff attending Climate Reality learning and development programs. Our supply chain Kijabe Forest Trust. Local people, including women, are working towards climate resiliency through a number of Project training globally. We are a carbon neutral business is made up of locally-owned businesses that reflect our employed to plant the trees and maintain the forest. approaches. These include cross-sector collaboration, and have committed to become climate positive in 2020. values. Intrepid recognises that modern slavery can We also have extensive waste and recycling initiatives corporate action and reducing emissions. In addition, we We work with partners such as B Corp to help spread the occur in the tourism industry and all Intrepid employees in our offices around the world and on our trips. In support a number of Community Based Tourism (CBT) message about the need for urgent change. must complete training on modern slavery. The Intrepid addition, The Intrepid Foundation supports a number of initiatives, including Myanmar’s first CBT enterprise, a Foundation is focused on sustainable job creation in local recycling projects, including Rehash Trash in Cambodia. lodge located on the outskirts of the township of Myaing. communities. This involves single-use plastic litter being removed from This joint initiative with not-for-profit ActionAid Myanmar the streets and transformed into new products, such as creates opportunities for locals to earn additional income jewellery and handicrafts. through tourism while providing travellers with an insight into rural life in Myanmar. 23 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 24 OUR BUSINESS HOW WE CREATE VALUE THE INTREPID GROUP WAY INPUTS OUR BUSINESS OUR PRODUCT OUTCOMES FINANCIAL FINANCIAL We maintain a healthy balance sheet to enable growth and CREATING SUSTAINABLE Long-term sustainable growth of our business expansion of the business EXPERIENCE-RICH across multiple regions and destinations CUSTOMERS PARTNERS TRAVEL ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT We commit to being carbon Destinations we travel to are neutral and to the sensitive UNIQUE preserved for the generations design of trips to minimise our footprint on the environment INSPIRE EXPERIENCES to come WE ARE A BRAND Customer-focused sales and marketing teams SOCIAL & SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIPS REGULAR RELATIONSHIPS DEPARTURES We commit to giving back to the communities we travel to by employing locally, CREATE Strong, resilient communities that benefit from our travellers buying locally and investing in A TOUR OPERATOR community projects Innovative product designers and responsible travel specialists PEOPLE PEOPLE We invest in our people, LOCAL A diverse team of empowered INTERACTIONS DELIVER culture and training so that and motivated people our team are safe, happy committed to providing and able to deliver against customers with the best travel business goals A DESTINATION experience ever MANAGEMENT COMPANY Global network of local experts CUSTOMER DIVERSE CUSTOMER We invest in innovative PRODUCT RANGE Happy customers who products and leader training become ambassadors for our to deliver exceptional brands and our business experiences to our customers BRAND & KNOW-HOW POSITIVE IMPACT TO BRAND & KNOW-HOW We invest in our brands and COMMUNITIES PLANET CUSTOMER, COMMUNITY Increased value of our brands LOCAL CUSTOMERS operations to ensure that we SUPPLIERS AND ENVIRONMENT across multiple regions deliver the right product to the right market at the right time 25 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 26 OUR BUSINESS HOW WE CREATE VALUE HOW WE CREATE PEOPLE We invested in a new product training system and VALUE ON OUR TRIPS rolled out on-demand destination training tools for all sales teams. Many staff experienced a Best of Sri Lanka trip on our educational program. Best of Sri Lanka is a popular SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS Intrepid Travel trip – it is an example We continued to run trips after the attacks in of how we create value across every April and we were in a strong position with our one of our itineraries. partners when demand returned. Trip tote bags are made by a local women’s collective and trips include a visit to the Project Orange Elephant, run by Sri Lankan Wildlife Conservation Society and supported by The Intrepid Foundation. CUSTOMER PEAK DMC Sri Lanka trained 18 leaders who went on to lead Best of Sri Lanka. Customer feedback has been strong, with an overall customer experience feedback rating of 4.83 and an NPS score of 81%. ENVIRONMENT All trips are 100% carbon offset. All groups are provided with ecobricks at the start of a trip to fill with soft plastics, which can then be used in construction projects. FINANCIAL This is a top 10 performing trip, based on revenue. Costs are managed closely and despite the attacks in April, departed customer bookings were only down 6% during the year. BRAND AND KNOW-HOW Through our local DMC knowledge we are able to offer travellers exclusive access to some experiences. Safety of staff, travellers and suppliers is the main priority on all trips. Intrepid has a comprehensive incident response plan. At the time of the April attacks, this Bandarawela, Sri Lanka ensured all travellers were safe and accounted for. 27 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 28 OUR BUSINESS WHO IS INTREPID GROUP MULTIPLE BRANDS; ENDLESS EXPERIENCES In 2019, Intrepid Group included Each brand has its own identity and caters to different segments of the tourism market; from the widest range of small group adventures with three tour operator brands Intrepid Travel to small ship adventures with Peregrine Adventures and offering more than 2,800 innovative day tours with Urban Adventures.. Each brand is supported by a global operating network of 25 destination management companies, which itineraries and 130 countries operate each of our itineraries using their local expertise. In addition to our across every continent. travel brands, we also operate our not-for-profit, The Intrepid Foundation and Adventure.com, our global online travel publication. INTREPID TRAVEL Hanoi, Vietnam Sacred Valley, Peru As our flagship brand, Intrepid Travel’s travel like the locals do, an expert small group adventures are for local leader who can show them the travellers of every age, budget and appetite for adventure. With three highlights, as well as the hidden gems and most unique experiences, with an 1,048 Itineraries distinct travel styles to choose from emphasis on low-impact responsible – Basix, Original and Comfort – and more than 1,000 itineraries across travel. In addition to our core destination itineraries, Intrepid Travel 15 Themes 120-plus destinations, Intrepid Travel features 15 product themes designed has the broadest product offering to cater to our customers’ interests of our brands. No matter which trip and travel preferences. These include 10 customers might choose, they all Cycling, Food, Polar, Sailing, Adventure Avg. Group Size enjoy the hallmarks of what makes our Cruising, Family, 18 to 29s, Active, sustainable, experience-rich products so special: a small group style of travel Walking and Trekking, Festivals, Wildlife and Short Breaks. 44 Avg. Age Prague, Czech Republic that allows them to eat, sleep and PEREGRINE ADVENTURES URBAN ADVENTURES Peregrine Adventures delivers premium product themes to cater to travellers’ Urban Adventures was created to offer a brand behind them. Our global reach trips with a focus on immersive local interests, including our Food Collection, new style of day tour, enabling travellers ensures that local UAPs have the same experiences. We offer sustainable itineraries with award-winning local Wildlife, Walking and Trekking, and Limited Edition tours created with 408 to escape the tourist traps and connect opportunities in terms of distribution and 1,393 Itineraries with the cities they visit, and those who support, and therefore access to major Itineraries leaders, hand-picked accommodation special interests in mind. A cornerstone live there. By taking our travellers into international markets, as larger tourism and small private vehicles. The Peregrine Adventures traveller is of the Peregrine Adventures brand is our small ship Adventure Cruising 7 local neighbourhoods with a local guide, we’re giving them the opportunity to businesses. This global partnership structure is unique within the day tours 158 Themes Cities often extremely well-travelled, with product. A sustainable alternative to directly engage with the community in sector. It means that local people benefit a management-level career behind the mega-cruises in market, Adventure 10 a way few other city tours can. Urban from employment and leadership them, and are retired or thinking about retiring. They’re looking for the slower, Cruising allows our travellers to uncover the culture, cuisines and Adventures operates on a franchise opportunities, and helps to keep tourism 68 Avg. Group Size business model, with a network of local income in local communities. An added Countries more considered pace of travel and coastlines of popular destinations Urban Adventures Partners (UAPs). benefit for consumers is knowing the more premium style of travel that we offer through the Peregrine brand. without swamping the locals. 61 UAPs have the freedom to design and deliver their own tours, with the guidance that UAP businesses must operate in accordance with Intrepid Group’s 6 Avg. Age Avg. Group Size Peregrine Adventures offers a variety of and credibility of an established global responsible tourism policies. 29 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 30 OUR BUSINESS WHO IS INTREPID GROUP PEAK DMC AVERAGE AGE OF TRAVELLER Oldest With a core purpose to create, innovate and deliver sustainable experience-rich travel, PEAK DMC is the trusted operating partner to many of the world’s leading Youngest travel brands. PEAK DMC is the destination management company (DMC) of A 91and 92-yearIntrepid Group, operating more than 80 per cent of our own trips, as well as old travelling 44 61 together in Cuba itineraries for a wide range of other travel companies. With operational capability across 90plus countries in Asia, Africa, Europe and Latin America, our global staff Intrepid Peregrine provide invaluable local destination knowledge to assist in designing and arranging A four-year-old travelling on our itineraries. Most importantly, our DMCs collectively recruit, train and manage more Vietnam & Cambodia than 1,000 tour leaders and local guides globally. All DMCs are part of our global Family Holiday network, ensuring we develop, implement and consistently deliver global best practice around the world. 12 64 1,000 90+ 25 80% Tour leaders Countries Offices Intrepid Group and guides trips operated Hanoi, Vietnam MOST COUNTRIES LONGEST TRIP IN ONE TRIP (DAYS) THE INTREPID FOUNDATION Madrid to Venice Africa Encompassed Northbound Intrepid’s not-for-profit, The Intrepid Foundation, provides a transparent and trusted way for our brands and their travellers to support the destinations and communities they visit. Our mission is to improve the livelihoods of vulnerable individuals and communities around the world by supporting local initiatives that deliver real impact. One hundred per cent of the Foundation’s administrative costs are covered by Intrepid Group. Donations were matched dollar-for-dollar by Intrepid Group in 2019. The Foundation is funded by donations made at www.theintrepidfoundation.org, donations made by customers when booking a trip, workplace giving from Intrepid staff, fundraisers organised by customers, travellers and staff, and fundraising from Intrepid Group brand campaigns. $27,995 $32 MOST EXPENSIVE TRIP CHEAPEST TRIP Grand Africa Kumasi Local Nightlife (Cairo to Cape Town) Peregrine Adventures (Ghana) Urban Adventures $1.6m 16,181 563 106 Distributed to Lives positively Individuals Jobs projects impacted helped to created become job ready Inca Trail, Peru AVERAGE $188 $343 $118 COST PER DAY Intrepid Peregrine Urban Adventures OUR PARTNERS Additionally, Intrepid owns global online travel publication Adventure.com and has joint venture partnerships with RAW Travel, Kimberley Wild Expeditions, Chimu Adventures and Discovery Adventure Group. These companies have been excluded from this report on the basis of materiality. Madrid, Spain Antarctica 31 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 32 OUR STRATEGY SUSTAINABLE GROWTH. REALISING OUR GOALS. We achieved our 2020 Strategy, which delivered on our vision to Change the Way People See the World. Now, our 2025 Strategy sets our direction, with a focus on being the Best Travel Company for the World. Bryce National Park, Utah 33 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 34 OUR STRATEGY 2020 STRATEGY WE SET BIG GOALS The 2020 Strategy was set soon after we returned to multi-region platform. We recognised that our destination AND ACHIEVED THEM independent ownership. The initial objective was to create a sustainable and profitable company, while fulfilling the long-term vision for our business. management company (DMC) network positions us uniquely. Not only could we control the quality of product and customer service, but we believed we could expand our distribution base, too. Four years ago, we set out our 2020 Strategy, based on the vision of Changing We set out to meet the demands of a broad customer base and attract new people to our style of travel. We did this by The 2020 Strategy focused strongly on continuing to the Way People See the World. We’re proud to have achieved that plan. delivering outstanding sustainable, experience-rich travel develop a digital mindset throughout the business, and a (SERT) products through a multi-brand, multi-distribution, commitment to being the global leader in responsible travel. CORE PRINCIPLE GOAL HOW WE DEFINED SUCCESS ACHIEVED CORE PRINCIPLE GOAL HOW WE DEFINED SUCCESS ACHIEVED RESPONSIBLE To become a global leader in • Achieved B Corp certification FLEXIBLE To develop business • Investigations and PARTIALLY BUSINESS sustainable travel. This was in 2018 INDEPENDENT capabilities which offered a scoping began but achieved through partnerships (in • Raised $3m for The Intrepid TRAVEL (FIT) FIT product range in a timely, implementation was both public and private sectors), Foundation over four years efficient and competitive way, delayed creating shared value initiatives using a multi-sales approach • Engaged in Community Based and becoming a certified B Corp Tourism initiatives DIGITAL MINDSET To change the mindset of our • Investment in systems, BE BETTER To design and deliver • Four years of TTV and employees to prioritise digital including finance enterprise initiatives that reduce cost EBIT growth solutions to enhance efficiencies, resource planning system, and increase productivity. This • Productivity improvements create a more agile business Salesforce, Travel Studio will speed up decision-making were achieved environment and enable us to reservation management and encourage innovation by • Agile decision making better understand our customers system using an Agile methodology to through the Development • Digital sales growth be a smarter, more adaptable, and Investment Selection sustainable business that will • Focus on growing the teams Committee to approve and be a better place to work that support this strategic pillar prioritise projects LEVERAGED DMC To design and deliver initiatives • New DMCs opened RIGHT PRODUCT TO To deliver the right product, in • Group structure evolved that reduce costs and increase • Regional structure implemented THE RIGHT MARKET the right market, at the right to become brand and productivity. This included to improve decision making time, to the right customer. customer centric speeding up decision-making and Achieved through powerful • Brands were streamlined • Purchasing and contracting encouraging innovation by using brands with a clear purpose teams established to drive an Agile methodology and place; along with increasing efficiencies the value of our brands and • Travel Studio implemented having brand owners within our • Community Based Tourism organisational structures role created 35 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 36 OUR STRATEGY 2025 STRATEGY BALANCING GROWTH AND PURPOSE CUSTOMERS PARTNERS We don’t want to just be the best travel company in the IMPROVED PROFITABILITY world, we want to be the Best Travel Company for the We will continue to be a better business and create World. Our 2025 Strategy sets out how we will do that. efficiencies that deliver incremental improvement to our profitability. Thirty years ago, our founders set out to create a company with purpose, values and vision. Our future will EMBED PURPOSE revolve around growing with purpose, through these five guiding principals: As a certified B Corp, we balance purpose and profit to have a business that benefits all stakeholders over the short and the long term. INSPIRE SUSTAINABLE EXPERIENCE-RICH TRAVEL (SERT) Our global network of local experts delivers LEAVE A LEGACY WE ARE A BRAND experiences, which benefit our customers and the Ensure Intrepid lives on beyond our founders through Customer-focused sales and communities we visit. greater staff and public ownership to deliver a business marketing teams that leads the market for the next 30 years and beyond. SUSTAINABLE GROWTH We will grow our business sustainably by growing our distribution, innovating our product, and evolving our business model to grow the market for SERT. CREATE A TOUR OPERATOR Innovative product designers and responsible travel specialists PLATFORM FOR GROWTH TOWARDS 2025 DELIVER We will balance our investment to ensure we achieve our growth and purpose ambitions. A DESTINATION MANAGEMENT COMPANY Global network of local experts Core Emerging Exploratory Business Business Activities If our core isn’t healthy, our We will invest in emerging Remain committed to our business can’t succeed. We business opportunities for purpose and explore new will strengthen and deepen mediumto long-term growth opportunities to ensure our core product offerings and and efficiencies. The business long-term growth. Three customer value proposition model is not yet defined; options have initially been and continue to strive for however, resources have identified, which may or operational excellence. been allocated and there is an may not go ahead. These COMMUNITIES PLANET element of risk and ambition. will all be in the SERT space. LOCAL CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS Myanmar 37 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 38 OUR STRATEGY MARKET TRENDS A CHANGING LANDSCAPE Trust and sustainability were major drivers in 2019, while economic factors will be central in 2020. The travel and tourism sectors are COMPETITOR LANDSCAPE climate positive and are innovating facing a challenging scenario, with a A number of travel companies and with itinerary development to use year of record growth in 2019 being airlines collapsed in 2019, most notably alternative forms of transport, instead immediately followed by the deep Thomas Cook in the UK. The subsequent of flights, where possible. economic impacts of Covid-19 in the collapse of some tour operators in the OVERTOURISM first half of 2020. Australian market in 2019 was widely Travellers are more informed about In 2019, the travel industry grew reported in the mass media. The effects the negative impact mass tourism strongly, with travellers making a record of Covid-19 on travel businesses are not can have on some destinations, 1.5 billion trips, according to the United yet clear but are likely to be far-ranging. Udaipur, India particularly around issues such Nations World Tourism Organization’s Our position: Intrepid’s brand and as sustainable development and Tourism Barometer. This is a four per financial position remains strong. waste management. cent increase on 2018, with tourism We have more than 30 years of outpacing global economic growth Our position: Intrepid has long operational know-how behind us, developed trips to less visited Our position: Intrepid has a strategic decline in bookings to what had been America market. Intrepid is well placed of 2.3 per cent. Travel and tourism rigorous governance, a strong financial destinations and recently we’ve focus on digital capability. The business one of our fastest growing destinations. to respond to demand for travel to remains an important economic driver position, trusted brands and an withdrawn from certain overhas invested in digital experts and Socio-economic and political uncertainty Egypt and Jordan, supported by our and employer globally. People have excellent reputation. To help Intrepid subscribed destinations, such built teams across the business. As a in parts of Latin America also shook expert DMC teams on the ground. been travelling in ever growing numbers achieve its ambitious plans to grow with as Sihanoukville in Cambodia, vertically-integrated operator with a travel confidence in some destinations, Turkey had long been a popular over the past decade – travel remains purpose over the next five years, a chief and published lists of alternative strong brand heritage, we have control including Chile, Bolivia and Ecuador. In destination for Intrepid and we’re aspirational for consumers in both financial officer joined the business in destinations to visit, which received over the full product offering, ensuring particular, Chile saw a decline in tourism particularly pleased that in 2019 our developed and developing nations. early 2020. The business responded positive media coverage. a high-quality product and experience. numbers after two major international customers headed back there in swiftly to the impacts of Covid-19 summits were cancelled in Santiago in growing numbers. through introducing a number of cost EXPERIENCES INSTEAD OF THINGS TECHNOLOGY the second half of 2019. In addition, IMPACTS OF COVID-19 reduction measures. The anti-consumerism, waste-free WELLNESS TRAVEL President Trump’s travel ban to Cuba The short-term uncertainty Google moved into the travel space living and minimalism movements impacted arrival numbers into that Wellness and nature-based CLIMATE CHANGE caused by Covid-19 will in a major way in 2019 with the continue to gain traction, particularly in previously fast-growing destination. experiences are growing in popularity Awareness of and activism around affect Intrepid’s ability to launch of Google Travel. This sees the Intrepid’s three key sales regions. More More stability in parts of the Middle as people seek to counterbalance their climate change grew exponentially create shared value for all search engine favouring preferred consumers are considering alternatives East saw strong and steady growth into increasingly urban, stressful lifestyles. in 2019. Carbon emissions from air our stakeholders. We are search results, which has been a to traditional gifts or physical products. Egypt, Jordan and Turkey. More people around the world travel grew in 2019 and consumers responding to the changed major disruptor for many established are donning their hiking boots and are increasingly aware about airlines’ Our position: Intrepid remained economic environment through industry players, particularly those embarking on walking holidays. contribution to climate change. Our position: Intrepid is well-placed to committed to Sri Lanka and our a range of measures to ensure in the distribution space. Separately, benefit from this preference for hyperpartners there following the April Our position: Intrepid is well placed we are well positioned to Our position: Better informed peer-to-peer solutions such as local, unique and transformative travel attacks. Towards the end of 2019 we to tap into this trend with its growing respond to future demand consumers will choose sustainable Airbnb continue to develop and experiences with our sustainable, local saw a gradual recovery of travellers to offering of themed walking and when it returns, for the benefit products. Intrepid has been taking innovate with new experiences and travel experiences. what had been a popular and growing trekking itineraries, particularly with of all our stakeholders. action on climate change for decades business models. destination. With a wide offering our joint venture partnership with and has carbon offset all trips since SOCIO-POLITICAL FACTORS of destinations throughout Latin walking holiday company RAW Travel. 2010. We have set a goal to become The attacks in Colombo in April 2019 America, and local DMC expertise on had a major impact on tourist arrivals the ground, Intrepid retains a strong to Sri Lanka, and we saw a subsequent position in the South and Central 39 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 40 OUR PERFORMANCE CONSTANTLY EVOLVING. ALWAYS AMBITIOUS. We carried more customers than ever before. We adopted a science-based approach to carbon reporting. And, we had a positive impact on the communities we visit. Sahara Desert, Morocco 41 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 42 OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL Aswan, Egypt GROWING WITH PURPOSE Intrepid grew strongly in 2019 and delivered a record profit, marking the successful delivery of the 2020 Strategy that was implemented when the Group business returned to independent ownership. TTV since independent ownership Intrepid Group achieved 21 per cent growth in Working capital improvement of 42 per cent Group Total Transaction Value (TTV) at $491m demonstrates a strong balance sheet position, (from $402m). Since returning to independent which will enable the business to invest as ownership in 2016, we have achieved double-digit needed in line with our 2025 Strategy. TTV growth each year, with a compound annual A PURPOSE-LED APPROACH growth rate (CAGR) since 2016 of 18 per cent. Intrepid continues to grow with purpose and our Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and strong financial result supported a number of Amortisation (EBITDA) was $28m – a 62 per cent increase on the prior year. initiatives in 2019, including: $341m Invested $5m cash into 'green bonds' that are 2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BY BRAND aligned with the company focus on the planet Our brands performed well, with Intrepid Travel’s and climate. We will continue to add to this TTV up 14 per cent year on year, while Peregrine’s investment in the future TTV was up 26 per cent on the previous year. Matched a record amount of donations to PEAK DMC performed particularly strongly and The Intrepid Foundation external sales increased 64 per cent. Continued to invest in Community Based Urban Adventures also recorded growth, with revenue up 30 per cent year-on-year. Tourism initiatives $402m We also strengthened governance practices in 2018 The ATA brand did contract, with TTV declining 2019 with the introduction of two non-executive 10 per cent during the year. The brand was sold directors to the Board. in December 2019. A number of controls were introduced during Our strong performance delivered a return on 2019, including the implementation of a new equity of 17 per cent to our shareholders – a six enterprise resource planning system. This will per cent increase. Intrepid has also seen solid be rolled out across our global offices and will improvement on its net asset position with 10 per provide improved insights into our business cent growth year-on-year. Cash balances grew 17 performance, increase efficiencies and further $491m per cent year-on-year. strengthen financial controls. 2019 18% 17% $5m $28m CAGR in Net cash Investment EBITDA revenue position up into ‘green since 2016 on 2018 bonds’ 43 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 44 OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL HOW OUR SALES REGIONS PERFORMED Intrepid operates three outbound sales regions, with the AsiaPacific (APAC) team based in Melbourne, Europe Middle East and Africa (EMEA) in London and North America in Toronto. This global footprint provides many advantages, including the ability to respond to customer needs in these markets. APAC NORTH AMERICA EMEA CAGR +13% since 2016 CAGR +26% since 2016 CAGR +17% since 2016 Our largest sales region Intrepid has invested in its We saw an improvement in continued to go from northern hemisphere sales this region, which delivered strength to strength in 2019. regions, delivering TTV growth TTV growth of 16 per cent, It saw double-digit TTV of 28 per cent – the highest despite continued uncertainty growth of 14 per cent. This growth rate in Intrepid, mainly as regarding Brexit during 2019. reflects a particularly strong a result of our focus on growing This was an improvement on performance in a mature market share in this region. 2018 when we recorded seven market for Intrepid. per cent growth. OUTLOOK 2020. As a responsible business, we always make responsible financial decisions. As we expect a period Intrepid celebrated a record bookings month in January of contraction through the first half of the year, we 2020, achieving $54m. Soon after, the unprecedented have taken swift action. Our co-founders will also not global impact of Covid-19 resulted in the difficult receive a salary for at least six months. We will now be Ooxaca, Mexico decision to suspend all our trips globally on 16 March reshaping our forecast for 2020. 45 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 46 OUR PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL HOW OUR AMERICAS +8% CAGR +6% EUROPE +25% CAGR +28% AFRICA +24% CAGR +38% ASIA +23% CAGR +14% OCEANIA +195% CAGR +38% DESTINATIONS since 2016 This region grew slower than since 2016 Once again, Europe since 2016 North Africa grew particularly since 2016 Western Asia, in particular since 2016 Australasia contributed PERFORMED others, largely due to the US ban on travel to Cuba, which had remained popular with Eastern Europe seeing strongly, up 40 per cent yearon-year. Morocco remained strong and demand returned Jordan and Turkey, had a phenomenal year, growing at 121 per cent. Central Asia to this growth in TTV albeit much lower previously been a fast-growing 46 per cent growth dollar value than other destination. Central America saw and Southern Europe for Egypt. East Africa grew had the overall highest growth destinations. We continue to see demand for new up-and-coming good growth of 14 per cent and up 27 per cent. robustly at 16 per cent while rate of 142 per cent across all destinations such as Central Asia, as well as longa new DMC opened there. South Southern Africa remained destinations – proving once America is our second highest steady at 5 per cent. again that our customers standing favourites like South East Asia. destination in dollar terms with love to discover new regions. year-on-year growth of four per South East Asia, our highest cent. Galapagos, in particular, destination in TTV in dollar grew strongly at 36 per cent. terms, grew at six per cent. 47 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 48 OUR PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENT Antarctica TOWARDS CLIMATE POSITIVE Intrepid has accepted the science that states the world has one decade to limit global warming to 1.5°C and we’ve taken urgent action by adopting a Science Based Target initiative (SBTi), among other measures. As a business we’re already managing The Science Based Targets initiative entirely eliminated. However, BEYOND CARBON OFFSETS individuals in the tourism industry. In addition, in 2019 we committed the cost of extreme weather events (SBTi) provides companies with a we recognise it is important to We actively offset emissions and It supports its members in declaring to double offsetting Antarctica trips in and climate preparedness across our clearly defined pathway to futuredecarbonise our business and set directly support important projects a climate emergency and taking the 2020/21 season. operations and supply chains. We’re proof growth by specifying how much greenhouse gas emission reduction that help communities and mitigate purposeful action to reduce their We also believe these trips create also seeing the effects of climate and how quickly they need to reduce targets in line with climate science in climate change. But we accept that carbon emissions. value for our customers, as they are change in our destinations – some of their greenhouse gas emissions. order to future-proof growth. offsetting is no longer enough. As a ANTARCTICA TRIPS an educational experience with a the most iconic places on earth. The SBTi is a collaboration between business, our mission is to become Intrepid has purchased carbon credits In partnership with Chimu Adventures, naturalist, marine biologist and other the UN Global Compact, CDP, World climate positive, which means we’ve SCIENCE-BASED TARGETS AND associated with a range of renewable Intrepid is launching its own charter experts onboard. Resources Institute (WRI), the World committed to remove more carbon APPROACH energy projects. This covers its total expeditions to Antarctica in 2020. Wildlife Fund (WWF). It is also one of from the atmosphere than we create. People who have travelled to Antarctica In December 2019 we committed to footprint offsetting of 36,545 tCO2e. the commitments of the We Mean have said they are deeply affected Tourism in Antarctica is overseen by the set science-based emission reduction Business Coalition, of which Intrepid In October 2019 we became a founding We invest in projects that bring International Association of Antarctic by its pristine yet fragile landscapes. targets. By setting science-based is a member. Globally, more than 830 member of Tourism Declares, working additional benefits. We invest only in the Tour Operators (IAATO). It works These trips can be a catalyst for change emission reduction targets, Intrepid is companies are taking science-based alongside sustainability expert highest quality carbon offset projects, alongside the Antarctic treaty to register to encourage travellers to take action taking real action on climate change, climate action and more than 340 have Jeremy Smith and Alex Narrcott from which bring additional economic, tour operators and maintains strict in their own lives and set goals to while leveraging it as a driver of approved science-based targets. Much Better Adventures. Together social, and environmental benefits. For environmental standards and Intrepid is reduce their personal carbon footprint. innovation, risk management and we created the framework for the example, in Australia we have invested registered through Chimu Adventures. growth. We also know that if our A CARBON-NEUTRAL BUSINESS collective, which launched in January in savanna burning projects in the business is to grow in the future, it is Carbon offsetting is an internationally 2020. Tourism Declares is a collective Northern Territory, which is also part of essential to limit the planet’s warming recognised way to manage carbon of businesses, organisations and our Reconciliation Action Plan. to well below 2°C. emissions that cannot be 49 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 50 OUR PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENT ACTION AND ADVOCACY Intrepid leveraged its leading position as a globally recognised travel brand to advocate on climate issues. We’ve also made changes to our offices to reduce our environmental footprint. Intrepid again led advocacy on environmental issues in OFFSET EARTH SUBSCRIPTION SERVICE 2019. This is a topic that increasingly resonates strongly In December 2019, we launched a subscription service – with our staff, customers and industry partners. In addition a partnership between Offset Earth, Intrepid Travel and The to taking an active role in the Global Climate Strike in Intrepid Foundation – to offer customers a way to offset their September, we took action in a number of other ways. carbon emissions. Under the initiative, every tree planted is UN CLIMATE CONFERENCE COP25 matched by The Intrepid Foundation tree-for-tree through our partner Eden Reforestation Projects in collaboration with During the UN Climate Change Conference COP25 the local community. All trees are planted in the ‘Intrepid in December 2019, more than 500 B Corps joined forest’ site in Kenya’s Kijabe Forest – a former eucalyptus Intrepid to commit to achieve net zero by 2030. This plantation that was deforested more than 15 years ago to important declaration signals the largest collective of make room for the non-native species but has remained businesses leading on climate action 20 years ahead of deforested ever since. So far, more than 88,000 trees have the Paris Agreement. been planted. 2040 AND SEAWEED Patagonia, Argentina SPREADING THE WORD Intrepid was an official partner of the documentary 2040 Senior Intrepid staff and experts presented at a number of and supported its production with $100K. The film, which high-profile events throughout the year, and we leveraged was released in 2019, highlights marine permaculture as an marketing and PR to highlight the issue of climate change. innovative and sustainable way to regenerate kelp forests, This includes a campaign for the 2040 film release with which in turn can help with cooling our warming oceans. teacher and agency screenings and partnering with World In 2019, we assessed 44 offices, which included both newly To coincide with the film’s release in Australia, The Intrepid Wildlife Fund (WWF) for Earth Hour. established and virtual offices. This is an increase of two Foundation launched a fundraiser to support marine offices from 2018. Our reporting methodology is in line with Climate Active, permaculture research with the University of Tasmania, in formally known as the National Carbon Offsetting Standards partnership with The Climate Foundation. The initial target of We improved our model for assessing business-related (NCOS), under the Australian Government’s Carbon $350k was exceeded in four months and the fundraiser has flights and updated relevant emission factors where needed. Neutral Initiative. raised $640k. This is clearly a topic that resonates strongly with Regarding business-related flights, the improvements our travellers, staff and travel agent partners and we offered All emission data presented is expressed as tonnes of involved separating staff travel into business and personal free screenings of 2040 for all of these groups during 2019. carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2-e) and includes all Kyoto related travel. gases and refrigerants. The CY 2019 office emissions include the newly captured scope 3 emissions source from Intrepid employees commuting to and from Intrepid offices (in Australia and 2017 2018 2019 globally). Office emissions by source (tC02e-) Total green house gas emissions normalised by average full-time equivalent (FTE) employees. We have improved the Intrepid Group Trip Trip Trip estimation methodology for calculating this category with Flights 3,013.10 total emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions tCO2eincluding 25,406 30,001 32,152 the introduction of a global people portal to “have a single Electricity 380.82 offices and trips Office Office Office source of truth for FTE” in the business. Emissions Emissions Emissions Intrepid Employee Commuting 360.00 3,496 4,922 4,392 For this reason the GHG intensity per FTE is restated for 2018 from 5.3 to 4.9. Paper 349.81 Globally we are working with DMCs and sales offices to Company Vehicles Fuel 114.20 aim to use 100 per cent post-consumer recycled and FSC Waste 86.58 certified paper as part of our commitment to become climate Greenhouse gas Natural Gas 62.31 positive. Within one year we were able to move from regular emissions intensity, 3.9 4.9 4.3 paper that made up to 98 per cent of all paper in 2018 to Water Usage 22.66 tCO2e-/FTE 99.2 per cent post-consumer recycled and FSC certified Bottled Gas 3.00 paper in 2019. 51 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 52 OUR PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENT Gorilla trekking, Uganda MANAGING OUR IMPACT We improved animal welfare, reduced free by 2020 – up from 70 per cent. To support this, Urban ANIMAL WELFARE brands, such as offset travellers’ flights, and double offset Adventures launched a comprehensive training module polar expeditions in the 2020/21 season single use plastics and introduced for all partners on how to eliminate single-use plastic. In Intrepid is a member of the Coalition for Ethical Wildlife Travel (CEWT) and the World Travel and Tourism Council’s Set a science-based target to reduce emissions other initiatives. addition, the brand partnered with a training, management Illegal Wildlife Trade Working Group. In 2019 we updated and certification initiative for tourism companies committed Transition to 100 per cent renewable energy our Animal Welfare Policy to address dog and reindeer MEASUREMENT TOOLS EXPLORED to reaching sustainability, and will be applying for in offices by 2025, and on our trips by 2030 sledding practices. Intrepid engaged a third-party consultancy to explore an certification in 2020. Invest in green bonds – support assets and projects impact measurement tool. However, after scoping the OUTLOOK Meanwhile, PEAK DMC in Africa has taken a leading consistent with delivering a low carbon economy. approach we have decided to use our SDG and the Intrepid role on single-use plastics, with all trips having water Intrepid will submit and validate our SBTi targets in 2020, B Corp assessment going forward. Empower women around the world – to ensure onboard for travellers to refill their reusable water bottles. continue to improve environmental performance across In East Africa, progress has been made with sustainable growth, through projects such as SINGLE-USE PLASTICS AND WASTE our offices worldwide, and fund $100k for Antarctic climate waste management on trips, including the introduction Rehash Trash in Cambodia and Eden Reforestation Our DMCs and Urban Adventure teams are at the forefront change research. We will also adopt our seven-point climate of portable toilets and all rubbish created on Kilimanjaro Projects in Kenya. of our environmental efforts in our destinations. action plan: climbs being brought down the mountain by crew. Invest in research and innovative solutions. In 2019 The During 2019, a number of DMCs as well as Urban Adventures   Measure our emissions, including transport, waste In India, Malaysia and Sri Lanka, among other destinations, Intrepid Foundation raised more than $600k for the introduced new measures to improve waste management and energy use we worked with hotel and accommodation suppliers to Seaweed Project with the film 2040 and the University of and reduce single-use plastics on our trips. In 2019, Urban Offset 125 per cent of our emissions – expand carbon Tasmania in partnership with The Climate Foundation. either install water dispensers or to ensure water is supplied Adventures committed to all tours being single-use plastic management to offset sources of emissions beyond our to travellers in an alternative to single-use water bottles. 53 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 54 OUR PERFORMANCE SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS ADVANCING THE B CORP MOVEMENT In 2019, we embedded B Corp throughout our company and in the wider business community. In its second year as a certified B Corp, Intrepid championed B CORP MONTH a number of initiatives that continue to help shape and Intrepid ran a number of initiatives, including screenings define our purpose beyond profit. of the environmental documentary 2040 for staff. Intrepid We became a B Corp in 2018, following a rigorous three-year supported the production of the film and The Intrepid certification process. Certification confirms we have met the Foundation is supporting a marine permaculture project highest standards of social and environmental performance, off the coast of Tasmania. public transparency and accountability. Intrepid is the largest GLOBAL CLIMATE STRIKE certified B Corp in the travel sector globally and the first certified B Corp in Cambodia, Sri Lanka and Vietnam. Intrepid joined other B Corps and businesses to support the Global Climate Strike on 20 September. We joined forces Our B Corp status helps to create value in a number of with Australian business collective This is Not Business ways, including driving positive change throughout the travel as Usual, which includes many B Corps, to unify the industry, engendering trust in our customers and positioning message about climate action. Along with other members us as an employer of choice. of the collective, Intrepid helped fund advertising in major Australian and international media outlets. On the day of SOME HIGHLIGHTS FROM the strike, more than 300 Intrepid staff were offered the THE YEAR INCLUDE: opportunity to attend the climate action rallies, and partners BENEFIT CORPORATION LEGISLATION and customers were encouraged to join the strike as well. Intrepid supported B Lab and other Australian B Corps OUTLOOK to seek legal change that would allow socially conscious 2020 is about being B Corp ready ahead of re-certification businesses to become ‘mission locked’ under Australian law. in 2021. Intrepid aims to improve its score of 90 in In other countries, such as the UK and US, companies re-certification. In 2018, 23 offices were assessed and are able to adopt corporate forms that allow them to this will rise in 2021. During 2019, all offices completed OVERALL B IMPACT SCORE legally embed a mission alongside profit as a core part of an assessment, reviewed gaps and identified areas for their business. Australia does not currently have a clear improvement. In 2020, initiatives to make improvements will COMMUNITY mechanism for companies to 'mission lock'. be implemented. Score 82.7 Score 23.3/56 Median Score* 50.9 Benchmark 30.6 Intrepid Co-founder Geoff ‘Manch’ Manchester has been part of a B Corp group that met with Senator James Paterson to explore solutions to this issue. The group has also engaged ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE MinterEllison to provide legal advice on pathways forward. SOME 2020 B CORP GOALS Score 15.6/25 Score 11.9/50 LEVERAGED B CORP Benchmark 12.3 Benchmark 17.6 Mission lock in US, Peru, Ecuador and Germany During 2019, Intrepid has become more active in the B Corp movement and supported other Australian businesses who Diversity and inclusion roll out WORKERS CUSTOMERS want to become B Corps, including our partner RAW Travel, Create visibility and tracking of supply chain Score 29.5/50 Score 2.1/90 which is now certified. Intrepid hired a dedicated B Corp Benchmark 19.7 Benchmark 13 manager and introduced the B Corp branding prominently Environmental improvements at office level across all marketing and corporate branding. *All businesses that have completed the B Impact Assessment 55 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 56 OUR PERFORMANCE SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS OUR RECONCILIATION ACTION PLAN As an Australian-owned business, Intrepid’s Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) is an important part of our commitment to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and provides a framework to support reconciliation. Reconciliation is about strengthening Intrepid works with a number of CONSERVATION IN ARNHEM LAND relationships between Aboriginal and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Intrepid has been carbon neutral Torres Strait Islander peoples and nontour operators, including Janbal Gallery since 2010 and in 2018 we revised Indigenous peoples, for the benefit of and Kuku Yalanji Cultural Habitat Tours our methodology to align with the all Australians. In 2019, our inaugural in Queensland. During 2019 we added Climate Active Carbon Neutral ‘Respect’ RAP was endorsed. new trip experiences including a First Standard. Adopting this new standard Nations contemporary art class led coincided with a review of our carbon During the two-year RAP development by Aboriginal guides in the Daintree offset projects. process, Intrepid assessed a number National Park in Queensland. of areas where we could make In 2019 we started working with a meaningful changes and work CULTURAL AWARENESS AND fire abatement project in Arnhem towards reconciliation. ENGAGEMENT Land, Northern Territory, which was At the time, Intrepid CEO James In 2019, more than 100 Melbournedeveloped by First Nations Ranger Thornton acknowledged Intrepid based staff participated in Indigenous groups to support Aboriginal land could do much more to improve Cultural Competency workshops and management through the sale of relationships with First Australians: cultural walks facilitated by the Koorie carbon credits. Savanna burning “The truth is that for all the good work Heritage Trust. Plus, during NAIDOC projects like this one reduces greenwe’ve done to empower communities Week, 70 staff attended film screenings house gas emissions by burning cool, Queensland, Australia in the places we visit, we haven’t done and events. lower intensity fires in the early dry enough here in Australia.” season when the vegetation contains CONNECTIONS AND NETWORKS moisture from the wet season. This ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF COUNTRY In August 2019, Intrepid partnered reduces the risks that uncontrolled, An Acknowledgement of Country with Ngamai Meetups, an initiative of late season bush fires can bring. This plaque was introduced in our Kalinya Communications and funded project creates employment for local Melbourne office and brand websites by RMIT, to build connections with Aboriginal peoples and supports now feature an Acknowledgement of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander bio-diversity conservation and cultural Country. We also displayed Aboriginal entrepreneurs and discuss the future protection, as cultural knowledge is and Torres Strait Islander flags and of First Nations-led tourism. transferred to younger generations. language maps in the office and In addition, we sponsored the OUTLOOK commissioned a mural by Koori artist #NgamaiChallenge, which invited Robert Young. Our second RAP will focus on trip WHAT WE We need to collaborate more effectively However, during 2019 we explored First Nations entrepreneurs to submit across the business. It is important that this and identified we needed further a video and letter pitching how itineraries, our supply chain, new LEARNT ITINERARIES IN AUSTRALIA partnerships and staff awareness. the necessary working group roles and consultation and support to ensure we they could grow their business by responsibilities are in place to drive our implement a successful program. Uluru in the Northern Territory connecting with communities around We have also started to formally We can is a cultural and spiritually significant involve Aboriginal and Torres Strait RAP forward. the globe. Entrepreneur and Muthi improve our Making changes to trip itineraries and site for First Australians. As such, Islander voices in our journey by Muthi and Gunditjmara woman Mikaela reconciliation We need to improve how we identify changing procurement arrangements during 2019, Intrepid removed working with consultants to form a Egan subsequently won an Intrepid initiatives that are more complex and may requires working closely with Aboriginal alcohol from our Uluru sunset tours RAP Advisory Group. journey. trip to Kenya in 2020, where she will take more time to develop. For and Torres Strait Islander operators. and traveller feedback has been meet with local business owners and instance, developing a First Nations overwhelmingly positive. community-based tourism projects. internship program is a key priority. 57 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 58 OUR PERFORMANCE SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS MEANINGFUL CONNECTIONS DRIVING CHANGE Gender equality, human rights and staff volunteering were focus areas during 2019. Intrepid engages with more than 5,000 partners and Double the number of female porters we have globally by suppliers globally. Our supply chain includes trade partners, 2022 hotels, transportation providers, DMCs, business service In 2019, we undertook research into porters, which revealed providers and many more. Intrepid’s product is built on opportunities for more gender equality among our porters. global partnerships and connections with numerous stakeholders. With our purpose-led approach, our By 2022, we will support our 200 largest suppliers to relationships and their impact on communities, staff and reduce gender inequality in their businesses partners are of utmost importance. Samburu, Kenya We will do this by working together to create conditions that We create value right across our supply chain via the product benefit both women and men, sharing best practice and that we create, revenue earning opportunities for businesses providing mentoring. and communities, and through the leadership position we take on sustainability and social issues. From 2020, we will report on our gender pay gap IN 2019, WE FOCUSED ON KEY AREAS, INCLUDING: This will help us have an open conversation about what the WORKING TOWARDS GENDER EQUALITY issues are and then set goals to address them. Intrepid strives for gender equality across all parts of the From 2020, we will have equal gender representation business, including in senior leadership, management, DMC through our spokespeople and storytellers offices, tour leaders, suppliers and more. We’ve been a signatory of the UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment We want to better reflect the diversity of our people and VOLUNTEER SNAPSHOT Principles since 2017. have set a goal to have equal representation through our Just a few of the volunteer projects that our staff have been involved with include: spokespeople and storytellers, whether that’s through In 2017, we set a goal to double our female tour leaders by speaking at events, talking to media or contributing to our 2020. In 2019, we reached our goal six months early, growing content. We believe representation matters. UNITED STATES SOUTH AFRICA AUSTRALIA INDONESIA ECUADOR from 153 in February 2017 to 314 by June 2019. ADVANCING HUMAN RIGHTS Staff participated Staff made food Staff planted over Staff took part in Staff helped to Linked to our efforts around female tour leaders, in 2018 in a park clean-up donations and 500 seedlings, a beach clean-up clear up Quito after we launched Women’s Expeditions – all-female tours led by In 2019 Intrepid published its second Modern Slavery for the Central Park contributed to helping to revitalize in Bali protests female guides. In the first year, these trips ran to Jordan, Iran Statement, in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act Conservancy housing projects the area and create a and Morocco and due to popularity, in 2019 we introduced 2015. On 1 January 2019, Australia’s Modern Slavery Act more natural habitat new trips to Nepal, India, Turkey and Kenya. Growing from just 2018 commenced. New online training was offered to all staff for Indigenous wildlife four departures to 36 in a matter of months, these have been about the legislation and our obligations. Close to 60 per among the fastest-selling tours in Intrepid’s history. We also cent of staff completing the training as of December 2019. have a strong focus on supporting female-owned businesses Staff requested that the training be offered in additional through our DMC operations and via The Intrepid Foundation. languages to English. OUTLOOK In 2019, we continued to advocate for children’s rights by providing guidance to travel industry partners on our journey Our female tour leader goal has had an impact globally, to transition away from removing visits to orphanages and 34% 65% 23% 12% 4,593 470 143 challenging perceptions and providing new employment residential care facilities on any of our global trips. This work opportunities for women in some of the countries where Volunteer hours Staff Different is guided by our steering committee membership of Rethink in 2019 completed volunteer we operate. Following the success of the initiative, we’ve vs 1936 in 2018 volunteer jobs Orphanages Australia. hours developed new goals and are committed to: (58% increase) completed OUTLOOK Intrepid will issue a third Modern Slavery Statement, in compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, and prepare Rubbish collection 0-10 11-19 20+ & tree planting Hours Hours Hours for its Australia Modern Slavery Statement, due in 2021. 59 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 60 OUR PERFORMANCE SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS OUR SOCIAL IMPACT: SPOTLIGHT ON VIETNAM Vietnam was the first country where we established a DMC office and it remains one of our most popular destinations. In 2019, PEAK DMC Vietnam cemented its place as a leader in Community Based Tourism. Purpose is at the forefront of all PEAK DMC Vietnam P  lanted nearly 200 trees in mangrove revegetation areas projects and it is the driving force behind the newly in partnership with Children’s Foundation, Blue Dragon founded partnership with local not-for-profit environmental and animal protection organisation, Four Paws organisation, GreenHub. Partnered with WWF Vietnam to end wildlife trade in GreenHub works across waste management, sustainable tourism in South East Asia agriculture, conservation and energy efficiency. The partnership Continued work with Da Bac Community Based Tourism with PEAK DMC Vietnam aims to develop and implement to improve safety, hygiene and infrastructure in the Hoa evidence-based practices that promote sustainability. Binh Province One program, located in Ha Long City, works with the local OUTLOOK Women’s Union to create bags made from recycled street banners and fabric. In Vietnam, it is estimated that more In 2020, PEAK DMC Vietnam will further its progress in a than 30 million tons of waste is produced annually but number of ways: only 10 per cent is recovered for recycling. This initiative C  ampaign to remove more than 10,000 plastic promotes education around recycling and encourages toothbrushes from hotels across Vietnam. entrepreneurship within the community. Plant 500 trees in mangrove revegetation areas, double In 2020, travellers will be able to join the women of Ha Long the number planted in 2019. City for a hands-on workshop to experience the program firsthand and continued to support community-based tourism. Work with Vietnam not-for-profit, Culture Identity and Resources Use Management (CIRUM) on several projects, MORE PARTNERSHIPS including the introduction of a framework around more Building on the success of the GreenHub partnership, sustainable approaches to local agricultural practices. PEAK DMC established a number of other community partnerships in 2019: 15 16,502 153 7 4 PEAK DMC Years of Travellers Staff in Local Current and VIETNAM operation in 2019 2019 communities potential supported partnerships Sapa, Vietnam 61 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 62 OUR PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER Annapurna , Nepal INSIGHTS AND DATA: DELIVERING Customer expectations are rapidly evolving – Intrepid has invested in a number of strategies to improve our customers’ experience. AN EXCEPTIONAL EXPERIENCE Intrepid carried a record 460,000 travellers across its journeys and trip anniversaries, has provided current and CUSTOMER CENTRIC SALES AND SERVICE In 2019 we also introduced a pay later option for tour operator brands in 2019, compared with 431,000 prospective customers with regular and engaging content. Using Salesforce functionality, an omnichannel pilot customers booking online. This had previously been in 2018. This is a strong result but we know that the project was launched in 2019 to enable anyone in our available to customers booking by phone. The introduction The introduction of Augmented Intelligence (AI) into web and traveller landscape is changing quickly and our customers’ global sales and service teams to answer any customer of pay later for our online customers resulted in a 138 per email resulted in doubling of email open rates, which confirms expectations are rapidly evolving. In order to remain enquiry at anytime from anywhere. All customer cent increase in bookings via mobile. our content is increasingly relevant to our customers. at the forefront of every part of the customer journey, enquiries through phone, live chat, and the website are These changes contributed to improvements in our we’ve embraced new technology, research methods and ANTHROPOLOGY CREATES CUSTOMER UNDERSTANDING now funnelled through Salesforce and directed to the bookings NPS, which increased from 57 to 61 for the strengthened on-trip safety policies. consultant who is best placed to respond. This means that To help us better understand customer needs we added Group globally in 2019. PERSONALISED COMMUNICATIONS an anthropologist to our design research team in 2019. we are providing our customers with our best service on This has resulted in more holistic and qualitative research the channel that best suits them. LOYALTY PROGRAM AND CUSTOMER RETENTION In 2019 we continued to focus on enhancing the across our feedback platforms, which has enabled us to In 2019, we discontinued the Legends loyalty program experience of our customers at every stage of their Omnichannel also provides a 360 degree or single view of better identify customer trends and provided insights for Intrepid and Peregrine. This was due to the high journey with us. Improved data capture and quality our customers, improving the efficiency of our consultants for new and existing business transformation projects, level of administration required and the small number has given us new insights and understanding of our and enabling them to provide a more personalised service. including the launch of new search functionality in 2020. of customers utilising the program. The process was customers. We have developed new systems that enable This has improved our data collection and reporting, which The impact of using ethnographic methodology for hampered by data limitations and received a mixed the personalisation of our communications, helping us to provides greater insights and improves our relationships customer research has seen Intrepid recognised externally reaction from customers. better connect with our customers. with customers. This has contributed to a 6.6 per cent by Haas, Harvard Business School as a case study in its increase in productivity for APAC, our largest sales region. Customer retention continues to be a focus and in The development of a new series of triggered email course material. 2019 we introduced Insiders, an exclusive community of journeys, including responses to abandoned cart travellers that have travelled at least once with Intrepid or 63 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 64 OUR PERFORMANCE CUSTOMER Peregrine, as a way of recognising all customers. Insiders USING DATA TO IMPROVE CUSTOMER SAFETY CUSTOMER HIGHLIGHTS who are subscribed to our email marketing receive email The safety and security of customers and our people updates with exclusive content. It is early days for Insiders, is Intrepid’s first priority. We continually identify but early results show there is an appetite from our opportunities to improve customer safety. In 2019, we past customers for more regular perks. An email with an completed a major review of our operational health and exclusive Cyber Sale offer for Insiders in North America safety policy and introduced additional training and on trip achieved almost double the usual click through rate and measures. Using Salesforce, we developed a new incident contributed to an overall campaign result that was 122 per database which has helped us to prevent, manage, and cent to target. report on incidents. HELPING AGENTS TO SUPPORT CUSTOMERS OUTLOOK Travel agent partners continued to be our most important sales and distribution channels globally. Covid-19 has impacted our customers at every stage of 74% 90% 14% the journey. Intrepid responded rapidly in order to keep Of agents have Reduction of time taken Productivity To help travel agents to better help our customers, in customers informed about the fast-changing situation. transitioned to the new to complete customer improvement for product 2019 we delivered a new self-service online booking The crisis demonstrated the strength of our incident online booking engine insurance checks growth managers experience that enables our agent partners to create management plan, which enabled our global operations and manage bookings from any device, delivering easy team to bring more than 3,000 travellers home. While access on an iPad at customer events or on a mobile our global operations may be paused during 2020, we phone for agents on the go. More than 74 per cent of are continuing to adapt to meet the evolving needs of our agent partners have transitioned to the new agent customers. Following a beta launch in 2019, in 2020 we portal, significantly reducing the need for post-booking launched new search functionality on the Intrepid Travel support from our team and providing faster service for website, which makes it easier for our customers to find our customer. The new agent portal and improvements the trip that best suits them. This has already improved to our Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system our conversion by two per cent overall. provided our partnership growth managers with tools to be more effective, resulting in a 14 per cent improvement NET PROMOTER SCORES in productivity. NPS is a key customer metric and something that we LEADER PORTAL CREATES WARMER WELCOME take very seriously. In 2019, we rolled out a new mobile portal that enables INTREPID our leaders and our customers to start their trip right – eliminating necessary admin so that have more time to 70 2017 connect with each other and discover the destination. The new leader portal connects with our reservation systems, 2018 73 which allows tour leaders to access traveller information 2019 74 online. Leaders have a clearer view of customers, which allows them to cater to their individual requirements and ensure a more seamless check-in process at the start of a URBAN ADVENTURES trip. It also creates an opportunity to validate the customer data stored in our systems. This has resulted in major 2017 72 efficiencies, reducing the time to complete customer 2018 73 insurance checks by 90 per cent. We’ve received excellent feedback from leaders, such as: “…for me (and the group) it 2019 81 was easy and fast. Travellers were also happy because there is no paper involved. Most of the information was there and PEREGRINE ADVENTURES it was correct, so it was fast to confirm for each customer.” Goreme, Turkey 2017 64 2018 66 2019 65 65 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 66 OUR PERFORMANCE PEOPLE INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Intrepid has a diverse and global team located in 40+ countries. In 2019 we restructured the senior leadership team, engaged with our people and strengthened systems. Melbourne HQ With our team spread across multiple continents, there ANNUAL STAFF SURVEY are naturally different skills, experience and requirements We also listened to our people, with the 2019 overall global across our business. In line with our 2025 strategy, we aim staff survey receiving a 94 per cent participation rate (up to attract, retain and develop world-class talent and hungry, WORKFORCE AT A GLANCE from 89 per cent in 2018). The response was strong but humble and smart people across the Intrepid business. the survey revealed a decline in overall global employee TOTAL GENDER SPLIT BY GENDER SPLIT BY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM engagement score to 77 per cent (from 82 per cent in 2018). WORKERS OFFICE EMPLOYEES LEADERS AND CREW During 2019 we restructured our senior team to align While this is still a good result – in fact, five per cent higher with our 2025 Strategy. than the B Corp average – we aim for higher. In addition, we saw a decline in employee Net Promotor Score (eNPS), which BONUSES AND STAFF COSTS dropped to 45 (from 55 in 2018). Thanks to Intrepid’s strong performance in 2019, and despite Our People team has invested time in trying to understand the impacts of Covid-19 on the travel industry at the start of more around these results and are working on plans at a 2020, Intrepid honoured its commitment to pay more than local and global level. This includes each department being $3.5m to staff in bonuses in the first half of the year. required to post a transparent pledge on our company’s 57% Men (1,362) 39% Men 72% Men In order to protect as many jobs as possible, in response intranet (Yammer) to explain what they will do differently to 43% Women (1,036) 61% Women 28% Women to the impacts of Covid-19 a number of actions were taken. help create a stronger employee experience for our people. Undisclosed (1) This is aimed at protecting the business, our people and our communities during an uncertain time and retaining skills for when the industry recovers. TOTAL HEADCOUNT ENGAGEMENT SURVEY 94% 45 77% 1,771 +362 or 17% 2,133 +266 or 12% 2,399 Participation rate Employee Net Promotor Score Employee engagement score 2017 2018 2019 (up from 89% in 2018) (eNPS) (down from 55 in 2018) (down from 82% in 2018) 67 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 68 OUR PERFORMANCE PEOPLE INVESTMENT IN SYSTEMS We also continued to offer classroom-based offerings and saw FLEXIBLE WORKING Our teams are global so it is essential to have systems that an 11 per cent increase in offerings across face-to-face offerings. provide accurate and timely information and supports our In addition, we set a target of 100 per cent of office-based employees throughout their employment. staff setting at least one development goal. This was aimed In 2019 we implemented the first phase of our People Portal, at encouraging team members to take responsibility for their own development plan. We achieved 100 per cent uptake. 2,399 1,299 169 32 a top-tier HR system provider. We launched five modules: People Central (Core HR data), Recruitment, Onboarding, Workers Leaders Part-time employees Employees permanently INCENTIVES AND EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS working from a homeCompliance Training (LMS) and Performance & Goals. We’ve and crew No major updates were made to the employee incentive based office seen numerous benefits to the business and our people as a program in 2019. As in previous years, we continue to result, including stronger privacy practices and risk reduction, offer a suite of benefits, including one FOC (free of charge) improved data integrity and more productivity. educational trip a year for permanent employees, as well as LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT volunteering opportunities, travel discounts, global parental Ongoing learning and development are essential for Intrepid leave, flexible work arrangements and perks including social to remain ahead of the pack. As such, we continue to use the events. The employee share scheme also welcomed another online learning platform Degreed and in 2019 we saw a 23 per 20 employees, bringing us to a total of 43 staff with shares cent increase in usage of the hub. Employees shared 60 per in Intrepid. cent more items, showing they were engaged with the system. Other important initiatives that the People team have As a global business, the main benefit of the online system been closely involved with include gender diversity and the is to empower our people to drive their own learning and Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). reduce the need for travel, while ensuring a high-level of OUTLOOK access to learning. One event, however, that a number of With the impacts of Covid-19 affecting our business, we staff did travel to was the Global Summit. More than 360 are focused on protecting as many jobs as possible, and staff from around the world attended, in addition to more retaining the skills we need for when growth returns. than 40 additional partners and industry guests. Melbourne HQ (all images) ANNUAL STAFF TURNOVER AVERAGE LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT 13% 4.18 Staff only, excluding leaders, crew & contractors 69 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 70 OUR PERFORMANCE BRAND AND KNOW-HOW BRINGING SERT TO CHINA In 2019, we expanded our presence in South America, with In December, Intrepid Travel announced a strategic the full integration of our Chimu DMC partners in Rio de partnership with China’s largest OTA, Ctrip. Recognising that Janeiro and Santiago. In January 2020, we opened a new GROWING THE MARKET FOR Chinese travel habits are changing, the partnership will see Intrepid’s style of sustainable experience-rich trips localised destination management company in Bogota, Colombia, becoming the 25th DMC in our global network. SUSTAINABLE EXPERIENCE for the Chinese market, with Chinese speaking guides. Ten There were some challenges for Peak DMC in 2019. For Intrepid trips were launched on the Ctrip platform covering the first time in 10 years, the DMC network did not reach destinations such as Morocco, Nepal, and Peru. Sales have RICH TRAVEL its EBIT Target, as the cost of operating our tours in some been impacted by Coronavirus in Q1, but are expected to destinations increased by more than anticipated impacting kick off when global travel returns. our gross margin. Despite this, Peak DMC contributed $6.9m TAILORMADE EBIT to the overall group result. Intrepid’s growth is driven by the increasing global demand for ecoKnown as a global leader in small group travel, Intrepid SAFETY FIRST conscious and locally immersive travel experiences. In 2019, we continued recognized the opportunity for tailormade or Free As a vertically integrated global company, Intrepid Group and to leverage our competitive advantage as a global vertically integrated Independent Traveller (FIT) sales in its 2020 strategy. PEAK DMC proactively managed a wide range of incidents travel company, who are thought leaders in sustainable experience-rich Although Tailormade travel is not actively marketed by too, including ongoing protests in destinations such as Hong Intrepid, 2019 saw a 23% increase in customised trip travel. In 2019 we focused on the growth of our core brands, Intrepid Travel Kong, Bolivia and Chile and the large-scale bombing attack in sales from independent travellers drawn to the brand’s Sri Lanka. The aftermath of the Easter Sunday terror attack and Peregrine Adventures, as well as on growing our DMC partnerships. sustainability credentials and local expertise. In 2020, saw a strong customer-led response, with our experienced Intrepid will complete the implementation of Travel Studio, Peak DMC Sri Lanka and Asia Product teams working quickly a new system which will enable all 25 DMCs to provide quick to ensure that the many Intrepid and Peregrine travellers on and accurate quotes on tailormade tours. the ground were safe and well. INTREPID TRAVEL Our customers and our staff are passionate about URBAN ADVENTURES sustainability, and in 2019 Intrepid Travel focused on better OUTLOOK FOR 2020 It was another year of growth for Intrepid Travel as we Previously the fastest growing brand in the Intrepid Group, integrating our purpose into our brand storytelling through marked the 30 year anniversary of our hero brand. The 2019 saw highs and lows for Urban Adventures. The brand WORLD-LEADING PARTNERSHIPS: four key themes: gender equality, animal welfare, climate milestone was celebrated with the operation of our first saw a 30% increase in departed revenue, but this was below The growing reputation of the Intrepid brand has resulted in action, and our B Corp community. Uncharted ‘mystery trip’, which departed Kazakhstan in expectations. This was due to a number of factors. In 2019, new brand-building partnerships. In January 2020, Intrepid June. Designed in the spirit of Intrepid’s first exploratory As an independently owned business, we’re not afraid to be Urban Adventures single biggest destination, stopped dead launched a range of tours with world-leading travel publisher trip, Uncharted demonstrated our global operational outspoken on these issues and to publicly commit to being overnight when the United States changed the rules on Lonely Planet. Lonely Planet Experiences comprises of 200 expertise and the power of Intrepid’s brand, as the trip sold better. In 2019, we continued to take a thought leadership Americans visiting Cuba. Changes to Google search and day-tours operated by Urban Adventures and more than out in less than 24 hours. role, supporting events around the world, including the display challenged the brands digital performance, and 130 multi-day tours including walking, cycling, food, festivals, launch of the documentary 2040. The highlight of our Urban Adventures also suffered from the knock-on effect of family and marine adventures. The brand partnership enable In 2019, the Ocean Endeavour Expedition Company was advocacy work was our collaboration with the B Corp changing market conditions for OTAs. Intrepid to reach a new global audience and the range of tours established by Chimu Adventures to oversee the new community on the Climate Strike. will replace Intrepid’s Basix style. Intrepid Group Polar program. This marks Intrepid as one Marking its 10-year anniversary in October, there was a lot of just a handful of travel companies around the world to INTREPID SIMPLIFIES BRAND STRUCTURE for Urban Adventures to celebrate in 2019. The New York In February 2020 Intrepid launched a new partnership operate trips on every continent. Intrepid Group sold the Adventure Tours Australia brand to Times expanded its range from 12 to now include 21 cities; with WWF-Australia which will create shared value Discovery Adventure Group in December, as part of a plan and seven new destinations were also added to Urban for customers and the environment. WWF-Australia As Intrepid grows globally we’re able to see new travel to progressively simplify its brand structure and focus on our Adventures’ global network: researchers will be conducting scientific research into trends emerging amongst our customers and in destinations core brand, Intrepid Travel. Antarctica’s great whales and sharing it with travellers globally – and then collaborate across the business to Customer numbers also continued to increase, with more onboard Intrepid’s Ocean Endeavour voyages in 2021 innovate our product. All current Intrepid Australia trips will continue to be sold in than 300,000 people travelling with Urban Adventures last and 2022. The partnership also aims to establish marine In 2019, we focused on improving our core products – those 2020 under the Intrepid Travel brand, but over time Intrepid’s year, up 13%. Most importantly, the feedback from these protected areas in the Southern Ocean. trips that have the greatest impact on our commercial Australia trips will become more aligned with product in other customers was outstanding: Urban Adventures achieved an success – and built out product categories that we feel have parts of the world. Intrepid has taken a stake in Discovery NPS score of 81. exciting growth potential, including 18 to 29s, Antarctica Adventure Group as part of the deal. In 2020, Intrepid Group is working closely with our Urban Expeditions, Women’s Expeditions and Family Adventures. PEREGRINE ADVENTURES Adventures Partners to review the business model. Day ADVENTURE.COM Our global brand and operational expertise is also enabling us The demand for a more comfortable style of sustainable touring is a core part of our 2025 strategy and our focus is Throughout 2019, Adventure.com continued to have an impact on the wider travel industry. For example, experience-rich travel saw huge growth for the Peregrine on ensuring the business benefits all its stakeholders. to build respect and authority among both the we’ve been outspoken on overtourism in media, talking to Adventures brand in 2019. Our core product saw 36% travel industry and travellers themselves by PEAK DMC CONTINUES TO GROW trends through our annual Adventure Index. Operationally, growth, while our Adventure Cruising charters saw 118% focusing on stories that go beyond just travel It was Intrepid’s global destination management company, we are actively responding to disperse traveller numbers growth year on year. The decision was made to change our and dig deeper into communities, cultures, PEAK DMC, that saw the biggest year-on-year growth with in a number of ways. In 2020, we are also replacing some Polar charters from being Peregrine branded to Intrepid personalities, destinations and ideas for our sales from DMC partners up by 67% in 2019. This is an destinations from selected itineraries that are under branded, to ensure that we reach a global audience with the sustainable future. Collectively, our global emerging area of the business that will help to grow the significant pressure. For example, removing Halong Bay from new product range. network of travel writers and photographers overall market for sustainable and experience-rich travel. itineraries and replaced with Cat Ba Island. brought home eight award wins (beating out While Peregrine sales were up in 2019, the brand’s NPS Peak DMC also continues to expand its scope of trip styles household-name publications in the process) In 2019, we focused on growing our brand and our vision of score was 64 for the year, which was below the target of 67. – increasingly operating educational trips and tailormade or Changing The Way People See the World, by leveraging our Further training has been rolled out across the business to FIT travel for tour operator partners. global operational expertise. better meet the needs of Peregrine travellers going forward. 71 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 72 OUR PERFORMANCE BRAND AND KNOW-HOW MEDIA COVERAGE We achieved incredible media coverage globally in 2019, across every channel and medium here’s REACHING NEW just a sample: We beamed the Land of the Rising Sun into Aussie AUDIENCES living rooms via Channel 9’s Sunrise, one of Australia’s biggest morning TV shows. Over a week in March, the show’s weather presenter Sam ‘Mac’ McMillan and the Sunrise weather team toured Japan, broadcasting live from various destinations across Japan. Environmental activism, sustainability and gender equality were high on the media agenda in 2019, and Intrepid’s leadership in this space In the UK, BBC’s Travel Show featured Intrepid Travel’s women-only expedition in Morocco's Atlas was recognised by award wins and media mentions on these topics. Mountains, with presenter Cat Moh discovering As a business that balances purpose with profit, the company also Berber culture and history. The show was also available to a global audience online. won some significant business awards and attracted coverage in leading business and finance titles. In the US, Intrepid was featured on NBC’s The Today Show’s Travel Tuesday deals segment. The program is one the country’s most popular morning shows, reaching some four million viewers. We had a lot to celebrate. Here’s just a few of the accolades we received in 2019: Our stories attracted phenomenal coverage in print too, including London’s widely circulated daily newspaper The Evening Standard’s story on ‘Why Intrepid Travel is the eco-conscious travel company to know’. UK broadsheet The Telegraph featured Intrepid’s Thailand Adventure Cruise trip in a story by travel journalist Jo Booth, which described Intrepid as Ones of World’s Most Best for Sustainable Best Managed “community tourism at its best”. And, luxury UK Innovative Companies Business Company lifestyle brand Harper Bazaar featured Intrepid in FAST COMPANY BRITISH TRAVEL AND DELOITTE AUSTRALIA its feature ‘How to be a More Sustainable Traveller’ HOSPITALITY HALL OF with tips on how to live like a local and support FAME AWARDS community businesses. Intrepid’s women-only trips also attracted coverage from respected print media titles globally. Just a few outlets who ran stories on these femaleled expeditions include Metro in the UK, The Independent and The Telegraph, among many others. Media titles also tempted their audience’s taste Best in Adventure Best for Social Impact Responsible Travel buds with stories on food-related trips. For instance, (Finalist) Initiative of the Year The Sunday Telegraph featured Intrepid’s vegan INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL & TOURISM AWARDS tours in Thailand, in line with the rising demand WTTC TOURISM FOR TTG TRAVEL AWARDS for plant-based diets and food experiences. And, TOMORROW AWARDS other food trips were featured in The Guardian, The Independent, Metro and The Telegraph. Meanwhile, business media titles also found plenty of reasons to feature Intrepid and its senior leaders. Leading business title, Australian Financial Review featured interviews with CEO James Thornton and then chief purpose office Change Maker Award Audience Selection (now chief customer officer) Leigh Barnes, reaching Shared Value a business audience of 756K. Plus, Intrepid coINTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE TRAVEL VIDEO AWARDS Organisation to Watch founder and chairman Darrell Wade was profiled in FOR PEACE THROUGH SHARED VALUE PROJECT Company Director, the magazine of the Australian TOURISM Institute of Company Directors. 73 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 74 OUR GOVERNANCE EXPERIENCED LEADERSHIP, INDEPENDENT VIEWPOINTS We appointed two Non-Executive Directors to the Board to strengthen our governance. New policies and processes have been introduced to strengthen risk management. And, why we’re focused on climate risk. 75 Intrepid GROUP INTREPIDGroup Annual ANNUAL Report 2019 2019 REPORT INTREPID GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 76 OUR GOVERNANCE THE BOARD THE PEOPLE WHO SET OUR DIRECTION In 2019, additional rigour Intrepid is governed by the Intrepid Two experienced non-executive Group Board of directors, who have directors joined the Board in 2019 was introduced with two been appointed by shareholders. The – Liz Savage and Sarah Morgan. non-executive directors Board is responsible for governance These appointments reflect Intrepid’s and setting the strategy and overall commitment to diversity at all levels joining the Board. direction of the business. The Board of the business, including within is committed to the highest standards senior management, and ensured the of governance and develops policies, company realised its goal to have 40 practices and procedures in line with per cent female directors on the Board best practice. by 2020. DARRELL WADE, CHAIRMAN GEOFF MANCHESTER JAMES THORNTON Member since 1989 Member since 1989 Member since 2015 KEY GOVERNANCE BOARD EFFECTIVENESS access to all relevant information. At Darrell is the co-founder of Intrepid Geoff, known as ‘Manch’, is the coJames began his career in asset ISSUES IN 2019 each board meeting, a member of the Travel and chairman of Intrepid Group. founder of Intrepid Travel and director management before making a career Annually, the Board reviews its own, as Core Management Team will present Darrell is a successful entrepreneur of Intrepid Group. Manch helps change to join Intrepid’s UK office. Understanding that governance well as the Audit and Risk Committee’s, on their area and the Board receives and works with a number of start-ups ensure Intrepid continually delivers As CEO he is focused on growing the practices can impact value, during the performance. Board members all reports and in-depth presentations and accelerators, and is a passionate on its sustainable and responsible market for sustainable, experience-rich year, the Board focused on: complete a survey on the performance from these executives. advocate for responsible tourism. travel ethos. Manch spearheaded travel and operating a company that of the Board and the Committee, His interest in climate change was the establishment of The Intrepid balances purpose and profit. Under his  Achievement of the 2020 Strategy which seeks to determine whether All board meetings were held in stimulated after reading The Weather Foundation in 2002 and was integral to leadership, Intrepid achieved and launch of the 2025 Strategy both function effectively and efficiently. Melbourne, except one which was Makers and he became one of the the Group becoming a B Corp in 2019. B Corporation certification and A 2019 report was prepared for the held in Bangkok. This gave the Board In-depth analysis of our approach first Australians to complete Al Gore’s Manch is an ambassador for Conscious recorded record growth since 2016. He Board, which will evaluate the findings the opportunity to visit a DMC and to mergers and acquisitions and Climate Reality Project training. He is a Capitalism Australia. is a member of the Young President’s and form priorities for 2020. experience an Urban Adventures daycommenced investigations into member of the Executive Committee of Organisation and the Australian tour first hand. The directors gained emerging markets The independent and founding the World Travel and Tourism Council. Institute of Company Directors. a better understanding of regional directors meet separately at every differences in the business and the R  evised the Audit and Risk board meeting to discuss a number specifics of various markets. Committee Charter and of issues, including the effectiveness implemented the Board Delegations of the Board. An evaluation of each The chair of the Audit and Risk of Authority Policy director, including the chairman, was Committee reports to the Board on Reviewed the company’s approach conducted by the company secretary. matters considered or decided in to hedging the Committee meetings and the The directors are encouraged to Board frequently reviews the actual Detailed review of Health and Safety have free and open contact with performance of the Group versus its policies and procedures management at all levels, and full long-term strategy. LIZ SAVAGE SARAH MORGAN BOARD GENDER DIVERSITY Member since January 2019 Member since January 2019 Sarah is a experienced non-executive Board meetings attended Liz is a full-time company director and director and serves on a number in 2019 (6 in total) holds non-executive director roles across a portfolio of organisations of boards, including Adslot, Nitro including Auckland Airport, North Software, Future Generation, Darrell Wade 6 Queensland Airports, and Triathlon Melbourne Girls Grammar School, the Geoff Manchester 5 2018 100% 2019 60% 40% Australia. Liz was formerly business National Gallery of Victoria Foundation James Thornton 6 development director of UK low-cost and Whispir. She has worked on Liz Savage 6 airline easyJet and chief commercial significant transactions in both Sarah Morgan 6 officer of Virgin Australia. Australia and globally, across a range Male Male Female of industries. 77 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 78 OUR GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT AN ACTIVE Intrepid Group uses the COSO Enterprise Risk Management ASSURANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT – Integrated Framework to manage its global risk. We use Intrepid Group’s risk management framework is designed to RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK APPROACH a multi-layered approach to identify, manage and mitigate manage, rather than eliminate, risk and it can only provide external and operational risks. reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Intrepid Board has appointed the Audit and Risk misstatement or loss. Strategic Intrepid Group Board Committee to lead risk governance. This committee oversees Audit And Risk Committee Governance Intrepid’s internal control framework ensures the accuracy the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management and reliability of financial reporting, including clearly defined As a multi-brand global business, systems across the business and actively participates in the lines of accountability and delegation of authority, and Intrepid is exposed to a number of ‘topdown’ identification, assessment and acceptance of procedures that cover all aspects of the business. strategic risk. In 2019 two non-executive directors joined business risks that may materially Operational the Board, and one of them joined the Audit and Risk SOURCES OF ASSURANCE impact our business, so an effective Committee as chair. The Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the Core Management Team Governance risk management system is essential effectiveness of the group’s systems of internal control to the In addition, Intrepid Group has three lines of defense against Audit and Risk Committee. to safeguarding our success. risk and all levels of our risk management framework work together to ensure business risks are mitigated: This covers all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management The Core Management Team (CMT) manages business risks First Line systems. The committee is supported by several sources of at an operational level. This team ensures a culture of risk internal assurance to complete these reviews, in particular: Global Leadership Team awareness, control focus and ‘doing the right thing’ within the business. Nominated risk champions within business COMPLIANCE REVIEW of Defence units promote and implement risk management. Intrepid Group’s main assurance relies on the compliance The Intrepid Group functions, which are set up to identify program, which includes quarterly compliance checks of the Group’s key controls, regular spot checks of key controls, Group Functions Second Line opportunities to further mitigate common group-wide risk and set required control standards; communicating and tax, licensing, updates on fraud and other irregularities, and Intrepid Group Compliance onsite compliance visits to global group entities. Tech Services of Defence reporting these to the wider business. Peak DMC Global Independent assurance by way of external auditors, who FUNCTIONAL ASSURANCE provide independent and objective assessment of the This includes health and safety and our effectiveness of risk management, operational controls and environmental footprint. Third Line of defence governance processes. The auditors also provide guidance Independent Assurance to the management team on risk and control through ad-hoc External Auditors consulting, as required. 79 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 80 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR MATERIAL RISKS RISKS AND Intrepid has identified the most pressing risks to our stakeholders and our ongoing business MITIGATION success, as well as potential consequences if these risks are not addressed. CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION MEASURES During 2019 Intrepid has significantly increased its action and advocacy on climate change. Within the business we have taken a number of steps to mitigate the risk of extreme The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) weather events and to reduce our carbon footprint overall. CLIMATE CHANGE: special report on the impacts of global warming of 1.5ºC We are a signatory to the UN Global Compact and our SDGs above pre-industrial levels clearly describes the key impacts underpin our approach to the environment. and comparisons between global warming of 1.5°C and 2°C. STILL A MAJOR RISK The IPCC urges immediate global action in rapidly reducing carbon dioxide emissions at an unprecedented pace and scale. Climate risk is already real for Intrepid and is creating IN 2019, SOME OF THESE STEPS INCLUDED: Decarbonising the business – Intrepid has been carbon neutral since 2010. In late 2018, we revised our reporting value chain vulnerabilities. Climate-related risk is no longer methodology in line with Climate Active, formally known as The travel industry is grappling with Covid-19, one of the biggest shocks only an environmental issue but also one that has direct the National Carbon Offsetting Standards (NCOS), under the long-term financial and reputational impact across our to ever hit the sector, but our chairman Darrell Wade believes despite this, value chain. Australian Government’s Carbon Neutral Initiative. We have ultimately climate change remains the biggest risk facing all travel businesses. committed to becoming climate positive in the future. This CONSEQUENCES means, we’re creating environmental benefits by removing additional carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and Climate change presents profound implications for our decarbonising our business by reducing emissions from our business. Not adequately addressing climate change will Manch and I co-founded Intrepid over 30 years ago and contribution to the global economy and some trips and global operations. have negative consequences for our revenue, profit and we’re very proud of the role we’ve played in making the of the carbon intensive aspects of the industry, long-term growth – for instance, increased physical or Committed to a SBTi in December 2019 to reduce world a better place. More than that though, I’m proud of the such as aviation. financial vulnerability due to climate-related impacts. emissions, in line with climate science. We will be incredible benefits travel brings to the whole world. Most people acknowledge we have a climate crisis. Yet submitting our targets to the SBTi for validation in 2020 Physical assets (our offices) and products and services (trips) As an industry we account for 10.4 per cent of the world’s the travel industry continues to talk its way out of taking are vulnerable to weather and climate change. This includes Started discussions with Tourism Declares and in GDP and more than one in 10 jobs worldwide. The meaningful action. There are, of course, exceptions and we increased frequency and severity of extreme weather January 2020 went public with our Climate Emergency tourism industry can take people out of poverty and gives should praise these businesses that are reducing emissions events, such as heatwaves, hurricanes, floods or stress on Declaration and seven-point action plan them enjoyable, meaningful and financially rewarding further and targetting carbon neutrality to reduce their water resources. In 2019, Intrepid had to reroute a number employment. That’s big. Beyond that, tourism protects emissions further. We should also acknowledge those of trips or change inclusions due to extreme weather events Invested in green bonds. and values ecosystems, assists with gender equality and companies that have signed up to Tourism Declares a – just a few examples include: Advocated for action on climate change as part of the builds far greater understanding between visitors and Climate Emergency. But many, many more need to do this. In Sri Lanka, a fast-growing destination for Intrepid and Not Business As Usual collective of B Corps during the host communities, which directly contributes to world As travellers we should support these businesses – and location for our shared services centre, there were Global Climate Strike peace. In fact, if you look at the United Nations Sustainable avoid those that continue to dodge the biggest crisis the Development Goals (SDGs), you’ll see that tourism is a key world is facing. electricity shortages due to drought impacting the Increased renewable energy use in our offices globally contributor to the achievement of these goals. I doubt there production of electricity at the country’s hydro-electric I find it both amazing and frustrating that travel industry power stations. Some suppliers, such as smaller hotels Reviewed our product to identify opportunities to use would be an industry that contributes more. And, because companies claim they can’t afford to do anything. I would and local restaurants, do not have generators, and this more environmentally friendly modes of transport, in our industry typically grows faster than global GDP, these argue they can’t afford not to do anything. As a company resulted in some itinerary changes having to be made. cases where it won’t compromise safety or experience benefits get more impactful every year. Yes, we have a lot to director, one of my roles is to manage risk for Intrepid. be proud of in our industry. Supported reforestation community projects through There is no bigger risk management issue for the world than Bushfires across various parts of Australia in the second But we have a dirty little secret, too. A secret that as climate change. For our sector, we simply won’t have a travel half of 2019 resulted in a number of trips having to The Intrepid Foundation an industry we try to hush away and pretend doesn’t industry if we don’t manage this risk correctly. be rerouted or adjusted, including some in Western Invested in technology that enables meetings to be exist. Or isn’t our fault. Or we can’t do anything about. Australia and New South Wales. Intrepid has been taking action on climate change for conducted via video conferencing But it’s not little, and it’s not really even a secret. It’s our 15 years, and we’ve been carbon neutral for more than a In Europe, heatwaves during the summer months meant carbon emissions. Educated and informed management and staff about decade. Our sales and profitability are both an order of a number of activities had to be rescheduled to cooler climate change risks and adaptation measures And, because our industry has been growing quickly, our magnitude larger than they were 15 years ago – so our parts of the day, such as early in the morning. emissions have also grown rapidly. Worse, we’re one of the action certainly hasn’t inhibited our growth. It won’t for Outlook: We need to better understand the risks and Our offices are not immune to the impact of extreme few industries that isn’t taking collective action. In fact, even others either. opportunities presented by a transition to a lower emission weather events. In 2019 our Bangkok office was flooded individual action is happening too rarely. future. In 2020 we will significantly ramp up our action on The time for talk is well and truly over. The decade for due to torrential rainfall, resulting in insurance claims and climate change, including conducting a climate risk and Depending on the data source, our industry accounts climate action starts now. losses in productivity. Heatwaves in various regions required opportunity study. for anywhere between two and eight per cent of global greater use of air conditioning in offices, resulting in higher emissions. I suspect it’s even more than that, given our DARRELL WADE operating costs. 81 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 82 OUR GOVERNANCE OUR MATERIAL RISKS MAJOR GLOBAL INCIDENT MITIGATION MEASURES DIGITAL HEALTH MITIGATION MEASURES All trips are run in accordance with the travel advice Implemented Agile project management practices to issued by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs, enable projects and the wider business to react to with reference also made to the governmental travel changing circumstances and ensure we are working advisories from other key source markets. towards up-to-date goals. Our business model is based on having a balanced Ensure we have appropriate resources allocated to Intrepid Group and its passengers are exposed to the destination mix to minimise concentration risk. Inability to implement, or poor implementation of, digital executing this strategy through our five-year planning inherent risk of domestic and/or international incidents strategy leading to us falling behind in the marketplace and process and embed changes through training and affecting some of the countries that we operate in, including Minimise the impact of any potential negative events in systems failing to match the business needs. support. terrorism, natural disasters and pandemics. our source markets and destinations by ensuring the effective execution of our incident management plans. CONSEQUENCES Continue to execute our digital strategy and support CONSEQUENCES the digital customer journey. Strategy is reviewed as The business is debt-free and maintains a healthy level An inability to react to changes in the market leading The risk of injury or trauma to customers, including part of the ongoing goals alignment process. of free cash, which allows us to absorb temporary to misallocation of resources and an inability to meet possible death, potentially leading to lawsuits, fines and customer demand. shocks to cash reserves resulting from regionalised Prioritise ongoing vigilance and a renewed focus on penalties, as well as significant reputational damage. destabilisation. data protection, privacy and cyber security. We hold cyber insurance to reduce the consequences should Our DMC network has strong relationships with local a serious breach occur. Staff education and a focus tourism bodies and travel and aviation associations, on the issue from senior management reinforce the and actively monitors the political situation in volatile importance of data protection and cyber health. destinations and keeps updated on disease risks. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT MITIGATION MEASURES ON TRIP SAFETY MITIGATION MEASURES We closely monitor and action critical KPIs (passenger The Health and Safety Policy is embedded into all numbers, trip fill, average selling price etc.). parts of the business, both in our offices and at an operational level. We closely monitor and action changes in political environment, such as Brexit. Regular assessment of on-ground adherence to our Health and Safety Policy through customer feedback, Spending on travel and tourism is discretionary and price Actively manage, and invest in, resources for our yield Provision of travel includes potential risks to safety for both leaders’ trip reports and trip safety audits. sensitive. The economic outlook remains uncertain with management systems to ensure flexibility and resilience customers and employees. different source markets at different points in the recovery in our business model. This ensures that each trip fill is A Global Incident Management Plan ensures any cycle. Consumers are also waiting longer to book their trips maximised, and capacity is aligned closely to forecasts in CONSEQUENCES incident is dealt with in a timely and professional in order to assess their financial situation. order to protect margins and profit growth. manner. Tracking and review of incidents to mitigate The risk of injury or trauma to customer or staff, including possible death, potentially leading to lawsuits, fines and any further damage to customers or the business. CONSEQUENCES Maintain a healthy free cash position to absorb any penalties, as well as significant reputational damage. An ability to react to changes in the market leading to temporary shocks. Comprehensive insurance is in place. misallocation of resources and an inability to meet customer Continue to ensure we have a diversified customer All leaders and guides receive regular and demand. base and that we are targeting growing sectors of the comprehensive health and safety training. industry. We aim to obtain number one position in each Maximise the use of in-house DMC network where we market. have more direct control over quality assurance. Management has ability to adjust cost structure in response to changing market conditions. TALENT MANAGEMENT MITIGATION MEASURES Continue to work on putting succession and development plans in place for all identified businesscritical roles. Run a suite of internal management development programs and invest in an online learning ecosystem The Group’s success depends on its ability to attract, develop to ensure consistent and accessible content is available and retain high-quality talent, including key management globally at all times for all of our people. while remaining competitive within the market. Undertake a range of activities to build culture and CONSEQUENCES increase engagement. Increased cost to the business to recruit and onboard talent Progressively grow the employment offering by into key roles. increasing our employee value proposition and ensuring that our incentives and benefits are within the affordability of the business. 83 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 84 OUR GOVERNANCE POLICIES AND GUIDELINES REVIEWS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS AND RECRUITMENT OPERATIONAL (THROUGH PEAK DMC) GOVERNANCE UPDATES PREVENTION OF BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY The following policies and guidelines STAFF EDUCATIONAL FOC POLICY INCIDENT MANAGEMENT PLAN Intrepid’s culture reflects our values of acting with integrity As part of our permanent office-based staff’s overall benefits The Incident Management Plan (IMP) is a systematic and being socially responsible. Accordingly, Intrepid is were reviewed or updated in 2019 to committed to carrying out business fairly, openly and package, employees have the opportunity to access an approach to the management of any incident that may ensure Intrepid continues to create educational FOC trip. The purpose of these trips is to seriously affect passengers, leaders and crew, operations, honestly. We inherently oppose bribery and corruption. We recognise that these inappropriate ways of doing business value for all stakeholders. provide the chance to find out more about our product, and/or the reputation of the business. It provides a our destinations, to understand the challenging role of framework to effectively deal with incidents as and when are evident in and are a cause of hardship and crime in our leaders and DMC staff, and to become specialists in they occur. It covers the entire incident management several countries in which we operate. This policy defines providing customer-rich insight about our style of travel. process from preparation, planning and training, immediate bribery and corruption and identifies what each Intrepid response during an incident, resolution and post-incident brand is responsible for. The guidelines were reviewed and learning and development. Major updates to the IMP in 2019 deemed to still be relevant and robust. included the introduction of a new incident level matrix, an incident response action pack and clearer guidelines on communication to ensure that all stakeholders receive the appropriate information within reasonable timeframes. EDUCATIONAL LEAVE GUIDELINES POLICY With a diverse workforce spread across the globe we CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY understand that not all team members can use the staff benefit provided through an annual staff educational FOC Intrepid has a commitment to high legal, ethical and trip. We offer those staff the opportunity to take up to moral standards. All employees are expected to share this RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS five days educational leave in lieu of taking the full staff commitment. This policy provides guidance to all Intrepid AND TRAVEL educational FOC trip benefit to undertake external learning SEXUAL MISCONDUCT POLICY staff as to appropriate involvements in businesses outside of and development. The policy was updated to improve processes and training Intrepid. The guidelines were reviewed and deemed to still in the prevention and management of sexual misconduct be relevant and robust. incidents. The policy, which applies to all staff and leaders, defines unacceptable on-trip behaviour and clearly conveys the consequences of any breach of policy. Updates include closer alignment of crisis management and internal ANIMAL WELFARE GUIDELINES investigation procedures, as well as additional education for Intrepid actively discourages customers to participate STAFF VOLUNTEER POLICY leaders, staff and suppliers on appropriate behaviour. GLOBAL SOCIAL MEDIA GUIDELINES in activities that exploit or harm animals, whether they Intrepid offers all permanent team members the opportunity are wild, domestic or working animals. These guidelines to spend up to 20 hours per calendar year of paid time to Intrepid consists of well-known, recognisable brands and provide guidance for responsible interaction with animals volunteer with an eligible organisation. This is a responsible we are proud to talk about what we do. We like to have on our trips. In 2019, we updated these guidelines business initiative in line with our overall Purpose strategy. open communication and we encourage staff to tell the to include dog and reindeer sledding guidelines and Volunteering time is intended to create mutual benefit world about our trips and share their passion. However, refreshed the viewing of wildlife in the wild, for both land for the local community and Intrepid employees and is an social media and digital communication is changing the and marine environments. opportunity for team members to share their knowledge, OPERATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY way we talk to each other, our customers and our partners. skills and time with an organisation in need of support, while A major review and update was made to this policy, which These guidelines were designed to provide practical advice at the same time developing a better understanding about takes a pre-emptive, holistic and pragmatic approach to for staff when using social networking, media and content complex social and environmental issues. health and safety in order to ensure trip operations are sharing sites as an identifiable employee or representative undertaken in a safe and thoughtful manner. We are of Intrepid and its brands. The guidelines were reviewed and committed to our legal and moral obligations to ensure deemed to still be relevant and robust. the health and safety of all passengers, staff, leaders, crew RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING POLICY and other related stakeholders associated with our travel Intrepid spends a substantial sum of money each year operations. In order to meet these obligations, a robust purchasing goods and services. With this purchasing safety culture must be maintained with comprehensive power comes responsibilities. The purchasing decisions COMPANY BONUS PLAN policy and systems that are understood and actively used we make have a real impact not only on our business, We believe that every team plays a part in the company’s within the business. The 2019 update spells out specific PRIVACY POLICY but the environment and communities in which we growth. We’re all in it together and we want our people to sections – for instance, aviation, activities, and acute operate. This policy ensures these impacts are positive share in our success. The company bonus plan is designed This sets out the types of personal information Intrepid mountain sickness – to ensure more efficient access to while serving the operational needs of the business. In to reward our team members globally for their contribution collects, how it is collected, and what the business does specific topics. The policy’s scope was also broadened 2019, the policy was updated to include more detail on towards achievement of the company’s annual goals/targets with it, as well as some of the steps we take to safeguard to include health and safety requirements for product, environmental best practice. for the calendar year. information. The policy covers consent, intra-company marketing and sales staff. sharing, cookies, selling data and security measures and was updated in 2019. 85 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 86 OUR GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIVERSE AND EXPERIENCED LEADERSHIP Intrepid maintains the highest standards of governance supported by best-practice structures, management and policies. Sound corporate governance is essential to build long-term officer, GM business operations and an executive manager. value for all stakeholders. The Intrepid Board, and its subAdditionally, the team includes a seat at the table for GM committees, ensures open and honest operation at every people and GM communications. level of the business. There are three main sub-committees in the business: This structure better aligns with our 2025 Strategy, allows for stronger cross functional collaboration and is a better AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE representation of our functions, people and customers. The board has delegated authority to the Audit and Risk The CMT meets once a month in Melbourne with regular Committee to oversee the following areas: shorter deep dive sessions to focus on specific business Financial management (including the external opportunities and challenges as required, for instance audit process) the immediate response to Covid-19, which saw the team meeting daily. Compliance and risk management In 2020, the CMT will be focused on the response to Health and safety Covid-19, and the execution of the 2025 Strategy. The Audit and Risk Committee met six time in 2019 and the GLOBAL LEADERSHIP TEAM chair of the Committee reported back to the Board after The Global Leadership Team (GLT) is the broader senior each meeting. team that leads and executes 2025 strategy and annual CORE MANAGEMENT TEAM (CMT) goals. It is made up of 30 representatives from key business During 2019, we created a Core Management Team (CMT), in segments and divisions, some department heads and our order to support the business as it grew and matured. co-founders. The GLT act as a wider steering committee that facilitates two-way communication between the CEO and the This restructured team was put in place in September global business. and saw the creation of a chief operating officer, chief CORE MANAGEMENT TEAM commercial officer, chief customer officer, chief financial GM PEOPLE GM COMMUNICATIONS CHIEF FINANCIAL CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF OPERATING BACK Natalie Juricic Gillian Monahan OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER Michael Burnett James Thornton Natalie Kidd GM BUSINESS CHIEF CUSTOMER EXECUTIVE CHIEF COMMERCIAL CHIEF INFORMATION FRONT OPERATIONS OFFICER MANAGER OFFICER OFFICER Tom Beadle Leigh Barnes Jessica Johnson Brett Mitchell Michelle Beveridge 87 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 88 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR POSITION SUMMARISED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT A GLANCE As at 31 December 2019 CONSOLIDATED ENTITY 2019 2018 $(‘000) $(‘000) ASSETS The summarised consolidated financial statements are included CURRENT ASSETS in the following pages. Cash and cash equivalents 86,998 78,129 These comprise a summarised consolidated statement of Trade and other receivables 16,387 6,797 comprehensive income, summarised consolidated statement of Derivative financial instruments 687 3,903 Other current assets 31,226 20,662 financial position and summarised consolidated statement of cash flows and the director's declaration. TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 135,298 109,491 These have been derived from the audited financial statements NON-CURRENT ASSETS of the Intrepid Group Limited. Receivables 1,433 Investments accounted for using the equity method 3,765 3,575 Property, plant and equipment 8,237 7,349 Deferred tax assets 3,922 4,481 Intangible assets 58,975 58,659 SUMMARISED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT Right-of-use assets 10,677 OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 85,576 75,497 For the year ended 31 December 2019 CONSOLIDATED ENTITY TOTAL ASSETS 220,874 184,988 2019 2018 LIABILITIES $(‘000) $(‘000) CURRENT LIABILITIES REVENUE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 371,519 303,538 Trade and other payables 39,438 32,301 Customer deposits 65,958 57,282 Other income 3,978 3,439 Current tax liabilities 2,282 1,882 Cost of sales (250,626) (203,931) Provisions 6,373 5,487 Selling costs (15,019) (12,740) Lease liabilities 2,428 Administrative expenses (60,129) (54,841) TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 116,479 96,952 Marketing expenses (25,384) (21,126) Other expenses (2,594) (467) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Finance costs (490) (61) Provisions 630 2,598 Share of net profit of associates and joint ventures 246 623 Lease liabilities 9,584 PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX 21,501 14,434 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 10,214 2,598 Income tax expense (5,808) (4,617) TOTAL LIABILITIES 126,693 99,550 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 15,693 9,817 NET ASSETS 94,181 85,438 EQUITY TOTAL EQUITY 94,181 85,438 89 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 90 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUMMARISED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT DIRECTORS DECLARATION OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2019 For the year ended 31 December 2019 CONSOLIDATED ENTITY In the opinion of the Directors of Intrepid Group Limited: 2019 2018 (a) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the company will be able to pay its debts as and when $(‘000) $(‘000) they become due and payable; CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (b) The summary financial report has been derived from and is consistent with the full financial Receipts from customers (inclusive of GST) 374,188 315,126 statements for the financial period ended 31 December 2019; Payments to suppliers and employees (inclusive of GST) (351,991) (300,646) 22,197 14,480 (c) The full financial statements and notes thereto are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and: Other income 1,853 1,214 (i) comply with Accounting Standards, the Corporations Regulations 2001 and other mandatory Interest received 1,116 1,201 professional reporting requirements; Interest paid (489) (565) Income taxes paid (1,296) (1,196) (ii) give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of the Company for the 12-month financial period to 31 December 2019. NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 23,381 15,134 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Signed in accordance with a resolution of the Directors Payments for property, plant and equipment and intangibles (2,033) (2,676) Receipt from/(payment for) term and security deposits (4,764) 16,537 Payment for equity interest in associates (1,047) (300) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 96 64 Receipts from consolidation of subsidiary (previously as associate) 1,168 Mr Darrell Wade Dividends from associates 356 NET CASH (OUTFLOW) INFLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (8,043) 13,293 Chairman and Director of Intrepid Group Limited Melbourne, 26 March 2020 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from issues of shares and other equity securities 460 219 Principal payment of leases (2,894) Dividends paid to Company's shareholders (4,905) (4,489) NET CASH (OUTFLOW) FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (7,339) (4,270) NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 7,999 24,157 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 78,129 51,289 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 870 2,683 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 86,998 78,129 BASIS OF PREPARATION The summarised consolidated statement of comprehensive income, summarised consolidated statement of financial position and summarised consolidated statement of cash flows (together, ‘summarised financial information’) have been prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited with their integrated reporting. The summarised financial information does not and cannot be expected to provide as full an understanding of the financial performance, financial position and financing and investing activities of Intrepid Group Limited and controlled entities as the full financial report. A full description of the accounting policies adopted by Intrepid Group Limited and controlled entities may be found in the full financial report. The summarised financial information is presented in Australian dollars. 91 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 92 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditor’s report on the summarised consolidated Management’s responsibility for the summarised consolidated financial statements financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation of the summarised consolidated financial statements in accordance with the basis of preparation described in the summary consolidated financial To the members of Intrepid Group Limited statements. Our opinion Auditor’s responsibility In our opinion, the summarised consolidated financial statements are consistent, in all material Our responsibility is to express an opinion whether the summarised consolidated financial respects, with the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited, in accordance with the basis of statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial report based on our preparation described in the summarised consolidated financial statements. procedures, which were conducted in accordance with Auditing Standard ASA 810 Engagements to Report on Summary Financial Statements. What we have audited The summarised consolidated financial statements are derived from the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited for the year ended 31 December 2019. The summarised consolidated financial statements comprise: • the summarised consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers • the summarised consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended • the summarised consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended • the directors’ declaration. Jason Perry Melbourne Partner 26 March 2020 Emphasis of matter basis of accounting and restriction on distribution and use We draw attention to the basis of preparation of the summarised consolidated financial statements, which describes the basis of accounting. The summarised consolidated financial statements have been prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited in preparing their integrated annual report. As a result, the summarised consolidated financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is intended solely for Intrepid Group Limited and its members and should not be distributed to or used by parties other than Intrepid Group Limited and its members. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Summarised consolidated financial statements The summarised consolidated financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by Australian Accounting Standards applied in preparation of the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited. Reading the summarised consolidated financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial report of Intrepid Group Limited and the auditor’s report thereon. The audited financial report and our report thereon We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on the financial report in our report dated 26 March 2020. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331 MELBOURNE VIC 3001 T: +61 3 8603 1000, F: +61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 93 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 94 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION THE INTREPID FOUNDATION In 2019, our not-for-profit organisation had more impact than ever before, distributing $1.6m to 35 community organisations and improving more than 16,000 lives. 95 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 96 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Case study CREATING CHANGE SEAWEED: THE IN COMMUNITIES REGENERATION Intrepid’s not-for-profit arm works to improve livelihoods of marginalised people through sustainable travel experiences. As part of our commitment to being climate positive, we 2019 HIGHLIGHTS supported the production of 2040 – a documentary that OUR MISSION AND MODEL explores some of the climate change solutions available to us right now, and what the future could look like if we embraced Our mission, adopted in 2018, remains to create new jobs, Tourism is responsible for one in 10 jobs. This makes it one provide vocational and skills training and ensure tourismof the best industries for the promotion of women, youth, AU$113k them. One of these solutions – marine permaculture – is becoming a reality with the help of our donors. related jobs are fair and decent. Our goal, set in 2016 was to and people facing additional disadvantage. When we create Raised for Blue Dragon raise AU$10m by 2020 and to positively impact 10,000 lives opportunities in tourism, we create more equality. We help to Children’s Fund Marine permaculture is a sustainable, environmentallythrough sustainable tourism initiatives. We not only achieved create jobs, train people to work in these jobs and advocate positive form of aquaculture that also supports kelp forest this goal, but surpassed it one year early in 2019. for their rights, to make lasting change. restoration efforts. 6 In the year to come, we’ll be looking to expand our impact, OUR MODEL Elephants roamed During 2019, we launched a matching fundraising campaign that creating employment opportunities and advocating for rights chain-free in MandaLao’s exceeded all our expectations by nearly doubling our target. As part of Intrepid’s commitment to Purpose, the business of those working in the tourism industry. While we do this, we new sanctuary The funds raised will go to research conducted by the University covers all administrative fees for The Intrepid Foundation, will also continue to invest in climate action and innovative of Tasmania, in partnership with The Climate Foundation, in including credit card transaction fees, website hosting fees, regenerative solutions. The climate crisis is a global issue, Tasmania’s Storm Bay. The campaign was so successful that we business expenses and overheads. but it's the world’s most vulnerable populations who will 6,422 will be launching a second Seaweed project in the UK in 2020. experience the worst effects. We must act now for people and With this model, 100 per cent of donations go directly to Porters empowered their livelihoods, wildlife, and our planet. communities. Our staff are responsible for prospecting new to know their rights projects, reviewing grant applications, creating outlines for on Mount Kilimanjaro REGENERATION HIGHLIGHTS The Intrepid Foundation started with the idea of helping programs, fundraising, and sharing our partners’ work with through Kilimanjaro travellers give back to the places they visit. It was a way of our donors. Every project we fund undergoes a process Porters Assistance connecting them with local communities, and, since 2002, we’ve brought donors together with more than 136 organisations. of rigorous assessment and due diligence, ensuring full Program AU$600k+ 3,068 transparency and integrity of the programs. Today, we want to make giving back an integral part of travel. Total funds Donors We work with our partners to develop tourism products that 27 raised* provide decent employment. Whether it’s coffee in Cusco or Youth got a fresh start a cooking class in Kathmandu, we support projects that don’t OUR IMPACT SINCE 2002 brewing coffee at Mission Of revenue can be produced from only create sustainable travel experiences; they help change Australia's Cafe One AU$1m 100-hectare marine permaculture array^ the way people see the world. AU$10m 136 37 Of total marine aquaculture Total raised by Organisations Countries with AU$29k 51% production comes from seaweed^ The Intrepid supported current or former Donated by travellers for Reduction in cattle emissions can Foundation projects women’s empowerment 60% be achieved by adding less than 1% seaweed to livestock diets^ *(AU$300,000 matched by Intrepid). ^Source: Climate Foundation 97 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 98 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION RESULTS AND GOALS Case study REHASH TRASH In Siem Reap, Cambodia, endless plastic debris pollutes the streets MORE IMPACT AND and waterways. With this empowerment project, the women of Rehash Trash give single-use plastic a second life by turning rubbish into MORE OPPORTUNITIES handicrafts. The profit from the products – available to locals and travellers alike – support their livelihoods as they train new women to join the enterprise. Meet Mom Hem. As the household matriarch, her days start early and In 2019 we raised more than $1.6m for communities. end only when the last head hits the pillow. There is no mention of work-life balance; her life is work so that her loved ones can survive. For Mom Hem, there are not enough hours in the day to commute from her rural village to a workplace that will pay for her labour. But with Rehash Trash, she is given the chance to fit paid work into her schedule and In 2018, we implemented a new impact framework to earn an income. support our strategic direction of improving livelihoods through sustainable travel. By collecting impact statistics The bowls, keychains, and other crafts Mom Hem crafts are made from from our partners, this provides greater transparency with 2019 IN NUMBERS discarded fabric or plastic bags salvaged from the street. She learns our donors, but also ensures we continue to grow our new patterns and shapes from the Rehash Trash workshop and creates projects to scale. With this growth, we hope to make them the products in her own time. When they are sold in the workshop, she fully sustainable in order to impact as many lives as possible. $1.6m 10 takes home an income to support her family – and herself. The Intrepid Foundation had some outstanding success Disbursed New grants in 2019, including the response to our Seaweed: The to partners awarded ($1.15m in 2018) in 2019 Regeneration initiative. The project exceeded the original fundraising target and continued to raise more than double the expected amount (see case study on previous page). Most Case study of the projects that The Intrepid Foundation supports are in destinations popular with our travellers around the world. However, in January 2020, as huge bushfires raged around 16,181 STEP UP FOR PORTERS Australia, the foundation launched a major fundraising appeal to support impacted communities. Despite the timing over the peak holiday season in Australia, the campaign raised more than $600k, including $200k in dollar matching. We also identified a number of key learnings with our other Total lives impacted In 2019 over 1,500 people across the world fundraising campaigns, including our porter welfare initiative took part in The Intrepid Foundation inaugural Step Up for Porters and women’s empowerment campaign 'Step Up for Porters' challenge. Participants Be the Change. from Lima to London to Sydney to Singapore joined together to raise funds – and awareness OUTLOOK – for an important cause: the welfare and In 2020, as of March, dollar matching has been paused for empowerment of porters. fundraising, due to the effects of Covid-19 on the broader 7,155 7,652 705 Supporters laced up their walking shoes and Intrepid business, although all administrative costs continue Job rights Lives Livelihoods hit the trails (or the treadmills) to average to be covered. supported improved supported over 10,000 steps per day, all in honour of the We will continue to seek ways to create employment hard work our persevering porters do to make opportunities and advocate for the rights of people working trekking expeditions happen. in the tourism industry. We will also continue to invest in 106 563 With the help of our donors, we raised $37,845. climate action and innovative regenerative solutions. Jobs Individuals All funds raised from the challenge go to three created made job-ready locally-registered charities based in Nepal, Peru and Tanzania. 99 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 100 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Case study MANOS MEET THE UNIDAS BOARD In Cusco, Peru, Manos Unidas Cafe is serving up delicious food and empowering people with The Intrepid Foundation is a disabilities. The restaurant serves as a vocational company limited by guarantee. training program and safe employment cafe JAMES THORNTON | CHAIR MELANIE GOW DARRELL WADE for young adults, offering hands-on hospitality It is governed by a Board of Member since 2017 Member since 2018 Member since 2002 experience with travellers and locals alike. Directors made up of senior James is the CEO of Intrepid Group. Melanie is group general manager Darrell founded Intrepid Travel with Intrepid Group leaders and After joining Intrepid Travel in 2005 for Corporate Affairs with the notGeoff Manchester more than 30 years experienced external directors. he rose quickly through the business, for-profit health service and aged ago, and The Intrepid Foundation holding a number of senior roles care provider St Vincent’s Health in 2002. Darrell is the chair of his before being appointed CEO in March Australia. She has more than 20 years’ family foundation — the Dawn Wade 2017. He became chair of The Intrepid experience in the international aid Foundation — and and is on the The Board sets strategic direction of The Foundation soon after. Intrepid Group and development sector working in advisory board of Travalyst the nonIntrepid Foundation and is responsible for is committed to balancing purpose a variety of roles for World Vision profit established by the Duke and overall governance. The Board works closely and profit and James is well placed to Australia and internationally. Duchess of Sussex. with Intrepid Global Leadership Team to support The Intrepid Foundation as it ensure the overall group vision and goals are grows in reach and impact. achieved. A core team based in Intrepid’s Melbourne Sebastian is a 23-year-old with Down Syndrome living office, is responsible for the Foundation’s in Cusco, Peru. He faced relentless challenges finding day-to-day operations. The team monitors and decent, sustainable work, from unfair pay to outright evaluates supported projects and is responsible discrimination. After struggling to support himself – for financial reporting, marketing and and his family – for several years, he found Manos campaigns. This team is supported by and has Unidas Cafe. Today, he’s one of their most popular access to Intrepid’s systems, training and more. employees, readily sharing his love of baking and The Foundation’s accounts are audited by breadmaking with customers. The safe and supportive external, independent firm PwC annually. GEOFF MANCHESTER HAYLEY ONIONS FIONA MCCLEAY environment of Manos Unidas Cafe has helped Member since 2002 Member since 2017 Member since 2017 Sebastian thrive both professionally and personally – so much so that he’s expected to take his baking skills As one of the co-founders of Intrepid Hayley is a finance professional and Fiona McCleay is CEO and to a well-known hotel in the near future. Travel and, later, The Intrepid an expert on responsible business. Commissioner at Legal Services Board Foundation, Geoff (or Manch, as we She started her career at professional (Victoria). She was previously CEO Sebastian is just one of the young adults at Manos know him) is a leader in responsible services firm KPMG before leaping of Justice Connect, which provides Unidas Cafe, and just one of the thousands of lives travel. Manch is a director of into the travel industry in 2011, first free legal help to marginalised and we’ve touched since 2002 with support from people Conscious Capitalism Australia and with Flight Centre in Brisbane and later disadvantaged people. She's held like you. Together, we can keep making this world a was chair of The Intrepid Foundation Travelport in Dubai. In 2016 she joined senior roles at World Vision Australia, better place to live and travel for everyone. until 2017. Intrepid’s responsible business team including General Counsel and before becoming a member of The Company Secretary. Intrepid Foundation Board in 2017. Of youth and adults with cognitive 98% disabilities are unemployed Youth supported in 2019 with 25 vocational training and prepared for Board meetings attended in 2019 (5 in total) future employment James Thornton 5, Melanie Gow 5, Darrell Wade 3, Geoff Manchester 5, Hayley Onions* 2, Fiona McLeay 1 Teachers employed to lead the * Company secretary Jane Kahler was proxy for Hayley at two additional meetings while Hayley was on parental leave 2 vocational training school 101 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 102 THE INTREPID FOUNDATION OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE INTREPID FOUNDATION LIMITED THE TRUSTEE FOR THE The Intrepid Foundation Limited receives funds and makes disbursements to THE INTREPID FOUNDATION international community project programs . The Trust is an eligible recipient of deductable gifts, and therefore acts as an entity to make donations to Australian partners SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2019 31 December 2019 ($) 31 December 2018 ($) 31 December 2019 ($) 31 December 2018 ($) REVENUE AND OTHER INCOME REVENUE AND OTHER INCOME Fundraising – donations 580,332 938,850 Fundraising – donations 989,607 548,061 Other revenue 33,413 15,961 Other revenue 20,161 24,210 TOTAL INCOME 613,745 954,811 TOTAL INCOME 1,009,768 572,271 TOTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURE (23,662) (12,973) TOTAL OPERATING EXPENDITURE (1,100,285) (424,266) NET SURPLUS /(DEFICIT) (90,517) 148,005 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT) (90,517) 148,005 NET SURPLUS BEFORE DONATIONS 590,083 941,838 Funds to community project programs (342,487) (731,965) Funds to the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation (247,596) (209,873) NET SURPLUS TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE SURPLUS SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 31 December 2019 ($) 31 December 2018 ($) TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 1,639,222 1,462,686 SUMMARISED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION TOTAL ASSETS 1,639,222 1,462,686 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2019 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 437,158 170,105 TOTAL LIABILITIES 437,158 170,105 31 December 2019 ($) 31 December 2018 ($) NET ASSETS 1,202,064 1,292,581 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 1,157,800 971,838 TOTAL ASSETS 1,157,800 971,838 EQUITY 1,202,064 1,292,581 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,157,700 971,738 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,157,700 971,738 Basis of preparation NET ASSETS 100 100 The summarised statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income and the summarised statements of financial position (together, ‘summarised financial statements’) have been prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited with their integrated reporting. The summarised financial information does not and EQUITY 100 100 cannot be expected to provide as full an understanding of the financial performance, financial position and financing and investing activities of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and The Trustee For the Intrepid Foundation as the full financial reports. A full description of the accounting policies adopted by The Intrepid Foundation Limited and The Trustee For the Intrepid Foundation may be found in the respective entity’s full financial reports. The summarised financial information is presented in Australian dollars. 103 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 104 DIRECTORS DECLARATION For the year ended 31 December 2019 In the opinion of the Directors of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and the Trustee for The Intrepid Foundation: (a) There are reasonable grounds to believe that the company will be able to pay its debts as and when they become due and payable; (b) The summary financial report has been derived from and is consistent with the full financial statements for the financial period ended 31 December 2019; (c) The full financial statements and notes thereto are in accordance with the Corporations Act 2001 and: (i) comply with Accounting Standards, the Corporations Regulations 2001 and other mandatory professional reporting requirements; (ii) give a true and fair view of the financial position and performance of the Company for the 12-month financial period to 31 December 2019. On behalf of the Board Mr James Thornton Chair of The Intrepid Foundation Melbourne, 27 March 2020 105 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 INTREPID GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 106 OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management’s responsibility for the summarised financial statements Independent auditor’s report on the summarised financial Management is responsible for the preparation of the summarised financial statements in accordance statements with the basis of preparation described in the summary financial statements. To the Directors of Trustee of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and members of the Intrepid Foundation Limited Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion whether the summarised financial statements are Our opinion consistent, in all material respects, with the audited financial reports based on our procedures, which were conducted in accordance with Auditing Standard ASA 810 Engagements to Report on Summary In our opinion, the summarised financial statements are consistent, in all material respects, with the Financial Statements. audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited, in accordance with the basis of preparation described in the summarised financial statements. What we have audited PricewaterhouseCoopers The summarised financial statements are derived from the respective audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited for the year ended 31 December 2019. The summarised financial statements for each entity comprises: • the summarised statement of financial position as at 31 December 2019 • the summarised statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for the year then Jason Perry Melbourne ended Partner 27 March 2020 • the directors’ declaration. Emphasis of matter basis of accounting and restriction on distribution and use We draw attention to the basis of preparation of the summarised financial statements, which describes the basis of accounting. The summarised financial statements have been prepared to assist Intrepid Group Limited in preparing their integrated annual report. As a result, the summarised financial statements may not be suitable for another purpose. Our report is intended solely for the Directors of the Trustee of the Intrepid Foundation Limited and for the members of the Intrepid Foundation Limited and should not be distributed to or used by parties other than the Directors of the Trustee of the Intrepid Foundation Limited and for the members of Intrepid Foundation Limited. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Summarised financial statements The summarised financial statements do not contain all the disclosures required by Australian Accounting Standards applied in preparation of the audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited. Reading the summarised financial statements and the auditor’s report thereon, therefore, is not a substitute for reading the audited financial reports of The Intrepid Foundation Limited and of the Trustee for the Intrepid Foundation Limited and the auditor’s report thereon. The audited financial report and our report thereon We expressed an unmodified audit opinion on the financial reports in our reports dated 27 March 2020. PricewaterhouseCoopers, ABN 52 780 433 757 2 Riverside Quay, SOUTHBANK VIC 3006, GPO Box 1331 MELBOURNE VIC 3001 107 Intrepid T: +61 Group 3 8603Annual 1000,Report 2019 F: +61 3 8603 1999, www.pwc.com.au 108 Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. APPENDIX APPENDIX FINANCIAL Total transactional value (TTV): Gross price of a tour, before DEFINITIONS any discounts or commission expense. Departed Revenue: Revenue reported at date of departure Booked Revenue: Revenue reported at date of booking ASX-listed: Companies that are listed on the Australian Stock Exchange EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation CAGR compound average growth rate GLOSSARY Sustainable, experience-rich travel (SERT): A style of lowOF INDUSTRY impact travel that respects and benefits local people, their cultures, economies and the environment. TERMINOLOGY Adventure cruising: Small ship cruising with a local crew that includes low-impact exploration of local destinations. Flexible Independent Travel (FIT): A style of travel that allows customers to create their own bespoke trip, as opposed to purchasing a pre-packaged trip. Destination Management Company (DMC): A business that has in-depth local knowledge that creates, packages, coordinates and delivers trips or events in local destinations. World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC): The body which represents the Travel & Tourism private sector globally. World Tourism Organization (WTO): The United Nations specialised agency responsible for the promotion of responsible, sustainable and universally accessible tourism. 109 Intrepid Group Annual Report 2019 INTREPID GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2019 110 GLOBAL HEAD OFFICE CONTACT Intrepid Group is the global leader in Level 7, 567 Collins Street, 1300 854 500 or +61 3 8594 3903 delivering sustainable experience-rich Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 3000 enquiries@intrepidgroup.travel travel. The world’s largest travel B Corp, www.intrepidgroup.travel we’re committed to being a business that benefits people and the planet. Printed on 100% post consumer waste recycled paper
