JANUARY – DECEMBER 2019 Qalaa Holdings Communication on Progress 2019 t Env iron o Q a l aa H l d i n g s ic me om an on n Ec et Pl fit Pro le Re s ab po S u s t ai n nsib l e In vest ents m ng on ldi sib Bui Bu ly p sin Res ess es Sus and tainably People So c ial This report is available to all stakeholders on our website: qalaaholdings.com Contents A Note from the Founder and Chairman...................................................................................3 Introduction ................................................................................................................................4 2019 SDG Milestones.................................................................................................................................................................................5 Description of Actions ................................................................................................................6 Economic Impact & Notable Sustainability Developments in 2019............................................................................7 Samples of Responsible Environmental Developments in 2019....................................................................................8 Anti-Corruption.............................................................................................................................................................................................10 Social Development Impact Holding Company...................................................................................................................11 Sample of Subsidiary Community Development Initiatives The Egyptian Refining Company..............13 Partnerships for the Goals..........................................................................................................15 The Way Forward ........................................................................................................................16 qalaaholdings.com • 2 A Note from the Founder and Chairman To our stakeholders: I am extremely proud of the fact that Qalaa Holdings was one of the first regional adopters of a multifaceted business and investment strategy that has sustainability and environmental protection at its core. Since inception more than a decade ago, we have strived to ensure that our investments are responsible across the economic, environmental and social spheres. This triple bottom line strategy has helped us to invest in and build a diverse array of companies in multiple sectors that are fueling sustainable economic growth and job creation in Egypt and across Africa. This vision clearly aligns with international best practices as outlined by the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the UN Global Compact (UNGC). We stand firm in supporting the ten principles of the compact, which we believe work in favor of employees and employers alike. The holding company and its subsidiaries adhere to and administer codes of conduct, regulations and procedures that promote compliance with the principles, which were drafted by the UNGC under the four fundamental areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our efforts demonstrate our reliability and dedication to make a positive, sustainable impact on our operations, our people and the surrounding community. In 2019 we made the decision to take things a step further with a group-wide initiative that promotes collective action towards maximizing efficiency and achieving quantifiable sustainability targets. Our 2019 Communication on Progress (COP) highlights some of these important initiatives. We also commit to sharing this report and relevant information with all our stakeholders and public audiences through our primary communication channels, and we reaffirm our commitment to the UNGC and its message during the upcoming year. Ahmed Heikal Chairman and Founder qalaaholdings.com • 3 Introduction TAQA Arabia’s 50 MW solar plant in Benban, Aswan Qalaa Holdings continued to uphold smart and sustainable investment biomass and RDF productions. Remaining Qalaa Holdings subsidiaries and operational strategies in 2019. Commendable improvements Nile Logistics, ASCOM, ASEC Holding, Gozour and National Printing in the Egyptian economic landscape paired with tactical shifts and Company have also adhered to enforcing policies that contribute to investments have helped the company exceed its annual goals, while sustainable efficacy, taking both UNGC principles and guidelines and simultaneously instilling more sustainable protocols and practices the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into account. across its own and its subsidiaries’ operational frameworks. As a leading energy and infrastructure investor in Africa and in light In 2004, Ahmed Heikal founded Qalaa Holdings as a beacon for of pressing Climate Action trends we will hold ourselves and each sustainable investments that pave the way for economic growth in member of our team accountable to lead by example in adopting the region and create value for all stakeholders. For the past 15 years, sound, sustainable, efficient and inclusive practices and set goals and the company and its subsidiaries have contributed to the foundational targets that integrate sustainability into strategic and tactical business corners of the Egyptian economy, while ensuring that operational activities across Qalaa Holdings, its subsidiaries and stakeholders efficiency is regularly examined and adjusted. Ongoing development (contractors, suppliers and supply chains). brings forth as much benefit to internal processes and procedures as possible, mitigates risk and decreases any and all undesirable impact on As such, Qalaa Holdings continues to align its practices with the SDGs the well-being of any affected party. and Egypt’s Vision 2030, especially in the areas of education, human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption, forging partnerships, and Among the most notable milestones crossed by Qalaa Holdings proudly promotes responsible business practices. The SDGs address subsidiaries in 2019 was the successful completion of the USD 4.4 some of our most pressing global challenges related to poverty, billion refinery of the Egyptian Refining Company (ERC). Moreover, inequality, climate change, and environmental degradation. While we TAQA Arabia, our energy distribution subsidiary, inaugurated its 65 aim to make progress on all 17 goals, we have chosen to focus on 8 MW solar plant in Benban, Egypt, the largest solar park in the world, SDGs in particular in order to achieve maximum impact. and solid waste management subsidiary Tawazon also saw increases in qalaaholdings.com • 4 2019 SDG Milestones Dina Farms’ responsible water use We continued our focus and have expanded on achieving the following goals in 2019: SDG 4: Quality Education SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure The Qalaa Holdings Financial Services Center, the Maintaining a streak of solid investments in projects Mostakbaly program, ASEC Academy, the Qalaa that employ innovative concepts, advanced building Holdings Scholarship Foundation (QHSF) and other techniques, dense infrastructural knowledge and initiatives by Qalaa Holdings’ subsidiaries continue growing, impacting state-of-the-art technology is among our core targets to introduce over 300,000 beneficiaries. The initiatives offer a variety of scholarships alternatives and move the energy and infrastructure industries in a less and vocational training to undergraduate and postgraduate students harmful direction. on national and global scales, as well as support infrastructural developments and teacher capacity building within the country. SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Qalaa Holdings subsidiaries employ strict waste SDG 5: Gender Equality management policies, with some of them using waste Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries boast a high as input to produce a variety of materials that range number of women in leadership positions, with females from clean alternative energy (Tawazon) to duplex boards (Shorouk, representing 25% of the board of directors. More than a subsidiary of National Printing Company), and Glassrock thermal 36.4% of the females are in managerial positions across the group, insulation solutions that allow the reduction of cooling and heating many of which have been recognized as some of the most influential setup cost by 30-40% and running cost by 25-30%. women in Egypt and the MENA region. It is also worth noting that 45% of its QHSF scholarship recipients are female from more than 15 SDG 13: Climate Action governorates. To date, over 8,500 women benefitted from economic Qalaa Holdings has integrated sustainability and empowerment programs in Mostorod. environmental protection into its core operations, through the employment of a responsible investing SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy triple bottom line model leveraging its investments in the spaces of With the inauguration of the ERC second-stage energy, power, logistics and infrastructure, including the ERC Refinery, refinery and the solar power plant, and with other Nile Logistics, as well as TAQA Power. In December 2019, Qalaa environmentally conscious projects regularly in the Holdings took its commitment one step further, becoming one of works, Qalaa Holdings remains dedicated to investing in renewable the first 177 signatories to a pledge that will see it commit to 1.5°C energy and waste-recycling ventures, reducing its carbon footprint and science-based emissions reduction targets. generally lowering harmful emissions. SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth Strategic partnerships continue to be a key cog in Qalaa Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries now employ over Holdings’ moves to widen the reach and impact of its 15,000 individuals who are beneficiaries of optimum sustainable efforts on surrounding communities. The employment, health, safety and welfare benefits. Regular holding company and its subsidiaries collaborate with a large variety increases in investment opportunities drive job creation and improve of community-based organizations that assist in setting accountability economic prospects, which we fuel at every possible opportunity. measures, monitoring progress and, in turn, maximizing impact. qalaaholdings.com • 5 Description of Actions Human Rights Qalaa Holdings views respect for human rights as the fundamental base on As a solid advocate of women in business and leadership positions, we which ethical businesses thrive. We believe in full and ultimate reverence for are proud to report that 13.6% of our female employees are in senior manindividuals and their rights and work diligently to remain mindful of our comagement positions and 36.4% are in middle management, with 9% of our pany and its subsidiaries’ practices in relation to this. Employees are asked to female leaders being recognized as some of the most influential women adhere to a code of conduct that endorses honesty, integrity and hard work, in Egypt and the MENA region, and awarded as such. and in return, the company commits to making sure that everyone is treated with fairness and respect, and that employee rights are fully protected. In terms of age groups, Qalaa remains an advocate of young people in business, with the larger portion (41.7%) of its employees falling between Understanding the potential effects of poor situational awareness, Qalaa 30 and 40 years of age. 25.3% are between the ages of 41 and 50, and 15.4 Holdings makes sure that countries, governorates and communities are % between the ages of 51 and 60. researched rigorously prior to the implementation of any of its projects. After breaking ground, it then proceeds to heavily monitor its operations The SAP SuccessFactors Talent Management System launched by Qalaa and tracks performance across its projects to ensure that none of them Holdings in 2018 continues to play a vital role in assessing employee talare committing human rights violations. ents across the holding company in 2019. The platform is used for steady performance and career development reviews, which assist in monitoring In addition, and as a fundamental right at Qalaa Holdings, human resources employee efficacy and give the company enough insight to provide necespolicies ensure the provision of health and social insurances for every emsary trainings. Around 297 hours of employee training were recorded in 2019. ployee and reiterate the company’s zero-tolerance policy for discrimination against employees of different backgrounds, religions, sex or otherwise. Environment The volatile nature of the sectors within which Qalaa Holdings operates Labor has made the company highly aware of the impact it has on its surroundQalaa Holdings remains at the forefront of industry leaders that chamings. We are, therefore, constantly on the lookout for ways to eliminate the pion worker rights. We deliver wages and benefits that enable decent harmful effects our activities may cause. We have made and continue to living conditions, and continuously update our compensation framemake significant progress throughout our subsidiaries in terms of producwork in coherence with the country’s changing economic conditions. tion, consumption, and waste management with the aim of achieving Available benefits range from dignified minimum wages to life and climate neutrality and zero carbon footprint. health insurance, social insurance, disability coverage and various types of holidays and leaves, as per the law. Our ERC refinery is expected to eliminate a notable 93,000 tons and 186,000 tons of the country’s sulfur and sulfur dioxide emissions, respectively, Our zero-tolerance policy for child labor and all types of forced labor while TAQA’s expected emissions reduction is projected to be 78,000 tons remains intact; every Qalaa Holdings project is supported by workers annually. Our Environmental Compliance Strategy is still in effect, bringing who have exceeded the legal working age, and who receive health together global guidelines and standards from every country we operate in, and safety trainings and circulars that inform them on how to protect like Shorouk’s FSC certification and Tawazon’s GIC certification. themselves against any outbreaks. Qalaa’s commitment was made public at the 25th Annual United The company’s employment guide also forbids discrimination against a Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 25) and represents a major potential/current employee for their race, religion, sex, nationality, age business contribution to the Climate Ambition Alliance: a growing or social status. Company policies are regularly adjusted to co-exist with multi-stakeholder group convened by the COP 25 that brings together national labor laws, and fully respect international human rights laws in countries, businesses, investors, cities and regions working towards providing employees with decent compensation and benefits. achieving net-zero emissions by 2050. qalaaholdings.com • 6 Economic Development Impact Acquired & Developed by 57+ Businesses Qalaa Holdings Founded and Developed 40K+ Jobs Created Developed by Qalaa’s Chairman and Founder Dr. Ahmed Heikal Notable Sustainability Developments 2019 Qalaa and its subsidiaries are constantly refining practices to 3. Maintaining a firm approach in assessing impact and possible environfully comply with the HSEG guidelines that correspond with mental outcomes of continuing and future projects, and then actively the UNGC’s principles, the SDGs and Egypt’s Vision 2030. working to moderate the outcomes. Among our most notable sustainability developments and efforts in 2019 are: 4. Encouraging the transformation to cleaner energy and confirming responsible disposal of waste in all possible contexts. This was especially evident this 1. Qalaa Holdings has formally established the first dedicated poyear as the company inaugurated its ERC and TAQA’s solar power plant, as sition, Chief Sustainability Officer, to spearhead the company’s well as the increased efforts of Tawazon in waste management and recycling. sustainability initiatives and practices across all its subsidiaries. 5. Complying with environmental regulations through ongoing re2. The establishment of a Sustainability Committee at the corporate view of environmental risk and opportunities, social impact, labor board level, where the members include managing director, standards, health and safety policies to uphold the highest industry co-founder and chief sustainability officer. The committee assists standards and timely action to address any risks. Qalaa Holdings management in drafting short and long-term policies, and guidance on strategies and goals that promote re6. Qalaa Holdings continues to be the partner of choice for developsponsible and sustainable practices across the company and its mental finance institution (DFI) partners, partly due to its adherence subsidiaries as well as to relevant stakeholders to mediate risks and to rigorous environmental and social development standards and create shared value. robust reporting mechanisms. qalaaholdings.com • 7 2019 Environmental Developments Samples of Responsible Environmental Developments in 2019 ERC, Qalaa’s flagship USD 4.4 billion second-stage refinery, was The energy subsidiary remained committed to diversifying its successfully completed and became fully operational, selling 1.3 MT portfolio and reaffirmed its goals to expand in renewable energy value add of products as of November 2019. This highly anticipated with the launch of its 65 MW solar power plant in Benban Solar project is expected to have resounding, multifaceted effects on Egypt, Park, Aswan, Egypt. This EGP 1.35 billion investment is now part economically, environmentally and socially. In an unprecedented move of the largest solar park in the world, and factors in Egypt’s 2022 for Egypt, the refinery is expected to supply enough high-value Euro V plan of producing 20% of its electricity needs through renewable diesel (the cleanest fuel of its type in the world) annually to eliminate a resources. TAQA has also continued examining opportunities significant portion of its import capacity. It is also expected to eliminate for expansion into alternative energy and wind power. TAQA a notable 93,000 tons and 186,000 tons of the country’s sulfur and transmits and distributes natural gas connections to more than sulfur dioxide emissions, respectively. To ensure having no discharge 1.2 million customers in 42 cities across Egypt, with expected of wastewater to Ismailia Canal, ERC established a tertiary Industrial emissions reduction to be around 78,000 tons annually from its Wastewater Treatment Facility and utilizes closed cooling water circuits 65 MW PV solar power plant in Benban, Aswan. to reduce cooling water consumption from Ismailia Canal and prevent thermal water pollution. Responsible Resource Responsible Production Consumption Responsible Waste Management Qalaa’s solid waste management subsidiary, Tawazon, maintained The river transportation subsidiary remains one of the most fuelstrong efforts in providing cleaner and recycled alternative fuels efficient and environmentally friendly methods of transportation from waste such as biomass-derived fuel (BDF), solid recovery available in Egypt and neighboring Sudan and South Sudan. Nile fuel (SRF) and refuse-derived fuel (RDF) to heavy consumers Logistics has a large fleet of fuel-efficient, environmentally friendly as a source of thermal energy throughout 2019. As of the end river barges that transport cargo along the Nile. The company of September 2019, the company formed linear to circular continues to transport the equivalent of 20-40 truckloads on production, and produced and distributed 480,000 tons of RDF, each barge with a fraction of the fuel and money usually invested 21,830 tons of organic compost and 1.3 million tons of biomass. in other methods of transport. qalaaholdings.com • 8 2019 Environmental Developments GlassRock’s thermal insulation solutions can save up to 40% of National printing includes four vertically integrated subsidiaries the cooling and heating load and minimize the global carbon producing quality materials through an efficient and dioxide footprint from heating and cooling while using calculated environmentally friendly production process. One is El Baddar, percentage of recycled materials. The USD 70 million sustainable a printing and packaging subsidiary that develops corrugated insulation materials company maintains a total annual production sheets and boxes that are widely used for shipping, particularly capacity of 30,000 metric tons of rock wool and 20,000 metric tons of in the food industry. El Baddar products are renowned in the glass wool. Both materials are considered key in environmentally market for their strength, durability, lightness, recyclability, and friendly construction as they are, thus far, some of the most cost-efficiency. The company recycles paper and materials in optimum materials used to reduce carbon dioxide emitted by the production of packaging and printing products. In 2019, buildings. GlassRock continues to target export sales above 50% of Uniboard recycled 80,000 tons of waste paper to produce 120,000 revenue before year-end 2019. tons of duplex paper. With an agricultural footprint of over 10,000 acres, Dina Farms is the leading private sector dairy farm in Africa. Throughout its operations, Dina Farms applies an efficient and advanced irrigation systems technology (drip and pivot irrigation) and promotes sustainable and responsible farming. qalaaholdings.com • 9 Governance in Action Anti-Corruption Qalaa Holdings has grown into one of the strongest investments Our online whistle-blowing channel also remains active and accessiholding companies in the region, with its strategic subsidiaries ble to all Qalaa Holdings and non-Qalaa Holdings employees, and placing it at the forefront of the energy and infrastructure sectors. all records are investigated seriously. In doing this, we reinforce the Throughout the company’s journey, it has maintained a strong comculture of accountability and further assert our position in fighting mitment to sound governance and business practices to promote a corruption through all channels and at all costs. culture of integrity, fairness, openness and transparency. The holding company’s corporate culture has produced solid frameworks that With a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, the Internal Audit function decrease chances of fraud, create shareholder value and optimize has implemented an Anti-Fraud Policy to promote consistent corposafe channels of interaction. Formal quarterly (or on an as-needed rate integrity, honesty, and ethical behavior within Qalaa Holdings basis) meetings bring together Qalaa Holdings management, indusand its subsidiaries. This approach helps protect the organization’s astry platform teams and senior management of subsidiary companies sets, reputation, and employees. The Anti-Fraud Policy was reinforced to recap and possibly rework policies as needed or seen fit. We also by setting up an anonymous whistle-blowing channel to receive inremain active members of the Egyptian Junior Business Association’s formation from inside and outside the company on the Qalaa HoldIntegrity Network Initiative (INI), constantly seeking newer and more ings website. Qalaa Holdings believes in continuously promoting efficient techniques in fighting corruption and fraud. and empowering the company’s control environment. Accordingly, the Internal Audit function has developed a Risk Assessment FrameAmong our heavily active anti-corruption mediums in 2019 are the work to be followed throughout the organization. Risk assessment company’s Internal Audit committee, department and teams, who contributes to the effective and efficient demonstrable assessment of operate independent of management but with participation of a wide objectives and the improvement of performance on multiple fronts. cross section of executives from Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit strives to ensure the presence of the They exercise impeccable efforts in updating the Risk Management Internal Audit function across all platforms, in its capacity to oversee, Framework and the anti-fraud, insider-trading and financial reportmonitor, guide, advise, and administer its platform. In addition, our ing policies, among others. They also advise employees on how to Management Committee is a monthly forum that engages a wider accomplish project objectives systematically and with minimal risk, management team across Qalaa Holdings to review market develand ensure the unwavering implementation of the zero-tolerance for opments and progress on corporate initiatives at Qalaa Holdings fraud policy. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit department functionally and its subsidiaries. reports to the Audit Committee and has administrative reporting lines to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Qalaa Holdings engages the services of only the most reputable audit firms for both ongoing statutory audits and due diligence for all subsidiaries. Strict internal controls and reporting standards are a cornerstone of the governance principles at Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Financial and operational reports are transparent to all parties with a vested interest — from management and board members to shareholders. qalaaholdings.com • 10 Development Impact Social Development Impact Sustainable projects and initiatives that operate under the #4 SDG, Quality Education, to deliver on human capital development (HCD), remain at the core of our social contributions. Qalaa Holdings’ educational and HCD support programs continued growing in 2019 as follows: Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation (QHSF) QHSF is the largest private sector funded scholarship program in Egypt, created to facilitate Egyptian students’ access to post-graduate education. The foundation continued growing this year under the guidance of its independent board of trustees and the management of its full-time Executive Director. The Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation (QHSF) grants 15-20 scholarships per year to exceptional Egyptian students pursuing graduate degrees at top universities abroad on the condition that they return to Egypt to work after completing their studies. The foundation is sustainably funded by an endowment from Qalaa Holdings to grant academic scholarships for talented and promising young Egyptian men and women to pursue post-gradQHSF continues to uphold its primary stipulation of returning to Egypt upon uate degrees abroad in a wide variety of fields, including filmmakcompletion of studies. In doing so, it aims to encourage learners to invest their ing, anthropology, global mental health, mechanical engineering, newly acquired global knowledge in Egypt, through finding employment or biotechnology, and architecture. So far, over 195 scholarships were launching their own businesses. Alumni scholars have started businesses provided to students from more than 15 governorates across Egypt that are already contributing to Egypt’s economic growth and development, to more than 60 global universities since the foundation’s incepincluding Amina Abou Douma, founder of Teatro Eskendria, Randa Fahmy, tion, with 45% of the scholars being women. co-founder of KarmSolar and Hisham Wahby, founder of over 18 startups. Qalaa Holdings Financial Services Center (QHFSC) In keeping with Qalaa Holdings’ commitment to education in Egypt, QHFSC, in collaboration with the American University in Cairo, was founded to help students develop the skills and qualifications needed to pursue careers in securities trading, risk management, and asset allocation. The center remains one of Qalaa Holdings’ central projects and is recognized as the first center of its kind in the MENA region. QHSFC focuses on human capital development to foster economic growth and social transformation; it offers students trainings and qualifications that will assist them in pursuing careers in risk management, securities trading and asset allocation. Qalaa Holdings donated USD 250,000 in seed funding to establish the center and USD 30,000 annually to ensure sustainability of operations. The center provides students with unique learning opportunities by integrating hands-on, practical education with financial concepts. Throughout the years, the company has invested USD 180 million in databases and software to ensure the center continues to operate seamlessly. QHFSC has trained over 2,738 graduates, researchers and faculty members so far across its expanding geographic network in Egypt. qalaaholdings.com • 11 Development Impact TAQA Arabia Scholarship Programs As a socially responsible corporation that prioritizes human and community development, TAQA Arabia kept its TAQA International Master’s program running and fully funded the studies of a Master’s student in the field of renewable energy this year. It also continued endowing its additional scholarships for students working in the alternative energy sector, who looked to pursue graduate studies in alternative energy and related disciplines. ASEC Academy The academy was created to shine a spotlight on the importance of vocational training and is accredited by the Arab Union for Cement and Building Materials. Its multiple programs, designed to train engineers, chemists, geologists and technicians employed in the cement industry, continued running this year, and the number of trainees reached 16,000 by the end of 2019. Cross-Cutting Trainings and Initiatives At subsidiaries like TAQA Power and ASEC Holding, local employees learn from specialists and engineers working on site. Engineers and workers hired to build ERC’s refinery have also gained experience and benefitted from working with over 15 nationalities on site that will qualify them to work on similar projects going forward. qalaaholdings.com • 12 ERC Community Development ERC Community Development Initiatives The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), Qalaa Holdings’ flagship result, ERC has been focusing on the following four main arenas: eduinvestment in second-stage mega project refinery, conducted the cational support through “Mostakbaly,” economic opportunity and inmost comprehensive Environmental and Social Impact Assessment come raising through “Tamkeen” and “Mashrouy,” youth volunteering (ESIA) ever commissioned in Egypt for an industrial project based on and capacity building through “Reyada,” and special needs support international/IFC standards to minimize negative project impacts. As a through “Takaful.” 1. Supporting Education The Mostakbaly scholarship program, now in its fourth year, provides students with opportunities to pursue undergraduate degrees in various specialties at some of Egypt’s most prestigious public and private universities. Including the 2019 round of scholarships, the program has thus far awarded a total of 81 beneficiaries from Mostorod, El Khesous, Shobra El Kheima and Matarreya. In a further expansion of the program this year, an additional 26 students were awarded scholarships to attend vocational training at the highly regarded Don Bosco Cairo, an Italian secondary school that focuses on much-needed vocational and technical training. In addition to scholarships, the Mostakbaly program has, since 2017, provided a total of 7,798 students with in-kind aid and 939 teachers with educational training. Three students pursuing Master’s degrees at the universities of Sheffield, Imperial and Manchester in the United Kingdom have also been sponsored by the program. “Mostakbaly for Teachers” has provided another 30 teachers this year with high-level training in early-years education at the American University in Cairo. Including the 2019 round of scholarships, the program has thus far, awarded a total of 96 beneficiaries from Mostorod, El Khesous, Shobra El Kheima and Matarreya. As of 2019, the total number of beneficiaries reached 299,355. 2. Women and Youth Economic Empowerment Through Tamkeen, its financial and non-financial support platform, ERC continued to support female entrepreneurs. By 2019, the program had provided 245 beneficiaries in artistic training, 153 beneficiaries in economic empowerment projects. Mashrou3y, a youth empowerment program designed to support new and existing small projects developed by youth, has supported 66 youth start-ups, 1,124 vocational training opportunities, and 3,500 employment opportunities (3,200 directly at ERC and 300 at other projects). As of 2019, the total number of Tamkeen beneficiaries reached 8,680 and the total number of Masrou3y beneficiaries reached 56,155. qalaaholdings.com • 13 ERC Community Development 3. Youth Volunteering and Capacity Building Among ERC’s primary goals is to encourage youth to volunteer and participate in community initiatives, especially because they are the area’s best chance at sustainable and ongoing efforts that could be inherited from generation to generation. It has successfully established this through its Reyada program, which has trained 100 volunteers on managing social initiatives thus far, 30 of whom are currently directing volunteer groups on their own. As of 2019, the total number of Reyada beneficiaries reached 1,440. 4. Special Needs Support ERC launched Takaful with the vision of providing community members with special needs an equal chance to integrate into and contribute to their communities. The program has so far worked in partnership with governmental institutions and local community development associations in empowering over 700 individuals with different abilities. As of 2019, the total number of Takaful beneficiaries reached 5,405. qalaaholdings.com • 14 Partnerships for the Goals Establishing Strategic Win-Win Partnerships Qalaa Holdings believes that partnering with partnerships in the public and private sectors are able to promote like-minded local and international organizations sustainable development. The company has worked to establish who are working towards common goals will enpartnerships and set measures for accountability in order to ensure able us to further our reach and add more value that its practices are able to transform the lives of local communities. to our communities. Our global partnerships further help us ensure that our local initiatives work within a wider global movement that Qalaa Holdings has collaborated so far with over 44 civil society will have a resounding impact across borders. organizations, 8 academic institutions, 6 governmental entities and 6 international sustainability organizations and ratings agencies to Throughout the year, Qalaa Holdings has been dedicated to leadguarantee wide and resounding impact. ing by example and demonstrating how responsible investing and Civil Society 44+ Academia 8+ International Sustainability Organizations, Initiatives and Ratings 5 Government 6+ Agencies qalaaholdings.com • 15 The Way Forward Between 2004-2019 significant progress has been made. We are currently developing reporting mechanisms to help us track sustainability KPIs such as consumption and the efficient use of resources. Looking Ahead Responsible investment now includes smart, sustainable practices by The following is our outlook on sustainably responsible practices default. As leading investors in the region, we plan to carry on implementat Qalaa in 2020 and beyond: ing projects, activities and initiatives that promote and instill ethics and practices of sustainability wherever our reach extends, be it among our • Take inventory of existing policies and practice and work with subsidiarsubsidiaries, partners or within the communities in which we operate. ies to set and maintain group-wide HSEG standards Creating self-sustaining modules and group-wide targets to reduce our • Continue to refine ESG monitoring and reporting structure to allow for carbon footprint for a greener tomorrow is the only way we can guarantee collection of measurable data and set indicators/KPIs at holding and a brighter, more successful future for generations to come. platform levels for responsible resource consumption, production and waste management The inauguration of ERC, TAQA’s solar park in Benban and the expan• Ensure continued awareness of labor, social and environmental risks sion of the energy-efficient products and services that our subsidiaries across all subsidiaries and leverage opportunities to achieve shared are continuing to pioneer, will help usher in a new era with larger, value and develop best practices ambitious and higher targets. We look forward to leading by example • Continue adopting sound, sustainable, efficient and inclusive practices to bring about the circular economy in Egypt and the region. across all stakeholders in current and potential investments • Keep examining internal policies to ensure the adoption of international We also remain adamant on supporting academic initiatives, be it best practices in health, safety, governance, labor and the environment through further enriching our existing foundations or through explor• Conduct industry-specific training, as needed, for senior managers in ing more initiatives, independently or in partnership with landmark sustainability and SDG awareness at the group and subsidiary levels academic institutions. • Assist individual managers in setting goals to gradually integrate sustainability into all business operations and performance assessments Environmental awareness and proactive action towards clean energy, • Prioritize benchmarking carbon footprint comprehensively efficient resource consumption and neutral-positive impact will remain and continue voluntary sustainability reporting on progress at the center of our operations. We will continue exploring more ways • Continue to explore and identify ways to reduce carbon footprint to raise both corporate and societal awareness on key environmental across our investment portfolio to reach neutrality by 2030 issues and environmentally friendly practices, and we will transfer our • Develop a plan for climate change benchmarking and set group-wide knowledge through our subsidiaries’ official channels to as many stakescience-based targets in line with Science-Based Targets Initiatives (SBTI) holders as possible, in an effort to positively impact and transform the • Seek for international certifications, affiliations and reporting agencies thoughts and approaches of every involved party. to ensure compliance with international best practices in all sectors qalaaholdings.com • 16
