COMMUNICATION on PROGRESS (CoP) 2019 Who we are? We are sustainability specialists helping brands and corporates to make better choices. We believe in the power of businesses in driving positive change and scaling impact MAKE across the globe. We offer strategic advice to address today’s most important BETTER sustainability challenges by putting shared value into practice and unearthing opportunities. Briefly, we connect profit with purpose. But, we know strategy is not enough, CHOICES so we do have answers if you ask what you need to do on Monday. We walk with our clients to activate targets. By the way, we are proud to be a B Corp company. S360 Website Our services We are a proud B corp • A certification conferred by the company. nonprofit B Lab​ • A company that meets a high level of social and environmental performance and makes a legal commitment to consider all stakeholders​ • Any for-profit company in any country can pursue certification (LLC’s included) https://bcorporation.net/about-b-corps Statement by the CEO I am pleased to confirm that S360 Sustainability Services reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact regarding the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our actions on the purpose of integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, corporate culture and daily operations are described in this Communication on Progress (CoP), which is our sixth annual report. We also commit and declare to share this information with our stakeholders via our primary communication channels. Sincerely, Kerem Okumuş, Founder, CEO DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights and Labor Rights Principles S360’s goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We also adhere to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and encourage our clients to do so. In the scope of our Labor Principles we aim to ensure all employees are provided with fair and equal working conditions. Our Human Rights Principles are as follows: Our Labor Rights Principles are as follows: • To ensure that employees are provided with safe, suitable and • To ensure that recruitment decisions are based on relevant and sanitary work facilities. objective criteria • To protect employees from workplace harrassment, including • To comply with minumum wage standards physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harrassment, abuse or • To prevent discrimination of all kinds and ensures comparable pay for threats. comparable work • To ensure all employees’ health and safety Implementation • We implement a horizontal management approach in our company. Complaints and/or requests are assessed and discussed during regular meetings. With the participation of whole team, we come to a conclusion regarding issues proposed for the agenda. • We provide strategic tools for our clients to ensure that human rights are protected in all business processes and employees work under fair, equal and safe conditions. Social Outcomes Employees by gender Employees by age Employees in management by gender 9% 29% 48% 50% 50% 52% 62% Female Male Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 Female Male Female Male Total Number of 11 10 21 employees Four of our employees are part-time while 17 are full-time. Full-time Part-time Female Male Female Male There were six posture-related muscle and joint injuries in 2018, but no Number of absenteeism due to injuries. As a solution, ergonomic assessment was made employees by 10 7 1 3 by an expert and office equipment has been replaced. employment type Environmental Principles As an office based company, S360’s goal is to reduce its environmental impact caused by its activities as well as to encourage its clients and business partners to improve their environmental performance. Our Environmental Principles are as follows: • To reduce our carbon footprint caused by transportation. • To reduce wastes by recycling materials. • To encourage our clients and business partners to set goals for reducing environmental impact. Implementation • We offer strategic advice for our clients to reduce their carbon footprint and perform an effective waste and water management. Thus, we play a role in tackling today’s environmental challenges. • Online meeting tools are preferred instead of visits, when possible. • Recyling boxes are installed in various points of the office. Environmental Outcomes Materials used (%) Recycling Waste amount Recyled waste Waste materials in 2019 ratio per (ton) (ton) material (%) 34% 100% 54% Glass 20 20 61% Plastic 4,6 2,8 12% 12,4 10,8 87% Paper 91% Glass Plastic Paper Total 37 33,6 Anti-corruption S360’s goal is to eliminate all kinds of corruption when doing business and pursue all of its business processes with its partners with an ethical and transparent approach. Our Anti-corruption Principles are as follows: • To mention anti-corruption and/or ethical behaviour in all contracts made with business partners. • To commit being in compliance with all relevant laws including anti-corruption laws Implementation • To communicate with and provide with training for all employees on anti-corruption • To ensure consistency with the anti-corruption commitment via internal checks • To implement the anti-corruption commitment with a responsible and accountable management approach Contact asli.kur tulus@s360.com.tr ece.akdogan@s360.com.tr info@s360.com.tr
