United Nations Global Compact South East Water Communication on Progress 2019 Contents Aboriginal acknowledgement 3 Managing Director Statement of Continued Support 4 Introduction 6 Key highlights 6 About us 7 Iota 7 Our values 7 Human rights 8 Supporting human rights 8 Our human rights policies 8 Our human rights actions 9 Our human rights outcomes 10 Labour 10 Upholding labour standards 10 Our labour policies 11 Our labour actions 11 Our labour outcomes 12 Environment 13 Protecting the environment 13 Our environment policies 13 Our environment actions 13 Our environment outcomes 15 Anti-corruption 16 Anti-corruption 16 Our anti-corruption policies 16 Our anti-corruption actions 16 Our anti-corruption outcomes 17 Progressing the Sustainable Development Goals 18 Supporting information 20 6 January 2020 Page 2 of 20 Aboriginal acknowledgement We acknowledge the Traditional Owners of the Country on which we operate, the land of the Bunurong, Boon Wurrung and Wurundjeri peoples of the Kulin Nation. We acknowledge their songlines and connection to land and water. We acknowledge their elders past, present and emerging, and thank them for sharing their knowledge and cultural lore. 6 January 2020 Page 3 of 20 Managing Director Statement of Continued Support A continuing commitment We’re pleased to reaffirm our commitment and continued support for the United Nations Global Compact in our Communication on Progress, our second report since joining the Compact in 2017. We believe in creating a better world through our actions to support communities and enable better health and environmental outcomes. That’s why we’re committed to supporting the principles that align to responsible business practice and support the broader 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We’re really proud to be part of one of the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiatives to fight inequality and injustice and protect our planet for generations to come, and present this year’s update on how we’re tracking. Finding new ways to protect our environment We’ve made great progress this year. This report outlines how our values, plans, policies and day-to-day actions deliver on the ten principles of the compact. We’ve celebrated some significant milestones at Aquarevo, our flagship development with Villawood Properties at Lyndhurst in Melbourne’s south-east. Aquarevo offers a new way of managing and protecting our precious water storages by using fit-for-purpose water when drinking water isn’t needed – like rainwater in the shower and recycled water for the the toilet, laundry and garden. Homeowners started moving in this year and are part of a new way of using water in an urban environment, where they could potentially use up to 70 per cent less drinking water than the average Melbourne household. We’re thinking differently about how we power our operations, and making the switch to renewable energy as we adapt to the long-term impacts of climate change. We’re one of 13 water organisations who’ve come together to form Zero Emissions Water (ZEW) – an initiative that’s truly industry-changing. We’re working to harness our collective buying power to purchase solar power from the Kiamal Solar Farm in north-west Victoria. The savings from this agreement will offset rising energy costs for our customers, while helping us achieve net-zero emissions by 2030. We’re also harnessing technology to stop leaks and spills within our network to protect our waterways and prevent water loss. Our industry-leading Advanced BlokAid® technology is helping to identify changes in wastewater flows that could lead to a spill into a waterway. We’re also using our new generation digital meters to detect potential household leaks so we can let our customers know and fix the issue – in fact, our pilot program has identified that up to 10 per cent of households have a water leak somewhere, and fixing these can save thousands of litres of drinking water. Supporting communities near and far We’ve enagaged with First Nation peoples from our service area to develop our first Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), joining more than 1,000 organisations Australia-wide who have formally committed to reconciliation and positive action. We’ve made great progress this year and in December unveiled our RAP artwork. The artwork is a story of land and water by Bunurong artist, Adam Magennis – told through his experience, and that of his ancestors, through the birds-eye view of a White-bellied Sea-Eagle. It’s an abstract insight into the cultural landscape of our service region, highlighting landmarks of historical and cultural significance for our First Peoples – helping us to acknowledge, honour and seek to understand what they value most. 6 January 2020 Page 4 of 20 We’re also supporting the Monash University’s Revitalising Informal Settlements and their Environments (RISE) program through Iota, our commercial arm. The program is focussing on nature-based water and wastewater solutions in 24 informal, rural settlements based in Fiji and Indonesia. RISE aims to improve community health and, in particular, to improve health outcomes for children aged five and under. It’s doing this by delivering safe wastewater and sewerage systems that prevent wastewater making its way into local drinking water supplies. Earlier this year, our people were out in out local community helping people impacted by bushfires in the Bunyip State Forest. Our employees visited more than 200 properties to provide damage assessments, flush out water tanks, replenish water supplies, provide water for animals, return wandering livestock, conduct plumbing repairs, investigate leaks and replace melted meters. Over the next year we’ll continue to implement the ten principles of the compact and the goals and further integrate these into our strategy, processes and operations. We’re committed to making a positive difference and creating a better world for all and always. Phil Johnson Acting Managing Director 6 January 2020 Page 5 of 20 Introduction This report is our Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact and describes our policies, procedures and actions that align with the ten principles of the Global Compact and the outcomes that we’ve achieved. This report also identifies the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) most relevant to our business and how we’re putting them into action. We’ve referenced these goals throughout our corporate plan to identify where they align with our strategy and what we’re focusing on to achieve progress. Key highlights Key highlights through 2018–19 were:  Human rights – We’ve engaged with Traditional Owners in our service region to develop a RAP. When it’s complete, we’ll join more than 1,000 organisations Australiawide that have formally committed to reconciliation and positive action.  Labour – We’ve developed a new flexible work framework to encourage and enable work life balance and support our employees through all life stages.  Environment – We’re committed to protecting the environment: o We’ve installed solar panels at several water recycling plants and signed a joint purchase agreement for solar power – we anticipate a significant reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions in 2019–20 because of these projects. o We’re supporting improvements to water quality and sanitation in developing countries with nature-based water and wastewater solutions in 24 informal, rural settlements based in Fiji and Indonesia.  Anti-corruption – We’ve maintained a comprehensive governance framework with ongoing education and awareness and avenues for reporting any fraud or corruption allegations. We’ve had no incidents of fraud or corruption through 2018–19. 6 January 2020 Page 6 of 20 About us We’re a Victorian Government-owned retail water corporation supporting customers in Melbourne’s south-east. We deliver water, sewerage and recycled water services to 1.83 million people who rely on us for health, work, play and recreation. We own, operate and maintain $4.4 billion of assets including water, recycled water and sewerage networks and manage more than 25,700 kilometres of pipeline.  Service area: 3,640 square km (bordering more than 270 km of coastline)  Population served: 1.83 million residents  Customers (water): 778,018 connections: 717,091 residential (92 %) and 60,927 non-residential (8 %)  Drinking water supplied: 140.4 billion litres: 106.1 billion litres residential (75.6 %) and 34.3 billion litres non-residential (24.4 %)  Wastewater collected: more than 100 billion litres  Annual revenue: $1.0435 billion dollars (Aust.)  Employees: 680 employees (645.7 full-time equivalent) Iota Iota is a wholly-owned subsidiary of South East Water and it takes new innovations and commercialises them for use beyond our borders. Iota partners with other organisations with international projects in Ireland, Fiji and Indonesia. Iota also manages Priority Plumbing delivering plumbing services outside our regulatory and geographic boundaries. Our values Our values drive and guide our decision making and our day-to-day actions. 6 January 2020 Page 7 of 20 Human rights United Nations Global Compact: Human rights Principle 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2. make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Supporting human rights Supporting and respecting protection of fundamental human rights is demonstrated by our values and how they drive and guide our decision making and day-to-day actions. We embrace diversity and a culture of respect and inclusion by clearly setting out the way we expect our people to behave and conduct business. We’re committed to providing a safe, flexible and respectful environment for all workers, customers and visitors which is free from discrimination, bullying and harassment. We’ve committed to initiatives that continually improve our culture, capability, diversity and inclusion practices. Our human rights policies Our policies that address protection of human rights include:  Anti Discrimination and Equal Opportunity – outlines our commitment to providing a workplace that is free from discrimination, harassment, victimisation, vilification and 6 January 2020 Page 8 of 20 bullying. It sets out expectations of our workers and legal obligations in relation to equal opportunity.  Code of Conduct – sets acceptable standards and expectations for the way we work, provides a practical set of principles to help us make decisions and demonstrates acceptable and unacceptable behaviours.  Diversity and Inclusion – outlines our commitment to diversity and inclusion in the way we work, how we do business and how we support and reflect communities in our service area.  Privacy Charter – ensures that we adhere to Information Privacy Principles under the Privacy and Data Protection Act 2014 (Vic.) and that we recognise the importance of protecting personal information and trust placed in us when supplied with personal information.  Safety and Wellbeing – defines our commitment to the safety and wellbeing of people in all aspects of our business. Legislation Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 (Vic.) (the Charter) – a Victorian law that sets out the basic rights, freedoms and responsibilities of all people in Victoria and requires us to act consistently with the twenty human rights identified in the Charter. Our human rights actions We’ve undertaken actions to support and respect human rights through our business. Supporting diversity and inclusion in the workplace We’re real is one of our guiding values. Part of this value means embracing diversity, and we’re committed to providing an inclusive work environment. We’ve implemented the third year actions from our Diversity and Inclusion Framework by supporting moves towards gender parity, raising awareness of Aboriginal culture, enhancing employee awareness of positive workplace behaviours and focusing on understanding and managing psychological wellbeing. In 2019–20, we’ll implement our new annual Diversity and Inclusion Operational Plan which will continue our focus on an inclusive and diverse workplace, gender parity and a more flexible workforce. Advancing reconciliation We’re committed to reconciliation and engagement with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples. We conducted more than 20 engagements with Traditional Owners and First Nation Communities during the year as part of our RAP development and ongoing engagement. We’re still working on our RAP and recently sent it to Reconciliation Australian to be reviewed. By developing our RAP, we aim to provide opportunities to create connections and build trust, respect and understanding of First Nations history, traditions and lore while creating employment opportunities for our First Nations communities. Our employees participated in cross-cultural training and development activities throughout the year to raise awareness. Helping our customers manage their bills We’re continuing to help more customers who need support to access grants and concessions. We established our Customer First program to provide early intervention and assist vulnerable customers who want to pay their water bills, but can’t pay everything. As part of this, we’re expanding our proactive outreach program to customers we might be able to help through our Customer Care program. We supported 5,485 customers through this program over the year. Customers can also spread the cost of their bills with a payment plan, making 6 January 2020 Page 9 of 20 fortnightly or monthly payments. In total this year, 34,924 customers chose to pay their bills using our payment plan service. Supply chain risk assessment We’ve undertaken a Supply Chain Risk Assessment project along with other Victorian water corporations. This involves a detailed risk assessment of the water industry’s products and services to determine where efforts need to be focused in relation to managing environmental and social risks and opportunities. This will help us prepare for responding to Commonwealth modern slavery reporting obligations and help us deliver towards the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and our own Emissions Reduction Pledge. Supporting social enterprise We’ve engaged Enviro Management Services (EMS), a wholly owned subsidiary of Marriott Support Services (a Social Traders certified social enterprise working with people with intellectual disabilities) to provide grounds maintenance and gardening services at our offices, treatment plants, sites and facilities. The new contract provides people with disabilities a significant and meaningful opportunity to work, learn and participate in a high functioning team and eventually transition into the open employment market. EMS crews deliver quality work, integrating people with disability into real operational situations. Our human rights outcomes Aiming for gender parity Our Diversity and Inclusion Framework supports moves towards gender parity. We’ve a projection of 50 per cent representation of women in senior leadership positions within the next five years and are actively working to achieve this. In June 2019 we were at 27.8 per cent and we acknowledge we need to make further progress. Our shortlisting process sets an expectation that all positions have a balanced shortlist of 50 per cent female and 50 per cent male applicants. Diverse interview panels with female and male representatives is an expected practice. Labour United Nations Global Compact: Labour Principle 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4. the elimination of all forms of forced compulsory labour; Principle 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Upholding labour standards Our approach to upholding international labour standards and principles is demonstrated in our commitment to a safe, diverse and inclusive workplace culture in line with our values. Safety underpins absolutely every element of our organisation and supports each and every employee (including our contractual partners) – from how we design and plan, issue and monitor work, to looking out for one another each day. We’re continuing to build our people 6 January 2020 Page 10 of 20 capability and are providing new opportunities for employees to grow their careers through professional development and flexible work arrangements. Our labour policies Our policies that address labour standards include: Diversity and Inclusion – outlines our commitment to diversity and inclusion in the way we work, how we do business and how we support and reflect communities in our service area. Employees Enterprise Agreement 2018 – establishes terms and conditions of employment for the majority of our employees. Safety and Wellbeing – outlines our commitment to the safety and wellbeing of people in all aspects of our business. Strategy Safety, People and Wellbeing Strategy 2022 – is our new strategy that supports delivery of customer outcomes by maximising the safety and wellbeing of our people, while creating a great place to work. Our labour actions We’ve undertaken a range of actions to address labour standards. Safety first Our continued commitment to a safe and healthy workplace, along with visible safety leadership, has enabled us to visibly grow our proactive safety culture in partnership with our contractors. We’re committed to best practice health and safety systems, and relentlessly pursue the mitigation of all operational risks. We’ve developed new safety performance indicators which have an increased focus on leadership, positive behaviours, accountability for safety, and wellbeing. Our Safety, People and Wellbeing Strategy 2022, along with our refreshed values and Living Safely Rules, play a key role in driving our safety and wellbeing programs. Delivering flexible working arrangements We believe in supporting our employees through all life stages, and this year developed our new Flexible Work Arrangements Framework to encourage and enable work life balance. The framework embeds flexible work practices and is designed to ensure all people leaders and employees are aware of the options available to them so they can make informed decisions to be at their best – both at and outside of work. Supporting employee wellbeing Improving employee wellbeing is one of four objectives in our Safety, People and Wellbeing Strategy 2022. We’ve placed increased emphasis on mental health, building a proactive safety culture and a broad wellbeing offering. Our new Mental Health First Aid program has seen a group of employees trained to help and guide employees who may experience mental health issues, and also delivers mental health awareness training for employees and people leaders. This program is a key component of our strategy and will support in building a strong wellbeing framework. 6 January 2020 Page 11 of 20 Training future water professionals We partnered with other water companies to design an integrated graduate development program, tailored to the water industry. Together, we aim to attract top talent to the water industry and grow a pipeline of skilled professionals. In 2019, we welcomed seven graduates (including three engineering, one finance, one economics and two information technology graduates). They’ll complete three 12-month rotations in their specialist area supported by professional development and networking opportunities. New Employees Enterprise Agreement Our new Employees Enterprise Agreement (Agreement) was approved by the Fair Work Commission (Australia’s national workplace relations tribunal) in February 2019. Together, management, employees and unions developed the Agreement to achieve a set of working arrangements, which meet the needs of the majority of employees and the business. Our Agreement aims to enhance the quality of employees’ working lives while also allowing us to increase customer service, productivity and efficiency. Our labour outcomes Safety performance We’ve again achieved good results with our end of year Total Recordable Injury Frequency coming down from 14.16 to 11.59 per million work hours (18.1 per cent less than in 2017–18). Our safety performance continues to improve with 11 per cent fewer injuries recorded compared to 2017–18 despite a 10 per cent increase in hours worked. We recorded six lost time injuries for the year (a combination of our employees and contractors) compared to four in the previous year (see below). We set a target of zero lost time injuries for the year. Key performance indicators 2016–17 result 2017–18 result 2018–19 result a Number of reported OHS incidents 5 4 6 OHS committee meetings 12 24 30 Safety compliance training completed 100% 100% 98% within 10 days of commencement a Incidents include the sum of Lost Time Injury, Medical Treatment Injury and Restricted Work Injury for the year for our employee data only. 6 January 2020 Page 12 of 20 Environment United Nations Global Compact: Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Protecting the environment We make every effort to protect the environment and improve environmental outcomes on a local and global scale. We aim to always do our best in our environmental performance by setting high standards and implementing them in a commercially responsible way, providing healthy water for life to our customers. One of our greatest responsibilities is to ensure long-term water security while also minimising our impact on the environment including removing septic tanks and connecting properties to the sewerage system. Climate change is already having tangible impacts on our world and we’ve developed adaptation and mitigation plans for our assets and business operations. Our environment policies Our policies that address protecting the environment include:  Environment – outlines our commitment to protect the environment and implement innovative measures to improve environmental outcomes for our customers and the community.  Risk management – provides guidance regarding the systematic management of risk to support the achievement of our corporate objectives. Strategy  Urban Water Strategy (2017) – is our key strategy that establishes our strategic water resource management directions and actions to 2065, to further support the creation of liveable communities and sustain our region’s geographic diversity. Our environment actions We’re undertaking different actions to protect the environment and improve quality of life. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Under the Victorian Government’s Statement of Obligations (Emission Reduction), which came into effect in March 2018, we’ve pledged to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 45 per cent from our 2016 baseline of 41,744 tonnes of greenhouse gases (CO2). In addition, we’ve committed to have net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. We’re putting in solar power at a number of water recycling plants and identifying new opportunities within our existing operations to be more energy efficient. The construction of our solar panels at our Pakenham and Somers Water Recycling Plants was completed in 2018–19 ready for commissioning in October 2019. We also signed a joint power purchase agreement 6 January 2020 Page 13 of 20 for Kiamal Solar Farm in Northern Victoria that will help to minimise greenhouse gas emissions and maintain affordable water bills for our customers. We’ve committed to installing a cogeneration unit at our Mount Martha Water Recycling Plant to make our work more efficient and decrease emissions. We’re anticipating a significant reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions in 2019–20 because of the projects implemented this year. Supporting Integrated Water Management We’ve committed to creating water efficient and liveable communities that are more resilient to the impacts of climate change and a growing population. We’re leading and participating in a range of Integrated Water Management (IWM) projects and initiatives:  We’ve collaborated with agencies and councils to identify new IWM opportunities for our region as part of regional IWM Forums and we’ve led four co-funded Forum projects across our three catchments: Westernport, Dandenong and Yarra.  We’ve continued to collaborate with key stakeholders and authorities to plan and design integrated water solutions for Fishermans Bend, Australia’s largest urban renewal project. Our Fishermans Bend Integrated Water Servicing Strategy proposes an IWM approach through the use of alternative water sources and its own sewer mining plant to provide climate resilient, reliable and sustainable water and wastewater services at Fishermans Bend.  We’ve seen great progress at Aquarevo, our flagship water and energy efficient development with Villawood Properties. The first customers have now moved in and will benefit from features like rain-to-hot water, solar panels, smart pressure sewers, and soon an onsite water recycling plant.  We’re involved in research projects with the Cooperative Research Centre for Water Sensitive Cities and with Water Services Association of Australia to ensure Melbourne’s future growth and development is supported by integrated water solutions. Expanding our recycled water network We delivered a total of 6.9 billion litres of recycled water this year by expanding our recycled water network (for example, our Cranbourne Recycled Water tank is now operational). Our recycled water network helps future-proof our network, saves our drinking water and builds our drought resilience. We currently have more than 1,060 kilometres of recycled water main and supplied 37,000 homes in our region with recycled water this year. We’re also supplying recycled water to sporting grounds, vineyards, golf courses, market gardens, nurseries and turf growers in our region, so they can use fit-for-purpose water to support their activities. Targeting sewer spills To protect our environment, we’re working to minimise sewage spills. To do this, we’ve committed to improve our current levels of significant spills while rolling out a new sewer monitoring program to reduce them further. We’ve also set ourselves a target number of sewer spills avoided (1,857) in our Corporate Plan 2019–24 so we can measure our progress. We believe this is a first for the Victorian water industry. Community grants We’re developing a community grants platform to donate money to community groups impacted during the year by beach closures caused by dry weather sewer spills. As part of our pricing submission to our economic regulator, we made a commitment to update guaranteed service levels so that we donate up to $10,000 to a community group affected by a spill, if we cause a dry weather spill in our area and it results in a beach closure. This new community grants platform will be available for the first round of grants in 2019–20. 6 January 2020 Page 14 of 20 Adaptation to climate change Climate change impacts the security of our water supply and our ability to supply the water and wastewater services our customers rely on. We’re addressing the impacts of changing weather patterns and events in the design and operation of our assets and delivery of services. We’re committed to building the resilience of our network and services to the potential shocks and stresses associated with a changing climate. We’ve updated our businesses continuity plans, water and sewer asset management plans and have informed the Government’s first Pilot Water Sector Climate Change Adaption Action Plan, launched in October 2018. Developing new technology Our commercial arm, Iota, takes new innovations developed by us and commercialises them for use beyond our borders. Iota has designed a smart sewer system for Yarra Valley Water using its patented OneBox® platform. OneBox® is an Internet of Things platform that monitors a storage tank at the home and pushes the wastewater into the sewer network. Iota worked closely with Yarra Valley Water to design a smart hydraulic sewer network based on our learnings from installing a similar network in our region on the Mornington Peninsula. The network design is being tested in a pilot program across several townships in the Yarra Ranges and has the potential to be expanded to thousands of properties – both residential and commercial. Safe sanitation for rural communities Iota is supporting Monash University’s Revitalising Informal Settlements and their Environments (RISE) program to help improve water quality and sanitation in developing countries. The program is focussing on nature-based water and wastewater solutions in 24 informal, rural settlements based in Fiji and Indonesia. RISE aims to improve community health and, in particular, to improve health outcomes for children aged five and under. It’s doing this by delivering safe wastewater and sewerage systems that prevent wastewater making its way into local drinking water supplies. In 2019, Iota’s Technical Director, Eamon Casey visited developments in Indonesia and Fiji to train local community members (including local utilities) to install and maintain Iota’s pressure sewer and OneBox® technology. Our environment outcomes Key performance indicators 2016–17 result 2017–18 result 2018–19 result a Total net CO2 emissions (tonnes) 42,097 48,235 38,265 Effluent re-use volume (end use) 23.7% 29.4% 34.7% b a The 2017–18 figure was estimated at 46,418 tonnes as the actual results are not finalised until October every year. The actual result for 2017–18 was 48,235 tonnes. b A higher quality of effluent processing was achieved resulting in a greater uptake by customers of recycled water. 6 January 2020 Page 15 of 20 Anti-corruption United Nations Global Compact: Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption We’re committed to act in an ethical manner at all times and conduct business in an honest, open and honourable manner. Transparency, model governance, policy alignment and community engagement are used to positively build our capability and reputation and ensure we retain our ‘licence to operate’. Our systems are important in providing appropriate levels of assurance and accountability across the business and perform a key role in ensuring the processes and controls against strategic and operational risks are functioning effectively. We’ve a comprehensive risk management framework and code of conduct to provide clarity of expectations to employees in alignment with public sector values. Our anti-corruption policies Our policies that address anti-corruption include:  Code of Conduct – sets acceptable standards and expectations for the way we work, provides a practical set of principles to help us make decisions and demonstrates acceptable and unacceptable behaviours. The Code of Conduct also links with the Victorian Public Sector Values that provide the integrity and accountability framework for all public sector employees.  Compliance – defines our approach to compliance with laws, regulations and policies which impact on day-to-day activities.  Fraud and Corruption – enables us to proactively protect our assets and reputation by preventing and managing the risk of fraud and corruption.  Gifts, Benefits and Hospitality Policy – provides direction and guidance on principles and responsibilities to ensure that gifts and benefits received are ethical, properly managed, appropriately disclosed and reasonable in terms of community expectations – our ultimate aim is to minimise gift offers accepted.  Procurement – provides a framework to manage procurement of all goods and services within an approved budget and delegated limit of authority. All procurement must meet the principles set by the Victorian Government Purchasing Board of value for money, accountability, probity and scalability. Key legislation Protected Disclosure Act 2012 (Vic.) – enables people to make disclosures about improper conduct by public officers and public bodies. It aims to ensure openness and accountability by encouraging people to make disclosures and protecting them when they do. Note: this Act changes to the Public Interest Disclosures Act 2012 on 1 January 2020. Our anti-corruption actions Our policies, frameworks and governance practices provide the basis for how we prevent corruption. 6 January 2020 Page 16 of 20 Maintaining our governance and risk frameworks We’re committed to the highest standards of governance to ensure that we comply with all relevant legal, regulatory and internal policy requirements. Our management systems, frameworks and standards are subject to independent auditing and certification. We maintain an enterprise risk management framework consistent with the Australian/New Zealand Risk Management Standard and the requirements of the Victorian Government Risk Management Framework. During the year we refreshed and articulated our risk appetite in line with the strategic objectives of Our Five-year Customer Commitment 2018–23 and Corporate Plan 2018–23. We also reviewed and updated our business case and procurement processes. We held information sessions across the organisation to explain these changes to employees. Compliance training We’ve reviewed and updated all compliance training modules (where appropriate) and added three new modules to our compliance suite. Training modules available to employees include:  Privacy and Data Protection Act 2014 (Vic.)  Consumer Law  Cybersecurity Incidents General Awareness  Misleading Conduct and Competition Law Cybersecurity We continue to develop and enhance our cybersecurity to manage any potential threats. We’ve aligned our security framework to the Victorian Privacy and Data Security Framework and continue to identity and implement improvements. We’ve developed a security roadmap and are progressively implementing this. A training module on cybersecurity is available to all employees. Stopline We introduced an independent whistle-blower service known as ‘Stopline’ in 2018 which has now been in operation for the last twelve months. ‘Stopline’ is an alternative independent, confidential and impartial helpline service to allow employees to raise issues relating to allegations that include fraud, corruption or other improper conduct within the workplace. We intend to continue to offer the service to employees going forward as it continues to align with our corporate values and complements our existing policies and processes. Safeguarding our reputation in international projects Iota is partnering with other water utilities and research organisations on water sanitation projects in Ireland, Fiji and Indonesia. Iota applies a country risk framework to assess security and political risk (that includes corruption risk) and ensure appropriate mitigation, such as through due diligence, commercial agreements and working through international research partners and government-owned water utilities. Our anti-corruption outcomes We’ve maintained a comprehensive governance framework with ongoing education and awareness and avenues for reporting any fraud or corruption allegations. We’ve had no incidents of fraud or corruption through 2018–19. We’ve also had no investigations by the Victorian Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption Commission. 6 January 2020 Page 17 of 20 Progressing the Sustainable Development Goals As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we’ve committed to supporting the principles that align to responsible business practice and to also support the broader 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs together, aim to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. We’ve identified five SDGs most relevant to our organisation and are integrating them into our strategy, culture and daily operations. SDG 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all We’re implementing this goal through:  Undertaking targeted upgrades of mains throughout our service area and designing and constructing water and sewerage infrastructure for new suburbs (see page 17 of our Annual Report 2018–19).  Improving how we warn and inform our customers about planned and emergency interruptions to their services (see page 52 of our Annual Report 2018–19).  Continuing to help more customers who need support to access grants and concessions (see page 8).  Partnering with Monash University’s Revitalising Informal Settlements and their Environments (RISE) program to help improve water quality and sanitation in 24 informal, rural settlements based in Fiji and Indonesia (see page 12). SDG 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation We’re implementing this goal through:  Developing and implementing new technologies like OneBox® and Advanced BlokAid® to help our customers use less drinking water and to make our network more efficient (see page 12).  Partnering on innovative urban development through Aquarevo, our flagship water and energy efficient development with Villawood Properties (see page 11).  Upgrading our Boneo Water Recycling Plant to produce fit-for-purpose recycled water using an energy efficient process that will help lower our greenhouse gas emissions (see pages 34–35 of our Annual Report 2018–19). SDG 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable We’re implementing this goal through:  Supporting the creation of water sensitive communities through innovative rainwater and stormwater solutions at Fishermans Bend and Aquarevo (see page 11).  Commencing a new three-year sewer monitoring trial to prevent sewer spills through upgrading/installing Advanced BlokAid® devices at our highest risk catchments and pump station emergency relief structures (see page 11). SDG 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts We’re implementing this goal through:  Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, for example, by installing solar panels at our water recycling plants and signing a joint power purchasing agreement for solar power. We’re committed to have net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 (see pages 10– 11). 6 January 2020 Page 18 of 20  Exploring ways to better harness the water cycle to reduce reliance on drinking water for purposes where it’s not required and ensure better water security (see page 11).  Considering future climate impacts and adverse events as part of the design and operation of our assets, and the way we deliver our services (see page 12). SDG 17 Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development We’re implementing this goal through:  Partnering with research institutions and other organisations on integrated water management and water efficiency solutions in Victoria and globally through Iota (see pages 11–12).  Taking new innovations developed at South East Water and commercialising them for use beyond our borders and across the world through Iota (see page 12).  Joining other water companies to form the World Water Innovation Fund, which aims to find, develop and accelerate the ground-breaking technologies that will make a real difference to peoples’ lives across the world. 6 January 2020 Page 19 of 20 Supporting information We’re a water corporation under the Water Act 1989 (Vic.). The activities of our organisation are governed by the Water Act 1989 (Vic.) and the Statement of Obligations issued by the Minister for Water under Section 41 of the Water Industry Act 1994 (Vic.). The Essential Services Commission (ESC) is our economic regulator. Every five years we’re required to submit a price submission which sets out the services and service standards we propose to deliver to customers, and the proposed prices customers will pay for these. Our Five-year Customer Commitment 2018–23 came into effect on 1 July 2018. Supporting information on our business and performance can be found in:  Annual Report 2018–19 – provides an overview of our operational performance, audited financial reports and key highlights, along with statements on our governance and management practices.  Corporate Plan 2019–24 – guides our business and shows how we’ll deliver healthy water for life now and into the future. The plan sets out five customer outcomes that provide us with strategic direction for the year. These outcomes continue to reflect what our customers told us matters most to them, during consultation to develop our Fiveyear Customer Commitment.  Customer Charter – provides information on our service commitments as well as outlining the rights and obligations of our customers. Contact South East Water WatersEdge 101 Wells Street Frankston, Victoria 3199 Australia support@southeastwater.com.au southeastwater.com.au
