Nabtesco Value Report 2 019 Integrated Report FY Ended December 31, 2019 Sustainability Power With its motion control technology based on the key concept of “Moving it. Stopping it.”, the Nabtesco Group strives to provide safety, comfort and a sense of security in daily lives. We provide products and services that beneﬁt people’s lives in a broad range of ﬁelds surrounding us including “transportation of people and goods,” “manufacturing and Infrastructure” “daily lives and welfare” and “production of daily commodities.” Large tanker/large Aircraft passenger vessel Excavator High-speed train Industrial robot Bus/truck Local train Intelligent prosthetic knee joint Electric wheelchair to ease care burden Rollator with a speed control system Automatic door Pouch/retort food Platform door Transportation of people Manufacturing and Daily lives and Production of daily and goods Infrastructure welfare commodities Improve the safety and comfort of railroad Contribute to the establishment of industrial Improve the safety and comfort of public spaces Ensure the safety of food and daily consumables vehicles, aircraft and commercial vehicles infrastructure in emerging economies Provide support for the elderly and people with Reduce the use of packing materials for food Foster the use of clean energy and safety Support automated, high-precision processing disabilities and daily consumables navigation for marine vessels and conveyance at factories Contribute to the creation of a barrier-free Contribute to product research and Promote laborand energy-saving at society development manufacturing sites 1 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Nabtesco will realize “All Stakeholders’ Dreams” by maintaining profitable growth. Sustainability The Nabtesco Way is a collective term that means our Corporate Philosophy, Our Promises, and Power Action Guidelines. We aim to realize “All Stakeholders’ Dreams” through the implementation of Contents 2019 Nabtesco Value Report The Nabtesco Way by the management and individual employees. Value Creation Path Railroad Vehicle Equipment Business 43 The Nabtesco Way 04 Aircraft Equipment Business 45 Message from the CEO 05 Commercial Vehicle Equipment Business 47 Message from the CEO Q&A Session 09 Marine Vessel Equipment Business 49 Deliver Solutions for Social Challenges Automatic Door Business 51 Corporate Philosophy through Business 13 Packaging Machine Business 53 Reason for corporate existence and value: Materiality 15 Dialogues with Society The Nabtesco Group, with our unique motion control technology, will provide safety, comfort and a sense of Growth History 17 security in daily lives as well as any form of transportation. Special Feature: Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group 19 Business Continuity Power 55 Value Creation Process of the Nabtesco Group Approach to ESG Issues 59 (Explanations) 21 Messages from Outside Directors 81 Our Promises Dialogue with Investors Data section What we value in implementing the Corporate Philosophy: Financial/Non-Financial Highlights 29 Management Team 85 Financial Information 31 1. Value close communications with our customers worldwide Corporate Financial Data 89 2. Value each individual’s spirit of challenge and innovation Philosophy Dialogues with Business Market Glossary 95 3. Continue to expand our business and profit Our Promises Business Portfolio 37 Corporate Profile 97 4. Continue to reinforce our sense of ethics and highly Precision Reduction Gear Business 39 Disclosure Policy 98 transparent business activities Hydraulic Equipment Business 41 5. Value the environment and promote harmony with local Action Guidelines Consolidated Financial Statements communities and cultures (With Independent Auditors’ Report, a separate volume) Action Guidelines Editorial Policy Specific actions and attitudes to be taken to fulfill Our Promises: We seek further advance our integrated report by fostering dialogue with our [Action Guidelines for All Group Members] [Action Guidelines for Top Management] stakeholders based on our “Sustainability Power.” As a common set of principles applying to all employees Based on these guidelines, top executives will in the performance of their duties and decision-making, manage the Nabtesco Group by focusing on the these guidelines clearly indicate the appropriate directions four important points to ensure its sustainable About the publication of this integrated report of individual actions and decisions and clarify important growth as a global corporate group. corporate values and unique strengths. The Nabtesco Group believes it is important to built trust through can reach to understand the features of Nabtesco’s businesses more dialogue with stakeholders in order to secure transparency for precisely. In “Dialogues with Society,” we shared the messages of Build Trust: Work diligently (kotsukotsu) and expeditiously Communicate the Present Situation and management and achieve sustainable growth. the four outside directors, including newly appointed directors. Future Vision of the Company (Organization) to For 2019 integrated report, We could not hold the annual In this report, we focused on “Sustainability Power” and on the Provide Value: Think ahead from customer’s perspectives Employees. dialogue and roundtable meetings due to the spread of the novel approach and measures that the Nabtesco Group is taking under Take on Challenges: Enhance our skills Encourage Active Discussions and Align All coronavirus. Taking different approaches for this report, we an uncertain circumstance to continue to provide the value that is Develop Human Resources: Employees are essential Members to a Common Direction. introduce the Nabtesco Group’s policies and philosophy which needed by society. Going forward we will advance our integrated assets increase its corporate value on a long-term basis. report by continuing to have dialogues with our stakeholders. Ensure Succession. Foster Teamwork: Discuss fully (tokoton) among all In the “Value Creation Path” section, we included a Q&A In preparing this report, we referred to the Integrated Reporting members Manage in a Manner that Increases the Nabtesco session in which the CEO answered FAQ by investors, with a view Framework, the Intangible Reporting Framework and various Brand and Corporate Value. Realize our Dreams: Pursue higher reliability and quality to helping the readers deepen their understanding of Nabtesco. In other guidelines on sustainability to ensure the objectivity and “Dialogues with Business Market,” we revamp information disclosed transparency of the report. Make Daily Improvement: Step forward for future growth in the section by incorporating a range of opinions given in relation For financial data, please refer to the appendix. Ensure Transparency: Be open, fair and honest Activity to Increase Employees’ P75 to the previous fiscal year’s integrated report, so that the readers Hold a High Work Ethic: Make individual conscientious Awareness of The Nabtesco Way effort Be Considerate of the Global Environment: Do not waste (mottainai) In this report, terms that need explanations are underlined and the explanations are provided in the “Glossary” ＊ Keep Harmony with Local Communities and Cultures: on pages 95 to 96. Engage in local activities 3 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 4 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Message from the CEO Going back to the basics with our In the Transport Solutions segment, demand for (COVID-19), which we couldn’t take into account for aircraft equipment remained robust for use in private inﬂuence in guidance, demand for hydraulic equipment business activities to build a robust aircraft, and the marine vessel equipment market continued to make a gradual recovery, enabling us and railroad vehicle equipment dropped temporarily in China in the ﬁrst quarter of FY2020, and there were foundation for sustainable growth to increase sales in the segment. As for railroad vehicle equipment, demand for equipment used in Chinese subway rolling stock remained robust and also some slow production in the country. Subsequently, in the second quarter, while the spread of infection seemed to slow down in China, it spread widely across net sales remained ﬂat with the previous ﬁscal year. Western countries and in Asia including Japan. Now the Summary of FY2019 business performance used in industrial robots decreased because of stagnant For commercial vehicle equipment as well, net sales second wave of infection is feared and is exerting an In the initial plan set for FY2019, we aimed to achieve equipment investment by the automobile industry, remained at the same level, driven by the robust inﬂuence over the macroeconomic environment. net sales of ¥313 billion and operating income of ¥30 which was under the lingering inﬂuence of U.S.-China domestic market, which offset stagnant sales in the Because it is still difficult to predict when the billion, thereby recording year-on-year increases in trade frictions and other issues. Accordingly, the amount Southeast Asian market. For OVALO GmbH in Germany, pandemic will end and it is unclear what the extent of both sales and proﬁt. However, the actual results did of orders received as well as net sales decreased year which is one of our consolidated subsidiaries, the the impact of the COVID-19 on the Nabtesco Group’s not reach the planned levels due to stagnant demand on year. For hydraulic equipment, demand from local application of the new accounting standard IFRS 16 business performance will be, it is presently hard for for precision reduction gears, although demand for construction machinery manufacturers remained robust Leases caused an increase in the right-of-use assets, us to make forecasts for our business performance in hydraulic equipment in China and demand for automatic in China but demand in the Southeast Asian market, and we posted an impairment loss of about ¥1.3 billion an appropriate and rational manner. We therefore left doors in Japan and abroad remained robust throughout mainly in Indonesia, was stagnant, and net sales for the goodwill of the subsidiary. In November 2019, the performance and dividend forecasts announced on the year. remained at the same level as recorded in the previous however, OVALO began to supply actuators for Audi’s February 7, 2020 as they were when we announced the By business segment, in the Component Solutions ﬁscal year. As a result, operating income decreased year predictive active suspension. As a result, operating ﬁnancial results for the ﬁrst quarter of FY2020. We will segment, demand for precision reduction gears to be on year in this segment. income in the segment substantially increased from revise them as necessary when the situation becomes that posted in the previous ﬁscal year, when our clear and announce the revised forecasts as soon as business performance was inﬂuenced by the posting possible. of the impairment loss. In the Accessibility Solutions segment, both the amount of orders received and net sales expanded FY2020 due to robust domestic demand for automatic FY2018 FY2019 (Initial plan) doors for buildings and platform doors, which were driven by special demand caused by the Olympics Net sales ¥294.6 billion ¥289.8 billion ¥303.0 billion and Paralympics to be held in Japan as well as by steady demand outside the country. The post-merger integration (PMI) cost associated with past M&A projects Operating income ¥21.9 billion ¥25.3 billion ¥32.0 billion also decreased, contributing to an increase in operating income in the segment. Net income The Nabtesco Group, anticipating lingering impacts attributable to ¥21.0 billion ¥17.9 billion ¥23.1 billion of U.S.-China trade frictions, has temporarily suspended owners of the parent the investment being made to enhance the production capacity of the Tsu Plant (located in Mie Prefecture, Dividends per share ¥73 ¥73 ¥82 Japan), which manufactures precision reduction gears. We are, however, ready to expand the production capacity for precision reduction gears and operate it ROE 12.1% 9.8% 12.0% promptly when demand for the product shows signs of recovery. Outlook for FY2020 ● Sales by business segment (FY2019) For the outlook for FY2020, we forecast net sales of ¥303.0 billion (up 4.6% year on year), operating income Accessibility Solutions Manufacturing of ¥32 billion (up 26.4% year on year), income before (ACB) Solutions (MFR) taxes of ¥34 billion (up 21.5% year on year) and net 27.6% 6.4% income attributable to owners of the parent of ¥23.1 ¥80.0 billion ¥18.7 billion (5.3% year on year ) (6.4% year on year ) billion (up 28.8% year on year) as of February 7, 2020, when we announced the ﬁnancial results for the fourth Net sales Katsuhiro Teramoto quarter of FY2019. For precision reduction gears, we ¥289.8 billion Component expected that demand would recover, being driven by Solutions (CMP) Representative Director, Transport President and CEO equipment investment by automobile industry, and also Solutions (TRS) 37.0% assumed robust demand in the Transport Solutions ¥107.2 billion 29.0% (-10.1% year on year ) segment and in the packaging machine business. ¥84.0 billion However, due to the spread of the novel coronavirus (2.6% year on year ) 5 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 6 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Message from the CEO Our Action against the spread of COVID-19 Progress with the medium-term management plan including the provision of “free-address” workplaces. and ﬂexible return of proﬁt to shareholders. In the current four-year medium-term management In the Governance (G) category, we have been We are still facing an unclear business environment Group’s policy to tackle COVID-19 plan (FY2017 to FY2020), one of commitments is “Focus implementing effective measures to “Strengthen due to the spread of COVID-19. We are, however, in the on solving ESG issues”. corporate governance,” “Promote risk management and growth phase for our business and will ﬂexibly make (1) Give first priority to maintaining the health of The Nabtesco Group has been dealing with ESG compliance behavior” and “Ensure proactive dialogue investments in projects to enhance the sustainably of stakeholders, including Group employees. issues in its business activities, and in the mediumwith stakeholders.” In FY2020, we have increased the our value creation process. As for the return of proﬁt (2) Work to provide products and services on a term management plan we are committed to further rate of outside directors and female directors on the to shareholders, we will work to increase the dividend continual basis. (3) Work to maintain the management functions. strengthening our measures for these issues. For Board of Directors to build a corporate governance amount in proportion to our proﬁt growth and in line (4) In the event that an employee is suspected of being Nabtesco to achieve sustainable growth and increase system under which the management of the company with our policy of “Consolidated payout ratio: 35% or infected with the coronavirus or any employee its corporate value as a company needed by society, is supervised and relevant recommendations are made over,” which is another commitment that we have made is found to have been in close contact with a we must ensure transparency of our management by directors from a wider range of viewpoints. For in the medium-term management plan. person infected with the virus, make a report and proactively work for the solution of social issues risk management and compliance, we plan to conduct to the relevant public health center according through our business activities. I believe that meeting training activities in consideration of the needs of our Nabtesco’s future vision to the predefined reporting rules and follow the these requirements is a precondition for Nabtesco bases in Japan and abroad. The issue of COVID-19 has provided us with an instructions given by the center. to achieve growth hand in hand with stakeholders For “ROE: 15%,” which is one of our commitments opportunity to go back to the basics with regard to our and continue to survive as a going concern. Based on made in the medium-term management plan, ROE is corporate philosophy and activities. Companies are this philosophy, the Nabtesco Group has identiﬁed its expected to reach 12.0% for FY2020 according to the needed by society insofar as they continue to offer the The Nabtesco Group takes ﬁrst priority to the safety materiality (material CSR issues) for the environment, plan initially set for the ﬁscal year, and we will continue value that is needed by society, and companies that fail and health of all stakeholders, including customers, society and governance and has been taking measures to work for the early achievement of the 15% target by to meet this requirement will be expelled from society. suppliers, global employees and their families, and accordingly. working for higher proﬁtability in our business activities I ﬁrmly believe that the Nabtesco Group will continue has been implementing infection prevention measures In the Environment (E) category, we list and also boosting our capital efficiency. to create and offer value to meet the needs of society worldwide in line with the instructions given by the “Countermeasures for climate change” and In order to increase both proﬁtability and asset and contribute to the happiness of all stakeholders, relevant national governments since the beginning “Environmentally friendly manufacturing” as our efficiency across the board, we have introduced return including customers, suppliers, local communities, of this year. Moreover, on February 26, before the material CSR issues. In 2017 we set our long-term CO2 on invested capital (ROIC) as an internal management employees and their families, and shareholders. Japanese government declared a state of emergency, emission reduction targets and have been continuing to indicator that considers the cost of capital, and are To this end, we need to search for the optimal ESG we had already launched our headquarters to combat make investments in environment-friendly equipment, making effective use of our business assets and measures and continue to increase our organizational COVID-19, and formulated the Group’s policy to combat including photovoltaic power generation systems to appropriately managing our balance sheet based capabilities to offer the value needed by society. In my the disease ,with my leadership. We also formulated be installed at our plants. In FY2019 we expressed our on this indicator. Moreover, by using the ROIC tree, responsibility as CEO, I would like to play the role of guidelines for implementation of the basic infection support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial we are setting speciﬁc improvement targets for our fostering on a continual basis the three mainstays of prevention measures by Group employees. In addition, Disclosures (TCFD) and sped up the measures to ensure manufacturing sites, such as “Reduce the inventory the medium-term management plan: “Market Creation,” we encouraged employees to work from home by compliance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper turnover period in terms of days” and “Shorten the “Technology Innovation” and “Operational Excellence.” using remote work tools, prohibited them from making Management of Fluorocarbons of Japan. In the future production lead time” for continuous improvements. At The Nabtesco Group will respond promptly to changes business trips that were not urgent, postponed the we will introduce more energy-saving equipment by our administrative departments, the funds generated in the business environment, pursue proﬁtable growth, organization of large in-house meetings, and took taking advantage of opportunities to replace and expand by the business departments are utilized for growth and work to become a corporate entity that is attractive various other preventive measures whichever we can our existing facilities, make better use of renewable investment as well as for ﬁnancial management, such to stakeholders. I would ask for your continued support consider. At our plants in Japan, we implemented all energy at our plants, and aim for energy creation to as the maintenance of an appropriate balance for cash for the Group. possible infection prevention measures, including accelerate the implementation of measures to achieve on hand, careful liability management, and the stable preventing contacts between employees working the long-term targets. different shifts and setting rules for the use of cafeterias. Moreover, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ● Measures for Improving Capital Efficiency Nabtesco has been deeming work style reforms across our supply chain, we need to collaborate with Manufacturing innovation Measures by business Improvement of Strengthening of production a priority and fostering the introduction of work our suppliers in addition to making efforts internally. departments cost of sales ratio capability Improvement of styles that are more suitable for employees in terms Nabtesco will check whether its suppliers have their operating proﬁt Strengthening of procurement ability ratio Improvement of selling, of maintaining a work-life balance. By encouraging own CO2 emission reduction targets and will help them general and administrative Strengthening of production employees to work from home to prevent the spread of set their own voluntary reduction targets as necessary. expenses ratio management ability infection and thus enabling them to experience more In the Society (S) category, we list “Provide Improvement of ﬁxed assets Disciplined balance sheet ﬂexible ways of working, we were able to advance our comfortable workplaces” as one of the material CSR Improvement of management ROIC turnover work style reforms. issues. The Business Transformation Division, which Cash and Improvement of The current unprecedented situation is a strong we newly established in 2017, has been leading the Improvement of inventory turnover deposits Other liabilities operating assets Other assets reminder for me that no company can exist alone. measures to make use of robotic process automation turnover Improvement of When a new strain of inﬂuenza spurred a pandemic (RPA) tools to increase operational efficiency and to days in receivAccounts payable at the beginning of the 20th century, the ﬁght against introduce teleworking, in reference to the ﬁndings ables ratio Accounts receivImprovement of able the ﬂu lasted a long time due to the arrival of second produced by examination and analysis of employees’ Optimization of Interest-bearing ROE Inventories payment terms debt and third waves. We may therefore need to be ready daily operations. The efforts have led to visible results, for a long ﬁght against COVID-19. The Nabtesco Group such as an increase in the rate of employees taking will strive to overcome this hardship in cooperation paid leave and a decrease in overtime work, work style Measures by Management of Net assets administrative interest-bearing debt Fixed assets with stakeholders, continuing to make contributions to reforms which have in fact provided the basis for our departments society, local communities, customers and suppliers implementation of countermeasures against COVID-19. Financial strategies (realizing growth investment and shareholder returns) Financial management based on The Nabtesco Way. In FY2020, we will continue to reform our office in Tokyo, Operating assets management 7 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 8 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Message from the CEO Q&A Q&A session It has been our practice to hold a dialogue meeting among the CEO and long-term investors and equity analysts however, we might implement an M&A project, and in fact, basics, we will develop technologies ahead of competitors, in regard to the annual integrated report. For this integrated report for FY2019, however, we decided to forego we have launched a corporate venture capital (CVC) fund to always pursuing speed and working to ﬁnd new markets. the meeting in order to avoid a face-to-face gathering with a view to preventing the spread of COVID-19. continually search for M&A opportunities. Going back to the Alternative way, we deliver FAQ by equity market to CEO Katsuhiro Teramoto based on the questions frequently asked by long-term investors in the hope that the Q&A session will help readers deepen their understanding of the Nabtesco Group’s policies and ideas aimed at the long-term enhancement of its corporate value. Q Due to the development of communication technologies, IoT* is attracting more attention in business. Against such circumstances, how will you enhance the MRO business in the Transport Solutions segment? Q What is your self-evaluation of the current business portfolio in terms of its contribution to ensuring sustainable corporate growth? The development of communication technologies has made it possible for us to provide IoT-based systems. As a result, it is becoming more important to make MRO need to promote the sales of existing and new products. Accordingly, we will focus also on the expansion of the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) business. In I give a high rating to the current business portfolio based base by having this business portfolio. proposals to detect and prevent failures in our product the railroad vehicle equipment business, we expect that on Nabtesco’s corporate history, growth drivers, present Each of our businesses provides value in an industry status monitoring service. In the marine vessel equipment demand will continue to increase for use in Chinese management environment and corporate structure. As for that supports social infrastructure, and I therefore business, we have already commercialized an onboard subways, and we will enhance the MRO business in operating income by segment, the Component Solutions evaluate them as businesses that can also make social status monitoring system for electronically controlled addition to promoting the sales of brakes and doors in segment might seem to be our main driver however, we contributions. Currently we cannot say with absolute hydraulic valves, and we can help customers reduce the business. Also, in Japan, we will create a database of also have other stable businesses that contribute to our certainty as we cannot expect when the pandemic will their maintenance cost and downtime by diagnosing and maintenance and management information to improve proﬁt. These include the Accessibility Solutions segment, end, but I think we are relatively able to relieve from the predicting the product status in real time. By applying our ability to make proposals to customers. which we position as our “cash cow,” and the maintenance, inﬂuence exerted by COVID-19 because we are conducting this kind of system to other businesses, we will gain repair and overhaul (MRO) business conducted in the business not in a single product market but across a range more opportunities to expand our MRO business. Of * Internet of Things (IoT) refers to a system in which a range of things are connected to the Internet and mutually controlled. Transport Solutions segment, mainly in which we support of product markets and regions where the impacts of the course, as a precondition to expand the MRO business, we the safety of land, marine and air transportation. I therefore virus differ in terms of severity and timing. Q think that we have successfully diversiﬁed our revenue As for the rate of sales growth relative to the ﬁscal year ended March 31, Q The Nabtesco Group has products that secure large market shares, such as precision reduction gears. Why do you think the Group has been able to 2013, the automatic door business achieved the highest rate among the businesses, and in the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2019 (FY2019), operating margin exceeded 10%, which implies that proﬁtability has been maintain such large positions in the market? improved. Please outline the growth strategy for the automatic door business. For precision reduction gears, we ensure high product and competition is indeed necessary for us to develop quality in a stable manner, provide high precision and high technologies on a continual basis. In order to maintain In the automatic door business, we have been promoting in terms of safety, a sense of security and comfort, thereby rigidity as the product performance features and have and expand our market share, we must make step sales globally since we acquired Gilgen of Switzerland in achieving growth in a steady manner. In the automatic a stable supply system. Demand for precision reduction forward continually. Through the combined efforts of the 2011. In Japan, we have steadily increased market share door business, we are expanding sales of platform doors, gears has been increasing due to the needs for automation development and sales staff, we can provide customers from around 30% to about 50%, rather than suddenly which help ensure safety at railroad stations, both within and labor saving although there were some short-term with solutions for their problems one step ahead of boosting the share. and outside Japan. In the platform door business, we can ﬂuctuations in the size of the demand. In response, we are competitors. This is our corporate mission engraved in We were able to achieve such growth by strengthening contribute to the prevention of falls from platforms and to making equipment investment to enhance our production our corporate DNA and it provides us with a competitive our product development and also utilizing our strong ensuring the on-time operation of trains. We will promote capacity so that we can fulﬁll our supplier responsibility to advantage. sales network covering all of Japan as well as a global sales in the business in a proactive manner. our customers, including industrial robot manufacturers, We have large market shares also in businesses as well sales network that we have enhanced through M&A. Due even when their demand for our products suddenly as the precision reduction gear business. I think we have to the post-merger integration (PMI) process, we recorded ● Sales growth rate by business segment increases. A stable supply puts customers without supply been able to compete strongly in each business areas by an extra cost temporarily, but the integration of the Precision Reduction Gear Business Commercial Vehicle Equipment Business Hydraulic Equipment Business Marine Vessel Equipment Business delay and is an important contributor to maintaining our making combined use of our strengths, such as the ability manufacturing and sales activities has resulted in higher Railroad Vehicle Equipment Business Automatic Door Business market share. to develop technologies, production capacity, product lineup proﬁtability. The automatic door market is a stable market 250 Aircraft Equipment Business Packaging Machine Business We of course have competitors in each market, and sales and service networks. that achieves growth at a rate as well as the world’s GDP (%) growth rate, and we position it as a “cash cow” business Q 200 in which we can also expect demand for the MRO service. However, large market shares could also mean that growth potential is Moreover, automatic doors have not yet been widely used limited. What problems need to be solved for the Nabtesco Group to achieve in some regions and countries where we can expect growth 150 for the business. In the post-corona world, the value of non-organic growth? automatic doors, which are opened/closed in a contactless 100 For example, in the precision reduction gear business, we For non-organic growth, we could take the M&A manner, might be more appreciated especially in hospitals, need to expand demand from general industry in addition approach to make use of external resources. However, while demand for these doors will also expand as the aging 50 to that from industrial robot manufacturers. Accordingly, in the precision reduction gear market, the number of of society progresses. In 2018, we released the NATRUS+e 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12** 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 we are working to ﬁnd new markets for the product. players supplying similar products is limited, and so automatic door, which helps reduce the energy loss caused (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) “Electriﬁcation” would be an important and suitable M&A opportunities are also limited. Moreover, we need by unnecessary door operation while contributing to a * Sales for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 are assumed to be 100 ** We shifted from an April–March fiscal year to a January–December fiscal year for FY2015 and theme ﬁt to precision reduction gears, and technological to compete with other companies in a sound manner to comfortable indoor environment. onwards, and in order to make comparisons between the fiscal years based on the same conditions, development is essential for electriﬁcation. achieve further growth. In the peripheral business ﬁelds, We will continue to release products that provide value we made calculations by assuming that all the fiscal years, including FY2015, had 12 months. 9 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 10 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Message from the CEO Q&A Q&A session Q As for innovation, what do you think about the future development of the motion control technology and its application? Q As for ESG issues, Nabtesco seems to be still only halfway there on diversity measures. Please share your ideas about gender issues and the Destructive innovation could make our existing products to our own developed technologies, we can make use of diversity of the management team. obsolete. We share the recognition of this potential risk the technologies and know-how owned by OVALO GmbH For sustainable corporate growth, I think it is important for improvements, we are fostering work style reforms to internally and think it is necessary to constantly identify and adcos GmbH of Germany for the development of new members having various backgrounds, including executives help employees maintain an appropriate work-life balance. customers’ needs and further advance our motion control technologies. and general employees, to discuss issues together from For proper work time management, we are establishing technology so that we can continue to make innovative In 2018 we established a CVC fund, through which a range of viewpoints. In particular, for the management systems and tools to manage employees’ working hours proposals one step ahead of our competitors. we can make minority investments to foster R&D team, according to the composition of the Board of based on objective records and reduce excessive overtime The future theme of our motion control technology is activities by using external resources and also build M&A Directors approved at the general meeting of shareholders work. For paid leave, we were able to achieve the target “electriﬁcation,” and fostering the application of precision pipelines. In fact, we have already participated in some held this March, the proportion of outside directors has of increasing the rate of paid days off taken by employees reduction gears for multiple purposes could be one investment projects through the fund. We will also foster been increased from the conventional 30% to 40% and to at least 80% by actually exceeding this rate. It is also direction that we can choose in this business. Our hydraulic open innovation in a wider range approaches, including also the proportion of female directors has been increased important to provide employees with workplaces where technology can also be applied to other ﬁelds. In addition collaboration with universities and research institutes. from 10% to 20%. I think we have thereby built a corporate they can continue working at the same time as dealing governance system that enables directors to supervise with signiﬁcant life events, such as childbirth, childcare Q management and make relevant recommendations from and the long-term care of family members. Accordingly, For a conglomerate company, it would be necessary to set the “return on a wider range of viewpoints. However, we will continue we are expanding the systems to help employees make to make examinations to further increase the number of their work and the care of their children and other family invested capital (ROIC)” target for each business and allocate the ﬁnancial female directors and appoint non-Japanese directors. members compatible. Recently, the rate of male employees resources to the businesses in an optimal manner. Please explain how you For gender diversity, I am afraid it will take more taking childcare leave has also been increasing, and I feel are utilizing ROIC as an indicator that considers the cost of capital. time for us to promote female employees to directorial conﬁdent that the aforementioned measures have been and managerial positions on a regular basis. We will not steadily changing the mindsets of employees. Moreover, Breaking down the information contained in ROIC numbers decide on the business performance-linked compensation increase the number of female managers just for the sake thanks to the measures that we have taken to foster by using the ROIC tree provides a useful method to make to be paid to internal directors and as an incentive to foster of increasing the proportion, but our outside directors have remote work, employees can readily work from home to efficient use of our business assets. By using “year-onbusiness management that focuses on increasing ROIC also pointed out the need to increase the number of female prevent the spread of COVID-19. We will continue to provide year improvement level” as an incentive, we are fostering to the level exceeding the cost of capital. As for portfolio managers. We will work to meet this requirement as one of employees with multiple work style options to create voluntary improvement activities. Our operating assets management, we have added ROIC to the criteria used to our important targets. attractive workplaces where they can feel job satisfaction. turnover is broken down into ﬁxed assets turnover and identify a “problematic business” that we must monitor As a precondition to empower women and make other inventory turnover, for which we are setting improvement more intensively. However, we do not make comparisons Q targets. ROIC and the ROIC tree are indeed providing us with among our businesses simply based on their ROIC levels effective tools to identify problems at manufacturing sites. and instead focus more on their improvement ratio. We The issue of COVID-19 is making us recognize again the importance of For ﬁnancial strategies, we are using weighted average make comprehensive decisions also in reference to other solidifying the foundation of the value chain. Speciﬁcally, what impacts did cost of capital (WACC) to calculate return on investment indicators. while using ROIC as a key performance indicator (KPI) to the issue have on Nabtesco’s value chain? The issue is indeed making us reaffirm the importance of cooperation with suppliers, and we aim to further advance Q ensuring the stability and sustainability of our value chain. the measures from the viewpoints of both production and You have set the target of “ROE: 15%” in the medium-term management The value chain of a manufacturer is centered around procurement. plan, but considering the fact that Nabtesco has businesses that are prone production activities, and the stability of our proﬁtability directly depends on the “Business Continuity Power (BCP)” to the inﬂuence of external factors, is it really appropriate to uphold this of our plants. ROE target? Please share your ideas with us about this and in relation to By the end of last year, the Nabtesco Group’s nine major plants in Japan had acquired Resilience Certiﬁcation the formulation of the next medium-term management plan. as an organization contributing to national resilience, and For “ROE: 15%,” which is one of our commitments made in also important to keep a sound capital adequacy ratio, and I feel that the experience that we have accumulated to the medium-term management plan, we achieved 14.3% we do in fact have the ﬁnancial soundness to effectively enhance our BCP is now helping us deal with COVID-19. and nearly reached the target in FY2017, but in the initial prepare against any contingencies. Depending upon the I am a strong believer in the importance of constantly plan set for FY2020, we forecast that ROE would be 12.0% status of our free cash ﬂow, we will consider making improving our ability for systematic crisis management in for the ﬁscal year. The continuous and stable growth of growth investments and returning proﬁt to shareholders. ordinary times. From now on, we will also more proactively the precision reduction gear business, which we assumed As for the next medium-term management plan, we are implement countermeasures against emerging viruses, when formulating the medium-term management plan, now discussing the details internally. We will continue to which we have tended to put off, as part of the measures to has not been achieved as expected due to changes in pursue proﬁt expansion through our business activities and strengthen our BCP. demand, and it is exerting a serious inﬂuence over our make efficient use of our business assets by using the ROIC Moreover, it is important to keep our supply chain proﬁtability. On the other hand, as a method to improve tree, thereby we aim to archive the ROE target as soon as running. As for the impact of the COVID-19, we have not the ROE level, we could use ﬁnancial leverage, but in the possible. suffered serious damage to our supply chain because we current contingency caused by the spread of COVID-19, it is identiﬁed the bottleneck items and implemented measures to ﬁnd substitute suppliers in the early stage of the outbreak. The Nabtesco Group is fostering BCP measures in 11 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 12 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Deliver Solutions for Social Challenges through Business Nabtesco will continue to act as an unsung hero in solving social challenges. By providing products and services with leading market shares, the Nabtesco Group will contribute to solving social challenges through business and strive to provide value on a continuous basis. Challenges related to We create economic value by fulfilling our responsibilities for ensuring stable supply in each market. Value of Nabtesco Value of customers’ Social issues solved by customers’ products products and services customers products and services and services Traveling units for excavators 25 % Globally High product Elimination of Precision reduction gears for High-performance •Automation and labor In the case of precision reduction performance •Lightweight and industrial robots saving through the stagnant production due to labor shortages Contribute to the elimination of labor shortages and reduction joints of medium-and-large-sized industrial robots 60 % Globally gears for industrial compact • Compact Prevention of of hazardous work with high robots… •Durability • Long life provision of accidents in hazardous product performance • High accuracy industrial robots •Positioning accuracy workplaces Flight control actuation systems 100in Japan % •Contribute to flight Safety, comfort and sense of security In the case of flight control actuation Highly reliable products Highly reliable operation safety through the provision Safe flight operations and on-time Prevent aircraft accidents and flight delays through a system Wedge brake chambers for commercial vehicles*1 80 % Moving it. Stopping it. of aircraft in Japan systems for Proactive MRO* aircraft departures and to control the attitude of the aircraft… •Contribute to on-time arrivals aircraft services flight operation rate through MRO services Engine remote control systems for marine vessels 40 % Globally Safety measures for In the case of High safety functions the opening part of the building, Ensuring safety for Prevention of accidents during Contribute to the prevention of accidents during passing Door operators for railroad vehicles*2 70 % in Japan automatic doors… The Enhanced sales appropriate pedestrians passing through through automatic doors by network maintenance and automatic doors using control technology management Brake systems for railroad vehicles*2 50 % in Japan •Enhanced productivity Elimination of In the case of packaging machines High product performance •Prevention of contamination by Ensuring of food stagnant production due to labor Contribute to food safety and Automatic doors for buildings*3 50 % in Japan for retort pouch •Super high-speed foreign objects safety shortages labor-saving needs with high filling in the production of product performance foods… Ensuring of food •High airtight sealing processed food safety •Space-saving Packaging machines for retort pouch foods*4 85 % in Japan *MRO (Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul) *1 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Large and Medium-Sized Freight Vehicle Unit Sales (2018),” Japan Automobile Dealers Association *2 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Statistics Data of Production (2018),” Japan Association of Rolling Stock Industries *3 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Number of Automatic Doors Installed (2018),” Japan Automatic Door Association *4 Nabtesco’s estimate based on “Production Volume of Retort Package Food (2018),” Japan Canners Association and the 2018 survey by Tokyo Shoko Research, Ltd. 13 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 14 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Nabtesco Group’s Materiality We strive to ensure management transparency and to provide safety, comfort and a sense of security. We at the Nabtesco Group are committed to fulﬁlling our corporate social responsibility through our CSR management. To this end, we will seriously take on the challenge of pursuing economic rationality while Nabtesco Group’s CSR Basic Policy also addressing ESG (environmental, social and governance) issues, based on our belief that this kind of business management will give us a competitive edge that will underpin our sustainable corporate growth. By practicing The Nabtesco Way, the Nabtesco Group strives to ensure management ■ Process of Materiality Reexamination transparency, provide safety, comfort and a sense of security, and fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, thereby contributing to solving environmental and social issues and seeking In 2016, we launched the CSR Committee as an organiscope of stakeholders’ expectations for the fulﬁllment of to enhance corporate value on a sustainable basis. zation that supervises all our CSR activities and reports corporate social responsibility by the Nabtesco Group directly to the CEO. Subsequently, we reexamined the have been rising and expanding. In response, we will material CSR issues (materiality) of the Nabtesco Group continue to examine the materiality on a regular basis and formulated the CSR Basic Policy. The level and to earn even more trust from our stakeholders. The CSR Basic Policy clearly states that the Nabtesco security” upheld under the abovementioned CSR Basic Group will fulﬁll our corporate social responsibilities, Policy represents the Group’s material issues. By incorthereby meeting the expectations and requests of our porating the concept of materiality into the CSR Basic stakeholders. The policy to “Ensure management transPolicy, we are strategically tackling CSR issues that are parency” and “Provide safety, comfort and a sense of important to the Group as well as to our stakeholders. Step 1 Listing issues ● Materiality (Material CSR Issues) We identified the issues faced by the Nabtesco Group and grasped what our stakeholders needed based on our General Category ESG Category Materiality (Material CSR Issues) Major SDGs of Relevance customer CSR questionnaire results, various guidelines on Strengthen corporate governance sustainability*1 and information provided by ESG research organizations*2. We then listed the issues that need to be Ensure Governance Promote risk management and compliance management tackled for the Nabtesco Group’s sustainable growth. (G) behavior transparency *1 ISO 26000 (Guidance on organizations’ social responsibility)/International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) International Integrated Reporting Ensure proactive dialogue with stakeholders Framework/Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) SASB Standard/Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Enhance customer satisfaction, ensure quality Guidelines/Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) *2 RobecoSAM/FTSE4Good/Sustainalytics/VigeoEiris and safety Develop human capital and promote workplace diversity Provide safe and comfortable workplaces Society (S) Respect human rights Step 2 Deciding on the materiality of each issue Prevent corruption Fair, proper and transparent procurement Materiality for stakeholders Next, we assessed the materiality of the issues identified in activities Provide safety, Step 1 from the perspectives of “importance for comfort and a stakeholders” (vertical axis) and “importance for our Local community development sense of security company” (horizontal axis) and specified those assessed as particularly material to be included among our material CSR Countermeasures for climate change issues. Regarding “importance for stakeholders,” we referred to the evaluation made by ESG research Environmentally friendly manufacturing organizations, while for “importance for our company,” we Environment (E) Reduction of environmental impact through decided on priorities based on relevance to business plans products and services of our operating and corporate departments and divisions. Recycling, reuse and remanufacture of products Materiality for our company Step 3 Selection of material CSR issues Through the materiality reexamination process, we have described in “Nabtesco Group’s Approach to CSR.” While Based on the opinions given by external experts, we classiﬁed Nabtesco’s material CSR issues in relation to giving due consideration to potential impacts of each reexamined the issues deemed important in Step 2. Then, the 17 SDGs as per the table shown above. In 2018, we issue, we will invest resources efficiently and effectively finally, the Board of Directors selected the material CSR added Goal 4 to “Major SDGs of Relevance” in line with to address wide-ranging ESG issues and will systematiissues through discussion. the newly formulated Nabtesco Group Community cally promote speciﬁc activities with a view to contributInvestment Policy. ing to achieving the SDGs. Impacts of each issue on our corporate activities are 15 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 16 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Growth History Accumulating managerial resources for growth by building upon the business foundations laid by our two predecessors Nabtesco Corporation was formed in 2003 through the merger of Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. and NABCO Ltd. The company management foundation and expanding its overseas bases. Since FY2017, it has been implementing the current has expanded the technology base and businesses inherited from the two companies, while enhancing the medium-term management plan to accelerate business growth in global markets. Disciplined portfolio management for growth • Technology base: Unique motion control technology Technologies developed by the two companies Technologies developed/enhanced after the integration Companies that joined the Group through M&A Leading-edge Advanced development Innovative production Railroad vehicle (Head ofﬁce) Teijin Seiki NABCO element technologies methods technologies Automatic doors Hydraulic equipment Commercial vehicle equipment equipment Technology and R&D Division • Cutting technology • Fluid control technology • Surface treatment and • CAE analysis technique, additive • Advanced automation • Gilgen Door Systems AG (Switzerland) • OCLAP S.R.L. (Italy) • Hyest Corporation • ITG Serienfertigung Fahrzeugteile • OVALO GmbH, adcos GmbH • Assembly technology • Pneumatic control heat treatment manufacturing (AM) technology and smart production • NABCO DOOR Ltd. GmbH and ITG Kompressoren GmbH (Germany) technology technologies and model base development management • NABCO SYSTEMS Co., Ltd. (Germany) Businesses discontinued/restructured after the integration Current portfolio (main businesses) Discontinued businesses Restructuring Component Solutions (CMP) Transport Solutions (TRS) Accessibility Solutions (ACB) Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) • IT-related product business • Divestiture of commercial vehicle equipment business (Nabtesco • Automobile and motorcycle component business Automotive Co., Ltd. established) • Textile machine maintenance business • Restructuring of production bases in the hydraulic equipment business • Precision reduction gears • Railroad vehicle • Commercial vehicle • Automatic doors • Packaging machines • Vacuum equipment business in China • Hydraulic equipment equipment equipment etc • New Energy Business Development Division was abolished • Aircraft equipment • Marine vessel equipment Started to apply voluntarily the International Financial Reporting Standards 2003 300,000 Changed the accounting closing month from 1944 The Lehman Brothers collapse March to December to adopt the same accounting triggered a slowdown in the period as overseas consolidated subsidiaries Nabtesco Corporation was established and listed global economy. 250,000 on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (First section market). Withdrew from an unproﬁtable The world economy Teijin Seiki Co., Ltd. business in commercial vehicle started to recover due was established. equipment; Business structure to China’s large-scale 200,000 Teijin Seiki and NABCO were was realigned. economic package. 1925 absorbed and merged into Nabtesco Corporation, which shifted to an operating holding company. 150,000 NABCO Ltd. (formerly Nippon Air Brake Co., Ltd.) Long-term Vision, “Global Partner with Best Solution – Enjoy the Challenge –” 100,000 was established. 50,000 Long-term Vision,“Global company group growing with society – Challenge, Creation and Progress to the higher stage –” Trends in Net Sales 0 2004/3 2005/3 2006/3 2007/3 2008/3 2009/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12 (¥ Million) (Reference*1) (Plan) Period of the Medium-term Management Plan Reinforcement of the • Introduced the in-house company • Formulated the Corporate Philosophy and the • Established the Quality & PL Committee • Formulated The Nabtesco Way • Compliance Committee, CSR Committee and • Establishment of the Nabtesco R&D Center system and the corporate ofﬁcer system Long-term Vision • Announced participation in and Risk Management Committee were established • Launch of the Business Transformation Division management base • Established the Nabtesco Group Code of signed the UN Global Compact • CSR Basic Policy was formulated • Formulation of the Nabtesco Group Human Rights Policy Corporate Ethics and the Nabtesco • Formulated the Nabtesco Group • Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics was established • Formulation of the Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy Group Code of Conduct (consolidated CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy • Establishment of a corporate venture capital (CVC) fund into the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics) • Abolished the advisor system *Due to the change in the accounting closing date, the ﬁgures have been estimated for the 12-month period to make a comparison. 17 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 18 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Value Creation Process Our unique “Moving it. Stopping it.” technology keeps driving our business globally. MISSION By implementation of The Nabtesco Way, we will realize “all Long-Term Vision Status in FY2020 stakeholders’ dreams” Global Partner with Best Solutions VISION External Environment Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for Increased request for management transparency Created Value which we have large shares of niche markets • Increased demand for the development of a governance system OUTCOME Market trends for the continuous enhancement of corporate value • Domestic and developed markets: Win orders steadily based on • Expansion of the scope of risk management and compliance as a organic growth result of globalization Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders • Emerging markets: Demand increase due to population growth Major risks Technological trends • Risks related to the economy and market trends Relationship capital • Progress of IoT and automation in the manufacturing industry • Risks related to overseas business expansion Relations of trust with Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCDS performance that meets the requirements of customers • Increased needs for mechatronics and systematization technologies • Risks related to large-scale disasters customers Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders • Risks related to procurement Relations of trust with evaluation Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth and for Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social • Risks related to competition shareholders Responsible supply chain management the expansion of trade opportunities challenges through businesses • Risks related to intellectual property Relations of trust with Contribution to the solution of social challenges • Demand for automation and labor saving at manufacturing sites suppliers • Risks related to the environment Relations of trust with local Improvement of recognition through community investment in the environment, education and welfare fields • Demand for products that can mitigate environmental impacts • Risks related to the securing of human resources etc communities • Needs for the enhancement of safety and comfort of transportation facilities Growth opportunities provided by global social Financial capital • Robust balance sheet that supports steady growth investments • Capital efficiency and stable return of profit that meet • Needs for increased safety and comfort in public spaces challenge -Equity ratio of 55% or more for the past five years shareholders’ expectations • Needs for safe transportation means for the elderly, people with • Contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development -ROE for FY2019/12: 9.8% disabilities and their caregivers Goals (SDGs) -Payout ratio for FY2019/12: 50.5% • Needs for the enhancement of safety for food and daily commodities Technology and • Creation of new products and a highly competitive production • Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security and • Social demand for realizing sound working environment manufacturing capital system contribution to climate change mitigation Human capital • Securing of human resources who implement The Nabtesco • Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces Management Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017/12 – 2020/12) Way • Development of Globally Competitive Human Capital Market Creation Technology Innovation Operational Excellence Obtain new markets Create new solutions Raise profitability and reinforce operational basis. by accelerating overseas business through transition from components to systems Revitalize the organization and promote effective use Organizational capital • Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global compliance • Management transparency based on the autonomous and developing new domains. and services. of human resources. system improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors • Disaster-resilient organization with constantly enhanced -Proportion of outside director: 40% Consolidated payout ratio: Business Continuity Power -Proportion of female director: 20% Our commitments ROE: 15% 35% or over Focus on solving ESG issues Major businesses OUTPUT Business segment Characteristics Main products and services Relationship with society Significant impact of Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation Activities for Sustainable Growth Component Solutions • Precision reduction gears Manufacturing and Business Model (CMP) changes in production/sales volume on profitability • Hydraulic equipment Infrastructure INPUT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES • Railroad vehicle equipment • Aircraft equipment Organizational capital Transport Solutions Transportation of Technology and • Commercial vehicle (TRS) people and goods • Speedy business execution based on the in-house company system equipment • A range of committees that provide a system to implement measures for ESG manufacturing capital After-sale services • Marine vessel equipment issues across the Group • Motion control technology (MRO*1) that mitigate • Corporate governance system with a focus on the sustainable increase of that meets development Accessibility Solutions impacts from changes in • Automatic doors Daily lives and corporate value requests from customers (ACB) OEM*2 production volume • Platform doors welfare • Local production and • Welfare equipment Financial capital Human capital local consumption system to fulfill responsibility to Manufacturing Solutions Production of daily • Capability to generate • Management team members who demonstrate diverse expertise realize stable supply • Packaging machines (MFR) commodities stable cash flow to increase corporate value • System to create and • Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality as well enhance intellectual *1 MRO: Maintenance/Repair/Overhaul as collaborative creation, competition and sharing property *2 OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer Relationship capital Measures for Operational Excellence • Major customers • Characteristics of our shareholders • Higher ROE and making growth investment compatible with -Industrial robot manufacturers and construction machinery manufacturers -High rate of non-Japanese shareholders Financial management the return of profit to shareholders -Manufacturers and companies engaged in railroad, marine and air transportation businesses -Large ownership by growth investors -Major construction companies and others engaged in the construction business • Relationships with a range of suppliers • Ensuring “management transparency” and providing “safety, -Food manufacturers etc • Favorable relationships with local communities Measures to solve ESG issues comfort and a sense of security” * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth potential of companies 19 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 20 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Value Creation Process (Explanation) In order to ensure our management transparency, Value Creation Process Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Increased requests for management transparency Major risks Our unique “Moving it. Stopping it.” technology keeps driving our business globally. we need to help stakeholders understand how MISSION By implementation of The Nabtesco Way, we will realize “all Long-Term Vision Status in FY2020 With the expansion of investments made from The Risk Management Committee, which manages risks on stakeholders’ dreams” Global Partner with Best Solutions VISION External Environment Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for Increased request for management transparency Created Value Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) viewpoints, a company-wide basis, identifies the serious risks for the we are striving to fulfill our corporate social which we have large shares of niche markets • Increased demand for the development of a governance system OUTCOME Market trends for the continuous enhancement of corporate value • Expansion of the scope of risk management and compliance as a companies are increasingly required to fulfill their entire company based on the risk assessment results and • Domestic and developed markets: Win orders steadily based on organic growth result of globalization Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders • Emerging markets: Demand increase due to population growth Major risks Technological trends • Risks related to the economy and market trends Relationship capital • Progress of IoT and automation in the manufacturing industry • Risks related to overseas business expansion Relations of trust with Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCDS performance that meets the requirements of customers • Increased needs for mechatronics and systematization technologies • Risks related to large-scale disasters customers Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders Relations of trust with responsibility and achieve sustainable growth. To • Risks related to procurement evaluation Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth and for accountability for the sustainable improvement of their deliberates on countermeasures. The committee worked Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social • Risks related to competition shareholders Responsible supply chain management the expansion of trade opportunities challenges through businesses • Risks related to intellectual property Relations of trust with Contribution to the solution of social challenges • Demand for automation and labor saving at manufacturing sites suppliers • Risks related to the environment Relations of trust with local Improvement of recognition through community investment in the environment, education and welfare fields • Demand for products that can mitigate environmental impacts • Risks related to the securing of human resources etc communities • Needs for the enhancement of safety and comfort of transportation facilities Growth opportunities provided by global social Financial capital • Robust balance sheet that supports steady growth investments • Capital efficiency and stable return of profit that meet • Needs for increased safety and comfort in public spaces challenge -Equity ratio of 55% or more for the past five years shareholders’ expectations • Needs for safe transportation means for the elderly, people with • Contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development corporate value. The globalization of business has also mainly on identifying the following risks in FY2019. -ROE for FY2019/12: 9.8% disabilities and their caregivers Goals (SDGs) -Payout ratio for FY2019/12: 50.5% this end, the Nabtesco Group is focused on sharing • Needs for the enhancement of safety for food and daily commodities • Social demand for realizing sound working environment Technology and manufacturing capital • Creation of new products and a highly competitive production system • Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security and contribution to climate change mitigation Management Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017/12 – 2020/12) Human capital • Securing of human resources who implement The Nabtesco Way • Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces expanded the scopes of risk management and compliance the overall picture of its value creation process with • Development of Globally Competitive Human Capital Market Creation Technology Innovation Operational Excellence Obtain new markets Create new solutions Raise profitability and reinforce operational basis. Organizational capital to be ensured by companies. by accelerating overseas business through transition from components to systems Revitalize the organization and promote effective use • Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global compliance • Management transparency based on the autonomous 1. Risks related to the economy and market trends and developing new domains. and services. of human resources. system improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors • Disaster-resilient organization with constantly enhanced -Proportion of outside director: 40% Consolidated payout ratio: Business Continuity Power Our commitments ROE: 15% 35% or over Focus on solving ESG issues -Proportion of female director: 20% stakeholders. In this section, we will make detailed OUTPUT The Nabtesco Group will proactively disclose how it 2. Risks related to overseas business development Major businesses Business segment Characteristics Main products and services Relationship with society Significant impact of Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation Activities for Sustainable Growth Component Solutions • Precision reduction gears Manufacturing and Business Model changes in production/sales is striving to achieve sustainable growth and to ensure (CMP) • Hydraulic equipment Infrastructure volume on profitability INPUT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES explanations about the Group’s value creation, which Organizational capital Transport Solutions • Railroad vehicle equipment • Aircraft equipment Transportation of 3. Risks related to large-scale disasters Technology and • Commercial vehicle (TRS) people and goods • Speedy business execution based on the in-house company system equipment • A range of committees that provide a system to implement measures for ESG manufacturing capital After-sale services • Marine vessel equipment issues across the Group • Motion control technology (MRO*1) that mitigate • Corporate governance system with a focus on the sustainable increase of corporate value that meets development requests from customers • Local production and Accessibility Solutions (ACB) impacts from changes in • Automatic doors OEM*2 production volume • Platform doors • Welfare equipment Daily lives and welfare management transparency, thereby continuing to win the is represented in the tables and figures shown on Financial capital Human capital local consumption system to fulfill responsibility to Manufacturing Solutions Production of daily • Capability to generate • Management team members who demonstrate diverse expertise realize stable supply • Packaging machines (MFR) commodities 4. Risks related to changes in the foreign exchange market stable cash flow to increase corporate value • System to create and • Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality as well enhance intellectual trust of stakeholders. *1 MRO: Maintenance/Repair/Overhaul as collaborative creation, competition and sharing property *2 OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer Relationship capital Measures for Operational Excellence • Major customers • Characteristics of our shareholders • Higher ROE and making growth investment compatible with -Industrial robot manufacturers and construction machinery manufacturers -High rate of non-Japanese shareholders Financial management the return of profit to shareholders pages 19 and 20. -Manufacturers and companies engaged in railroad, marine and air transportation businesses -Large ownership by growth investors -Major construction companies and others engaged in the construction business • Relationships with a range of suppliers • Ensuring “management transparency” and providing “safety, Measures to solve ESG issues 5. Risks related to procurement -Food manufacturers etc • Favorable relationships with local communities comfort and a sense of security” * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth potential of companies 19 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 20 Growth opportunities provided by global social 6. Risks related to product quality challenges 7. Risks related to competition As a global business entity, the Nabtesco Group deems it 8. Risks related to information security MISSION By implementation of The Nabtesco Way, we will realize “all essential to contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainable 9. Risks related to intellectual property Development Goals (SDGs). We are committed to fulfilling stakeholders’ dreams” our corporate social responsibility as a precondition to 10. Risks related to laws and regulations The Nabtesco Group has formulated The Nabtesco Way, which comprises the Corporate Philosophy, achieve the sustainable growth of the Group. 11. Risks related to the environment Our Promises, Action Guidelines and Action Declaration. We encourage each of our management 12. Risks related to M&A and others team members and employees to comply with The Nabtesco Way and turn “all stakeholders’ dreams” into reality, as stated in our Action Declaration. We will work to meet our stakeholders’ expectations 13. Risks related to the impairment of fixed assets (“dreams”) in a sincere manner on a long-term basis, thereby providing them with greater value while 14. Risks related to the securing of human resources achieving sustainable and profitable growth as a company. External Environment Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Business Model Value Creation Process Our unique “Moving it. Stopping it.” technology MISSION By implementation of The Nabtesco Way, we will realize “all stakeholders’ dreams” keeps driving our business globally. Long-Term Vision Status in FY2020 Global Partner with Best Solutions The Nabtesco Group manufactures, sells and provides after-sales services for machinery-related components in VISION External Environment Created Value In our business activities, the Nabtesco Group inputs a range of managerial Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for Increased request for management transparency which we have large shares of niche markets • Increased demand for the development of a governance system OUTCOME Market trends for the continuous enhancement of corporate value • Domestic and developed markets: Win orders steadily based on • Expansion of the scope of risk management and compliance as a organic growth result of globalization Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders • Emerging markets: Demand increase due to population growth Major risks the area of B-to-B business. In this business area, we absolutely must make appropriate responses to changes Technological trends • Risks related to the economy and market trends Relationship capital • Progress of IoT and automation in the manufacturing industry • Risks related to overseas business expansion Relations of trust with Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCDS performance that meets the requirements of customers • Increased needs for mechatronics and systematization technologies • Risks related to large-scale disasters customers Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders • Risks related to procurement Relations of trust with evaluation Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth and for resources to supply products and services. We also work to provide our own Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social • Risks related to competition shareholders Responsible supply chain management the expansion of trade opportunities challenges through businesses • Risks related to intellectual property Relations of trust with Contribution to the solution of social challenges • Demand for automation and labor saving at manufacturing sites suppliers • Risks related to the environment Relations of trust with local Improvement of recognition through community investment in the environment, education and welfare fields • Demand for products that can mitigate environmental impacts • Risks related to the securing of human resources etc communities • Needs for the enhancement of safety and comfort of transportation facilities Growth opportunities provided by global social Financial capital • Robust balance sheet that supports steady growth investments • Capital efficiency and stable return of profit that meet in market trends, including trends in the market of final products, as well as to related risks. We also think it • Needs for increased safety and comfort in public spaces challenge -Equity ratio of 55% or more for the past five years shareholders’ expectations • Needs for safe transportation means for the elderly, people with • Contribution to the achievement of the Sustainable Development -ROE for FY2019/12: 9.8% disabilities and their caregivers Goals (SDGs) -Payout ratio for FY2019/12: 50.5% • Needs for the enhancement of safety for food and daily commodities Technology and • Creation of new products and a highly competitive production • Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security and Group and stakeholders with more value by implementing measures for financial • Social demand for realizing sound working environment manufacturing capital system contribution to climate change mitigation important to contribute to the solution of social challenges through our businesses, believing that these efforts will Human capital • Securing of human resources who implement The Nabtesco • Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces Management Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan (FY2017/12 – 2020/12) Way • Development of Globally Competitive Human Capital Market Creation Technology Innovation Operational Excellence Obtain new markets Create new solutions Raise profitability and reinforce operational basis. by accelerating overseas business through transition from components to systems Revitalize the organization and promote effective use Organizational capital • Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global compliance • Management transparency based on the autonomous management and the solution of ESG issues. In the following, we detail our and developing new domains. and services. of human resources. system improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors • Disaster-resilient organization with constantly enhanced -Proportion of outside director: 40% Consolidated payout ratio: Business Continuity Power Our commitments ROE: 15% 35% or over Focus on solving ESG issues -Proportion of female director: 20% in turn help us achieve growth in the businesses. Major businesses Business segment Characteristics OUTPUT Main products and services Relationship with society business model for value creation with a focus on the flow from the input of Business Model Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation issues across the Group INPUT Organizational capital • Speedy business execution based on the in-house company system • A range of committees that provide a system to implement measures for ESG Technology and manufacturing capital • Motion control technology Activities for Sustainable Growth BUSINESS ACTIVITIES Component Solutions (CMP) Transport Solutions (TRS) Significant impact of changes in production/sales volume on profitability After-sale services (MRO*1) that mitigate • Precision reduction gears • Hydraulic equipment • Railroad vehicle equipment • Aircraft equipment • Commercial vehicle equipment • Marine vessel equipment Manufacturing and Infrastructure Transportation of people and goods • Corporate governance system with a focus on the sustainable increase of that meets development Accessibility Solutions impacts from changes in • Automatic doors Daily lives and corporate value requests from customers OEM*2 production volume • Platform doors major managerial resources to the output of major products and services and the (ACB) welfare • Local production and • Welfare equipment Financial capital Human capital local consumption system to fulfill responsibility to Manufacturing Solutions Production of daily • Capability to generate • Management team members who demonstrate diverse expertise realize stable supply • Packaging machines (MFR) commodities stable cash flow to increase corporate value • System to create and • Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality as well enhance intellectual *1 MRO: Maintenance/Repair/Overhaul as collaborative creation, competition and sharing property *2 OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer Relationship capital Measures for Operational Excellence • Major customers • Characteristics of our shareholders • Higher ROE and making growth investment compatible with -Industrial robot manufacturers and construction machinery manufacturers -High rate of non-Japanese shareholders Financial management the return of profit to shareholders -Manufacturers and companies engaged in railroad, marine and air transportation businesses -Large ownership by growth investors outcome (created value). -Major construction companies and others engaged in the construction business • Relationships with a range of suppliers • Ensuring “management transparency” and providing “safety, -Food manufacturers etc • Favorable relationships with local communities Measures to solve ESG issues comfort and a sense of security” * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth potential of companies 19 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 20 Growth opportunities for each of the businesses for we will contribute to the solution of social challenges, which we have large shares of niche markets focusing mainly on those listed below. In the niche markets in which we command large market INPUT Managerial Resources That Support Value Creation shares, demand for our products will steadily expand, mainly in Japan and other developed countries, which have • challenges Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social through businesses The managerial resources that support the Nabtesco Group’s business operations include relationship capital, stable and mature markets. Moreover, we can increase our financial capital, technology and manufacturing capital, human capital and organizational capital. The most growth opportunities in these niche markets by winning •Demand for automation and energy conservation at manufacturing sites in line with important capital among these is relationship capital, which is based on relations of trust with customers, more orders in the rapidly and widely changing emerging shareholders, investors and other external stakeholders. Relationship capital and the other types of capital Manufacturing the aging of society, decreasing birth rate and markets. and Infrastructure shrinking labor force supplement each other. By using such capital, we create value through our business activities and based on our The advent of an IoT society and progress of AI (artificial •Needs for products that can mitigate efforts for financial management and the solution of ESG issues. intelligence) are fueling engineering innovation, which has environmental impacts increased the needs for mechatronics technologies and systematization of machinery-related components. By Transportation of •Needs for the enhancement of safety and people and goods comfort of vehicles meeting these technological needs, the Nabtesco Group Relationship capital can add more value to its products. •Needs for increased safety and comfort in public Relationship with customers • Major customers by segment spaces The trust of customers provides us with the basis for our Industrial robot manufacturers, FA Daily lives and Opportunities to contribute to the solution of social •Needs for safe transportation means for the business operations. The Nabtesco Group has customers Component Solutions machine manufacturers, construction Welfare challenges through businesses elderly, people with disabilities and their representing a broad range of industries, including those machinery manufacturers, etc. The Nabtesco Group conducts business in a range of caregivers engaged in manufacturing and infrastructure building. Aircraft manufacturers, companies domains, including “Manufacturing/Urban development,” •Needs for the enhancement of safety for food Among them are excellent corporate customers that Transport Solutions engaged in railroad, marine and air “Transportation of people and goods,” “Daily lives and Production of and daily commodities are operating on a global scale and fulfilling their social transportation businesses, etc. Welfare” and “Production of daily commodities.” We daily commodities •Needs for resource-saving packaging of food responsibilities to a high standard. We have been meeting Major construction companies, others supply machine component-related products and systems and daily commodities the high expectations of these customers, thereby Accessibility Solutions engaged in the construction business, etc. to manufacturers of completed products and provide continuing to survive in the market. Our excellent customer Business activities in •Demand for realizing sound working these corporate customers with maintenance, repair and base was, is and will continue to be a sustainable source of Manufacturing Solutions Food manufacturers, etc. general environments overhaul (MRO) services. Through these business activities, our profits. 21 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 22 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Relationship with shareholders and investors element technologies, such as those for surface treatment, basis, employees of the former Teijin Seiki and former CEO makes business decisions through the Management The Nabtesco Group has been focusing on capital cost heat treatment, CAE analysis and additive manufacturing. NABCO and new graduates and mid-career hires employed Committee, while the Board of Directors formulates the for disciplined management, with a view to meeting the All these technologies provide the basis for our motion by Nabtesco (founded by the merger of the aforementioned Group’s basic policies and strategies, decides on important expectations of shareholders and investors on a longcontrol technology. two) each account for about 50% of the total number. With operations, and supervises the execution of business. The term basis. Non-Japanese shareholders account for For production, we secure sufficient production capacity diverse backgrounds, its employees are committed to Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee and nearly 50% of Nabtesco’s shareholders (48.1% as of the to meet demand that will expand on a mediumto longcollaborative creation, competition and sharing as a unique Compliance Committee serve as advisory organizations to end of December 2019). Moreover, the Group gets a high term basis in the businesses for which we take the top spot feature of the Nabtesco Group. the Board of Directors. rating for our growth potential, and the percentage of our in the market, including the business of precision reduction In addition, we have the CSR Committee, Group Quality shares owned by institutional growth investors*, including gears to be used in mediumto large-sized industrial Organizational capital & PL Committee, Group ESH (ESH stands for “environment, those both within and outside Japan, is uniquely high. robots. We have established stable supply systems for The Nabtesco Group adopts the in-house company system safety and health”) Committee, and Risk Management We engage in financial and non-financial dialogues with these businesses, and these systems make it difficult for and the executive officer system. Under these systems, Committee to address ESG issues across the Group under these investors for more sophisticated management of the new companies to enter the market. each in-house company pursues profits by making the leadership of the directors and executive officers. company. Moreover, the Nabtesco Group identifies the core values decisions independently and attributing importance to The Nabtesco Group thus has a highly transparent * Growth investors: Investors who make investments with a focus on the growth that give us our competitive edge (“core competences”), capital efficiency and sustainable growth and has a prompt corporate governance system for prompt and flexible potential of companies such as the technologies and ideas incorporated into our business execution system suitable for its business execution of business and for the sustainable increase of its Relationship with suppliers products as well as our design/manufacturing knowenvironment. For the management of the entire Group, the corporate value. A total of around 1,000 companies, including both large how. We classify such competences into those to be BUSINESS ACTIVITIES and small, supply their products (mainly metal, electronic protected as confidential information and those to be Activities for Sustainable Growth and electric components) or offer machine processing and protected by patents and others, and have established a system for the global protection of these competences. In a wide range of B-to-B businesses that support people’s daily lives and social infrastructure, the Nabtesco Group component assembly services to the Nabtesco Group. The supplies products and services to customers who are providers of completed products. Our products and services are Group’s cost structure and QCDS performance depends We are establishing core competences in terms of both connected with society by being used in or for our customers’ products, which are then used by their own customers to a considerable degree on its relationship with these technologies and production capabilities, and implementing in society. At the same time, the Nabtesco Group is working to provide itself and its stakeholders with more value suppliers. For its mediumto long-term success, it is measures to maintain and enhance them so that we can through financial management and the implementation of a range of measures to help solve ESG issues. essential that the Group has a sustainable supply chain, for continue to be a competitive player on a long-term basis. which it is working closely with its suppliers based on fair and proper trade practices founded on an appropriate cost Human capital OUTPUT structure. Management team members who demonstrate diverse expertise to increase corporate value Major businesses, products and services sales service) to integrate the production and marketing Relationship with local communities In the Action Guidelines for Top Management, which is We believe that we can enhance relations of trust with processes to generate more profit. The Nabtesco Group has a global production and sales included in The Nabtesco Way, it is clearly stated that customers and other stakeholders by making contributions In the Manufacturing Solutions Segment, we mainly network comprising 14 subsidiaries in Japan and 48 outside top executives shall manage the Nabtesco Group in a to the solution of social challenges through our business operate the packaging machine business, which the country. We attribute importance to good relationships manner that increases corporate value. All members of the operations. contributes to food safety and labor saving at production with local communities in the regions where we operate, management team are strongly committed to leading the In the Component Solutions Segment, which comprises facilities for food and others. for which we foster exchange and cooperation with the Group’s activities to increase the Group’s corporate value. the precision reduction gear business and the hydraulic communities through local activities and activities in areas Also, all members of the Board of Directors, including the equipment business, we focus on OEM (Original Equipment Measures for operational excellence of society deeply related to our businesses. Many of our four independent outside directors, have general knowledge Manufacturer) production. These businesses provide The Nabtesco Group is working to increase its profitability employees live near the plants and sales bases where they about business/risk management, including financial, legal social value by contributing to automation, labor saving and efficiency and gain a sharper competitive edge for its work, and improving our brand image in the surrounding and compliance-related knowledge as well as expertise and infrastructure improvement mainly in the domain of businesses by implementing financial strategies as well communities helps increase the satisfaction of these regarding technologies and business operations. These “Manufacturing and Infrastructure” Compared with other as by reforming its manufacturing sites and revitalizing its employees. It might also be expected to help us recruit professionals are using their diverse knowledge and businesses, the profitability of these two businesses can organizations. excellent local talent in the future. We work to contribute to expertise for corporate management, global business easily be influenced by productionand sales-related At the same time, we are promoting systematic the solution of local issues across the globe as the basis for operation and sustainability and are supervising the changes, while great synergy effects can be generated in measures for ESG issues while giving due consideration increasing our corporate value on a long-term basis. management of the Group for the sustainable increase of its the segment through the joint procurement of materials to their economic rationality, thereby making our value corporate value. and flexible use of core production staff. creation sustainable and meeting the increasingly Financial capital The Transport Solutions Segment, which is composed of demanding expectations of our stakeholders. We are The Nabtesco Group has continued to post stable operating Diverse workforce made up of people who value quality the railroad vehicle equipment business, aircraft equipment thereby enhancing the foundation of our operations to cash flow. This cash flow provides us with the financial as well as collaborative creation, competition and sharing business, commercial vehicle equipment business and achieve Operational Excellence. resources to make growth investments and return profit to The Nabtesco Group has a unique system to educate marine vessel equipment business, contributes to higher stakeholders. employees on high-quality manufacturing. The Group safety and greater comfort in the domain of “Transportation Financial management develops workers who can manufacture high-quality of people and goods.” We provide the MRO services in all of For financial management, we are improving our capital Technology and manufacturing capital products based on systematic and regular education on the businesses and can share MRO bases and know-how to efficiency to achieve “ROE: 15%.” We are also working In each of the businesses for which we boast a large quality, compliance education and awareness-raising generate synergy effects between the businesses. to have stable cash flow to make proactive growth market share, the Nabtesco Group has a proprietary activities, which also provides the basis for the Group The Accessibility Solutions Segment, in which we investments and return profit to shareholders in a steady system for developing products and services in a way to develop human resources who can conduct business conduct the automatic door business and the welfare and flexible manner. that is integrated with the product development of our with a high sense of ethics and transparency as well as to equipment business, contributes to higher safety and customers. The core technology that allows us to do this create value for customers. greater comfort in public spaces and to the creation of a Measures to solve ESG issues is our unique motion control technology. By continuing to As of the end of December 2019, Nabtesco has 7,736 barrier-free society in the domain of “Daily lives/Welfare.” The Nabtesco Group deems it one of our material CSR issues meet the demanding requests of customers, we have built employees on a consolidated basis and 2,323 employees on In the automatic door business, we have adopted the to ensure management transparency and provide safety, up our basic technologies, including cutting technology, a non-consolidated basis. In accordance with the expansion following business model: expand the sales and service comfort and a sense of security. We will contribute to the assembly technology and fluid control technology. In of its businesses, the number of employees has been on network through M&A and enhance the value chain attainment of the SDGs by working on a range of ESG themes. addition, we have an enviable collection of advanced the rise. For Nabtesco’s employees on a non-consolidated (manufacture, sales, installation, maintenance and after23 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 24 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section OUTCOME Created Value By inputting various resources and conducting activities for sustainable growth, we will continuously create value for ourselves and for external stakeholders. Related SDGs Relationship capital By enhancing its relationship capital, the Nabtesco Group can contribute to Goal 17 of the SDGs: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders partnership for sustainable development. Relations of trust with customers Customer bases founded on top-class market shares QCDS performance that meets the requirements The large market shares we command in each business are of customers Financial capital proof of the trust our customers have in the Nabtesco Group and We can create value for customers by continuing to provide the basis for us to offer more value to society. meet their expectations and trust. We are contributing to Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders The Nabtesco Group boasts top-class shares and adequate increasing our customers’ own quality, cost, delivery and profitability in both domestic and overseas product markets. service (QCDS) performance by providing them with high Strong balance sheet that supports growth Improvement of capital efficiency and stable return of We will make use of the ability to collect information, which value-added products and services that meet their QCDS investments profit we have gained through holding these leading market positions, to requirements. Strong balance sheets support growth investments and The Nabtesco Group is committed to “ROE: 15%” in its identify more social needs and contribute to the solution of social the stable return of profit to employees and shareholders. medium-term management plan. For the fiscal year ended issues through our business operations. The Nabtesco Group is fostering the improvement of capital December 31, 2019, our actual ROE is 9.8% and is below the efficiency and disciplined financial management, being level committed to. However, it is above the average level of Relations of trust with shareholders rated A by the credit rating agencies. As a result, the equity listed companies in Japan and has been on the rise. Trust in the management team and high-scoring ESG Enhancement of partnership with stakeholders ratio has been 55% or more for the most recent five years, We are also committed to “Consolidated payout ratio: evaluation Ensuring management transparency and building a and this means that we are on a level that allows us to 35% or over” in the medium-term management plan. We We regard the affirmative vote rate of selected directors as one sustainable value creation process helps increase make steady growth investments and stably return profit to have steadily increased the dividend amount in line with the of the indicators of trust in our top management team. Over the the opportunities for shareholders and investors to stakeholders. expansion of profit and have been maintaining a payout ratio past five years, the rate has been 97% or higher, exceeding the make investments on a long-term basis. Proactively of 35% or over. average rate among listed companies in Japan, and thus proving communicating with these stakeholders also fosters our strong trust in our management team. The Nabtesco Group is partnerships with them. By enhancing this relationship included in the major ESG stock indexes both in Japan and abroad capital, we will continue to make contributions to Goal 17 and is highly rated by ESG evaluating organizations. We will of the SDGs: Strengthen the means of implementation Technology and Manufacturing Capital continue to foster dialogue with shareholders and investors who and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders make long-term investments and with investors who attribute development. importance to ESG issues, thereby deepening our understanding of their ideas to create value in a more sophisticated manner. Creation of new products and a highly competitive Provision of safety, comfort and a sense of security production system and contribution to the mitigation of climate change Relations of trust with suppliers By enhancing our technology and manufacturing capital, we can For the Nabtesco Group, which is engaged in the Responsible supply chain management Enhancement of the value chain for mutual growth meet more diversified and advanced customer needs to increase manufacturing industry, safety means to manufacture The Nabtesco Group is committed to fulfilling our corporate social The Nabtesco Group believes that the improvement of our competitiveness in the existing businesses while also products safely; manufacture safe products; and ensure that responsibility across our supply chain based on fair, proper and suppliers’ QCDS performance will directly help the Group adding value to our products by including more mechatronic the manufactured products can continue to be used in a safe transparent transactions with suppliers. Based on the relations improve its own QCDS performance. Based on this recognition, products and systematized products in them. Moreover, we can manner. Based on this recognition, we are working to provide of trust with our suppliers, whose understanding of the Nabtesco the Group is working to increase our QCDS performance foster the development of new products and services through customers with safety, comfort and a sense of security by Group’s CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy we seek, we will build across our supply chain. The enhancement of the value open innovation, technological marketing (IP landscape) using implementing a range of measures at our manufacturing a responsible supply chain to ensure the sustainability of our chain based on collaboration with suppliers will result in intellectual property information and strategic M&A projects sites. The Nabtesco Group is also addressing climate change value creation. mutual growth and the expansion of trade opportunities. toward the creation of a new business foundation. issues, which are global challenges, and supporting the Furthermore, our unique manufacturing innovations, recommendations made by the TCFD. We are speeding up Relations of trust with local communities including the enhancement of our production capability, measures to achieve our long-term CO2 emission reduction Improvement of the recognition through community Contribution to the solution of social issues in the production management ability and procurement ability, targets and are also helping suppliers reduce their CO2 investment fields of the environment, education and welfare are designed for the establishment of an overwhelmingly emissions for emission reduction across our supply chain. We can contribute to the solution of social challenges faced by local The Nabtesco Group implements its community competitive production system and for the provision of a communities through community investment, which in turn helps investment initiative by using its resources and basis to prevail in global competition. us improve our recognition. We also regard community investment knowledge in the three key fields of the environment, as an initiative that provides Group employees with opportunities to education and welfare, which are closely connected to Related SDGs take on the challenge of contributing to the solution of social issues its businesses. The specific activities conducted in the By enhancing its technology in fields related to the businesses in which they work and to change initiative are in line with the Group’s material CSR issues and manufacturing capital, the their way of thinking. These measures are important for winning the (materiality) and a range of targets set in the SDGs. As a Nabtesco Group can contribute trust of local communities in the regions where we operate and also global corporate citizen, the Group will contribute to the to the attainment of the SDGs for securing human resources in the future, and provide us with a solution of social challenges faced by local communities shown on the right. foundation to increase our corporate value on a long-term basis. and to their long-term prosperity. 25 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 26 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Human capital Value for the Nabtesco Group Value for external stakeholders Management Strategy and Performance By strategically promoting the value creation process, we will fulfill the commitments we have made in the medium-term management plan. Securing of human resources who implement The Provision of safe and comfortable workplaces Nabtesco Way Giving due consideration to human rights in all business The Nabtesco Group continues to conduct activities aimed operations is a basic social responsibility to be fulfilled by at making all employees aware of The Nabtesco Way, companies. The Nabtesco Group is implementing measures The Nabtesco Group has been implementing the mediumthe basis for business operations by revitalizing our encouraging them to attain their own targets, and uniting to respect human rights based on the Nabtesco Group Code term management plan targeting the period from the fiscal organizations and making more advanced use of human the Group as one. In order to maintain and improve our of Ethics and the Nabtesco Group Human Rights Policy, while year ended December 31, 2017 to the fiscal year ending resources. We will proactively allocate resources to the competitiveness on a long-term basis, it is essential for us to also promoting work style reforms and diversity to further December 31, 2020. For the sustainable growth of the core strategies for the maximization of their effects. secure human resources. The rate of employees who have revitalize its workplaces. Through these measures the Group Group, we focus on Market Creation, Technology Innovation In the medium-term management plan, we have quit working for the Group for their own reasons has been as is working to provide employees with safe and comfortable and Operational Excellence as our core management made the following three management commitments to low as 1% to 2%, providing evidence that our workplaces are workplaces, which will in turn lead to the creation of sound strategies, while appropriately identifying the growth stakeholders. favorable for employees. and sustainable employment opportunities. opportunities for each business as well as the opportunities for us to contribute to the solution of social challenges. For Market Creation, we are speeding up overseas Our commitments business expansion and the pioneering of new fields to Related SDGs find new markets. For Technology Innovation, we are ROE: 15% By enhancing its human shifting from the manufacture of components (machine components) to the creation of new solutions. For Consolidated payout ratio: 35% or over capital, the Nabtesco Group can contribute to the attainment of Operational Excellence, we are improving profitability by Focus on solving ESG issues the SDGs shown on the right. production reforms and operational reforms and enhancing Long-Term Vision The Nabtesco Group is striving to expand the scope of value creation with an eye to becoming the Global Organizational capital Partner with Best Solutions in FY2020, the final year of the medium-term management plan, as stated in its long-term vision. Highly ethical corporate culture based on a global Management transparency based on the autonomous compliance system improvement of its functions by the Board of Directors The Nabtesco Group conducts business globally, and In order to improve the functions of the Board of Directors, -Status in FY2020compliance provides the basis for the Group to implement the Nabtesco Group makes a yearly analysis and evaluation of Global Partner with Best Solutions our corporate philosophy through business operations. Each the effectiveness of the Board based on the self-evaluations and every employee supports the Group’s business activities of the directors. In FY2019, it was confirmed that both the by behaving in a highly ethical and transparent manner. Compliance is one of the most important preconditions for number of Board members and composition of the Board were appropriate and that the members were able to discuss In order to respond flexibly to changes in the business environment after the financial crisis and to achieve further •regardless Value open communication and creative thinking of language and cultural differences the Group to be selected by customers as their business partner. Toward building a highly ethical corporate culture, issues in an open and constructive manner. Subsequently, in FY2020, the number of independent outside directors growth, in 2012 the Nabtesco Group formulated a longterm vision for FY2020. •challenges each Encourage employee to proactively take on with the slogan, “Enjoy the Challenge.” we are applying the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics globally to was increased by one person, making outside directors We formulated this vision based on the belief that we all Group members and raising their compliance awareness account for more than 40% of the total number of directors. could not achieve sustainable growth unless we enhanced We are currently formulating our next long-term through training and by other means. In addition, the rate of female directors has been increased our ability to make proposals to customers and continue vision for FY2030. Specifically, in anticipation of future to 20%, and the Board is expected to discuss issues from a providing society with new solutions (products, services changes in our business environment, we are setting the Disaster-resilient organization with constantly wider range of viewpoints. The effectiveness is thus evaluated and business models). In this long-term vision, we clearly direction of our reforms as well as guidelines to achieve enhanced Business Continuity Power to be well secured. state that we will create value for customers as their “Global further growth for the continued enhancement of our The Nabtesco Group is enhancing its Business Continuity However, the following issues are identified as challenges: Partner with Best Solutions.” corporate value. We will disclose these through the Power so that it can promptly resume operation even if it the need to further increase the rate of female directors, vision. suffers from a large-scale disaster. Advocating the ideas proposed by the government in the basic law on national employing non-Japanese Directors and to manage Board of Directors meetings in a more efficient manner to secure •(products, Continue to provide society with new innovative solutions services and business models) resilience, we have acquired Resilience Certification for all of our nine plants in Japan as proof that we are an enterprise enough time for the deliberation of important management issues such as growth strategies. •innovation, Pursue excellence through continuous technological thereby enhancing rapport and trust with that is implementing effective business continuity plans Nabtesco will further enhance its corporate governance customers (BCPs). We also assist suppliers with making BCPs, believing system and increase its corporate value by continuously that it could pose a serious business risk to us if a supplier enhancing the functionality of the Board of Directors based on suffers from a disaster, thereby reducing procurementthe effectiveness evaluation results. related risks in our supply chain. 27 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 28 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Financial/Non-Financial Highlights •ROE •Operating Income Margin/Net Income Margin *2 •Affirmative Vote Rate of Selected Directors •Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate *4 Announced results Actual results* Operating income margin Net income margin Nabtesco Average for Nikkei 500 constituents All industries in Japan Manufacturing industry in Japan Nabtesco Group 20.0 15.0 100.0 2.0 99.4 1.83 98.6 98.8 1.80 15.9 1.61 1.63 1.66 12.0 98.0 97.6 15.0 10.6 10.4 97.1 1.5 13.0 12.1 1.20 1.20 9.0 8.2 8.7 96.0 1.15 14.3 7.4 95.3 95.1 1.06 1.02 10.0 94.9 94.8 1.0 7.6 11.8 8.9 94.4 9.8 6.0 94.0 0.99 7.6 7.1 6.2 0.53 0.47 0.52 5.0 5.9 0.5 3.0 92.0 0.36 0 0 90.0 0 (%) 2015/12*1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (%) 2015/12*1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (%) 2015/12*3 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (%) 2015/12*3 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) Nabtesco has focused on continuously improving a capital For FY2019, the operating income margin improved compared with Nabtesco values relations of trust with our shareholders to Nabtesco gives first priority to safety, deeming safety as a basic efficiency level that can meet the expectations of its shareholders the previous year due to the decrease in the impact of impairment enhance our business management for sustainable value creation, requirement to be met in all its business activities. We are making and investors and has made a commitment of “ROE: 15%” in the loss and others which had been posted in FY2018. In contrast, net and defines an affirmative vote rate for selected directors at the efforts to eliminate workplace accidents as the basis for protecting Medium-term Management Plan. In FY2017, we started to use income margin dropped due to occurrence of foreign exchange general meeting of shareholders as an indicator of confidence the day-to-day safety of employees and for sustainable value the “improvement rate of return on invested capital (ROIC)” as an losses, etc. Going forward, Nabtesco will endeavor to improve in management. The affirmative rate has been over 97% for the creation. internal management indicator. While paying attention to cost of net income margin while focusing on securing a sound level of past five years, exceeding the average for listed companies in Although Nabtesco’s lost time injury frequency rate has capital, we will work to profit and improve the operating income profitability as a prerequisite for business growth. To improve the Japan. At the general meeting of shareholders held in March always been lower than the all-industries average and the margin and total assets turnover, which are ROE elements. We will net income margin through an increase in the operating income 2020, The rate for Nabtesco was 97.6%. We will continue to manufacturing average in Japan for the past five years, we have also consider using financial leverage as necessary. In FY2019, margin, we will promote cross-organizational measures to reinforce our approach to corporate governance to ensure not achieved the Group’s target of zero industrial injuries, including our ROE was 9.8% which was below the committed level. We will increase sales in business sectors offering MRO* services, while management transparency and improve corporate value to meet commuting-related injuries. To attain the target, it is necessary continue to endeavor to raise it to 15% as soon as possible. aiming at enhancing added value through the development of the expectations of our shareholders. to raise safety awareness at our workplaces. To this end, we are *For FY2017 and FY2018, the graph shows the actual results excluding the equity methodmechatronic and systematized products toward the future. (Note) Nabtesco’s affirmative vote rate of selected directors is the average rate calculated conducting activities to nurture a Nabtesco-style culture of safety based profit gained through the overseas subsidiary acquisition by Harmonic Drive *MRO : Maintenance, repair and overhaul (after-sales service) based on the affirmative vote rates recorded for each of the selected directors at the in addition to implementing ongoing measures against individual Systems Inc. ordinary general meeting of shareholders for the fiscal period. For Nikkei 500 constituents’ risk factors. affirmative vote rates of selected directors, the average rate was calculated for companies (Note) Data for the all-industries average and the manufacturing industry average in Japan that submitted temporary reports on their general meetings of shareholders held in June by are from the 2019 Survey on Industrial Accidents, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. early July. (Surveyed by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) •Total Assets Turnover •Financial Leverage •CO Emissions per Unit of Sales [Global] 2 •Rate of Those who Resigned for Personal Reasons *5 Sales Per unit of sales Male (Total turnover rate) Female (Total turnover rate) Rate of those who resigned for personal reasons 1.0 2.0 300 294.6 0.5 282.4 289.8 6.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 240 244.6 0.4 5.0 4.9 0.9 1.0 1.8 228.9 0.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 4.0 0.8 1.6 1.6 180 0.3 3.5 3.1 3.3 3.0 0.7 1.4 120 0.249 0.2 3.1 2.3 0.239 0.238 0.238 1.8 2.2 0.209 2.0 2.6 0.6 1.2 60 0.1 1.0 1.5 1.9 1.0 0.7 1.4 1.2 0.5 1.0 0 0.0 0 (Times) 2015/12*1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (Times) 2015/12*1 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (¥ Billion) 2015/12*3 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (Per unit of (%) 2015/12*3 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) (IFRS) sales) It is indispensable to efficiently use management resources in Nabtesco upholds a policy of maintaining an A credit rating in To combat climate change as one of our material CSR issues, Nabtesco recognized our employees as human assets, as order to improve total assets turnover. At present, the Nabtesco order to secure balance sheet soundness as a prerequisite for Nabtesco is working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and they constitute the human capital that underpins the Group’s Group is fostering group-wide manufacturing innovation to long-term value creation. As we have recorded steady earnings to conserve energy. As a result, our CO2 emissions per unit of sustainable value creation. Retention of the workforce is essential enhance our production technologies, production management every year, equity capital is increasing. With a view to further sales have been decreasing globally. In order to achieve business to maintain and enhance competitiveness in the long run. At ability and procurement ability. We are also promoting the improving capital efficiency, we will consider the use of financial growth while reducing CO2 emissions, we built plants by using Nabtesco, the rate of employees who resigned for personal introduction of optimal production management by using AI and leverage as necessary. Moreover, we will drive growth investment advanced environmental technologies and have proactively reasons at a low level of 1% to 2%. In order to secure better work IoT for digitization and visualization, while implementing logistics including in capital expenditure, R&D and M&A. At the same time, introduced renewable energy equipment. In FY2016, we set a environment for employees, we have been promoting measures reforms. By using the ROIC tree, we will boost our competitiveness we will practice the type of financial management that enables medium-term target to achieve a reduction of at least 9% by the for work style reform including teleworking and encouraging in manufacturing and improve the rate of utilization of business stable and flexible shareholder returns. end of FY2020. Moreover, we established long-term targets to employees to take more paid leave, while endeavoring to revitalize assets. reduce CO2 emissions by 30% by FY2030 and by 80% by FY2050. the organization through workplace diversity. We will continue We successfully achieved the medium-term targets one year activities to develop human assets that drive global business earlier than planned. We are committed to achieving the long-term operations and to increase employees’ awareness of The Nabtesco targets through stepping up our efforts to save and create energy. Way, while encouraging them to fulfill their own goals and foster a (Note) The mediumand long-term targets are expressed as percentages of reduction from sense of unity across the Group. actual CO2 emissions in FY2015. *1 Due to the change of the accounting closing date of fiscal year since FY2015/12, the results for FY2015 are calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the *3 Period covered for Non-financial data: January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. *4 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation and domestic Group Companies. *2 Net income attributable to owners of the parent *5 The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. 29 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 30 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Financial Information Operating Results reﬂecting sluggish sales in the Southeast Asian market for the Olympic and Paralympic as well as robust overseas mainly attributable to continuous initiatives by each plant ◆ Operating Results for the Fiscal Year despite robust sales in the Chinese market. demand. Operating income expanded due partly to the to promote automation and shorten lead times. Ended December 31, 2019 decrease in PMI (Post Merger Integration) cost caused from The increase due to the impact of impairment loss in The consolidated operating results of the Group for the ■ Transport Solutions (TRS) the past M&A. OVALO was attributable to the elimination of impairment period under review recorded net sales of ¥289.8 billion, Net sales in the Transport Solutions segment rose 2.6% loss of ¥5.2 billion which had been posted in FY2018 down 1.6% year on year. year on year to ¥84.0 billion, and operating income soared ■ Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) despite impairment loss of ¥1.3 billion in goodwill in OVALO Although automatic door business recorded robust by 187.8% year on year to ¥5.8 billion. Net sales in the Manufacturing Solutions segment as a result of an increase in right-of-use assets reﬂecting sales, the decrease in demand for precision reduction Railroad vehicle equipment saw net sales unchanged increased 6.4% year on year to ¥18.7 billion while the adoption of IFRS 16 “Leases” (the new lease accounting gears due to stagnant equipment investment on the back from the previous year as demand from Chinese subways operating income rose by 3.8% year on year to ¥2.6 billion. standard). of the trade frictions between the United States and China. remained brisk. Sales of aircraft equipment grew year on Sales of packaging machinery increased year on year due On the other hand, the decrease in net sales was Operating income of ¥25.3 billion, up 15.7% year on year reﬂecting increased production of private-sector to robust domestic demand from the food industry. attributable to the decline in sales in the Component year. Income before tax was ¥28.0 billion, down 6.6% year aircraft. Sales of commercial vehicle equipment remained Solutions (CMP) segment. The increase in depreciation and on year. Net income attributable to owners of the parent ﬂat from the previous year as stable domestic market ◆ Analysis of Factors Behind Year-on-Year Changes in amortization was mainly due to the investments in the declined to ¥17.9 billion, down 14.7% year on year. offset the decline in the Southeast Asian market. Marine Operating Income (Actual Results) for the Fiscal Year enhancement of production capacity of precision reduction vessel equipment saw a year-on-year increase in net sales Ended December 31, 2019 gears and aircraft equipment. ◆ Operating Results by Business Segment for the Fiscal as the mild recovery trend in the market continued. In Key contributing positive factors included a ¥0.8 billion Year Ended December 31, 2019 November 2019, a German consolidated subsidiary, OVALO increase due to improvement of productivity, a ¥1.8 billion ◆ Projections for the Consolidated Fiscal Year Ending ■ Component Solutions (CMP) GmbH, began to supply actuators for Audi’s predictive decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses, December 31, 2020 Net sales in the Component Solutions segment dropped active suspension. and a ¥3.9 billion increase in the Transport Solutions (TRS) As of February 7, 2020 on which the ﬁnancial results for 10.1% year on year to ¥107.2 billion, while operating segment resulting from a decrease in impairment loss in the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2019 were released, income plunged 21.3% year on year to ¥15.9 billion. ■ Accessibility Solutions (ACB) the goodwill of OVALO. In sum, operating income increased the Group expected net sales for FY2020 to be ¥303.0 Sales of precision reduction gears decreased from the Net sales in the Accessibility Solutions segment increased by ¥3.4 billion compared with the previous year to ¥25.3 billion, a 4.6% year-on-year increase, operating income of previous year, as demand for industrial robot components 5.3% year on year to ¥80.0 billion, and operating income billion despite negative factors including a ¥1.8 billion ¥32.0 billion, a 26.4% year-on-year increase, income before diminished due to a temporary slowdown in equipment rose by 85.2% year on year to ¥8.6 billion. The automatic decrease in sales, negative impacts of ¥0.7 billion in tax of ¥34.0 billion, a 21.5% year-on-year increase, and net investment reﬂecting the prolonged trade frictions between door business recorded year-on-year increases in both foreign exchange impacts, and a ¥0.6 billion increase in income attributable to owners of the parent of ¥23.1 billion, the United States and China. Sales of hydraulic equipment sales and proﬁts reﬂecting strong domestic demands for depreciation and amortization. a 28.8% year-on-year increase. remained virtually unchanged from the previous year automatic door for buildings and platform doors in demand Higher proﬁts due to improvement of productivity were However, a temporary decline in demand for, and a ● Analysis of Factors behind Year-on-Year Changes in Operating Income for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2019 ● Analysis of Factors behind Year-on-Year Changes in Operating Income (Plan) for the Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2020 Production increased for Impairment loss HR and R&D precision reduction gears FY18: +5.2 Bn yen costs decreased and aircraft equipment. FY19: -1.3 Bn yen SG&A OVALO Increase in Decrease in Productivity FOREX Increase in Increase of Productivity FOREX Increase in Improvement expenses goodwill SG&A sales improvement impact D&A*2 sales improvement impact D&A at OVALO (¥ Billion) reduction impairment (¥ Billion) expenses 35.0 35.0 +1.0 +0.5 +3.3 32.0 +3.1 30.0 30.0 +3.9 25.3 25.3 25.0 25.0 -0.8 -0.4 +0.8 +1.8 21.9 -1.8 20.0 20.0 -0.6 FOREX impact*1 -0.7 19/12 Results US$1=¥109.24 RMB1=¥15.84 EUR1=¥122.15 CHF1=¥109.96 15.0 15.0 20/12 Plan US$1=¥105.00 RMB1=¥15.00 EUR1=¥115.00 CHF1=¥105.00 FOREX impact*1 10.0 10.0 18/12 Result US$1=¥110.36 RMB1=¥16.65 EUR1=¥130.01 CHF1=¥112.99 19/12 Result US$1=¥109.24 RMB1=¥15.84 EUR1=¥122.15 CHF1=¥109.96 5.0 5.0 0 0 2018/12 Result (IFRS) 2019/12 Result (IFRS) 2019/12 Result (IFRS) 2020/12 Plan (IFRS) *1 FOREX sensitivity in O.P. (This represents the effect to be expected on operating profit if the exchange rate fluctuates by one yen): (US$): ¥76 million, (RMB): ¥756 million, (EUR): minimal, (CHF): minimal *1 FOREX sensitivity in O.P. (This represents the effect to be expected on operating profit if the exchange rate fluctuates by one yen): (US$): ¥57 million, (RMB): ¥815 million, (EUR): minimal, (CHF): minimal *2 Excluding the increase caused by the application of “IFRS 16 Leases.” 31 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 32 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Financial Information delay in production of, hydraulic equipment and railroad expenditure for automobiles are expected to recover. As a ● Sales by Business Segment (IFRS) vehicle equipment were observed in China in the ﬁrst result, we expect that sales in the precision reduction gear quarter of the current ﬁscal year due to the effects of the business will increase on a year-on-year basis. Component Solutions (CMP) Accessibility Solutions (ACB) coronavirus pandemic which we had not assumed when We expect sales of hydraulic equipment to remain at the (¥ Billion) (¥ Billion) we formulated our guidance. As we entered the second same level as the previous ﬁscal year driven by robust ■ Precision Reduction Gears ■ Automatic Doors quarter, while the impact of the COVID-19 is showing signs demand for construction machinery due to investments in ■ Hydraulic Equipment of abating in China, its spread in Europe, the United States, infrastructure in China and Southeast Asian countries. ■ Others 119.3 116.0 80.0 113.9 76.0 75.7 Japan and Asia, and concerns over the second wave of 107.2 72.4 outbreak are casting a shadow over the global ■ Transport Solutions (TRS) macroeconomic environment. Under these circumstances, Net sales and operating income in this segment for the 65.8 54.9 62.5 we are unable to predict when the coronavirus pandemic year ending December 31, 2020 are expected to reach 72.6 will abate, and its impact on our business performance ¥90.3 billion (up 7.5% year on year) and ¥10.2 billion (up remains uncertain. 76.5% year on year), respectively. As a consequence, we are facing a difficulty in Sales of railroad vehicle equipment are expected to see calculating appropriate and reasonable business forecasts. a year-on-year increase driven by the increase in overseas 53.4 52.2 53.5 41.3 In the ﬁnancial results for the ﬁrst quarter of FY2020 projects although the off-season for domestic demand. 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 released on April 30, 2020, Nabtesco did not revise the Sales of aircraft equipment are expected to remain 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12 consolidated ﬁnancial and dividend forecasts from unchanged from the previous ﬁscal year despite the start Result Result Result Plan Result Result Result Plan February 7, 2020 announcement. The company may revise of mass production of products for B777X. Sales of and disclose the forecasts when it is necessary to change. commercial vehicle equipment are also expected to remain at the same level as the previous ﬁscal year despite Transport Solutions (TRS) Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) ◆ Analysis for Factors behind Year-on-Year Changes in weaker domestic demand. Marine vessel equipment is (¥ Billion) (¥ Billion) Operating Income (Plan) for the Fiscal Year Ending expected to see a year-on-year increase in sales due to a ■ Railroad Vehicle Equipment ■ Marine Vessel Equipment ■ Packaging Machines December 31, 2020 continued mild recovery of the market conditions. ■ Aircraft Equipment ■ Others ■ Others As of February 7, 2020 when the ﬁnancial forecasts were ■ Commercial Vehicle Equipment 21.0 released, it was expected that operating income of the ■ Accessibility Solutions (ACB) 90.3 18.7 81.9 84.0 17.0 17.5 Group for the ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2020 would Net sales and operating income in this segment for the 79.1 reach ¥32.0 billion, an increase of ¥6.7 billion year on year. ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2020 are expected to 31.2 27.9 31.2 30.3 As mentioned earlier, while the impact of the COVID-19 remain at ¥75.7 billion (down 5.3% year on year) and ¥7.5 17.5 pandemic was not assumed in the guidance, we explain the billion (down 12.4% year on year), respectively. 13.1 14.6 16.1 23.4 factors behind the forecast as follows. Sales in the automatic doors business are expected to 18.9 18.5 22.8 As illustrated in the chart on page 32, the Group observe a year-on-year decrease due to a temporary 14.1 11.0 14.6 14.2 forecasts key contributing positive factors including a ¥3.1 decrease during the Olympic and Paralympic Games period 8.5 12.2 billion increase due to an increase in sales, a ¥1.0 billion and due to overseas platform door projects entering an 9.8 10.8 3.8 2.9 3.5 12.6 7.8 9.4 2.6 increase due to improvement of productivity and a ¥3.3 off-season. 5.9 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12 billion increase resulting from the improvement of Result Result Result Plan Result Result Result Plan proﬁtability in OVALO. Meanwhile, primary contributing ■ Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) negative factors behind a decrease in operating income Net sales and operating income in this segment for the will be a ¥0.8 billion decrease due to foreign exchange ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2020 are expected to impacts and a ¥0.4 billion decrease due to an increase in reach ¥21.0 billion (up 12.6% year on year) and ¥3.0 billion ● Breakdown in Capital Expenditure (By Business Segment) depreciation and amortization. (up 17.6% year on year), respectively. MFR HQ MFR HQ We expect increases in net sales in the Component Packaging machines are expected to see a year-on-year Solutions (CMP) segment, the Transport Solutions (TRS) increase in sales due to continued strong demand in 2% 10% 3% 8% segment and the Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) segment. overseas markets. ACB ACB ◆ Projections for Operating Results by Business Segment 6% 2019/12 8% 2020/12 (As of February 7, 2020) Result CMP Plan CMP ■ Component Solutions (CMP) Net sales and operating income in this segment for the ¥16.4 Billion 54% ¥24.1 Billion 53% TRS TRS ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2020 are expected to amount to ¥116.0 billion (up 8.2 % year on year) and ¥18.3 28% 28% billion (up 15.1 % year on year), respectively. The precision reduction gear business is expected to see continued declines in capital expenditure in the ﬁrst ● Aircraft equipment: ● Precision reduction ● Production increase ● Precision reduction Capacity expansion at gears: Increase of OVALO new gears: Acquisition half of FY2020 mainly reﬂecting the trade frictions between Gifu Plant production capacity products of a land the United States and China, leading to sluggish demands. Meanwhile, in the second half, demands for capital 33 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 34 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Financial Information Status of Assets, Liabilities and Net Assets ◆ Cash ﬂows from operating activities Japan and enhancing the productivity. manufacturer that provides systematized products by (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) Net cash generated from operating activities for the ﬁscal R&D costs for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2019 shifting from a business model focused on the provision of year ended December 31, 2019 totaled ¥38.4 billion. amounted to ¥9.9 billion. The Group mainly developed and component products in light of changes in the market ◆ Assets Principal positive factors included increases in net income, launched energy-saving and environment-related products environment. Total assets as of December 31, 2019 were ¥344.6 billion, depreciation and amortization and decrease in trade in the Component Solutions (CMP) and Transport Solutions Depreciation and amortization for the ﬁscal year ended an increase of ¥16.0 billion from December 31, 2018, receivables. Meanwhile, the main negative factors included (TRS) segments. The Group will continue to focus on the December 31, 2019 stood at ¥13.1 billion. This ﬁgure consisting of ¥179.2 billion in current assets and ¥165.4 a decrease in operating payables. development of system products and make necessary represented an increase of ¥3.1 billion from the ﬁscal year billion in non-current assets. investments to respond to electriﬁcation of products in the ended December 31, 2018 as a result of adoption of IFRS Key contributing positive factors included increases of ◆ Cash ﬂows from activities future with the aim of moving forward to become a system 16 “Leases.” ¥9.0 billion in right-of-use assets as a result of the Net cash used in investing activities for the ﬁscal year commencement of adoption of IFRS 16 “Leases” and ¥6.5 ended December 31, 2020 amounted to ¥20.1 billion, billion in property, plant and equipment. The key mainly due to the purchase of property, plant and contributing negative factor was a decrease of ¥5.8 billion equipment. in trade receivables. ● Status of Capital Expenditure, R&D Costs and Depreciation and Amortization (¥ Billion) ◆ Cash ﬂows from investing activities 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 2020/12 Medium-term plan ◆ Liabilities Net cash used by ﬁnancing activities for the ﬁscal year Result Result Result Plan for 2017 to 2020 Total liabilities as of December 31, 2019 were ¥145.4 ended December 31, 2019 totaled ¥13.4 billion. The main billion, an increase of ¥6.1 billion from December 31, 2018, negative factor was dividends paid. Capital Expenditure 15.2 20.3 16.4 24.1 77.0 reﬂecting ¥109.6 billion in current liabilities and ¥35.8 billion in non-current liabilities. The main contributing R&D Costs 8.7 10.2 9.9 11.5 40.0 positive factors were a rise of ¥8.8 billion in lease liabilities Status of Capital Expenditure, R&D and as a result of the commencement of adoption of IFRS 16 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and 9.0 10.0 13.1* 13.5* — Amortization “Leases”. (Results for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2019 and *Includes the right-of-use assets. (IFRS 16 Leases is applied.) plan for the ﬁscal year ending December 31, 2020) ◆ Equity Total equity as of December 31, 2019 stood at ¥199.1 The Group is currently working on production reforms, billion. Equity attributable to owners of the parent was including the promotion of automation, renewal of ● Breakdown in Capital Expenditure (By Usage) ¥187.4 billion, an increase of ¥8.7 billion from December production management systems, procurement reforms ● Environment-related investments 31, 2018. The key contributing positive factor was the and environmental initiatives, with the aim of promoting increase in retained earnings due to net income “production innovation to generate a competitive attributable to owners of the parent of ¥17.9 billion, while advantage. These efforts are led by the Production Others New Products Others New Products Environment, Environment, the main contributing negative factor was the decrease of Innovation Division, which supports the initiatives by each Renewal and Safety 9% Renewal and Safety 9% ¥9.1 billion in retained earnings due to dividends paid. in-house company across the Group. The Group will also As a result, the ratio of equity attributable to owners of make aggressive capital expenditure that will contribute to 22% 26% the parent was 54.4%, and equity attributable to owners of the modernization of outdated equipment, plants, etc., as 2019/12 Production 2020/12 Production the parent per share was ¥1,508.53. well as innovation of production technologies. Result Increase Plan Increase Capital expenditure for the ﬁscal year ended December 31, 2019 was ¥16.4 billion. The main purposes of capital ¥16.4 Billion 44% ¥24.1 Billion 36% Status of Cash Flows expenditure were for increased production in the precision Productivity Productivity (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) reduction gear business, in which mediumto long-term Improvement Improvement growth in demand is expected, and for enhancing capacity 25% 28% Cash and cash equivalents (hereinafter, “capital ) as of of a new program for private aircraft in the aircraft December 31, 2019 stood at ¥58.7 billion, an increase of equipment business. ¥4.6 billion from December 31, 2018, reﬂecting ¥38.4 Capital expenditure for the ﬁscal year ending December billion in capital generated from operating activities, which 31, 2020 will be ¥24.1 billion. In the precision reduction was mainly used for capital expenditure and dividend gear business, the Group will make investments aimed at payments. acquiring land for construction of the second plant in 35 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 36 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Business Portfolio We will provide high value-added products and services through motion control technology. The Nabtesco Group continues to achieve proﬁtable growth with a portfolio of multiple mutually complementary businesses in different categories. Main business models Main businesses Customers End users Component Solutions Maintain competitive advantage through product Product Industrial robot manufacturers, Precision reduction gears Machine tool manufacturers, Automobile industry, development leveraging information-gathering (CMP) Hydraulic equipment Compensation construction machinery civil engineering and abilities as the industry leader manufacturers, etc. construction, etc. Transport Solutions Product (TRS) Railroad vehicle equipment Provide continuous and stable service including Compensation Transport manufacturers, Aircraft equipment MRO Airlines, railroad food companies, etc. MRO (Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul) for Commercial vehicle equipment operators, ship Marine vessel equipment Compensation owners, etc Manufacturing Solutions transport equipment with a long operating life MRO service Packaging machines (MFR) Compensation Product Automatic doors General contractors, etc. Large commercial facilities, etc. Accessibility Solutions Provide attentive service by enhancing the sales MRO Compensation Hospitals (ACB) network Compensation Condominiums MRO service Sales company Compensation ● Differentiation strategy by business segment ● Sales by business segment ● Operating income by business segment Adjustments: Minus ¥7.5 Billion Growth driven by Growth based on each market-oriented strategy market growth Business segment Characteristics Technological Expansion of regional Capturing shares in Expansion of sales advantage strategy market shares new markets products ¥18.7 Billion ¥2.6 Billion ¥107.2 Billion ¥15.9 Billion Component Significant impact of Maintaining competitive 6% 8% Solutions changes in production/ ● Precision advantage of products and ● Hydraulic 37% 48% sales volume on reduction gears technologies equipment (CMP) profitability Sales for Operating income for ● Commercial ¥80.0 Billion FY2019: ¥8.6 Billion FY2019: Transport ● Aircraft ● Railroad vehicle vehicle equipment 28% 26% Solutions (TRS) equipment equipment ● Marine vessel ¥289.8 Billion ¥25.3 Billion After-sales services equipment (MRO) that mitigate Accessibility impacts from changes Capturing shares in ● Expansion of ¥84.0 Billion ¥5.8 Billion Solutions in OEM (Original ● Automatic doors overseas market (ACB) Equipment product lineup 29% 18% ● Systematization/ Manufacturer) ■ Component Solutions (CMP) modularization production volume ● Establishment of a sales network Manufacturing ● Enhancement of value chain model ■ Transport Solutions (TRS) ● Packaging ■ Accessibility Solutions (ACB) Solutions machines ■ Manufacturing Solutions (MFR) (MFR) 37 Nabtesco Value Report 20192018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 38 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section PRECISION REDUCTION GEAR BUSINESS Demand for automation is expanding globally due to the aging of society, a decrease in the birth rate, and work style reforms. In this growth market, we will develop and supply next-generation precision reduction gears and mechatronic drive units to meet the needs of customers, even before they have become aware of such needs, as their global partner with best solutions. We will thereby contribute to the advancement of SDGs related to our business the global manufacturing industry. President, Precision Equipment Company Atsushi Habe Strength Opportunity • Close relationships with major customers • Growth of demand from industrial robot manufacturers and • High-performance and high-quality products from general industry due to the needs for labor saving and Sources of Strength • Capability to develop technologies to meet customers’ needs automation • Capability to build a highly efficient automated production line • Structural increase in demand for industrial robots in China Products and Technology • Wide products lineup for general industry • Nabtesco began conducting the precision reduction gear business in 1986 and applied its technologies developed in the Weakness Threat hydraulic equipment business to overcome the technological problems faced by reduction gears at that time, including those • High level of dependence on demand for industrial robots • Large ﬂuctuations in demand due to changes made by end related to durability and resistance against vibration. Since then we have built close relationships with our major customers, users to their equipment investment policies regarding customer satisfaction as the most important value to be delivered by us, and as a result we now command a • Inability to maintain technological lead over existing competitors roughly 60% market share of the world market for precision reduction gears used in mediumto large-sized industrial as well as manufacturers in emerging markets robots. Measures to achieve further growth • The Precision Reduction Gear RV™ products are light and compact but provide high durability and high positioning accuracy. ● Expand production capability steadily in anticipation of increases in demand As our strength, we have the ability to develop more technologies to meet our customers’ needs, while making better use of ● Expand the product lineup for general industry these excellent product features. ● Implement measures to prevent the outﬂow of core technologies • Precision reduction gears are usually used with servomotors. Recently we have started to sell precision reduction gears and servomotors in a package for use by general industry. We are thus expanding our product lineup to meet various customer Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) needs. Market share Precision reduction gears for the joints of mediumto large-sized industrial robots: Approx. 60% global market share Production • Nabtesco is working to build a highly efficient automated production line that Production bases Tsu City, Mie Prefecture, Japan/Jiangsu Prefecture, China/Hamamatsu City, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan (To be constructed) ● Worldwide Annual Shipment of one step ahead of competitors. We aim for the most advanced automation of the Industrial Robots Industrial robots: FANUC CORPORATION, YASKAWA Electric, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, KUKA AG (Germany), ABB Robotics (Sweden) age, with a view to making our plants the No. 1 manufacturing sites in the world Major customers ■ Japan ■ Europe ■ North America ■ South Korea Machine Tools: YAMAZAKI MAZAK, Okuma, DMG Mori based on the efforts of individual employees who are highly committed to their ■ China ■ APAC* ■ Other* 1 2 Sales by geographic segment Sales to Japanese robot manufacturers: Approx. 60%; Sales to overseas robot manufacturers: Approx. 40% *2 work. Worldwide Robot Market: (Units) *1 Sales to industrial robot manufacturers CAGR*3 12% (as of Sep.2019) (Full-year results)*1 *2 Including sales to the overseas plants of Japanese robot manufacturers Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) 800,000 Business Environment Chinese Market: CAGR more ■ Features of the Business According to the forecast made by the International Federation of Robotics, in the 600,000 than 20% (as of Sep.2019) Factors that could change demand Nabtesco’s precision reduction gears are mainly adopted for use in mediumto large-sized industrial robots and are used in particular by the medium term, the global market of industrial robots (including small-, medium-, and large-sized robots) will grow at the annual rate of 12%. The growth rate will 400,000 automobile industry, which is making effective use of industrial robots. Accordingly, demand for our products is inﬂuenced by the size of equipment investment made by automobile manufacturer. exceed 20% in China, where the replace of man-power and labor saving, Mass production of a medium variety of products automated operations has seen a remarkable increase. 200,000 We need to have the technology and ability to mass-produce a medium variety of products in order to meet customer’s requirements. Excluding the growth rate of the market for small robots from the calculation, Delivery lead time the annual growth rate of the market for medium and large robots is expected to 0 It takes us about four weeks on average from the receipt of an order to the delivery of the product. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 (CY) be between 5% and 10%. Note: Above IFR data includes the number of small and ■ Main Products Opportunities and Risks medium-large and large size robots “Precision Reduction In line with an increase in the need to save labor and foster automation, the Source: International Federation of Robotics (IFR) 2019 Precision reduction gears provide a mechanism by which to extract a large amount of power Gear RV™” from a motor, which supplies motive power, by reducing the motor’s rotation speed. These introduction of automated equipment will be promoted not only for industrial *1 APAC=Asia /Australia (Total)-China-Japan-Korea gears are used mainly in the joints of industrial robots. *2 Other=Total-North America-Asia/Australia robots but also across general industry, and we can achieve further growth by (Total)-Europe (Total) Nabtesco’s precision reduction gears are highly rigid, precise and durable, and are meeting these needs. Meanwhile, demand for industrial robots depends on *3 2020−2022 therefore used mainly in mediumto large-sized robots with heavy load capacity. As our changes in the size of equipment investment made by automobile manufacturer products are compact, they contribute to reducing the size and weight of robots. They also help boost the controllability of robots based on our proprietary mechanism designed to and others. Therefore, we might face drastic changes in demand on a short-term ● Number of Multipurpose Industrial reduce vibrations and increase behavioral precision. basis. We also regard technology catch-up by existing competitors and Robots per 10,000 Persons Employed manufacturers in emerging market countries as a potential risk. in Manufacturing Industry ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products Measures to achieve further growth Japan Germany North America South Korea China Industrial robots contribute to reducing dangerous manual labor, solving the issue of labor As one of the world’s top manufacturers of precision reduction gears, we will shortage and stabilizing quality and increasing productivity at factories. Nabtesco supplies (Units) The number in China is high-quality precision reduction gears to industrial robot manufacturers, thereby bringing further enhance our production capacity. To this end we acquired land in 800 expected to increase as current penetration rate of about safety and higher efficiency to manufacturing factories across the world. Hamamatsu City in 2020 to add a new plant to our existing plants in Tsu City in 700 industrial robot is still low. Japan and in Changzhou in China. 600 Moreover, we will take action with R&D to reduce the weight of our precision For Sustainable Growth 500 reduction gears, enhance our downsizing technologies and develop optimal 400 materials for the products, thereby continuing to provide products that are highly We installed solar panels on the rooftop of the Tsu Plant to produce clean energy. 300 competitive. We will also expand the product lineup for general industry, which Electricity generated by the panels usually covers 20% to 30% of the total power 200 could provide us with more business opportunities. consumption at the plant and thus contributes greatly to its CO2 emissions reduction. 100 For the Hamamatsu Plant to be constructed, we are also considering installing solar In addition, we will implement measures to prevent the outﬂow of our core technologies, including the manufacturing technologies, by turning them into 0 panels as part of our efforts to reduce our environmental impact. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) “black boxes.” Source: International Federation of Robotics (IFR) 2019 Solar panels installed at the Tsu Plant 39 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 40 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section HYDRAULIC EQUIPMENT BUSINESS Nabtesco contributes to society through its highly efficient equipment used in construction machinery, which supports the establishment of social infrastructure. Recently we have upgraded our global production system in Japan, China and Thailand to secure ﬂexibility to meet demand changes. We will continue to make technology innovations and expand our product lineup in response to expand the use of SDGs related to our business ICT in construction machines and their electriﬁcation, in order to achieve further growth. President, Power Control Company Shinji Juman Strength Opportunity • Highly efficient and durable products • Expand the use of ICT in construction machines and their • Wide product lineup electriﬁcation Sources of Strength • Global production system to respond ﬂexibly to changes in • Demand for infrastructure driven by boost of economic stimulus demand packages Products and Technology • Both of the two companies, which were integrated into Nabtesco, had already been conducting the hydraulic equipment Weakness Threat business before the integration. In our long history of the business, which dates back to 1930, we have developed high• Ability to develop systematized products • Change in demand for construction machinery quality, high value-added products by making use of our technological capabilities as our strength. • Emergence of competitors in developing countries • In 2015 we acquired Hyest Corporation from TOSHIBA MACHINE to expand the product lineup in the business. The acquisition enabled us to sell multiple products in a set, whereas we used to sell products mainly as single items. We have since been Measures to achieve further growth ● Develop systematized products adding more value to our products by proposing their use in systems. ● Respond to expand the use of ICT in construction machines and their electriﬁcation Production ● Build a ﬂexible production system to meet demand changes • At the Tarui Plant, which is the mother plant for the business and has advanced machine processing technologies, we are promoting the automation of the processing and assembly processes as well as logistics reforms for higher productivity. Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) Outside Japan, we have our production bases in China and Thailand which are near their consumption areas, thereby building an efficient production system on a global scale. Market share Traveling units for hydraulic excavators: Approx.25% global market share Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Production bases Tarui-cho, Fuwa-gun, Gifu Prefecture, Japan/Kobe city, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/Shanghai, China/Chonburi, Thailand Business Environment Traveling Units: KOMATSU, Sumitomo Construction Machinery, Kobelco Construction Machinery, Sany Heavy Industry (China), In recent years, sales of hydraulic excavators have remained favorable, being supported by the strong need for infrastructure Major customers XCMG Construction Machinery (China), LiuGong (China) investment in China, which is the world’s largest construction machinery market. However, due to the impact of the spread of Sales by geographic segment Japan: Approx.35% China: Approx. 60% Others: Approx.5% the new coronavirus, the economy is feared to be slowing down on a short-term basis, while there are also positive (Full-year results) * In terms of the final destinations of excavators movements for demand for construction machinery, such as the promotion of infrastructure investments by national governments. ■ Features of the Business Moreover, from a mediumto long-term viewpoint, we can see new trends that will help value creation in the construction Factors that could change demand Nabtesco’s hydraulic equipment is used mainly in construction machinery, such as hydraulic excavators and cranes, and is supplied to machinery industry, such as the spread of ICT, progress of electriﬁcation, and the need to comply with exhaust gas regulations. Japanese and Chinese construction machine manufacturers. Demand for our products is inﬂuenced by the need for infrastructure investment Opportunities and Risks in China, Western countries and Southeast Asia, as well as by implementation of environmental regulations. Helping the construction machinery industry to meet the needs for the greater use of ICT and electriﬁcation will provide us Local production for local consumption with tremendous business opportunities. On the other hand, a rapid change in demand might cause an excessive inventory of We produce our products in the regions where our customers’ construction machines are needed, with an eye to enhancing cooperation with construction machines, which will in turn cause stagnant demand. We also regard the market participation of highly costour customers. competitive manufacturers from emerging market countries to be a risk. Delivery lead time It takes us about a week on average from the receipt of an order to the delivery of the product. Measures to achieve further growth We acquired Hyest Corporation in 2015 as the ﬁrst step to becoming a ■ Main Products manufacturer of hydraulic systems. Hyest had a wide product lineup for ● Sales of Excavators in China Control Valve Traveling units represent one of our main products in the business. A traveling unit consists of a reduction gear, a hydraulic motor, a brake and others integrated into one unit. It is a core construction machinery, which however, did not overlap with our product (10,000 units) component without which construction machinery, such as hydraulic excavators and cranes lineup and was actually supplementary to ours. With the acquisition, we 25 (including large ones weighing over 100 tons) could not operate. Our traveling units are were thus able to expand our product lineup. compact but efficiently generate large amounts of power and are therefore highly energy Moreover, we released the Nabtesco Dual Bypass System (NDS) for small 20 efficient. They are also highly durable and reliable for use under severe conditions. We have excavators to promote our shift from being a seller of components to a achieved this high product performance by applying our advanced processing and ﬁtting proposer of systems, with an eye to winning more orders on a mediumto skills. We also provide control valves, swing units and various other products for the motion long-term basis. 15 control of construction machines. In addition, based on the lessons learned from the experience of ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products suffering from large surges in demand in China, we are working to make our 10 Construction machinery is indispensable for the establishment of infrastructure and production system more adaptive to changes by increasing its production supports the basis of industrial development and people’s daily life. Going beyond supplying efficiency through automation and other measures and by keeping the hydraulic equipment to construction machinery manufacturers, Nabtesco contributes to the inventory at an appropriate level. 5 Swing Unit Traveling Unit development of local industries and the comfortable lives of local people by Local production for local consumption as well as by developing the equipment in response to the 0 spread of the use of ICT in construction machinery. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (CY) For Sustainable Growth Source: China Construction Machinery Association At the Tarui Plant, we provide all on-site employees with safety training course, with a view to raising their safety awareness by introducing past occupational accidents to them and giving them hands-on experience by the use of simulators. We are thereby working to reduce occupational accidents, stabilize production and provide employees with safe and comfortable workplaces at the plant. 41 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 42 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section RAILROAD VEHICLE EQUIPMENT BUSINESS We contribute to the safety of passengers and the on-time operation of trains by supplying brake and door systems, which are important components to ensure the safety of railroad vehicles. Capitalizing on the reliability and safety technologies that we have developed in the market in Japan, we will enhance our lineup of products in overseas markets with high growth potential, thereby proactively expanding the SDGs related to our business business. President, Railroad Products Company Shigeru Naoki Strength Opportunity • Ability to customize products to meet the needs of customers • Expansion of an urban traffic network (include subway) in China • Establishment of MRO Team • Replacement demand of railroad vehicles in Europe Sources of Strength • Three production footprints for “local consumption” in Japan, • Increase demand for new railway projects in emerging markets China and Europe Products and Technology • Since receiving our ﬁrst order for air brake equipment from the former Japanese Ministry of Railways in 1925, we have long Weakness Threat nurtured the ability to develop technologies to provide customers with products that meet their individual needs as well as • Ability to comply with the European standards and to expand • Penetration for further localizing in high-speed trains in China the high reliability and durability requirements set for railroad vehicle equipment. business globally Services • In addition to establish special team for MRO, we have enhanced ability for MRO business to acquire more orders for MRO Measures to achieve further growth services, including introducing a system to have a clearer forecast of the maintenance cycles for the products that we have ● Acquire European certiﬁcation to conduct business in Europe ● Expand business for subways delivered to customers. ● Acquire orders in the MRO business in Southeast Asia Production • Since 2000, we have delivered products and services for high-speed trains and subways in China and Taiwan. We also Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) acquired an Italian railroad vehicle door manufacturer (presently Nabtesco Oclap S.r.l.) in 2013. To ﬁnd new markets in Europe and other regions, we are fostering development, procurement and production in three regions, speciﬁcally Japan, Brake systems: Approx. 50% domestic market share Market share China and Europe. Door opening systems: Approx. 70% domestic market share Production bases Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/Jiangsu Prefecture, China/Piedmont, Italy Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Business Environment Major customers Japan Railways (JR) companies, private railway companies, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, bullet train and subway projects in China In Japan, there is and will be stable demand for new railroad vehicles, while Sales by geographic segment in China domestic production has been fostered in the high-speed train Japan: Approx. 65% Overseas: Approx. 35% (Full-year results) sector. For Chinese subways, however, demand will continue to expand for the improvement of urban transportation and the solution of the issue of ■ Features of the Business ● Market Size of Railroad Industry environmental pollution. (by Region) Factors that could change demand In Europe, demand will be driven by the need to replace old vehicles with €188.5 billion Our railroad vehicle equipment is used in the new rolling stock of conventional trains and of Shinkansen bullet trains. new ones, and in emerging markets including those in Southeast Asia, €173.1 billion Demand for our products depends on demand for railroad vehicles (and total running distances). demand is likewise expected to expand. Other* Demand for MRO services -9.0% The user tends to place an order for MRO services with us about four years after we deliver a product., Opportunities and Risks Other* Delivery lead time Although the promotion of localization in the Chinese high-speed train NAFTA % It takes us about four to six months on average from the receipt of an order to the delivery of the product. sector caused a decrease in demand, we still have opportunities to expand NAFTA 15.0 our business in China thanks to the expansion of the local subway market. Asia & Paciﬁc ■ Main Products Asia & Paciﬁc €59.6 billion We can also expand our business by participating in the European market €48.4 billion 23.3% Our brake control systems for railroad vehicles, which represent one of our main products in （31.6％） Door operating and receiving new orders in Southeast Asia market. (27.9%) system for the business, optimally control the braking force for each of the vehicles based on the calculations of the train driver’s brake control and the speed and weight of the vehicle, As a precondition for global business expansion outside the Chinese West Europe West Europe Railroad Vehicles €50.4 billion showing high responsiveness to electric braking. The systems, which we have made smaller, market, we need to acquire certiﬁcation for the European regulations, for €46.6 billion 8.3% (26.9%) （26.7％） lighter and less noisy in line with the recent trend for environmental friendliness, also which we are now implementing necessary actions. contribute to the reduction of electricity consumed by the vehicles and to the improvement 2017-2019 2021-2023 of the cabin environment. Measures to achieve further growth (Average annual amount) (Average annual amount) We also supply door operating system for railroad vehicles, which are highly safe. We By using the technologies developed in the Japanese market, we are * Other: East Europe, CIS, Africa & Middle East and Latin America other than NAFTA have electriﬁed the operators to make them light, more efficient and energy saving. The promoting sales in markets overseas. operators can be used for Shinkansen and other trains for which airtightness is required. To this end, we established a joint venture in the Chinese subway market ● Market Size of Railroad Industry and have made use of the Italian railroad vehicle door manufacturer that we (by Segment) ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products €188.5 billion acquired in 2013 to build relationships with local customers. Moreover, to €173.1 billion The main products are light and energy saving, and therefore contribute to the reduction of achieve further growth by promoting the sales of our brake systems in the Other* environmental impact. Moreover, by providing highly safe and reliable brake systems and Brake Operating door operating systems, we contribute to increasing the safety and reliability of railroad European market, we are striving to ensure conformity to the European Other* 6.7% Units for Railroad regulations. Vehicles vehicles and to the safety and on-time operation of railroad transportation systems. Further, we can contribute to reducing and eliminating road traffic congestion by helping to optimize In order to receive orders for MRO services in the Southeast Asian Service railroad transportation. market, Nabtesco Service Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Nabtesco Corporation, Service €73.7 billion €67.7 billion 8.9% (39.1%) established Nabtesco Service Southeast Asia Co., Ltd. as an after-sale (39.1%) For Sustainable Growth service base in Thailand. It gives technological support to local railroad companies and provides them with education on maintenance operations. Rolling Stock Rolling Stock At the Kobe Plant, we are implementing an educational program for employees €54.7 billion 10.9% €60.7 billion engaged in the production processes. As part of the program they regularly take a (31.6%) (32.2%) test to check the level of their safety awareness and skills. We thereby ensure that 2017-2019 2021-2023 they can keep manufacturing high-quality products and work with safety and a sense (Average annual amount) (Average annual amount) of security at the plant. * Other: Infrastructure, railroad signals and control equipment Source: UNIFE 43 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 44 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section AIRCRAFT EQUIPMENT BUSINESS In the private aircraft sector, which provides a growth market, we will offer unique customer value by innovating our production, technologies and after-sale service toward achieving sustainable growth. We will also make maximum use of the enhanced manufacturing facilities to expand the production of highly reliable products. We will thereby support the safety of aircraft while reducing their environmental impact SDGs related to our business and also contribute to local communities. President, Aerospace Company Norimasa Takagi Strength Opportunity • Know-how and technologies accumulated over 40 years for • Mediumto long-term growth of the private aircraft market aircraft equipment business • Stable demand for provided by the Japanese Ministry of Sources of Strength • Close relationships with major customers and support systems Defense • Highly environmentally friendly and efficient production system Products and Technology • We began manufacturing landing gear for aircraft during the WW and launched business targeting the private aircraft Weakness Threat industry subsequently. Since then we have long nurtured the ability to develop technologies to meet the needs of customers • Less experience for the electriﬁcation of aircraft • Decrease in the number of ﬂights due to the downturn of the for both defense aircraft and private aircraft as our strength. airline market • For ﬂight control actuation systems, which are items of aircraft equipment that need to be highly safe and reliable, we boast a nearly 100% share in the domestic market. Measures to achieve further growth Services ● Develop high value-added MRO plans ● Improve QCDS performance by fostering automation and high productivity at the plants • For private aircraft, we have our production and MRO bases near the sites of our major customers so that we can offer sufficient support whenever they need it. Production Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) • We newly built three buildings on the premises of the Gifu Plant over the period from 2016 to 2018 in order to make our Market share Flight Control Actuation System: Approx.100% domestic market share production system more environmentally friendly and efficient and to further improve our QCDS performance. Production bases Tarui-cho, Fuwa-gun, Gifu Prefecture, Japan/State of Washington, the United States Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) The Boeing Company (US), Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, IHI, SUBARU, the Japanese Ministry of Business Environment Major customers The private aircraft sector is a growth industry on a mediumto long-term basis, and the operation of aircraft will double over Defense, airline companies and others Sales by geographic segment the next two decades. In the defense ﬁeld, the budget for equipment has been slightly decreasing, but there will be no major Overseas: Approx. 55% Japan: Approx. 45% changes in the demand on a mediumto long-term basis and the demand will continue to be robust. On a short-term basis, (Full-year results) however, the spread of COVID-19 might cause a downturn in the market. ■ Features of the Business Opportunities and Risks Factors that could change demand According to the 2019 data provided by Japan Aircraft Development Corporation, demand for private aircraft will expand on a Nabtesco’s aircraft equipment is used in both defense aircraft and private aircraft. For products used in private aircraft, demand is inﬂuenced long-term basis, but the sluggish world economy caused by the spread of COVID-19 might have an impact on demand for by changes in the world economy, while demand from the Japanese Ministry of Defense is stable. aircraft and on MRO services on a short-term basis. For private aircraft, demand for our products is inﬂuenced by the production and participation in relevant programs by Boeing, one of our major customers. Measures to achieve further growth Demand for MRO services Anticipating the expanded use of aircraft on a mediumto long-term basis, The user tends to place an order for our MRO services about ﬁve years after we deliver a product. Delivery lead time we will make use of our relationships with customers and foster close ● Forecast for Jetliner Demand It takes us about one year on average from the receipt of an order to the delivery of the product for private aircraft and up to around two years communication with them for the provision of highly competitive products ■ New demand for defense aircraft. and services. To this end, we are improving our ability to develop ■ Replacement demand ■ Existing instruments technologies and also utilizing our bases in the four international regions ■ Main Products (Units) 40,301 (North America, Europe, Asia and Japan) to propose more value-added MRO 40,000 Aircraft equipment needs to provide high safety and reliability, and Nabtesco’s ﬂight control actuation systems precisely control the three-dimensional attitude of aircraft, including service plans promptly to customers according to their individual needs. We braking as well as tilting the fuselage up, down, left and right. Without an actuator, the pilot also aim to provide around-the-clock service to help customers deal with could not get the aircraft to take off or land stably, control its attitude or change its direction, emergencies, such as the inability to make a ﬂight with an aircraft. 30,000 16,397 and also passengers could not feel comfortable on board. Moreover, in order to respond ﬂexibly to changes in our business 46% 23,904 Number of environment, we are pressing forward with automation and the instruments delivered ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products improvement of productivity at our plants. In particular, at the Gifu Plant, we 35,312 20,000 18,915 Nabtesco contributes to the safe operation of aircraft and the safe and comfortable travel by aim to further improve QCDS performance by using the newly constructed 54% large numbers of people by supplying highly safe and reliable aircraft equipment. facilities. We also provide highly reliable products for use by the Japanese Ministry of Defense and thereby contribute to the safe and prompt operation of their aircraft for purposes such as 10,000 Flight Control emergency rescues. Actuation System 4,989 0 2018 2038 (CY) Source: Japan Aircraft Development Corporation For Sustainable Growth For the three buildings newly established at the Gifu Plant for surface treatment and for the manufacture of precision parts, and for actuators, we have achieved a substantial reduction in CO2 emissions by adopting advanced environmental technologies. In recognition of this achievement and others, we have been highly applauded by stakeholders, including receiving an environmental prize at the Boeing Supplier of the Year 2016 event. 45 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 46 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section COMMERCIAL VEHICLE EQUIPMENT BUSINESS As a company that supports transportation by truck in Japan, we will contribute to society with pride and sense of responsibility, while giving ﬁrst priority to safety. We will proactively make development investments and take on challenges in new ﬁelds, including measures for electronic systems. In addition, we will enhance collaboration with our production bases in Japan, Thailand, India and Germany with an eye SDGs related to our business to making our company a truly global enterprise. President, Nabtesco Automotive Corporation Ataru Inoue Strength Opportunity • Know-how and technologies accumulated over 80 years for air • Increasing demand for advanced safety technologies for great brake systems changes, as represented by CASE* Sources of Strength • Cost reduction at our production bases in Thailand, India and Germany * CASE: Connected Autonomous Shared/Service Electric • Highly precise and efficient production system established by Products and Technology introducing fully automated equipment • We provide air brake systems that are excellent in safety and environmental performance. In particular, the technology to Weakness Threat separate the oil contained in compressed air gives us an advantage. We became the ﬁrst company to develop this technology • Ability to propose systematized products • Competition in the market with leading European manufacturers in Japan in 1937 and it is installed for almost all heavy duty commercial vehicles running in Japan to this day. Production Measures to achieve further growth • The Yamagata Plant had all its equipment designed and made by specialists in each of its manufacturing processes with a ● Measures for air supply management (ASM) systems view to responding speedily to the needs of automakers, who manufacture a range of products in small lots. The plant has ● Measures for market trends, including those for CASE also built a quality assurance system in line with global standards and introduced fully automated equipment for highly precise and efficient production and to make “high quality” and “cost reduction” compatible. Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) • We have built a global production system, having production bases in Thailand, India and Germany as well as in Japan. While meeting the local quality requirements, we are also reducing the materials cost and ﬁxed cost to enhance our cost Wedge brake chambers for commercial vehicles chambers: Approx.80% domestic market share Market share competitiveness. Air dryers for commercial vehicles: Approx.70% domestic market share Production bases Murayama City, Yamagata Prefecture, Japan/Samutprakarn, Thailand/Haryana, India/Saxony, Germany Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Business Environment Major customers Hino Motors, Isuzu Motors, Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus, UD Trucks Demand for commercial vehicles has been stable in Japan, although there Sales by geographic segment were some short-term ﬂuctuations due to factors including the need to Japan: Approx. 90% Overseas: Approx. 10% ● Production of Large Trucks and Buses (Full-year results) meet regulations. In Southeast Asia, demand has been expanding with ■ For use in Japan ■ For export minor changes. On the other hand, the automobile industry is entering an (1,000 units) ■ Features of the Business age of great changes, as represented by CASE. Moreover, there are social 250 Factors that could change demand issues to be solved, including reducing CO2 emissions, creating a safer Nabtesco’s commercial vehicle equipment is used mainly in mediumto heavy duty trucks. Demand for our products is inﬂuenced by the motorized society and dealing with the logistics crisis faced by Japan due to 200 economic situations in the Japanese and Southeast Asian markets, the two major markets for Japanese truck manufacturers, who are our the shortage of drivers. Accordingly, we need to supply high value-added main customers, as well as by changes in demand for trucks caused by infrastructure investments and environmental regulations. Demand for MRO services products and services for current situation. 150 The user tends to place an order for our MRO services about two years after we deliver a product. Opportunities and Risks Delivery lead time We might be able to achieve further growth by implementing measures to It takes us about a week on average from the receipt of an order to the delivery of the product. 100 meet the aforementioned challenges. If, however, we fall behind European competitors in this regard, we might lose our market share. ■ Main Products 50 For many heavy duty trucks and buses, air control systems (pneumatic) are operated to move Measures to achieve further growth and stop the vehicles. Nabtesco’s air dryers represent the ﬁrst product developed in Japan to We will focus on air supply management (ASM), which we deem essential to remove any water and oil from compressed air to prevent these impurities from causing add more value to our products. By supplying not only our conventional 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (CY) problems to the system. Nabtesco also developed pneumatic air brake systems to assuredly (Results) (Results) (Results) (Results) (Forecast) products but also peripheral systems, we will contribute to the higher stop trucks and buses ahead of other manufacturers in Japan in 1937, and these systems are Source: Estimated by Nabtesco based on materials provided by still used in almost all heavy commercial vehicles in Japan today. For air brake systems, quality and fuel efficiency of air control systems (pneumatic). customer companies Nabtesco’s wedge brake chambers are particularly outstanding in terms of brake operability We will also utilize the strength of the entire Nabtesco Group by fostering and these compactly designed chambers also contribute to improve fuel efficiency. cooperation with the Technology and R&D Division and make ﬂexible ● Meeting More Environmental and responses to industry trends, including electroniﬁcation. Safety Needs ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products Nabtesco has developed wedge brake chambers, which help improve fuel efficiency, and oil catchers to prevent the outﬂow of oil collected by the air dryer from the vehicle, thereby Wedge Brake helping reduce the environmental impact from vehicles. Chambers for Commercial Vehicles We also contribute to the safety of passengers and drivers of commercial vehicles, for example, by helping increase the safety and reliability of the air control systems (pneumatic) Air Dryers for of the vehicles by supplying air dryers. Moreover, we plan to release a new product (EDSS*) Development of Commercial Vehicles to the market. components * EDSS standards for emergency driving stop system, which is used when the driver suddenly becomes unable to drive the car due to illness and for other reasons. After being switched on by the driver or others in the vehicle, Environment Safety For Sustainable Growth the system will function to safely reduce the speed of the vehicle and bring it to a gradual halt. Air supply Electronically management Two pillars controlled Nabtesco provides brake systems in an industry-academia-government (ASM) brake system system supplier supplier collaboration project, with an eye to contributing to the development of selfdriving technologies and to the solution of the logistics crisis caused by the Reducing emissions Preparing for the age of substances of concern of total autonomous shortage of drivers. The project also provides us with an opportunity to acquire Reducing CO2 emissions driving the know-how to develop brake systems in response to changes made to Clean air commercial vehicles with the advancement of automation. 47 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 48 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section MARINE VESSEL EQUIPMENT BUSINESS In the shipbuilding and marine vessel equipment industry, same as other industries, we are strongly required to develop `smart’ technologies and foster decarbonization. `Smart’ technologies here mean those used to centrally control ships and automate their operation by the use of computers. As for decarbonization, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) adopted a strategy to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs) in 2018 and since then activities for zero emissions have been fostered in the industry. In order SDGs related to our business to meet these requirements in society, we will work for the technological innovation of ships, marine vessel equipment and related systems by making use of the technologies and experience that we have accumulated in the business. President, Marine Control Systems Company Tadashige Eto Strength Opportunity • Broad lineup of environment-friendly products • Diversiﬁcation of marine vessel equipment to meet • Global production and service system environmental regulations* Sources of Strength • Ability to make proposals on entire control systems * Environmental regulations: There exist a range of regulations on the shipping industry • Proposals on preventive maintenance for the identification and minimization of its environmental impact. When the existing Products and Technology regulations are enhanced or new regulations are issued, marine vessel equipment is updated to meet them. • In 1963, we became the ﬁrst company in Japan to develop a pneumatic remote control system for marine vessels engines to meet the standards set by the Classiﬁcation Society of each country. Since then we have developed products that meet the Weakness Threat needs of customers in line with market trends. We have strengths in terms of our ability to develop technologies for these • Cost competition • Change in demand for new shipbuilding due to changes in the products and in the lineup of products that can support the electronic engines to be developed in anticipation of the future price of crude oil enhancement of environmental regulations on marine vessels. Services Measures to achieve further growth ● Foster electroniﬁcation and develop environment-friendly products • We have globally expanded our MRO network, including one established in the Netherlands in 1995. Presently we have bases ● Develop new MRO plans and enhance the service system to win more orders for MRO services from customers in Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea and China, where we provide MRO services around the clock. ● Promote “local production for local consumption” in the three bases for higher QCDS performance • Recently we have also enhanced MRO services by proposing preventive maintenance to customers. We have developed and released a status monitoring system that diagnoses and predicts the product status to help predict failures and shorten the Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) maintenance lead time/cost. Market share 2-stroke main engine control systems: Approx. 50% domestic market share Approx. 40% global market share Production • We established a production base in South Korea in 2000 and another in China in 2013, thereby fostering “local production Production bases Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/Shanghai, China/Busan, South Korea for local consumption” for higher QCDS performance based on production in the three regions of Japan, China and South Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Makita, Hitachi Zosen, Mitsui E&S holdings, Japan Engine Corporation, Hyundai Heavy Industries Korea. Major customers (Korea), HSD Engine (Korea), HuDong Heavy Industry Machinery Manufacturing (China), MAN Energy Solutions (Denmark) Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Sales by geographic segment Japan: Approx. 60% Overseas: Approx. 40% Business Environment (Full-year results) Environmental regulations on marine vessels have been strengthened, as represented by the enhancement of the regulations ■ Features of the Business on SOx*1 in 2020 and the enforcement of the Ballast Water Management Convention*2. Accordingly, electroniﬁcation and the Factors that could change demand diversiﬁcation of fuels will be further promoted for large marine vessel engines to increase their fuel efficiency. Due to the Nabtesco’s marine vessel equipment is mainly used in mediumto large-size vessels equipped with two-stroke diesel engines. Demand for enhancement of the regulations, not only demand for new shipbuilding but also demand for MRO services will expand, as new shipbuilding is inﬂuenced mainly by ship prices, demand for marine transportation and measures to meet the environmental regulations. needs for retroﬁtting*3 to meet the regulations that will come into force are increasing. Demand for MRO services *1 The regulations on SOx regulate the content of sulfur oxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxide (NOx), which cause air pollution, in fuel oil. We tend to receive an order for MRO services for a new ship about ﬁve years after its ﬁrst navigation. *2 Ballast Water Management Convention (the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water and Sediments) is intended to prevent the Delivery lead time spread from one region to another of pathogenic bacteria and aquatic organisms that are harmful to the environment, human health and economic activities. *3 Retrofitting means to remodel old-type machines into new-type machines. It takes us about four months on average from the receipt of an order to the delivery of the product. Opportunities and Risks ■ Main Products In regard to engines for large marine vessels, we could achieve growth by developing and marketing products that help meet Main Engine The M-800-V main engine remote control system enables the remote control of the diesel Remote Control engine of a ship, which provides the ship with its main propulsive force, from the ship’s environmental regulations, while changes in the crude oil price might badly affect the demand for new shipbuilding and for System (M-800-V) MRO services. bridge and control room. The system gives commands to control the engine speed (rpm) and monitors the engine status. Equipped with advanced network functions and a liquid crystal Measures to achieve further growth touch panel display, the system provides excellent operability and expandability. Used in electronically controlled engines, the hydraulic valves precisely control fuel injection We will foster joint development with external research institutes to create and the behavior of exhaust valves. These products are indispensable to increase fuel and driving products that ﬂexibly respond to changes in market needs, including the recent trends for electroniﬁcation and environmental friendliness, thereby ● Global Production of 2–stroke Diesel efficiency and to implement environmental measures including those to reduce NOx emissions. Engines for Marine Vessels contributing to the clean and safe navigation of ships by our customers. We Estimates as of October 2019 ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products will also improve our QCDS performance by fostering “local production for Marine transportation has a relatively low environmental impact per unit of transportation local consumption” through production in the three regions: Japan, China (Units) volume, as a ship can transport a larger amount of goods at one time compared with other 1,400 and South Korea. means of transportation. However, due to the growth of emerging markets, marine In the MRO business, we will enhance the global 24-hour support system transportation volume has been increasing, resulting in an increase in CO2 emissions from 1,200 Electronically Controlled at our bases in Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Korea and China, Hydraulic Valves ships. Nabtesco supplies highly safe, reliable and environmentally friendly marine vessel equipment. Through these products, we contribute to reducing the environmental impact of and will implement measures to win more orders for MRO services, 1,000 ships, to the safe navigation of ships and to the stability of marine transportation. including predicting product failures in the service and developing new For Sustainable Growth service plans that help users reduce the maintenance lead time and cost. 800 600 Our product Status monitoring In the marine vessel equipment business, we have launched MRO services, in which we use advanced sensing and data analysis 400 DTS* unit technologies to diagnose the product status and give necessary Data collection via land-ship communication support to customers. We are contributing to the safe navigation 200 of ships by predicting product failures in MRO services and are Provision of working to increase the quality of MRO services for higher customer 0 CBM* service satisfaction. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 (CY) Source: Nabtesco estimates * Condition-based maintenance (CBM) means the maintenance of products according to their conditions. CBM helps prevent problems and contributes to stable operation and cost reduction. * A data storage unit (DTS) stores data on the status of marine vessel equipment, including main engine remote control systems and electronically controlled hydraulic valves, and transmits it to a server installed on the ship. 49 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 50 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section AUTOMATIC DOOR BUSINESS We are working every day to help all people in society move and travel with a greater level of safety, sense of security and comfort through the provision of automatic doors, platform doors and welfare equipment. In this business, we will take on the challenge of creating value in a manner that exceeds the expectations of customers by developing products based on close communication with the market and expanding the SDGs related to our business MRO service. President, Accessibility Innovations Company Daisuke Hakoda Strength Opportunity • Sales network that covers the world’s four major automatic door markets • Stable growth of the automatic door market mainly in developed • Wide lineup of high-quality automatic doors countries Sources of Strength • Sales, installation and service networks in the major markets • Growth of the platform door markets Products and Technology Weakness Threat • We are the ﬁrst automatic door supplier in Japan ahead of competitors in 1956 and have since developed high-level • Lineup with much focus on automatic doors* • Long-term tendency for the domestic market to shrink due to technological capabilities as our strength. We provide a range of automatic doors, not limited to those for buildings, and have * Reference: Overseas competitors are adding value to their automatic doors for maturity recently developed the energy-saving and barrier-free automatic door “NATRUS+e”. example providing security-related services. • Branding in emerging market countries Services • In Japan, we have more than 100 bases for conducting business across the nation. We sell and install automatic doors and Measures to achieve further growth provide MRO services to meet the needs of customers, mainly through our three large sales companies (NABCO SYSTEMS ● Expand the sales, installation and service networks also through M&A Co., Ltd., NABCO DOOR Ltd. and Orient Industries Co., Ltd.). ● Enhance sales activities and ﬁnd new customers in emerging markets • Outside Japan, we acquired Kaba Gilgen AG (presently Gilgen Door Systems AG), an automatic door company in Switzerland, ● Provide solutions to win more orders for MRO services in 2011 to start doing business in the European market under the GILGEN brand. We have also expanded our sales, installation and service networks through M&A of sales companies and now operate business in the world’s four major Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) automatic door markets, namely Japan, North America, Europe and China. Automatic doors for buildings: Approx. 50% domestic market share Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Market share Platform screen doors: Approx. 95% domestic market share (cumulative) Business Environment Production bases Kobe City, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan/State of Wisconsin, the United States/Bern, Switzerland/Beijing, China Nabtesco’s automatic doors are used mainly in developed regions including Japan, North America and Europe. In order to Automatic doors for buildings: Major general contractors, sash manufacturers, hospitals, banks, public institutions, etc. keep our competitive advantages in these mature markets, we need to identify precise market needs and promptly provide Major customers Platform Doors: Japan Railways (JR) companies, subways in Japan, major railways, subway projects in France, others more value-added products and services. Breaking demand down by region, we expect that demand will expand in Japan on a Sales by geographic segment medium-term basis, being driven by the redevelopment projects implemented in urban areas. In Europe, we expect that stable Japan: Approx. 60% Overseas: Approx. 40% (Full-year results) demand will continue and in Southeast Asia, where more social infrastructure is being established, demand will expand. Moreover, demand for platform doors will expand across the world, as it is increasingly required to ensure safety on platforms ■ Features of the Business at railroad stations. Factors that could change demand We supply automatic doors for buildings and platform doors for railroad stations. Demand for our products is inﬂuenced by demand for new Opportunities and Risks buildings in Japan, North America, Europe and China and by railroad companies’ plan to install platform doors. However, we have relatively On a long-term basis, the domestic market might shrink due to the aging of society and decreasing birth rate. However, as a stable demand with no major changes as we mainly target the mature markets of developed countries. whole, the global automatic door market will remain robust. Due to the spread of COVID-19, demand for automatic doors Demand for MRO services might become stagnant temporarily, but it might expand on a long-term basis as the value of automatic doors, which can be For automatic doors for buildings, customers tend to place orders for MRO services about seven to ten years after the installation of the doors. operated in a contactless manner, gains renewed appreciation. Delivery lead time It differs by project. It takes us several weeks to one or more years depending on the size of the project. Measures to achieve further growth In the mature markets of developed countries, we will enhance our product lineup and expand sales and service networks by ■ Main Products M&A and other means. We will also work to increase customer satisfaction Nabtesco supplies a range of automatic doors, including automatic doors for buildings, “NATRUS by providing turnkey solutions that include the delivery, installation, ● Automatic Doors Markets barrier-free doors, super-large automatic doors for industrial use and platform doors. Next-Generation maintenance and management of automatic doors from general-purpose to ■ Europe ■ North America Automatic doors are opened when the sensor detects nearby motion and sends a signal to Automatic Door the controller and are closed when the sensor no longer detects the motion. Nabtesco custom made products, thereby steadily winning orders for our MRO ■ Japan ■ Asia System makes use of advanced technologies to develop sensors, controllers with built-in (Million US dollars) services. 4,000 microcomputers, and high-performance automatic door systems equipped with them. We In Southeast Asia and other regions where more social infrastructure is 5.7% also supply platform doors that are opened and closed in connection with the operation of CAGR Automatic being established, we will enhance our sales network to solidify the Doors railroad vehicle doors, thereby preventing passengers from falling from platforms or coming into physical contact with trains. Our platform doors are adopted for major railroad lines, business foundation and promote branding. By broadly expanding the size of 3,000 including for use at subway stations in Japan, Hong Kong and Paris. our business in both developed and developing countries, we will relieve our business risks to ensure proﬁtability. Wide-Opening ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products 2,000 Platform Doors Nabtesco supplies automatic doors that are friendly to all people. We contribute to the provision of barrier-free environments by supplying automatic doors for buildings, which do not need to be manually operated, and also contribute to the safety of passengers and on-time operation of trains by delivering platform doors to railroad stations. Moreover, we 1,000 have developed energy-saving automatic doors, such as the “NATRUS+e” door, which reacts For Sustainable Growth only to people who will actually pass through the door, for the reduction of environmental impacts caused by our products. 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 (FY) Nabtesco annually holds a class to provide students of nearby elementary schools Source: IHS with hands-on computer programming experience. For this class, for which our employees serve as instructors, we created unique teaching materials by using the mechanism of automatic doors. We are thus contributing to the development of children by using our unique expertise and resources. 51 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 52 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section PACKAGING MACHINE BUSINESS We have long contributed to the reduction of CO2 emissions by fostering packaging in pouches to reduce transportation load in addition to meeting a range of customer needs, including the need to save labor and ensure food safety. As a leading company for a range of packaging systems, we will focus on measures to promote the use of `mono-material’* for the recycling of pouches while also taking measures for new packaging materials, such as SDGs related to our business biomaterials, to make more contributions to the protection of the global environment. President, Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd. Akiyoshi Kitamura * The use of mono-material (a single material) facilitates recycling. Strength Opportunity • Ability to develop technologies for high-speed, space-saving and • Expanded needs for small-lot lightweight packaging highly airtight packaging • Expanded needs for labor saving and automation at food Sources of Strength • Know-how to pack wet contents processing factories and others • Ability to customize packaging machine • Increased awareness of food safety and the need to reduce Products and Technology • Official distributors located in major overseas cities environmental impact • Mass production system • Since developing the world’s ﬁrst rotary packaging machine that integrates a series of processes into one line, we have accumulated the ability to develop technologies as our strength. We provide high-speed and space-saving packaging Weakness Threat machines with a highly airtight sealing function to ensure food safety. • Lack of global recognition • Changes in the market share due to participation by • We have accumulated know-how for the difficult packaging of wet contents and boast an 85% share in the domestic market manufacturers in emerging market countries and to the release for ﬁllers/sealers for retort foods. of cheap products Services Measures to achieve further growth • In order to meet the more sophisticated customer needs, we are developing next-generation high-speed machines and ● Increase overseas bases and official distributors for overseas sales promotion ● Strengthen MRO services system in Japan enhancing our MRO services in Japan and abroad, and are thus maintaining and expanding our competitive advantages. We and abroad ● Develop and supply next-generation high-speed machines and “total line systems” ● Expand production have local subsidiaries in China, the United States and Germany as well as official distributors in major overseas cities, and capacity have delivered more than 2,000 units in more than 40 countries across the world. Production Business Overview (Fiscal year ended December 31, 2019) • We established a production base in Dalian, China, which cooperates with the Iwakuni Plant to establish a production system Market share Packaging machines for retort pouch foods: Approx. 85% domestic market share that can respond to an increase in demand for packaging machines. Production bases Iwakuni City, Yamaguchi Prefecture, Japan/Dalian, China Business Environment (Opportunities and Risks) Business Environment Mitsui Sugar, Ajinomoto, MARUDAI FOOD, ARIAKE JAPAN, KENKO Mayonnaise, Procter & Gamble Japan, Kao, Lion, beverage Major customers Demand for packaging machines is expanding across the world. In the markets of developed countries, the working companies in North America, food companies in China population has been decreasing with the aging of society and decreasing birth rates, while the number of companion animals Sales by geographic segment Japan: Approx. 75% Overseas: Approx. 25% is increasing. In emerging market countries, the middle income group is expanding due to the growth of the economy, and as a (Full-year results) result the cost of labor, need for baby care products and the awareness of food safety will increase. Due to these factors, the ■ Features of the Business needs for small and light food packaging, factory automation and labor saving are increasing globally. In addition, the need to Factors that could change demand reduce environmental impact is boosting the demand for packaging machines, which help reduce the use of energy for Demand for our products is inﬂuenced by the needs for equipment investment by our customers, including sugar and salt manufacturers, transportation, the use of resources for packaging materials and the loss of food. food and pet food manufacturers and chemical product manufacturers. Moreover, the diversiﬁcation and sophistication of customer needs are also boosting demand for our “total line systems,” Demand for MRO services which include front-end and back-end processes beyond the scope of conventional packaging machines. The user tends to place an order for our MRO services about one to two years after the installation of a product. Delivery lead time Opportunities and Risks It takes us about six months on average from the receipt of an order to the delivery of the product. Demand for food packaging in pouches is expanding, being driven by an increase in demand for prepared meals for consumption at home as well as by an increase in the number of individuals who eat alone. Moreover, the spread of packaging ■ Main Products in pouches in North America and higher food safety awareness in China and Southeast Asia provide us with opportunities to Automatic ﬁllers/sealers are machines designed to package things using the packaging expand our business. On the other hand, market participation by manufacturers in emerging market countries and the supply materials supplied by their manufacturers. Toyo Jidoki has accumulated know-how for packaging wet contents that are difficult to ﬁll, particularly retort foods. of cheap packaging machines could pose risks to us. We have strengths in measuring performance, space-saving and high-speed packaging, Measures to achieve further growth and airtight sealing, which is essential for food safety. Our packaging machines are We will strengthen our bases and official distributors outside of Japan to promote sales mainly in Europe, North America, Super High-Speed Automatic customized to meet a range of customer needs in an appropriate manner. In addition to Filler/Sealer supplying packaging machines as single products, we also provide “total line systems” China and Southeast Asia. suitable for individual manufacturing sites. In line with the diversiﬁcation and sophistication of customer needs, we will develop next-generation high-speed machines, provide “total line systems” suitable for the production size and facilities of individual customers, expand our production ■ Social Value Provided by the Main Products capacity, and enhance our service systems The amount of food that is wasted around the world totals about 1.3 billion tons annually, in Japan and abroad to maintain and ● Market Size and Growth Forecast for Packaging Machines and about one-third of produced foodstuffs are wasted. We can greatly contribute to the expand our competitive advantages. reduction of food loss by providing packaging machines that help prolong the expiration • Automation needs of brands High-Speed Automatic Filler/Sealer dates of foods. Recently we have also provided high-value added ﬁllers/sealers by Packaging =5.1% • Increasing requests CAGR incorporating X-ray and infrared cameras into them, thereby contributing to food safety. machines ¥1.3 Trillion for traceability Our products are used also to pack chemical products in reﬁll pouches. The amount of market: plastic used to make reﬁll pouches is about 20% of that used to make containers for ¥1.0 Trillion For Sustainable Growth chemical products, and the use of the pouches thus contributes to reducing the use of plastic. We will proactively implement measures to promote the use of eco-friendly packaging materials, thereby making further contributions to CO2 emissions reduction. • Expanded needs for 5.7% small-sized packaging C AGR= • Shift from cans/bottles to Toyo Jidoki relocated its Tokyo head office and substantially reformed the office environment, Nabtesco’s lighter packages including adopting the “free-address” system for the office work space and providing open target • Reduction of food loss areas for meetings, thereby increasing operational efficiency and promoting communication. market 2016 2020 Source: Packaging machinery market: freedonia Nabtesco’s target market: Nabtesco’s assumption 53 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 2018 54 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Sustainability Power Special Feature Business Continuity Power Implementing BCP measures for both production • Nabtesco is the only organization that has obtained multiple certifications within a single company and on a plant-by-plant basis. and procurement BCP usually stands for “Business Continuity Plan.” For Nabtesco, however, BCP also stands for “Business Continuity Power,” and to gain this power we are working to increase the capability of our organizations to mount effective responses to a crisis. For Nabtesco, the “P” in BCP thus not only means “plan” but also “power.” • Important points regarding Nabtesco’s BCP recognition, we established a BCP secretariat at each of the Nabtesco began implementing measures for BCP in 2010. plants and assigned staff engaged in the following three At that time the Compliance Division was supervising risk functions to each of the secretariats: (1) disaster control, management. With the support of this division, each of the (2) production and (3) procurement. in-house companies started to formulate business continuNext, we held a BCP training at each of the plants with ity plans (BCPs) and had nearly completed the task in 2014. the participation of plant managers and other relevant Subsequently, however, because the formulation of the members, with an eye to helping them really recognize plans had itself been regarded as the “goal,” the BCPs how difficult it is to respond appropriately and promptly to began to lose substance. a disaster. Compared with the police, the ﬁre department In 2015, we conducted a risk survey targeting our 17 and the Self-Defense Forces, which conduct regular sites in Japan. The survey revealed that we faced two major emergency response activities, companies in the private risks: the risk that our plant operations might be brought to sector, including Nabtesco, cannot act as appropriately or a standstill due to a large-scale disaster and the risk that promptly in the event of an emergency. It is important for we might be unable to procure materials from suppliers if on-site members to be well aware of this fact and underthey suffer from a disaster. This ﬁnding clariﬁed the fact stand their weakness in this regard. that we had an urgent need to foster BCP measures from Based on the ﬁndings made through training like the • Resilience Certiﬁcation obtained by all nine ing the ﬁrst Nabtesco Corporation plant to be certiﬁed. the viewpoints of both production and procurement. aforementioned drill, on-site members can now identify plants Subsequently, in summer 2019 the Seishin Plant and at the potential problems faced by their organizations, clarify the Under the Resilience Certiﬁcation system, companies are end of the year the remaining ﬁve plants of Nabtesco • Shift to more effective BCP measures challenges to be met to solve the problems and implement evaluated in terms of the effectiveness of their BCP trainCorporation obtained the certiﬁcation. We were thus able Based on this ﬁnding, we reviewed Nabtesco’s BCP meanecessary measures so that they can overcome their weak ing and activities, making it completely different from the to acquire the certiﬁcation at all nine plants earlier than sures and conﬁrmed the need to input resources on a points one by one and increase their speed of actions. By certiﬁcation system implemented by the International planned. priority basis to deal with the serious BCP-related risks making improvements in this way in the “Act” part of their Organization for Standardization (ISO), which is intended to identiﬁed in the risk survey to ensure our survival as a Plan, Do, Check, Act (PDCA) cycles, they can continue to promote the establishment of documentation and manage• Contribution to improving the overall qualgoing concern. enhance their crisis response ability. ment systems. The Resilience Certiﬁcation system values ity of manufacturing Accordingly, in 2016, in order to input resources intenbusiness continuity planning as a means for organizations Thanks to the BCP measures implemented at each of the sively into the BCP activities conducted at our major manu• Obtaining Resilience Certiﬁcation as a to increase their disaster response capacity and pursue nine plants for risk and crisis management, the plants can facturing bases, we transferred the BCP-related functions driving force for BCP speed of action, and is therefore useful for organizations make a quick recovery, secure the minimum proﬁt required to the Production Innovation Division, which was supervisBy adopting the method mentioned above, each of the seeking to enhance the effectiveness of their BCPs. and continue their business operations even when they ing production and procurement. We then launched an plants steadily made improvements in their BCP measures. Accordingly, we upheld the target of acquiring the certiﬁcasuffer from a large disaster. By working to acquire innovative initiative to transform the BCP measures impleHowever, it was very difficult for all of the nine plants to tion at all of the nine plants by 2020 and launched a threeResilience Certiﬁcation at the plants, we were able to mented at the nine major plants to make them more reach the same level in terms of their commitment to the year plan to this end. establish a system to implement effective BCP measures in manufacturing-oriented and effective. measures and progress with their implementation. In Among Nabtesco Group companies, Toyo Jidoki, Co., Ltd. a prompt manner. Also, while we made a three-year plan We decided to focus on providing support to help the response, we thought it necessary to have all the plants had been implementing outstandingly strategic and effecfor the acquisition of the certiﬁcation, we achieved the nine major plants to implement BCP measures on-site in share a speciﬁc achievement, even though small, thereby tive BCP measures, including securing alternative producpurpose one year earlier than planned as a result of having view of the fact that, as Nabtesco is engaged in a range of raising awareness of BCP across the company. tion lines, and its Iwakuni Plant was chosen to be the ﬁrst shared information about the requirements that the plants businesses, the plants manufacture different products and Meanwhile, the Japanese government, which had been Nabtesco Group plant to take on the challenge of acquiring had already met and those that they should meet for the have different production processes. It is therefore critical working to address Japan’s vulnerability to disasters, Resilience Certiﬁcation toward the goal of acquisition certiﬁcation as well as about their progress with relevant to give consideration to their respective business features launched the Resilience Certiﬁcation system to certify across the Group. The Production Innovation Division and activities. We also checked what the plants had achieved and on-site situations in order to ensure the effectiveness organizations contributing to national resilience in 2016. on-site members of the plant collaborated with one and how they had changed by comparing their situations of BCP measures implemented at the plants. The system, which is supervised by the National Resilience another, and the plant acquired the certiﬁcation in spring before and after the initiative was launched. We thereby Promotion Office of the Cabinet Secretariat, is intended to 2018 ahead of other Group plants and also became the encouraged the plants to compete with each other for • Implementation of BCP measures with the encourage more organizations to acquire the ability to ﬁrst plant to be certiﬁed under the system in Yamaguchi earlier certiﬁcation and increased on-site members’ ownership of on-site members recover from disasters on their own, and the government Prefecture. motivation for the initiative. For on-site members to take the initiative on BCP meaevaluates and certiﬁes companies implementing effective Based on this experience, the Production Innovation Furthermore, in the process, we identiﬁed the problems sures, it is essential for them to have a sense of ownership, BCPs under the system. Because the effectiveness of BCPs Division went on to cooperate with other plants within the and challenges faced by each of the plants so that they be well aware of the need to implement the measures and is objectively evaluated and the results of BCP activities Group to acquire the certiﬁcation. As a result, in spring could input resources intensively into necessary activities keep the motivation for the measures across the site. It is are visualized by the system, we decided to make use of 2019 the Yamagata Plant of Nabtesco Automotive speciﬁc to each, and this has led to the across-the-board important that on-site members implement the measures this system to promote BCP activities across the board and Corporation acquired the certiﬁcation concurrently with the improvement of their manufacturing quality, including willingly rather than being forced to do so. Based on this to continue the activities in the future. Kobe Plant of Nabtesco Corporation, with the latter becomproduction and procurement operations. 55 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 56 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Sustainability Expanding the Scope of BCP to Include Suppliers Nabtesco as a Company with Advanced BCP Measures Power Supporting suppliers’ BCP measures to ensure Nabtesco’s Business Continuity Power Aiming to become a highly resilient company for sustainable growth • Expanding the scope of BCP to include • Launching the development of BCP • Nabtesco’s BCP measures introduced • Reported its BCP activity examples as suppliers instructors as an advanced case the only company invited to the meeting of the national governNabtesco is working to ensure its business continuity In order to foster the implementation of BCP meaNabtesco has thus been implementing BCP measures ment’s committee by fostering BCP measures for both production and sures across a range of suppliers, we need to develop in an integrated manner with its suppliers. Nabtesco’s procurement. We regard our own risk of suffering and increase the number of BCP instructors who can BCP measures have attracted the attention of the from disasters at our manufacturing bases and other support suppliers on-site for the implementation of national and local governments. In 2019 a law to sites and the risk of becoming unable to procure the measures. We contact suppliers via our buyers of foster the implementation of BCP measures by small materials as the two serious risks posed to our procurement department. We therefore organize and and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and thereby business continuity. Accordingly, we also focus on hold seminars on BCP for our buyers to develop them enhance their resilience was enforced in Japan and, implementing BCP measures for procurement. In into BCP instructors. in the legislation process, Nabtesco’s BCP measures order to reduce procurement-related risks across our We started this initiative in 2019, and in the threewere referred to as a model case. supply chain, we are supporting our suppliers in day training seminar held that year, 13 buyers particiNabtesco’s BCP measures have also been introimplementing BCP measures while also conducting pated from our procurement department. After duced as an advanced example in economic articles our own BCP activities. attending the seminar, each of the buyers actually in newspapers, special features in magazines and in The number of suppliers who help support had the experience of serving as a “BCP instructor” to the annual white paper on SMEs published by the Nabtesco’s business continuity totals about 400. Of at least one of the suppliers that they were dealing government. We will further increase Nabtesco’s these suppliers, 300 had not formulated business with in the ﬁeld. We also held a meeting for them to public recognition as an advanced BCP company and continuity plans. In response, we held BCP awareness present their activity results as instructors. Also, in enhance its leadership to build a more resilient seminars to help our 400 major suppliers understand 2020, encouraged by the high ratings gained for the supply chain. the need to implement BCP measures in Osaka, Kobe, seminar, we held the second round of the seminar to Gifu and Iwakuni, where many of them are located. develop more of our buyers into BCP instructors. We • Further advancing BCP measures to • Aiming to be the most resilient company in the industry Subsequently, we organized practical seminars for will continue to increase the number of our staff with become the most resilient company in suppliers who wanted to get practical knowledge and BCP expertise for the enhancement of our supply the industry training to formulate and implement BCP measures. chain. For suppliers who have not yet implemented BCP In addition, we have been giving unique training as measures, we are encouraging them to acquire Risk management GOAL well as individual support for the acquisition of innovation Most certiﬁcation under the business continuity enhanceresilient company Resilience Certiﬁcation to our core suppliers and ment project for SMEs, which was launched based on in the industry those eager to implement BCP measures. Increased the SME resilience enhancement law enforced in July Business promotion ability public recognition 2019. • Three strategies to support suppliers’ BCP measures We are also fostering BCP measures globally, PR activities for BCP measures providing support not only to plants but also to other bases of the Group in Japan and abroad. BCP awareness-raising BCP practices Individual support We are still only halfway there with our BCP At present Early 2020 Implementation of activities. Amid the crisis caused by COVID-19, Nine plants global BCP measures Nabtesco is working to develop and increase the Resilience Certiﬁcation (1) Outline (1) Outline (1) Outline number of risk management staff and enhance the Seminars held in collaboration with More practical lectures held for a Individual support provided for resilience of its organizations, while also enhancing local governments to raise BCP small number of suppliers the formulation of BCPs, including its Business Continuity Power in order to be the most Improvement awareness. effectiveness evaluation Self-reform of the nine plants resilient company in the industry. (to deal with vulnerabilities) BCPs lost substance (2) Purpose and no. of participants (2) Purpose and no. of participants (2) Purpose and no. of participants In the past To raise awareness of the To teach participants how to To support BCP activities Achievement gaps expanded between in-house companies importance of BCP measures formulate BCPs ◆ Formulation of BCPs: Completed ◆ No. of participating suppliers ◆ No. of participating suppliers by about 50 suppliers Organizational resilience 30 in Osaka 60 in Kobe About 200 ◆ Challenge of obtaining 20 in Gifu 40 in Iwakuni (in 2018 & 2019) certification: Completed by five 20 in Tokyo 170 in total suppliers and support being given to 20 suppliers for the acquisition ◆ Development of buyers into BCP instructors 57 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 58 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Approach to ESG Issues The Nabtesco Group will systematically implement measures to solve ESG issues, which is one of the commitby systematically conducting activities for each of the participating in symposiums and study groups organized ments made in the Medium-Term Management Plan, based on the concept of materiality (material CSR issues) issues. In 2019, we held our ﬁrst ESG meeting and worked by the GCNJ, including the study groups on ESG, reporting, established to “ensure management transparency” and “provide safety, comfort and a sense of security.” to disclose more climate change-related information in line environmental management, supply chains, anti-corrupwith the recommendations made by the TCFD in our effort tion, disaster risk reduction (DRR), and the WEPs*. Through to foster the provision of ESG-related information. these events, we interact with other participating compaSystematically conducting activities to solve a CSR Basic Policy to summarize the selected material nies and learn from advanced examples how to better range of ESG issues issues as well as to ensure management transparency and Support the External Initiatives foster CSR-oriented management at our company. In order to implement measures for the solution of ESG provide safety, comfort and a sense of security. The chart ◆ Participation in the United Nations Global Compact *WEPs: Women’s Empowerment Principles issues in a systematic manner, our CSR Committee, which below summarizes the major impacts on our corporate Nabtesco signed the United Nations Global Compact directly reports to the CEO, identiﬁes the material CSR activities from the identiﬁed issues. We are working to (UNGC) in 2014 and is also a member of Global Compact issues (materiality). The committee also formulated the reduce negative impacts while increasing positive impacts Network Japan (GCNJ). We have been proactively Materiality (Material CSR Issues) Measures Implemented in FY2019 to Solve ESG Issues Major Impacts on Our Corporate Activities Major General ESG SDGs of Major Initiatives and Related Pages Negative Impact: Trust of Stakeholders Declines Positive Impact: Trust of Stakeholders is Gained Relevance Category Category As a result of the enhancement of management supervision function, faster Strengthen corporate governance As a result of functional deficiency of corporate governance, decision-making and ensuring of management transparency, Corporate Governance P.61 • corporate value is damaged. • corporate value can be maintained or improved. Ensure management Abolished the advisor system To further increase management transparency, abolished the system under which Governance (G) former directors assumed the position of advisor As a result of appropriate risk management, As a result of the realization of risks and breaches of compliance, • competitiveness in the product market is maintained or improved; or Promote risk management and compliance behavior Fostered systematic risk management globally • business operations can be continued. • business operations are interrupted or suspended; or Promote Risk Management and Compliance Behavior P.65 Conducted an assessment of Group companies in Japan and abroad • financial cost increases. As a result of the reinforcement of the global compliance system, transparency Completed the establishment of a global internal reporting system • corporate value can be maintained or improved. Raised awareness of the system in China, other Asia region and Europe As a result of cooperation with stakeholders and development of relationships of Held an ESG meeting trust, As a result of the decline in trust of stakeholders, Held our first ESG meeting to foster the disclosure of ESG information • business operations can be continued and business opportunities can be Ensure proactive dialogue with stakeholders • competitiveness decreases; or generated; or • reputation is damaged. • talented people can be secured; or • reputation can be maintained or improved. Enhance customer satisfaction, Ensure quality and safety As a result of the pursuit of customer needs, Business Overview P.37 As a result of the lack of meeting of customer and social needs, • in-house technologies are enhanced, or human resources are developed. Producing Innovations P.67 • competitiveness in the product market declines. As a result of the provision of products that provide safety, comfort and a sense of Intellectual Property Activities to Support Innovation P.68 As a result of deficiencies, accidents, etc., involving products, security, Manufacturing Innovation P.69 Fostered open innovation • business operations are interrupted/suspended or financial loss is incurred; or • trust of customers is gained. Management of Quality P.71 Made first investment via the corporate venture capital (CVC) fund • financial cost increases. As a result of the contribution to solving social issues through business operations, Management of Occupational Safety P.72 • competitiveness in the product market is improved. Nurtured a quality and safety culture Develop human capital and promote workplace diversity, Enhanced cross functional activities across the quality assurance departments As a result of the acquisition and development of capable and versatile human Provide safe and comfortable workplaces Due to the lack of ability to develop human resources and the lack of diversity, resources, Work Style Reforms P.73 Fostered workplace diversity • organizational power and loyalty of employees decrease. Enhanced measures to provide more work style options, including promoting • organizational capabilities and loyalty of employees improve. Fostering Workplace Diversity P.74 Provide safety, comfort and a sense of security As a result of labor issues or labor accidents, Society (S) Human Capital Development P.75 teleworking As a result of the realization of safe and pleasant working environments, • productivity declines. Increasing Employees’ Awareness of The Nabtesco Way P.75 • productivity is enhanced. Enhanced human rights management Carried out a systematic risk assessment based on the Nabtesco Group Human As a result of the realization of human rights and corruption risks, Rights Policy to check for any serious risks and certificated there were no critical reputation is damaged. Respect human rights and prevent corruption risks As a result of preventing human rights and corruption risks, Human Rights Management P.75 As a result of the strengthening of relevant laws and regulations, • reputation is maintained and improved. • business operations are interrupted or suspended; or Enhanced Business Continuity Power across the supply chain • financial cost increases. Acquired Resilience Certification at nine plants in Japan and continued to support suppliers in formulating BCPs As a result of the realization of procurement risks, As a result of controlling procurement risks, Fair, proper and transparent procurement activities • supply of raw materials and components is suspended. • raw materials and components are procured sustainably. Nabtesco Group’s Procurement Activities P.70 Promoted the Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy As a result of the interruption or suspension of business operations, As a result of securing high-quality suppliers, Donated Assist Wheel electric wheelchairs to the Tokyo Metropolitan Park • financial cost increases. • competitiveness in the product market is improved. Association As a result of the development of trust with local communities and contribution to Local community development As a result of sluggish local economy/society, local communities, Nabtesco Group’s Community Investment P.76 • the product market shrinks and employment opportunities are lost. • reputation is maintained and improved, or • the product market expands and employment opportunities are gained. As a result of the realization of natural disaster risks and energy risks, • business operations are disrupted. As a result of preventing natural disaster risks and energy risks, Countermeasures for climate change Accelerated PDCA cycle aimed at long-term targets for CO2 reduction • business operations can be continued. Environmental Management P.77 Continued to conduct activities to achieve the long-term targets that were As a result of the strengthening of climate change-related laws and As a result of contributing to mitigating climate change issues, certified as the Science Based Targets (SBTs) regulations, • reputation is maintained and improved. • financial cost increases. Environment (E) Group’s long-term targets As a result of the realization of environmental risks (violation of environmental Environmentally friendly manufacturing < Global targets > laws and regulations or environmental pollution caused by business As a result of the contribution to solving environmental issues, Environmental Management P.77 Total CO2 emissions (per unit of sales) operations), • reputation is maintained and improved. FY2030 30% reduction • financial cost due to damages, compensation, etc., increases. FY2050 80% reduction As a result of environmental pollution caused by the provision of products and As a result of the provision of products and services with high environmental Reduction of environmental impact through products and services (Relative to FY2015) services, performance, Environmental Management P.77 • competitiveness in the product market declines. • the product market expands and competitiveness is enhanced. Promoted the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)related project across the company As a result of a shortage of resources, As a result of the recycling of raw materials and components, Recycling, reuse and remanufacture of products Conducted examinations to disclose climate change-related information in line • business activities become stagnant. • sustainability of business activities is improved. Environmental Management P.77 with the TCFD’s recommendations As a result of the lack of environmental performance for products, As a result of the contribution to developing a recycling-oriented society, • competitiveness in the product market declines. • competitiveness in the product market increases. 59 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 60 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Ensure Management Transparency • Changes in the corporate governance system Management transparency is one of the Nabtesco Group’s material CSR issues and it is essential to maintain the 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 trust of stakeholders. The Nabtesco Group will ensure management transparency by strengthening corporate governance, promoting risk management and compliance behavior, and ensuring proactive dialogue with Representation Shigeo Chairman right Iwatare stakeholders. of the No Board representation Makoto Okitsu Kazuyuki Matsumoto Kazuaki Kotani right Representative Director, Makoto Kazuyuki Matsumoto Kazuaki Kotani Katsuhiro Teramoto President & CEO Okitsu 10 directors (incl. 4 outside 10 directors 10 directors 10 directors 10 directors (incl. 2 Strengthen Corporate Governance Number of Board of Directors (incl. 2 outside 10 directors (incl. 1 outside director) directors) (incl. 2 outside (incl. 3 outside directors) directors) outside directors) 10 directors (incl. 3 outside directors) *Including a female outside director directors) *Including 2 female outside directors Number of Audit & 5 Audit & Supervisory Board Members (incl. 3 outside members)*1 *1 *1 Measures to Enhance Corporate In FY2019, we abolished the advisor system to increase Supervisory Board Members Governance management transparency. Committees Group ESH (Environment, Safety, and Health) Committee Nabtesco is committed to enhancing its corporate In 2020, we increased the number of independent Group PL (Product Liability) Committee governance based on the Corporate Governance Basic Policy, outside directors and female directors so that the Board Group Quality & PL (Product Liability) Committee which indicates the Company’s basic approach to, framework of Directors could discuss issues from a wider range of Group Quality Committee of and measures for corporate governance. Nabtesco will viewpoints. *For Nabtesco’s basic approach to and system for corporate governance, please Remuneration Committee achieve sustainable growth, increase its corporate value on refer to our website. a mediumto long-term basis, and earn even more trust Nomination Committee from stakeholders by fulfilling this commitment through the Corporate Governance Compliance Committee implementation of The Nabtesco Way. Web https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/133 CSR Committee Risk Management Committee Remuneration for Monthly remuneration and retirement benefit Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members (as of May 2020) Inside Directors*2 In FY2020, the proportion of independent outside directors and female directors increased on the Board of Directors. Monthly remuneration (Fixed compensation and short-term performance-based fee) Stock-based compensation stock option Stock-based compensation stock Board Benefit Trust*3 (Long-term performance-based fee) option*3 • Proportion of Outside Directors • Proportion of women Accounting Standard Settlement of account in March (JGAAP) Settlement of account in December (JGAAP) Settlement of account in December (IFRS) Outside members Outside members Female directors Corporate Corporate Philosophy The Nabtesco Way 40% 60% 20% Philosophy, etc. Long-term Vision (Final year: FY2014) Long-term Vision (Final year: FY2020) Audit & Nabtesco Corporate Governance Basic Policy Directors Supervisory Directors Board members Basic Policies for the Construction of an Internal Control System Risk Management Rules Nabtesco Group Code of Corporate Ethics Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics Nabtesco Group Code of Conduct Nabtesco Group Global Anti-Bribery Policy Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee Group ESH Rules Nabtesco is a “Company with Board of Auditors” under the Companies Act of Japan and has the Nomination Committee and Group Quality Management Rules Remuneration Committee as advisory organizations to the Board of Directors. The following shows the composition of the Group Quality and PL Management Rules committees. Group PL Management Rules Nabtesco Group Environmental Philosophy/Environmental Action Plan/Long-term target • Chairperson: Nomination Committee 4 Members ● Remuneration Committee Chairperson: 4 Members Nabtesco Group CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy Katsuhiro Teramoto (CEO) Katsuhiro Teramoto (CEO) Basic Policy on Human Capital Development Members: Members: Norio Uchida (Outside Director) Yutaka Fujiwara (Outside Director) Nabtesco Group Human Rights Policy Naoko Mizukoshi (Outside Director) Mari Iizuka (Outside Director) Tetsuro Hirai (Audit & Supervisory Takemi Nagasaka (Audit & Supervisory Nabtesco Group CSR Basic Policy Board Member [Independent]) Board Member [Independent]) Held three times in FY2019 Held two times in FY2019 Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy Anti-takeover Chairperson Outside directors Audit & Chairperson Outside directors Audit & Measures Pre-warning Anti-takeover Measures*4 (internal member) supervisory board (internal member) supervisory board member (Independent) member (Independent) *1. In FY2011 and FY2015, the number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members was temporarily four (including three outside members) due to the resignation of a members for personal reasons. *2. Outside Directors are paid on a monthly basis. *3. Remuneration is linked to medium-term and long-term business results. *4. The pre-warning anti-takeover measures were introduced with the resolution of the 4th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2007. However, they were abolished at the conclusion of the 7th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2010. 61 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 62 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Ensure Management Transparency Measures to Ensure Effectiveness of Board [Performance-linked compensation (Monthly compensation)] in charge of businesses have the added functions of no performance-linked compensation, as these officers of Directors and Its Evaluation The amount of performance-linked compensation (monthly incentivizing them to improve performance in the medium are in a position independent from business execution. Nabtesco conducts a yearly analysis and evaluation of the compensation) to be paid is determined according to the to long term by including R&D indicators to encourage effectiveness of the Board of Directors based on the selffollowing formula, based on the degree of achievement of the creation of intellectual property and environmental Claw-back Clause evaluations of the Directors to improve its functions. annual results. indicators showing how much CO2 emissions were reduced, As a result of having to revise the financial results of Also, in FY2019, the Company conducted an anonymous in addition to management indicators such as the degree of past fiscal years due to inappropriate accounting, etc., self-evaluation questionnaire survey of all directors and [Short-term performance-linked compensation] ROIC improvement. the Company has stipulated a claw-back clause in the Short-term performance-linked compensation = Audit & Supervisory Board members. The survey results Furthermore, net sales and operating income are internal compensation regulations so as to demand the Standard payment amount by position × Performance were tabulated and analyzed by external lawyers for the evaluation coefficient adopted as indicators for the degree of achievement of return of all or part of performance-linked compensation evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors the Medium-term Management Plan, as they reflect the in the event of material revisions in the performance of through discussions by members of the Board. * Performance evaluation coefficient: Determined by a matrix table using ROIC and business activities of all Directors and employees, with the past fiscal years which was the basis of the calculation profit (attributable to owners of the parent) for the previous fiscal year within a According to the results, the Directors believe that, certain threshold as indicators (coefficient: 0.00 – 3.00) aim of aligning all business activities in one direction. of performance-linked compensation, or in the event among other things, the number of members and the However, in case of impacts from events not triggered that the Company incurs material loss due to an officer’s structure of the Board of Directors are appropriate and that For Directors in charge of internal companies, shortby the Company’s management decisions, above indicators wrongful or illegal act. open, natural and constructive discussion is taking place. term performance-linked compensation is adjusted based may be adjusted. In FY2020, the number of independent outside directors on factors including the net sales growth rate, degree increased by one person, making independent outside of improvement of operating income, degree of ROIC Composition of compensation Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation directors account for at least 40% of the total number improvement, R&D indicators and environmental indicators •The composition of Directors’ Position Short-term Tenure grant-type Retirement grant-type Basic compensation performance-linked of directors. Moreover, the number of female directors of the relevant companies. compensation emphasizes the link with stock compensation stock compensation compensation increased as well, and it is expected that the Board will performance and shareholder value. Chairman of the Board/President 30% 30% 20% 20% now discuss issues from a wider range of viewpoints. [Stock Compensation] •Compensation, etc., for Outside Directors Judging from these facts, the effectiveness of the Board is Stock compensation is paid using the Board Benefit and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Director 35% 30% 20% 15% considered to be well secured. Trust (BBT) mechanism, and the amount of payment is consists only of fixed compensation, with On the other hand, with respect to the composition determined according to the following formula, based of the Board of Directors, the following issues were on the degree of achievement of the Medium-term Amount of Compensation Paid to Directors (FY2019) found as challenges need to increase the proportion of female directors and non-Japanese directors. For Board Management Plan. • Total amount of compensation by managerial position, total amount of compensation by type of compensation and number of recipients [Tenure grant-type stock compensation] Types of compensation (¥ Million) discussions, it is still necessary to secure enough time Tenure grant-type stock compensation = Directors/Audit & Total amount of Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation Number of Directors to deliberate important issues related to management, Share grant points by position × Supervisory Board compensation and Audit & Supervisory including growth strategies. Performance evaluation coefficient × Members (¥ Million) Board Benefit Trust (BBT) Board Members Monthly compensation Medium-term Management Plan achievement coefficient Tenure grant Retirement grant Compensation System for Directors Directors (Outside 350 184 65 21 80 12 * Performance evaluation coefficient: Determined by a matrix table using ROIC Basic policy on the compensation system Directors) and profit (attributable to owners of the parent) for the previous fiscal year (30) (30) (3) •By linking compensation more with performance and within a certain threshold as indicators (coefficient: 0.00 – 3.00) * Medium-term Management Plan achievement coefficient: Set based on the Audit & Supervisory stock value, ensure that shareholders and management Board Members degree of achievement of the net sales and operating income stated in the 78 78 7 can share profit and risk. Medium-term Management Plan (0 – 0.5) (Audit & Supervisory Board Members (24) (24) (4) •Make the system shall function as an incentive to improve (Independent)) the mediumto long-term performance. Grant points will be vested on the day of the Annual Total 427 262 65 21 80 19 General Meeting of Shareholders relating to the final fiscal (Notes) Method for determining compensation year ending within three years from the awarding of points. 1. The “Number of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members” for Directors includes two Directors and two Audit & Supervisory Board Members who retired during the fiscal year under review. For compensation for directors, the Remuneration 2. Monthly compensation consists of basic compensation and short-term performance-linked compensation paid out in total on a monthly fixed basis. [Retirement grant-type stock compensation] 3. The Board Benefit Trust (BBT) amount is the amount expensed during the fiscal year under review according to J-GAAP, based on the number of share grant points awarded or expected to be awarded Committee deliberates on the upper limits approved at the during the fiscal year under review. general meeting of shareholders and reports the results to Retirement grant-type stock compensation = 4. The upper limit on compensation as resolved at the 14th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (March 28, 2017) is set at ¥400 million per year for Directors (of which ¥50 million is for Outside Share grant points by position Directors), and ¥90 million for Audit & Supervisory Board Members. the Board of Directors for the final decision of the amount. 5. In addition to the compensation amounts stated above, the Company has introduced a Board Benefit Trust (BBT) system for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) as resolved at the 14th Annual Grant points will be vested on the day that the Director General Meeting of Shareholders (March 28, 2017). Based on the Regulations for Provision of Shares to Officers established under this system, the Company is making contributions to the Trust, with For compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members, retires. upper limits of ¥450 million (for three business years) for the tenure grant, and ¥420 million (for three business years) for the retirement grant, respectively. With regard to this system, upper limits for the amount is decided through discussions with Audit & share grants were set at 56,000 points for the tenure grant (for a single fiscal year) and 51,000 points for the retirement grant (for a single fiscal year) separately from the upper limits on compensation stated in 4. above at the 14th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (March 28, 2017). Supervisory Board Members. Structure of the compensation system Nabtesco’s approach to indicators for performancelinked compensation • FY2019 actual performance of principal indicators related to performance-linked compensation Compensation to Directors is composed of monthly The basic indicators for performance-linked compensation Treatment/Reduction of Cross-shareholdings ROIC Net sales Operating income Profit compensation, comprising fixed basic compensation and paid to Directors (excluding Outside Directors) are ROIC Every year the Board of Directors makes examinations short-term performance-linked compensation, and stock and profit (attributable to owners of the parent), which based on certain criteria about the purpose, benefit and ¥294,626 ¥21,889 ¥15,305 7.5% compensation based on the degree of achievement of the reflect the fruits of all employee activity and are principal capital cost-based risk of cross-shareholdings to decide Million Million Million Medium-term Management Plan as well as share value. indicators linked to the improvement of ROE. whether to continue holding each of the stocks and on Performance-linked compensation for the fiscal year under review is calculated based on the [Basic compensation] In this way, the Company encourages all Directors the number of shares to be kept. Stocks for which the figures in the financial results as of December 31, 2018. However, in the fiscal year under review, Harmonic Drive Systems Inc., an equity-method Basic compensation is fixed compensation according to take note of capital costs and the payout ratio, and examination results indicate that it is not appropriate to affiliate of the Group, issued new shares, resulting in equity in earnings of affiliates. Therefore to the position of each Director and is paid as monthly promotes management that is mindful of the sustainable keep holding them shall be sold in a timely manner in the relevant income was subtracted from the results figures stated above in the indicator adopted. compensation. growth of the Group. Furthermore, indicators for Directors consideration of the stock price and market trends. 63 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 64 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Ensure Management Transparency Promote Risk Management and Compliance Behavior Risk Management in General Enhancement of the Compliance System that are in line with it, we have prepared a Compliance In FY2019, we sent a video message from the CEO of The Nabtesco Group has a system in place to ensure According to the Rules for the Group Compliance Promotion Handbook, which is used for compliance education and Nabtesco to all Group companies in Japan and overseas that profits and losses, capital efficiency, quality issues, System, our Compliance Committee deliberates the basic awareness-raising activities. The Code of Ethics and the as well as compliance messages from the presidents of extraordinary accidents and other matters concerning the policies and important issues related to the compliance Compliance Handbook are available in nine languages our Group companies and in-house companies. Moreover, execution of business operations are reported to the Board system. This committee, which includes external experts (Japanese, English, Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, we conducted a Compliance Awareness Survey targeting of Directors appropriately and in a timely manner, thereby among its members, serves as an advisory board to Korean, Thai, German, Italian and French) on Nabtesco’s employees of Nabtesco and our subsidiaries in Japan detecting risks at their early stages and minimizing losses. the Board of Directors. In addition, by appointing Chief website. and some of our Chinese subsidiaries. (A total of 4,466 In FY2019, to properly implement risk and crisis Compliance Officers and Compliance Officers who support We also conducted education activities at all Nabtesco employees responded to the survey.) management at the Nabtesco Group and to maintain and the chief officers for all of our administrative departments, Group companies outside Japan to disseminate the Code of In FY2018, we changed the frequency of the Compliance improve corporate value, we conducted risk assessment in-house companies and Group companies within and Ethics from FY2017. We will continue to raise awareness of Awareness Survey from every two years to every year. on Nabtesco and the Group companies in Japan and outside Japan, we are enhancing our compliance system the Code of Ethics. overseas according to the risk management rules, which on a group-wide and global scale. We held a Compliance We reexamine the effectiveness of the Code of Ethics Internal Reporting System were overhauled in FY2016, and the detailed rules on risk Liaison Meeting to enable the Chief Compliance Officers every year and revise it as necessary. For the prevention, early detection and correction of management. and Compliance Officers to share information and wrongdoing, the Nabtesco Group launched an internal Also from FY2018, we have decided to conduct risk exchange opinions, both in Japan and in all overseas Fostering Compliance Awareness reporting system (“Nabtesco Hot Line”) and provides both assessment annually for all Group companies across the regions where we conduct business (China, other Asia Since FY2011, we have designated every October as the an internal contact (Legal & Compliance Dept.) and external world, whereas previously risk assessments were carried region, North America and Europe). Nabtesco Group’s Corporate Ethics Month for all employees contacts (a law firm and a specialized company). In order out every two years alternatively at domestic and overseas to conduct activities to raise their compliance awareness to raise employees’ awareness of this hotline, we provide Group companies. • Compliance Promotion System under the leadership of the management team at their information about the contacts through our internal portal Moreover, given that risks faced by corporations have Advice workplaces. site, in-house magazine and compliance newsletter, while been multiplying and becoming increasingly diversified, we Board of Directors also distributing posters and cards introducing the hotline Recommendation identified serious Group-wide risks based on the results of risk assessment and discussed the countermeasures Compliance Committee •Total Responses to the Compliance Awareness Survey number of respondents: 4,466 (in Japan) internally. For each of the reports made to the contacts, we conduct necessary surveys and make appropriate to address them at a meeting of the Risk Management (Chairperson: CEO) responses. (Secretariat: Legal & Compliance ”Do you understand the meaning of compliance?” Committee, which was established in FY2016 as a forum Department) In FY2017, we completed the establishment of a contact for Group-wide risk management activities for prompt No answer for the internal reporting system for all Group companies in actions. CEO China. Then, in FY2018, we introduced the Global Hot Line 0.1% Yes, I understand it We also ensure the rationality, appropriateness and Legal & Compliance as a system to receive internal reports from employees of Department No, I don’t 46.6% legality of decision-making and manage risks through understand it Group companies in Europe, North America and Southeast compliance with, and thoroughgoing implementation of, Chief Compliance Officer 0.5% and South Asia, and began operating the system. the Group regulations for responsibility and authority. We (Every division, in-house companies Total rate of respondents who Maybe I don’t answered “Yes, I understand it” have also established company regulations that set forth and Group companies) understand it Compliance Liaison or “Maybe I understand it” reporting procedures in the event of accidents, disasters, Meeting 3.8% 95.5% critical quality problems and other incidents that may have (Secretariat: Legal & Compliance Year-on-year change rate at a seriously negative impact on the Group’s business results, Compliance Officer Department) Maybe I understand it 4.6% (Every division, in-house companies financial standing or credit. We thus have established and Group companies) 48.9% a prompt and proper information communication and emergency response system in case of a contingency. With regard to monitoring, expert members at the Headquarters, such as the Business Auditing Department, Raising Awareness of the Nabtesco Group conduct cross-organizational audits of operational risk Code of Ethics • Established a global compliance system management and offer necessary and appropriate advice To strengthen the Group-wide and global compliance Globalized the internal reporting system Globalized the internal reporting system for operational improvement based on their expertise. In system, the Nabtesco Group has established the Nabtesco addition, in our compliance newsletter we publish risk Group Code of Ethics. management-related topics as part of our efforts to raise The Legal & Compliance Department, which is in charge FY2017 FY2018— FY2016 FY2017–FY2018 FY2019 employees’ awareness. of compliance issues, fulfills a central role by increasing Established a contact for Group Introduced the system to Group Established the Nabtesco Group Conducted awareness-raising Set the guidelines on entertainment compliance awareness among members of the Nabtesco companies in China companies in Europe, North Anti-Bribery Policy activities across overseas Group and gifts for Group companies in Risk Factors Group in addition to fostering their compliance with laws America and Southeast/South Asia companies, assessed their Japan Web and regulations in order to enhance the Group’s corporate bribery risks and introduced Provided Group companies in Japan, https://www.nabtesco.com/en/ir/policy/risk_ value over the medium to long term. The Nabtesco Group local bribery prevention rules China and other Asia region with factors.html anti-bribery education Code of Ethics shows, from the compliance viewpoint, the Measures implemented to prevent bid rigging basic approach to be taken by directors and employees of the Group for the implementation of the Corporate Philosophy in their business activities. FY2013 FY2015 FY2016— FY2019 In order to help directors and employees deepen their Published the Global Antitrust Established the Code of Conduct Conducted awareness-raising activities (inProvided e-learning to prevent the formation of cartels understanding of this Code of Ethics and take actions Compliance Guidebook for Prevention of Bid Rigging house seminars, training of executive officers, at Nabtesco and its subsidiaries in Japan and abroad e-learning, etc.) 65 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 66 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Materiality Enhance Customer Satisfaction Materiality Enhance Customer Satisfaction The Nabtesco Group is working to enhance our competitive edge in our existing businesses while also creating new products and services in order to meet the diversiﬁed and advanced needs of customers. In particular, we Intellectual Property Activities to Support Innovation endeavor to supply high value-added products and services that meet the QCDS needs of customers in pursuit of the enhancement of their QCDS performance. Intellectual Property-Backed Management formulated and implemented as one of the business plans Strategies in the medium-term management plans set for each of the In order to help all of its stakeholders including customers in-house companies. and partner companies to achieve sustainable growth and In addition, with the aim of nurturing a culture in which Producing Innovations business expansion, the Nabtesco Group deems the core values that serve as a source of business competitiveness all engineers proactively develop ideas for new businesses and technologies as well as design/manufacturing as intellectual properties and makes Group-wide efforts know-how, we encourage active creative activities as a Promoting Comprehensive Measures to Nabtesco Group company provides customers with 3D to promote intellectual property-backed management performance evaluation target for in-house companies. Produce Innovations printers that use resin-based high-speed stereolithography strategies that are designed to protect and increase the Moreover, we give commendations to excellent inNabtesco has been achieving further growth by technology. We are thus pressing forward with the competitive advantage of such intellectual properties, thus house inventors who have contributed to our businesses accumulating technologies and know-how. We have made development of metal additive manufacturing technology, pursuing the enhancement of corporate value. under the Nabtesco Brilliant Inventor (NBI) system at the this achievement with each of our business departments including peripheral element technologies, and using these company’s founding anniversary ceremonies, thus praising supporting customers in developing their products based innovative technologies for manufacturing innovation in the Management of Core Technological such contributions across the Group and increasing on our motion control technology for stopping and moving aircraft equipment business. Information and Strategy to Acquire employees’ motivation toward creative activities. with precision. Furthermore, in response to the rapid advancement of Intellectual Property Rights Through these activities, the number of notifications Recently, in response to the diversification and IoT and AI, we are enhancing our sensing technologies. The Nabtesco Group’s competitive advantages, which made on intellectual property creation steadily increased sophistication of customer needs, we have been focusing Monitoring products using sensors and analyzing the provide it with core value, include deep relationships of by about 3.5 times the FY2013 level in FY2019. more on developing and proposing mechatronic products monitoring results makes the diagnosis of failures possible. trust with customers, successful branding in the market, and systematized products with a view to increasing This helps us add the monitoring function to the stopping technological ideas for products and services, and design Central Management of Intellectual our growth opportunities, in addition to supplying single and moving functions provided by our products, allowing and manufacturing know-how. We protect these intellectual Property and Promotion of Business components and services for which we have competitive us to provide high value-added products and expand the properties by patent and design rights and trademarks Utilization advantages. Further, in response to the progress of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) services. and as trade secrets. For technologies that we can keep The Intellectual Property Department centrally manages electronification, IoT and AI, we are now expected to supply confidential, we impose strict management controls to information related to intellectual property, including products and services that provide a preventive function Increasing R&D Efficiency and Promoting protect them as core (confidential) technological information original ideas and know-how, information on technological through monitoring, in addition to the “stopping and Human Capital Development through while for technologies that we cannot keep confidential contracts and information about the intellectual property moving” functions. Proactive Open Innovation because we sell them, we protect them based on our of customers and competitors gathered and analyzed by To meet these needs, the Nabtesco Group is accelerating Nabtesco is fostering open innovation. strategy to acquire intellectual property rights proactively. using technology marketing (IP landscaping), and utilizes measures to provide customers with a broader variety Our core open innovation base is the Nabtesco R&D We will protect our existing and future intellectual such information for businesses based on information of value under the leadership of the Technology and R&D Center (RDC), which was established in a part of the Kyoto properties as our core value through the management of sharing within the Nabtesco Group and the generation of Division, and is fostering comprehensive measures to Research Park (KRP) by transferring the departments of core technological information and the strategy to acquire synergies from the core value. produce innovations. the Technology and R&D Division located at the Kobe Plant. intellectual property rights, thereby continuing to enhance The Nabtesco Group will continue to evolve its intellectual At the RDC we are making use of the power of KRP as the Nabtesco Group’s comprehensive ability regarding property activities in order to achieve sustainable and Fostering the Sharing of Advanced an innovation hub housing around 400 companies, while intellectual property and increase our brand value. profitable growth with its customers in the future. Technologies and Know-how across the proactively conducting R&D activities through industryBusiness Departments academia collaboration with both domestic and overseas Newly Including the Creation of Intellectual • business Intellectual property that enhances the Nabtesco Group’s value One of the missions of the Technology and R&D Division companies and universities. We are also utilizing the Property in the Performance Indicators is to make use of its expertise in each field to technically facilities as a satellite office where engineers can learn In FY2017, we included the creation of intellectual property support each business department in implementing advanced technologies in their respective fields. in the performance indicators for the in-house companies Nabtesco’s intellectual property measures for sustainable growth. To this end, the Division Furthermore, Nabtesco established Nabtesco and Group companies. It has been ensured that actions is working to acquire development methodologies that Technology Ventures AG (NTV) in Zurich, Switzerland, related to intellectual property strategies are systematized, Trust of customers Brand use advanced tools, element technologies and knowwhich will lead our corporate venture capital (CVC) Patents Design how ahead of competitors and to share them with the activities. Mainly through NTV, we will collaborate with • Number of notifications on intellectual property creation business departments across a range of fields for product start-up companies to create new business. Technologies Copyright development progress. 800 10% increase Nabtesco has been making proactive use of computeryear on year Know-how Data aided engineering (CAE) and additive manufacturing (AM) Approx. 3.5-times in six years 586 as IT-based development and design tools. Making the First Investment via the CVC Fund 522 Nabtesco’s In the CAE field, the Division is conducting fluid analysis 486 Information products Contracts to analyze the flows of air and oil, and is also performing Nabtesco Technology Ventures AG, which leads our CVC 400 371 advanced analysis by combining structural analysis on 349 activities, has made its first investment in a start-up. 298 strength and heat resistance with flow analysis. In addition, Through this investment, made in a company that develops the Division is examining control systems, simulating lithium-ion battery systems, we will grasp the latest trends 168 them to understand the physical behavior of products and surrounding the technologies and markets of batteries for sharing advanced analysis technologies widely with the industrial equipment and work to develop a component/ 0 business departments to make their development and system in line with the electrification trends of our 2013 2014 2015* 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) manufacturing processes more efficient. In the AM field, customers on a mediumto long-term basis. (target) we are making use of the know-how of CMET Inc. This * Because the fiscal year-end was changed from FY2015, the results for this fiscal year have been annualized. 67 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 68 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Mater i ali ty Enhance Customer Satisfaction Materiality Proper, Fair and Transparent Procurement Activities We at the Nabtesco Group have been pursuing collaboration with suppliers with the aim of strengthening our Manufacturing Innovation comprehensive procurement capabilities from the perspectives of sustainability, including QCDS and technological development. In order to achieve mediumto long-term growth for the Group, it is essential to secure a Promoting Manufacturing Innovation introduction of manufacturing execution systems with sustainable supply chain. We are promoting CSR-oriented procurement by recognizing proper, fair and transparwith the Aim of Developing Unrivalled the use of AI, thus developing cutting-edge systems to ent procurement activities as one aspects of our materiality. Manufacturing Technology to Be Globally realize production management suitable for each in-house Competitive company in the future. Since FY2016, the Nabtesco Group has been committed to promoting its manufacturing innovation in order to Promoting Automation of Labor-intensive Nabtesco Group’s Procurement Activities establish an overwhelming competitive edge and enhance Work That Requires Advanced Skills profitability and capital efficiency. As there are processes that require advanced skills, Through manufacturing innovation, we endeavor to including machining processes, assembly and inspection in Fundamental Approach for Proper, Fair we have implemented self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) further enhance corporate value by pursuing even higher plant operations, the automation of processes that depend and Transparent Procurement Activities surveys for primary suppliers, including key suppliers in QCDS performance to meet the needs of our customers on the advanced skills of workers is indispensable looking The Nabtesco Group conducts business with about 1,000 and outside Japan every year since FY2014. based on advanced automation, renewed production ahead to the further decline of the working-age population. suppliers of various types, centering around the purchase In FY2019, we conducted the SAQ survey on all our management, logistics reforms and strengthening of To this end, we promote the automation of highof metal parts, and electronic and electrical components, primary suppliers (about 1,000 companies) based on our supply chains, while improving profitability and capital level work processes by introducing and utilizing unique outsourced machining, assembly and processing. Our CSR-Oriented Procurement Policy and received replies efficiency. production technologies in addition to advanced robot business with suppliers is an important factor that from suppliers accounting for more than 90% of our and sensing technologies. In addition, we aim to develop affects the Nabtesco Group’s cost structure and QCDS procurement in terms of transaction amount. Identifying Strengths and Weaknesses flexible, advanced automated lines in order to respond to performance. It is indispensable to secure the supply We analyzed and evaluated the questionnaire results through Analysis of the Management KPIs large variety and small quantity production and enable chain continuously in order to achieve mediumto longfor each supplier and fed them back in the form of a of Each In-house Company agile changes in variety and quantity. term growth. Therefore, we develop collaboration systems written document. In addition, we have been continuously Based on multifaceted analysis of management Key through proper, fair and transparent business transactions monitoring and dealing with the risks identified through the Performance Indicators (KPIs), including the operating Logistics Reforms for Overall Optimization based on the proper cost structure and close partnerships survey. income margin, value added per manufacturing worker, across Supply Chains with suppliers. Moreover, in FY2019, we visited nine companies to inventory turnover period, production lead time and onWhile realizing a comprehensive production system identify risks in the domains of environment, safety and time delivery rate for customer services and procurement, we identify the strengths and weaknesses of each inwithout delay by expanding the use of automated guided vehicles (AGVs) at our manufacturing sites, we reinforce • Material Procurement in Japan health and formulated improvement measures for the companies. We will continue to refine the SAQ survey by, for house company and implement measures based on such data linkage in supply chains. Moreover, we strive to example, considering the questions and response methods. Assembly work Metal parts strengths across the Group while promoting the further enhance logistics efficiency through 3rd party logistics In FY2019, we received no reports of serious enhancement of strengths. (3PL) as well as the milk-run system*1 and modal shift*2. 18% 30% noncompliance regarding labor and environmental issues *1 Collecting shipments in a preset route for our supply chain. Building a Visualization (Status Monitoring) *2 Modal shift means to shift from cargo transportation by road to more Machining Breakdown of System with ICT environment-friendly transportation by rail and sea. Material Procurement Partnership with Suppliers For the smooth operation of production lines, it is important 16% (FY2019) The Nabtesco Group is proactively helping suppliers to analyze on-site situations in real time and detect Acquiring Overwhelming Cost Electronic and stabilize their production and improve their quality. We Other parts electrical problems and implement measures as soon as possible. Competitiveness While Maintaining Wincomponents carry out audits on suppliers’ plants where the products To address this issue, we have taken measures to Win Relationships with Suppliers 17% to be supplied to us are manufactured. Based on the develop a system to promote the visualization and unified 18% results, we then give instructions for the plants to improve We will attain cost competitiveness that overwhelms our management of on-site information as well as the early competitors by reviewing procurement activities across their quality management including those related to work detection of daily issues through the usage of ICT devices. our in-house companies to create synergies through joint standards, a mechanism called “poka-yoke” installed We plan to automate decision-making and forecasting, procurement and by fostering intensive procurement from Establishment of Nabtesco Group CSRto prevent operators from making mistakes and the which are currently conducted by people, through the suppliers with consistently high QCDS performance. Oriented Procurement Policy elimination of defective products. We also help suppliers In 2014, aiming to further foster CSR activities across the to conduct 5S activities on a regular basis at their plants. supply chain, we established the Nabtesco Group CSRFurthermore, we provide suppliers with practical on-site Oriented Procurement Policy. In formulating this policy, training by using the value engineering (VE) method so that • ROIC Improvement by Building Manufacturing Innovation we referred to the ISO 26000 standard, the United Nations they can make functional analyses of their products and ROIC improvement measures Aim Direction Key challenges Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the daily operations. • More advanced automation responsible business alliance code of conduct (RBA) and Strengthening production • Standardization/on-site improvement (manufacturing other international guidelines, and also incorporated the Reduce internal costs capability support) ideas expressed in the Nabtesco Group Code of Ethics. Increasing operating • Development of unique production technologies income margin • Optimization of “Make & Buy” CSR Procurement in Collaboration with Strengthening procurement ability • Cross-organizational procurement Suppliers Lower procurement costs (strengthening of supply chains) Generating CR (Cost Reduction) synergies Centralized/joint procurement The Nabtesco Group identifies primary suppliers for our business sustainability based on their trade volume, Shortening production QCDS performance, technical development capability, lead times Strengthening production • Renewal of production management with the use of ICT Increasing assets turnover • Logistics reform financial health and other factors and reflects them in our Shortening inventory management ability Realization of 3PL, milk-run system, etc. turnover period transactions. To enhance our CSR-oriented procurement, 69 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 70 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Materiality Ensure Quality and Safety In our long-term relationships of trust with customers, the Nabtesco Group has engaged in market creation, Cross functional activities Conducted across Measures toward Enhancing the Basis for product development and product safety in collaboration with customers. By recognizing the realization of the Quality Assurance Departments Quality We regularly provide employees in charge of quality at our In addition to the aforementioned activities, we are working safety, comfort and a sense of security for general people who use our customers’ products as a material issue, in-house companies with an opportunity to meet and share to enhance the basis for our design and manufacturing we endeavor to collect and analyze data on actual usage conditions and usage environment while seeking the industry-specific knowledge and experience and discuss quality through Group-wide training initiatives, including necessary safety, reliability and stability as well as comfort based on functionality and performance in order to how to make quality improvements. giving intensive basic education on quality to new ensure quality and safety. Since 2018, employees in charge of design and employees and instructing employees at plants in Japan, manufacturing at the in-house companies have also bases outside the country and at suppliers about 5S* been participating in the meeting in order to talk to other improvements as well as providing technical training on participants, clarify the current design and manufacturing product liability and safety, training on risk assessment, Management of Quality situations, and solve their respective issues in reference to inputs from other participants, such as their knowledge manufacturers’ ethics training and training for mid-career hires. and experience. * The 5Ss are seiri (sort), seiton (set in order), seiso (shine), seiketsu (standardize) and shitsuke (sustain). Promotion System Based on the Quality & Continuing to Cultivate a Quality-Oriented PL Committee Workforce to Create an Advanced Quality In an effort to listen to the voices of its customers and Culture the users of its products and to respond to the changes, demands and requests of society, the Nabtesco Group The Nabtesco Group provides a variety of systems and product lineups and believes that we will not be able Management of Occupational Safety sets forth the Nabtesco Group Quality and PL* Policy and to increase the quality of all these products by drawing promotes manufacturing based on quality engineering, upon a limited stock of technologies and methods. Ensure Safety by a Three-Pronged Approach, well as investigating any remaining on-site safety risks. quality management and PL management (including We are therefore introducing IT and other advanced Giving First Priority to Protecting People The members also summarize the audit results and the product safety control) under the leadership of the Quality technologies to our quality management, while attributing For manufacturers, “safety” means: (1) manufacturing achievements made by the sites through the ESH activities and PL Committee. special importance to the creation of a culture of quality products in a safe manner, (2) making safe products, and for review by the Group’s management team at the end At the Group Quality and PL Committee, annual activity manufacturing for all our products. (3) ensuring the safety of products during use. These three of each fiscal year, and the review results are utilized to policies are determined by clarifying issues and challenges Such a culture can be created as a result of longrequirements should be met together, as we cannot deliver improve the activities for the next fiscal year. We have thus for the entire Group, and actual work is conducted by each term education, training and organizational management. safe products to customers without ensuring the safety been executing the Plan, Do, Check and Act (PDCA) cycle to in-house company by applying the policies to specific We believe that helping employees gain a meaningful of our manufacturing facilities and providing necessary steadily increase the safety of our manufacturing facilities. activities. However, since the types of products and target experience that allows them to think and act in line with core maintenance, service and safety functions. industries significantly vary among in-house companies, principles and rules to make really effective use of available Manufacturing safe products and ensuring the safety of Conducting Multifaceted and Steady Activities it has become increasingly difficult to carry out audits on technologies will, in turn, help the entire company improve products during use help our customers ensure the safety All incidents, including minor ones, are required to be the activities of all in-house companies in accordance with its manufacturing quality on a long-term basis. Based on of their products and their end users, while ensuring the reported across the Nabtesco Group for informationfixed rules and standards. To address such issues, we this belief, we have been providing employees with unique safety of our manufacturing facilities and providing even sharing purposes. In particular, for a serious incident, strive to grasp the situation of each in-house company, education, including via the “Quality University” courses. safer maintenance and service functions help protect the we conduct an on-site examination to analyze the cause, provide advice and identify what the head office can do in While the Quality University courses were initially health and well-being of our employees and their families decide on the items to be focused on and implement order to support improvement at our regular meetings, targeted at selected design engineers when they were and reduce social losses. Based on this recognition, the measures based on the results. In addition, we enhance thus implementing more effective, specific measures. introduced in 2007, a course for managers was added Nabtesco Group is taking a three-pronged approach to our safety patrols and risk detection training to increase *PL: Product Liability in 2009. Since FY2012, we have designated a mandatory safety, with first priority given to protecting people over employees’ sensitivity to risks, as well as promoting “near quality education course for Group employees in their cost reduction and profit-making. miss”*1 incident reporting and safety awareness-raising • Nabtesco Group Quality and PL Policy third year of employment. Every year about 30 to 40 activities. young employees participate in this six-month course to Centrally Fostering Environmental, Safety As a result of these efforts, the lost time injury To fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR) by delivering products with the highest levels of safety, learn about quality management to increase their quality and Health Management frequency rate*2 has been below the industry’s average awareness. The number of employees who have completed The Nabtesco Group has been implementing multifaceted for the most recent five years. However, in order to comfort, security and reliability, we will: the Quality University courses has been steadily increasing measures to increase the safety of its manufacturing achieve zero workplace accidents, which is the Group’s each year. The graduates have been acting as forerunners facilities toward achieving the goal of zero work-related overall target, we are implementing even more advanced 1. Give priority to safety over anything else, based on of the Nabtesco Group’s culture of quality manufacturing. accidents in the Group-wide ESH activities. measures. the principle of respect for people; *1 Near miss: An event that could have resulted in injury or other incidents ESH stands for “environment, safety and health”. Our *2 lost time injury frequency rate: Please see Financial/Non-Financial Highlights Group Environment, Safety & Health (ESH) Committee, on page 30. 2. Meet safety and other quality needs of products which reports directly to the president, centrally fosters through the integration of business activities and the management of ESH across the Group, including by Starting New Activities to Nurture a Safety quality and PL activities; and promoting the reduction of environmental impacts as well Culture as ensuring the safety and health of employees. In order to further improve workplace safety, we 3. Realize product quality, which satisfies market The Group ESH Committee centrally collects, analyzes commenced new activities aimed at nurturing a safety demand, by conducting safety and other quality and evaluates important ESH-related information culture and ensuring that the entire organization adopts evaluations prior to the release of products to the to formulate necessary measures. In addition, the a more safety-oriented attitude in 2017 in addition to market. committee members annually visit each of the Group’s implementing measures against individual risk factors. We sites to carry out ESH audits to check on-site activities will aim to achieve zero-workplace accidents by creating and give instructions as necessary. For safety, the an organization that nurtures a safety culture through members examine whether the accident and disaster our four activities including the STOP3 activity, stratified Group photo of past students of the Quality University courses (Jan. 2010) countermeasures implemented at the sites are appropriate safety education system, safety model workplaces and or not and how these measures are implemented, as environmental safety forums. 71 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 72 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Materiality Develop Human Capital and Promote Workplace Diversity, Provide Safe and Comfortable Workplaces The Nabtesco Group is implementing a wide range of initiatives on human capital management that makes use Fostering Workplace Diversity of the abilities of individual employees for the beneﬁt of the entire company. We are also continuing to raise employees’ awareness of The Nabtesco Way to enhance the unity of the entire Group. We will achieve Active Employment of Non-Japanese the target of increasing to 20% the proportion of women Nationals Including Foreign Students among the total number of new graduates employed Operational Excellence by increasing the Group’s ability to attract job seekers and expanding the possibilities of Studying in Japan by the company as career-track employees. The actual our human capital as the driving force for the growth of the Group. Nabtesco proactively employs non-Japanese workers, rate for FY2019 was 16.1%, which was better than those believing that exchange between Japanese employees and recorded for FY2017 and FY2018, but still fell short of the Work Style Reforms those of other nationalities who may have different ideas will help reform the workplace mindsets of our Japanese goal due to the scarcity of female graduates who majored in mechanical engineering and electrical/electronic workers. As of December 31, 2019, 67 foreign nationals engineering, who are our primary recruitment targets. In Securing Talented Workers and Increasing system reform to improve work-life balance and the from 10 countries are working for Nabtesco, and we are response, we will participate in external recruitment events Labor Productivity work environment; (2) operational reform to eliminate striving to provide all employees with workplaces where held targeting women and provide candidates with more The Japanese government has been fostering work style wasteful work by making better use of IT, automation and they can demonstrate their abilities regardless of their opportunities to interact with our female employees with reforms nationwide to help companies secure workers by AI; (3) production reform to foster the development of nationality. an eye to helping more students learn about Nabtesco. improving the work environment to enable a diverse range production and automation technologies; and (4) cultural of individuals to demonstrate their abilities. As part of the reform to provide the basis for other types of reform. Promoting Employment of Persons with • onNabtesco’s General Employers Action Plan made under the Act Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in reforms, the government plans to tighten labor-related By steadily securing talented employees and increasing Disabilities the Workplace laws and regulations, including introducing a ceiling on labor productivity in terms of “personnel,” “operational,” The Nabtesco Group has endeavored to maintain the overtime hours. In response, companies urgently need to “production” and “cultural” aspects, we aim to make employment of persons with disabilities and has achieved increase their labor productivity. Nabtesco an attractive employer offering workplaces the statutory employment rate every year since FY2017. Target 1 Before the end of the period of the plan, double the percentage of women in the total number of For Nabtesco Corporation, 40 or more hours of overtime where workers can work with satisfaction. In addition, we established Nabtesco Link Corporation, managers relative to the April 2019 level (from work had been recorded monthly at around 25% of its a Group company intended to promote the employment of 0.8% to 1.6%) departments prior to the implementation of the work style Methods for Implementing Work Style persons with disabilities in Gifu Prefecture where one of reforms. While overtime has been reduced to around 16% Reforms our production site is located, in FY2015. In FY2016, the Measures: Provide career planning training and give follownow as a result of rectification measures against long For work style reforms, we will continuously make company was approved by the Ministry of Health, Labour up support to employees taking childcare leave working hours, we believe it is necessary to continue our improvements by executing a PDCA cycle. First, we will and Welfare as a Specialized Subsidiary Company that efforts to improve labor productivity. conduct a survey on employees to understand their present Target 2 Rate of annual paid days off taken by employees: meets the requirements under the Act on Promotion of the Achieve and maintain “more than 80%” Furthermore, as the Japanese population is declining, the situations. Then, under the leadership of the Business Employment of Persons with Disabilities. In FY2017, Gifu shrinking workforce is becoming a mediumto long-term Transformation Division, we will plan and implement Prefecture selected Nabtesco Link as one of the model Measures: Build an environment that makes it easier for social issue. Accordingly more businesses are eagerly trying improvement initiatives, measure their effects, and conduct employers for the employment of persons with disabilities. employees to take annual paid days off to secure talented human resources while more and more follow-up activities by monitoring KPIs, such as per-hour people are quitting their companies for personal reasons. labor productivity. In particular, for operational improvement, Proactive Employment of Women Amid the rise in fluidity of human resources anticipated we are making use of robotic process automation (RPA) for Nabtesco conducts recruitment activities by upholding in the future, we believe that it will significantly boost our the automation of operations. We are also utilizing artificial competitiveness if we give consideration to the work styles intelligence (AI) to increase our operational efficiency. of individual employees and increase our attractiveness to By continuing to execute a PDCA cycle, we will make potential employees by helping employees work with vigor each employee more aware of the importance of operational Work-Life Balance while also leading fulfilling personal lives. efficiency and provide an environment in which they can “Enjoy the Challenge,” as stated in our long-term vision. Efforts to Foster Teleworking excessive overtime work. Becoming an Attractive Company Through these work style reforms, the Nabtesco Group We have introduced systems for employees to work For annual paid leave, we are proactively encouraging where Employees Can Work with More will achieve Operational Excellence, as upheld in its vision for from home and work at satellite offices so that they can employees to take paid days off and implement follow-up Satisfaction 2020, and become an enterprise that gives great satisfaction have flexibility in choosing where and when to work in measures based on the results of the regular monitoring The Nabtesco Group has been fostering work style reforms to employees by providing them with workplaces where they accordance with their lifestyles. In FY2019 more than 150 of the issue by the labor-management committee. For entitled “Stage-up 2.0.” This is comprised of (1) personnel can take on the challenge of pursuing creativity. employees spent some time working from home. FY2019, we achieved a rate of 81.1% for annual paid days off taken by employees against the target of at • Four Types of Reform for Work Style Reforms Work Styles for a Better Work-Life Balance least 80%. We also introduced paperless operation and In response to the arrival of new work styles, which are communication tools to reform our office environment for •Improve work-life balance making the management of working hours more difficult, higher operational efficiency. •Encourage employees to take holidays we are developing a system and a tool to ensure the •Reduce working hours to an appropriate Personnel •Eliminate wasteful work Work-Life Balance appropriate management of working hours and eliminate Web level system reform •Simplify operations https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/122 •Promote telework •Make better use of IT, automation and AI •Return the benefits of higher productivity •Reduce work duplication by data linkage to employees Operational Production reform reform •Raise Human Rights Management •Develop unique production technology (at administrative employees’ awareness of the (manufacturing) •Develop technology for automated departments) importance of improvements production •Promote communication •Improve teamwork and collaboration Human Rights Policy/Human Rights Due human rights and prevention of corruption as our material •Introduce AI to production management systems Cultural reform •Improve the workplace atmosphere Diligence issues. In FY2016, we established the Nabtesco Group Code The Nabtesco Group is committed to the upholding of of Ethics. Further, Nabtesco has committed itself to the 73 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 74 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Mater i ali ty Develop Human Capital and Promote Workplace Diversity, Provide Materiality Local Community Development Safe and Comfortable Workplaces Nabtesco Group Human Rights Policy to promote respect Rights. The Nabtesco Group established the Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy in FY2018 to show its for human rights, based on the International Bill of Human Nabtesco identifies and assesses impacts on human approach to community investment activities. The Group will conduct the activities in a strategic manner across Rights established by the United Nations (UN), the ILO rights and tries to mitigate human rights risks through a the board toward the development of local communities, which is one of the Group’s material CSR issues. The Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work human rights due diligence process. We also continuously established by the International Labour Organization (ILO), verify the methods and effects of human rights due diligence Nabtesco Group proactively promotes contributions to local economic development through the establishment and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human to effectively respond to human rights impacts and risks. of a production system for “local production for local consumption,” solutions for social challenges through the provision of its products and services and community investment activities. Human Capital Development Nabtesco Group’s Community Investment Development of Globally Competitive young employees with the aim of helping them nurture an Human Capital international business mindset at an early stage of their Resources Invested and Impact In order to share the company’s ideal image of human career. capital in which it is the people who make the company, Moreover, to proactively develop human resources at Charitable donations Management overheads and to define the direction that all employees should Group companies outside Japan, we proactively employ 0.2% ¥4.8 Million/11.0% follow, Nabtesco established the Basic Policy on Human local workers and implement various educational programs Capital Development and has since been providing a range aimed at improving the skills of locally hired personnel. Local community investments Cash contributions of educational opportunities in line with this policy. In China, we provide business management training for 53.3% ¥23.0 Million/53.0% As overseas business is expected to continue to executive candidates to promote the appointment of locally Type of Community expand, it is becoming increasingly important to develop employed staff to managerial positions. At other overseas Resources Invested Investment Activities Time: employee volunteering globally competitive human capital. In addition to Group companies, we select presidents from among (FY2019) (FY2019) during paid working hours various training programs aimed at enhancing language the local workforce. In addition, we offer an OJT-based ¥6.1 Million/14.2% capabilities, including the intensive study camp for English training program designed for skill enhancement, in which Commercial initiatives conversation, we introduced an overseas trainee program employees of overseas Group companies are assigned, for In-kind giving 46.5% for middle-ranking employees, which included both a certain period of time, to factories in Japan belonging to (product donations) study and work components, in FY2012. Furthermore, in various business segments. * Excluding commercial initiatives ¥9.5 Million/21.8% 2017, we introduced short-term overseas job training for Environment Education Number of mangroves FY2019: 2,300 Number of persons who Increasing Employees’ Awareness of The Nabtesco Way planted Accumulated total: 5,870 joined various programs FY2019: 262,042 (FY2013 to FY2019) Activity to Increase Employees’ Awareness number of participants has been increasing both within of The Nabtesco Way and outside Japan. Welfare The Nabtesco Way provides the behavioral guidelines to be Number of persons who FY2019: 357 planted mangroves Number of welfare devices followed by all employees when fulfilling their duties and making decisions in their jobs. • (based Satisfaction with communication within the organization on employee questionnaire) (FY2013 to FY2019) Accumulated total: 1,209 donated FY2019: 25 Accumulated total: 348 In order to help employees understand and implement (FY2008 to FY2019) (Unit: %) 2013 2015 2017 2017 (Target) our values prescribed in The Nabtesco Way through their daily operations, each Group base and company as well as Ratio of 67.1 68.6 69.3 78.6 the Group secretariat have “facilitators for The Nabtesco satisfaction Way” to raise employees’ awareness of the values. We Establishment of the Nabtesco Group aim to foster the growth of both the Nabtesco Group and have also been holding the “Nabtesco Way Month” every in (Male) 69.0 69.5 Community Investment Policy local communities and to build long-term relationships of April since FY2013. These meetings are held at everyone’s 67.1 In the Nabtesco Group Community Investment Policy mutual trust. own workplaces, allowing participants to discuss and established in FY2018, it is clearly stated that through We have set the environment, education, and welfare as (Female) 68.1 69.2 share about the Nabtesco Way as well as how they relate it our community investment activities, we will proactively priority areas. Those three areas are highly related to the with their own experiences and daily thoughts. In addition, engage in exchanges and cooperate with local communities sustainable business activities of the Group and correspond Coverage of in fields closely related to our business in each region to the SDGs discussed in the section on materiality. the Group holds “Way briefings” to teach the values to employee 100 100 100 100 employees who do not know about The Nabtesco Way, such respondents where the Group conducts business as good practice of Through the proactive promotion of community investment as new employees; “Way meetings” to raise employees’ The Nabtesco Way. The policy states the targets of the activities, we will work to establish relationships of awareness of the values and encourage them to share * The calculation scope covers only Nabtesco Corporation. activities as value creation for stakeholders to contribute trust with local communities while contributing to their * Held twice a year in principle the values at workplaces; and “workshops,” in which * We evaluate above two indicators according to seven grades: 1: Completely disagree, to solving global social challenges and social challenges development. participants in level-specific training seminars and other 2: Disagree, 3: Somewhat disagree, 4: Neither agree nor disagree, 5: Somewhat faced by local communities in each region where the Group agree, 6: Agree, 7: Completely agree, and rate the results (4 or more is defined as employees selected based on certain themes deepen their satisfied). conducts business. As the Group values, it also states that understanding and implementation of The Nabtesco Way, we encourage employees’ challenging spirit and innovative and thus develop a greater affinity for the values. ways of thinking by contributing to solving social issues in fields related to the Group’s business and that we strive Consideration of Community and Society These events are designed to make each employee a Contents The Nabtesco Way Web to further increase the Group’s brand value. Moreover, we https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/140 driving force for the promotion of The Nabtesco Way. The 75 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 76 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Materiality Environment The Nabtesco Group is implementing a range of environmental initiatives. In line with the enforcement of the • Measures Addressing Climate Change Issues Paris Agreement in 2016, the Nabtesco Group has set our long-term CO2 emission reduction targets to be Category –2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016– attained by FY2050 and is speeding up anti-climate change measures. We are also fostering multifaceted Activity to increase 2005: Setting of environment-related incentive system Introduced in-house employees’ awareness Formulated the Environmental company evaluation index measures for zero emissions and the protection of water resources as part of our efforts to fulﬁll our social of environmental Philosophy and Environmental Achievement of positive Achievement of positive responsibility through our manufacturing activities. philosophy Action Plan • Introduced the energy conservation activity commendation program environmental contribution environmental contribution • Introduced the energy-saving product certification system NEMS (Nabtesco Energy Management) 2003: Six plants operated NEMS Tools for managing environmental information Environmental Environmental Management Management by major Group companies, have become ISO 14001 2015: Started reporting to the Board of Directors on a Energy conservation guidelines certified monthly basis Speeded up the decision-making process Energy monitoring system Environmental Management System companies while making use of the ISO 14001 international Expansion of target 2004: Third-party verification of Calculation of Implemented by the Group ESH Committee standard as an effective tool for environmental Third-party verification of calculation of Scope 3 emissions scope Started calculation of Scope 1 and 2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions Since its establishment in 2003, the Nabtesco Group management, leveraging it in the building and operation has positioned environmental measures as one of its of our environmental management system. All Nabtesco Cooperation with • Improving logistics efficiency using Scope 3 data business strategic priorities and promoted environmental Corporation plants and seven major Group companies suppliers and customers • Started Environmental Self Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ ) management. (that account for over 70% of consolidated sales) are The Nabtesco Group has set up the Group ESH already certified under ISO 14001, and we are fostering Committee as the promotional organization related to the environmental measures across the Group. Speeding Up the Execution of the PDCA provision of our products based on the energy-saving environment, safety and health. A series of discussions In addition, in 2017, we expressed our support for the Cycle for Saving Energy through the product certification system introduced in FY2012. In the has been held at meetings of the committee, in which the recommendations that had been made and reported to Nabtesco Energy Management System same fiscal year, we introduced an energy conservation heads of the in-house companies and Group companies the Financial Stability Board (FSB) by the Task Force on (NEMS) activity commendation system to make more effective have participated. Our environmental strategies, including Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Accordingly, For energy conservation, we established the Nabtesco use of energy resources across the Group. Moreover, mediumto long-term targets, have thus been decided and we are implementing climate change-related measures Energy Management System (NEMS) for the continuous we incorporated “achievement of positive environmental implemented in a top-down manner. and will disclose the related information in line with the execution of the PDCA cycle under the control of the Group contribution” in the performance indicators for each By formulating our Environmental Philosophy and TCFD’s recommendations. ESH Committee and have been fully operating the system division in FY2017, with a view to improving environmental Environmental Action Plan in 2005, we have been working since 2015. governance and making continuous improvements to our Nabtesco’s environmental management Specifically, we have introduced environmental environmental management. to raise awareness of these principles across Group Web https://nabtesco.disclosure.site/en/themes/125 information management tools and an energy monitoring Going forward, we will further foster energy system to collect environmental information from our conservation by updating our equipment and rebuilding • Disclosure in line with the TCFD’s recommendations (Outline) sites, analyze the collected information and estimate the our plants while promoting the use of renewable amount of energy used by each device in real time. By energy and introducing private hybrid power generation Governance disseminating and sharing the obtained data at the monthly equipment using hydrogen. We will thus gain speed in the Reporting at Board of Directors meetings about progress with measures to attain CO2 emission reduction targets and about major investments made in environmental equipment meetings of our sites, we extract energy conservation ideas implementation of measures with an eye to promoting and promote activities for saving energy by all employees. energy creation and to attaining our long-term target. Inclusion of anti-climate change measures in the business strategy by the CEO under the control and supervision of the Board Also, by sharing information on such activities at the Board In addition to reducing our own emissions, we have Establishment of the Group ESH Committee, which reports directly to the CEO, and appointment of committee members by the CEO from among of Directors meeting each month, we will respond quickly begun to expand activities to our suppliers. We purchase executives including directors when improvement is deemed necessary. products and services at a high rate, which makes it Strategy essential for us to work closely with our suppliers to take We assume the following as serious impacts that climate change could have on our business operations. Reducing CO2 Emissions Based on a Longinitiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across the Risks Term Target supply chain. In response, as of 2017 we began a survey • Increase of operational cost due to a surge in carbon prices and to the purchase of renewable energy-derived electricity As the medium-term targets for FY2020, we are upholding of our main suppliers (top suppliers that constitute 70% • Capital expenditure for purposes such as power generation using renewable resources a reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions in Japan of the annual amount of purchases) to see whether they • Increase of R&D cost for the development of energy-efficient products relative to FY2015 levels, as well as a 9% or more reduction have set voluntary targets to reduce their greenhouse gas • Suspension of business due to damage caused to infrastructure by storms and floods and resulting instability of power supply in our CO2 emissions per unit of sales (global) including our emissions. According to the results of the FY2019 survey, Opportunities sites outside Japan (relative to FY2015 levels). We achieved • New business opportunities provided by regulations, such as the mandatory labeling of products with energy efficiency information both of these medium-term targets in FY2019, one year • Expansion of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) business opportunities as consumers become more concerned about climate change and show a preference for products with long life-cycle for the reduction of CO2 emissions earlier than planned. Furthermore, we have set reduction Group’s medium-term Group’s long-term targets targets for CO2 emissions per unit of sales (global) of 30% targets (To be achieved by Risk management for FY2030 and 80% for FY2050. Total CO2 emissions FY2020) <In Japan (total amount)> Collection of important information about climate change, evaluation of the impacts of climate change on business activities and deliberation of These targets are in line with the 2 degrees Celsius < Global target (per unit of sales)> < Global target > countermeasures by the Group ESH Committee Total CO2 emissions (per unit of sales) target*1 set as an international benchmark for climate 30% reduction 9 Prioritization of measures to deal with risks with high possibility of materialization regardless of the level of their impacts (in monetary value) change countermeasures to be implemented in and FY2030 Evaluation of risks including those identified by other committees (on CSR, quality & PL, and risk management) for prioritization of the risks by the CEO after 2020 under the Paris Agreement*2, which came into effect in 2016. Our long-term target for only Nabtesco FY2050 80% reduction (Relative to FY2015) % reduction (Relative to FY2015) Indicators and targets Corporation CO2 emissions also qualifies as a Science Scope 1 + 2: Set long-term greenhouse gas emission targets toward FY2050 Based Target (SBT)*3. Nabtesco is the eighth Japanese * Achieved in FY2019 Reduce total CO2 emissions in Japan and emissions per unit of global net sales by 30% in FY2030 and by 80% in FY2050, respectively, relative to the company to get the SBT qualification. FY2015 level In order to achieve the long-term target, we are Scope 3: Provision of support for all major suppliers to set their own voluntary emission reduction targets by 2025 promoting environmental conservation through the 77 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 78 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Mater i ali ty Environment 69.9% of our main suppliers have set voluntary targets to *1 The 2 degrees Celsius target is an international target set in the Paris Agreement to keep the average rise in global temperature to below 2 degrees Celsius above preMeasures to Reduce Hazardous Waste Water Use and Water Discharge reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and begun to take industrial levels The Nabtesco Group was landfilling 0.1 ton per year Management *2 The Paris Agreement is a multilateral international agreement to curb climate change initiatives to achieve the targets. We will provide support so in and after 2020 and was adopted on December 12, 2015 at the 21st Conference of waste alkalis, which are hazardous, until FY2014. In The Nabtesco Group uses groundwater mainly to cool test that all of our main suppliers will set voluntary reduction of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21). FY2015, however, we began to detoxify alkalis, waterstands and melt snow in snowy regions (Yamagata and *3 The SBTs are intended to urge companies to set their mediumto long-term targets by 2025. targets (for the period from five to 15 years from now) in a manner that allows the soluble waste oil and other hazardous waste prior to their Gifu). We discharge the used groundwater to rivers under international community to achieve the 2°C target. Companies are certified if they disposal. Accordingly, we have not released any waste the strict water quality control criteria set by the Group. In pass the SBT Initiative’s examination. containing hazardous substances. FY2019, there were no cases wherein used groundwater • Greenhouse Gas Emissions from the Entire Supply Chain (Unit: t-CO2) did not meet the water quality control criteria. Classification FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Measures to Reduce Use of Raw Materials The total volume of water used by the Nabtesco Group By reusing components and reducing the production of in FY2019 amounted to 700,000m3, which was almost the Direct emissions 7,074 7,259 8,686 8,781 6,599 new ones, the Nabtesco Group is working to minimize the same level as in the previous fiscal year. Due to heavy rain (Scope 1)*1, *2 use of resources. In addition, we have been fostering the falls caused by recent climate change, the risk of rainwater Indirect emissions through the use of 47,729 50,865 61,538 61,395 53,874 MRO business to optimize the use of resources and expand flooding our plants is increasing. The Nabtesco Group electricity and others (Scope 2)*1, *2 sales in the service field. uses oil-based type and water-soluble type cutting fluids Scopes 1 and 2 54,803 58,124 70,224 70,175 60,473 in our business operations and recognizes the risk that Conservation of Water Resources hazardous substances contained in these cutting might be (In Japan) 46,100 45,049 50,464 50,184 41,947 The Nabtesco Group does not require a large amount discharged to rivers if rainwater floods the manufacturing (Achieved the medium-term target) of water nor water of a certain quality for its business facilities. To prevent this, we have been making capital Per unit of sales 0.239 0.238 0.249 0.238 0.209 operations. However, we deem it important to manage expenditure to install oil-water separation tanks and oil (Achieved the medium-term target) water resources for environmental conservation, and recovery equipment. Emissions from the supply chain accordingly, conduct water-related risk analyses, measure In FY2019, we spent ¥3.19 million to enhance the 826,842 885,494 871,463 979,097 940,976 (Scope 3)*3 the amount of water used and discharged, monitor water rainwater discharging function, and make our facilities [Note] The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. quality and implement measures to prevent the leakage of more water-resistant. *1 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation and Group companies both in and outside Japan (27 companies and 43 sites). *2 The calculation policy and standards comply with the Act on the Regional Use of Energy and the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and are aligned with the hazardous substances into water. internal Guidelines on the Management of Environmental Information. The amounts of water used and discharged at each *3 The calculation scope includes Nabtesco Corporation only. base are measured every month, and the Group data are accumulated through the environmental information • Scope 3 Emissions Waste Reduction management tool. As for bases where the amount of The Nabtesco Group sends waste metals, plastics and water per month fluctuates greatly, we conduct surveys to Purchased goods and services 679,177t 72.18% glass that do not contain hazardous substances to landfill identify contributing factors for the increased water usage, End-of-life treatment of sold products sites at present, but is fostering activities to reduce all and implement measures to reduce the water use as 964t 0.10% types of emissions generated in the course of its business necessary. Use of sold products 20,885t 2.22% to zero through the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle)—the basic In FY2019 we began to conduct investigations and Employee commuting 1,540t 0.16% practice for establishing a resource-circulating society. examinations about the influence exerted over local water Business travel 3,507t 0.37% CO2 emissions resources by the use of groundwater, as the Nabtesco Waste generated in operations 1,078t 0.11% 940,976 In FY2019, due to the addition of a new consolidated Group draws groundwater up through wells installed at Upstream transportation and distribution tons in total subsidiary to the calculation target, the amount of waste 196,021t 20.83% temporarily increased. As a result, the zero emissions some of its plants. We will evaluate the results to make use Fueland energy-related activities of them for our future activities. 3,149t 0.33% rate came to 3.2% and we were again unable to achieve the targeted rate in FY2019. This year we will continue As for water quality control, we continuously monitor Capital goods 34,655t 3.68% to promote the 3Rs across the Group to achieve the zero through monthly voluntary tests and regular inspections by The Scope 3 calculations for FY2019 were made by the following method and for the emissions goal of 0%*, which we set for FY2020. external experts. following period and scope. *0.05% or below is set as 0 • Calculation method: As shown in the basic guidelines on the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions from supply chains set by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry • Volume of Landfill Waste and Zero Emissions Rates Volume of Landﬁll Waste (ton) Zero Emissions Rates (%) Gaining Higher External Evaluation 250 3.5 248 Being internationally recognized for its environmental measures and information disclosure, Nabtesco has been 31 3.2 included in CDP’s Climate Change A List for four straight 30 0.6 years from 2016. The CDP, through cooperation among institutional investors, urges the world’s leading companies 0.46 in terms of market capitalization to disclose information 20 0.4 • Target of Water Use Activities and FY2019 Results about their strategies to combat climate change and CO2 Item Targets FY2019 results Status emissions. The CDP annually discloses evaluation scores to 10 9 0.2 Year-on-year change rate at 10%: the public and selects companies that 8 Global water use 0.730Mm3 Achieved 5 0.831Mm3 or less demonstrate excellence in the relevant 0.13 measures as the A List companies. 0 0.06 0.10 0.0 In-house management criteria* 2015* 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Global water quality control 0 Achieved Excessive number: zero * The figure for the Nabtesco Group in FY2015 was calculated with the scope of the survey being the 12 months from January to December 2015. * Set criteria that are stricter than local standards, and monitor and manage the discharge of water. 79 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 80 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Messages from Outside Directors Yutaka Fujiwara Norio Uchida Outside Director Outside Director For the separation of management oversight team but also all employees who are required to use the Maintaining a sense of crisis and enhancing the Since becoming an outside director of Nabtesco in 2015, from business execution company’s capital in an efficient manner to contribute to ability to draw up scenarios I have been working to support the company by playing Nabtesco has been appointing outside directors since its the improvement of both ROIC and return on investment The growth of Nabtesco is supported by its technologies, supervisory and guidance roles for the above issues, foundation, and the proportion of outside directors on the (ROE) for the entire company. I expect that by meeting manufacturing capability, business portfolio and close capitalizing on my long years of business management Board of Directors reached 40% as of FY2020. I think the these requirements the company will build a system relationships with customers. For the company to achieve experience. company thus has an appropriate governance system that eventually contributes to the happiness of not further growth, however, it needs to foster measures as measured against other listed companies in Japan. only shareholders but also employees and all other to develop global human resources, promote global Promoting the diversity of the Board of Directors Moreover, at Board of Directors meetings, participants stakeholders of the company. development activities and enhance its ability to collect and As a result of the number of female outside directors discuss issues with each other proactively and in an open deal with information. having been increased, we can now evaluate the business manner, thereby ensuring highly transparent management. Diversity and uniqueness are indispensable for Nabtesco’s Board of Directors provides a high level results and verify risks from new viewpoints at Board There is, however, still room for improvement. I expect sustainable growth of transparency and I also rate it highly in terms of its meetings. In the future, I expect that non-Japanese people that the proportion of outside directors will be further Nabtesco produces and sells a range of products also information quality, risk verification and the effectiveness and IT specialists will also join the Board to turn it into an raised to reach at least 50% as soon as possible for the outside Japan, and for sustainable corporate growth it is of the decision-making process. For discussions on organization that can discuss business scenarios from the true separation of management oversight functions from essential for the company to value diversity, which means management/business scenarios, however, I think the aspects of management, future potentials and risks. business execution functions so that the Board of Directors that people respect each other both at their workplaces Board needs to have more opportunities to discuss the will be able to supervise the execution of business by the and in their private lives, looking beyond differences in scenarios. To achieve further growth globally company in a fully independent manner. race, gender, values and ways of thinking. Nabtesco has a corporate culture that respects people As mentioned above, I expect the company to develop For sustainable corporate growth, I also think it is and an excellent foundation to develop technologies. I am global human resources, promote global development Realize “all stakeholders’ dreams” by improving critical for the company to promptly develop unique confident that the company will be able to further solidify activities and enhance its ability to collect and deal with capital efficiency products that competitors cannot easily imitate. its corporate foundation by maintaining a sense of crisis information. In particular, to compete in global markets, As a result of working in corporate planning, financial and enhancing its ability to draw up scenarios. the company needs to build its bases in the countries and IR departments in the banking and manufacturing For the maximization of corporate value and regions where businesses are operated in the most industries and providing IR consulting services to U.S. I will continue to make efforts to contribute to the Capitalizing on the experience of managing advanced manner and cooperate with local companies and institutional investors, I am keenly aware of the fact that maximization of the company’s corporate value, with a business communities for the development of new products. Japanese companies have low capital efficiency. I think this focus on the following two aspects: improvement of capital For capital gain, we need to increase corporate value, and I would like to support the company in deciding on its low capital efficiency is the highest hurdle that Japanese efficiency and separation of management oversight from for the payment of large dividends, we need to make a policies and judging risks by making use of my 14 years companies have to overcome to survive the global business execution. profit on a continual basis. To meet these requirements, we of experience in managing business in Western countries competition. The maximization of corporate value cannot be achieved have to implement our business and profit-making plans and Asia and of implementing M&A projects. The basic Shareholders and investors expect me to increase without the help of employees, who are growth drivers for successfully, keep our technological advantages, draw up strategy for further global growth is to gain speed, share our capital efficiency. To meet this expectation, Nabtesco the company. I expect that all employees will hone their growth scenarios and implement environment, social and information and ensure compliance. I will collaborate with needs to further advance return on invested capital (ROIC) abilities with a sense of competition to become people governance (ESG) measures. It is also important to foster all stakeholders across the globe to help Nabtesco become oriented management, which it is now fostering, for higher who can express their opinions in the workplace with communication with players in the global capital market a global leader in a range of business fields. capital efficiency. Also, it is not only the management confidence and courage. through investor relation (IR) activities. 81 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 82 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Messages from Outside Directors Mari Iizuka Naoko Mizukoshi Outside Director Outside Director Leading Nabtesco from the viewpoint of ESG/ their handling of COVID-19 according to some analyses. I Contributing to increasing corporate value by To remain an organization that continues to SDGs think the crisis provides an opportunity to prove the true “offensive” and “defensive” governance offer value to society Nabtesco is guided by a high standard of corporate ethics value of diversity. I newly joined Nabtesco as an outside director in FY2020, As CEO Katsuhiro Teramoto pointed out in the previous as a member of the Japanese manufacturing industry, appreciating its management approach that values year’s integrated report, we are facing changes, such as which is known for its sincerity, warm-heartedness, Aiming for a better post-corona society and innovation, intellectual property and globalization and also the arrival of the IoT society and the progress of AI, and the fairness and robustness. I also appreciate Nabtesco’s corporate management its commitment to increasing the proportion of outside importance of services and corporate management that commitment to tackling ESG issues as a perpetual I am engaged in the operation of the Well-being Research directors and female directors for corporate governance. utilize data and advanced technologies is increasing for “challenger.” Center at the university. Well-being refers to the health, I have been serving as an advisor on corporate legal all organizations. Also, stakeholders are highly interested I have been engaged in the promotion of the United happiness and peacefulness of individuals, organizations issues and overseas trading, as well as agreements, in how the company is promoting ESG measures in its Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and and society and has been said to be the next core concept negotiations and policies regarding intellectual property business management. Based on this recognition, I would based on that experience I think the spread of the novel of the SDGs. Due to the hardships caused by COVID-19, and technology within companies and at law firms. I think like to contribute to increasing the corporate value of the coronavirus (COVID-19) will trigger the acceleration of I think all people are sincerely hoping for well-being I am expected to contribute to increasing Nabtesco’s company through proactive discussions at Board meetings. ESG investment. In response, companies need to consider across the world. From now on, I would like to pursue corporate value by utilizing my experience to foster both At such meetings I will express my opinions based on my how to make a profit while also tackling social challenges well-being for a better post-corona society and corporate “offensive” and “defensive” governance for the company. experience working at IT companies and in my capacity and fulfilling their social responsibility. Based on this management hand in hand with all members of Nabtesco. as a lawyer as well as on my experience as a woman recognition, I will lead Nabtesco from an ESG/SDGs Expectations for the ability to deal with a crisis in the corporate world and also from the viewpoint of viewpoint. and for diversity stakeholders. Nabtesco conducts business globally, and foreign investors Finally, let me commit myself to fulfilling my duty as an You will know whether a person has true account for a large proportion of its shareholders. outsider director to help the company provide employees strength when they face a difficulty Accordingly, I have the impression that the company is with workplaces where they can feel job satisfaction and I have been an outside director of the company since March doing business based on international standards. For offer value to society on a continual basis. 2020, when the COVID-19 crisis began to expand at a rapid dealing with COVID-19, it is implementing careful measures rate, and the crisis has proven that Nabtesco has true to prevent the spread of infection and making flexible strength. The company started to implement a range of responses to a range of situations. I think the company’s measures to deal with the crisis, and I felt relieved to know ability to deal with a crisis will help it win even more trust that it had the agility and ability to address the hardships from the stakeholders. based on The Nabtesco Way. I now expect that the company I also expect that the company will push ahead with will press forward with reforms with an eye to the future. diversity measures. Because two women, including myself, Innovation is a key to acquiring the ability to deal with were appointed as outside directors, the proportion of a crisis. When you make a concerted effort with others to female directors on the Board of Directors has increased, overcome a crisis, heterogeneous ideas will help you attain and I hope that more women and people with various the goal. As a matter of fact, countries and regions led by backgrounds will be promoted to important business women, such as Germany and Taiwan, were successful in execution positions at the company. 83 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 84 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Management Team Board of Directors (as of March 24, 2020) Katsuhiro Teramoto Shinji Juman Yutaka Fujiwara Norio Uchida Representative Director, President & CEO Representative Director, Outside Director Outside Director (Dec. 13, 1955) Senior Managing Executive Officer,Component Solutions Segment (Apr. 20, 1951) (Oct. 22, 1950) President, Power Control Company, and in charge of Production Innovation (Aug. 28, 1957) Jun. 2007 General Manager, Sales Department No. 1, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Jan. 2006 General Manager, Cost Control Department, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company of Apr. 1974 Joined MODEC, Inc. Apr. 1973 Joined Tokyo Optical Co., Ltd. (current TOPCON CORPORATION) Corporation Nabtesco Corporation Nov. 1987 Joined The Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (current Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd.) Jun. 1980 General Manager of Topcon Singapore Pte. Ltd. Jul. 2008 General Manager, Overseas Sales Department, Precision Equipment Company of Jun. 2006 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company Aug. 1994 Deputy General Manager, New York Branch of Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Feb. 1989 President of Topcon Australia Pty Ltd. Nabtesco Corporation of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 1996 General Manager, Chicago Branch of Yasuda Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (retired in Jul. 1998) Oct. 1994 Senior Vice President of Topcon Laser Systems, Inc. (current Topcon Positioning Systems, Jun. 2009 General Manager, Planning Department, Accessibility Innovations Company of Nabtesco Jun. 2009 Plant Manager, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Aug. 1998 Joined OMRON Corporation Inc.) Corporation Jun. 2011 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation and President, Nabtesco Automotive Jul. 2001 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department, Corporate Strategic Planning Group, Jun. 2003 Executive Officer of TOPCON CORPORATION Jun. 2011 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Corporation Kyoto Head Office of OMRON Corporation Jul. 2003 President and Director of Topcon Sales Co., Ltd. (current Topcon Sokkia Positioning Japan Oct. 2011 Vice President and General Manager, Planning Department, Accessibility Innovations Jun. 2014 President, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Oct. 2002 General Manager, Corporate IR Department, Corporate Planning Division of OMRON Corporation Co., Ltd.) Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2015 Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2005 Executive Officer and General Manager, Financial IR Department of OMRON Corporation Jun. 2005 Director and Executive Officer of TOPCON CORPORATION Feb. 2013 Deputy Senior General Manager, Corporate Planning Division, and General Manager, Mar. 2017 Director of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2007 Executive Officer and General Manager, Group Strategy Department of OMRON Corporation Jun. 2007 Director, Managing Executive Officer, Supervising Sales Promotion Group, and Chief of Corporate Planning Department of Nabtesco Corporation Jan. 2018 In charge of Production Innovation of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jun. 2008 Managing Officer and General Manager, Group Strategy Department of OMRON Corporation Positioning Business Unit of TOPCON CORPORATION Jun. 2015 Representative Director (to present), Managing Executive Officer and Senior General Mar. 2018 Representative Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Dec. 2008 Managing Officer and General Manager, IR & Corporate Information Department of Jun. 2010 Director, Senior Managing Executive Director and Supervising Corporate Planning Group Manager of Corporate Planning Division of Nabtesco Corporation Jan. 2019 Managing Executive Officer, Component Solutions Segment of Nabtesco Corporation (to OMRON Corporation (retired in Jun. 2011) of TOPCON CORPORATION Mar. 2017 President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) present) Aug. 2011 President & CEO of Cross-Border Bridge Corporation Jun. 2011 President & Representative Director of TOPCON CORPORATION Mar. 2018 President of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) President, Power Control Company of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jun. 2013 Outside Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jun. 2013 Advisor of TOPCON CORPORATION (retired in June 2015) Jan. 2020 Senior Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jun. 2017 Outside Director of KITZ Corporation (to present) Jun. 2015 Outside director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Reasons for appointment Apr. 2018 Representative of Cross-Border Bridge Corporation (to present) Sep. 2015 External Director of ULVAC, Inc. (to present) Mr. Katsuhiro Teramoto has served as Representative Director since June 2015, and has appropriately led and Reasons for appointment supervised management. In addition, after serving as Vice President of Accessibility Innovations Company and Mr. Shinji Juman has engaged in management of the Company as Director from March 2017, and has effectively Reasons for appointment Reasons for appointment Senior General Manager of Corporate Planning Division, he currently serves as the President, a position bearing fulfilled his roles and duties. After serving as President of Nabtesco Automotive Corporation and President of Mr. Yutaka Fujiwara has worked overseas for a number of years and has broad experience and extensive Mr. Norio Uchida has served as Representative Director of TOPCON CORPORATION and has broad experience the highest responsibilities for business execution, and has broad experience at the Company and extensive Precision Equipment Company, he currently serves as Managing Executive Officer, Component Solutions Segment, knowledge and insight on global business. He has expertise in advanced corporate strategies and financial affairs, and extensive knowledge and insight as a corporate manager, and as an Outside Director of the Company from insight concerning global business. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to and President of Power Control Company and is in charge of Production Innovation, and has broad experience having been in charge of the financial affairs and investor relations sectors of a listed company, and as an Outside June 2015, he has appropriately supervised management. The Company, having high regard for his experience realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. and extensive insight as a corporate manager. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate Director of the Company from June 2013, he has appropriately supervised management. The Company, having and insight, has appointed Mr. Norio Uchida as Outside Director, so that we may seek his supervision and advice Number of shares of the Company held: 11,400 shares person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. high regard for his experience and insight, has appointed Mr. Yutaka Fujiwara as Outside Director, so that he on technical development and global business overall. provides supervision and advice utilizing his knowledge. Number of shares of the Company held: 8,700 shares Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Number of shares of the Company held: 500 shares Daisuke Hakoda Toshiaki Akita Mari Iizuka Naoko Mizukoshi Representative Director Director Outside Director Outside Director Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D Division (Mar. 29, 1959) (Sep. 23, 1967) President, Accessibility Innovations Company (Jun. 6, 1957) (Oct. 25, 1957) Jun. 2007 President of Nabtesco Aerospace, Inc. Jul. 2008 General Manager, Engineering Management Department, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Apr. 1982 Joined Henkel Hakusui Corporation (current Henkel Japan Ltd.) Apr. 1995 Registered at Osaka Bar Association Jun. 2009 General Manager, Accounting & Finance Department of Nabtesco Corporation Oct. 2010 General Manager, Engineering Promotion Department, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Aug. 1987 Joined The World Bank Joined Miyazaki Law Firm Jun. 2010 General Manager, Corporate Planning Department of Nabtesco Corporation Jul. 2012 General Manager, Planning Department, and General Manager, Engineering Promotion Jul. 1992 Assistant Professor of Asian Institute of Management Graduate School of Business Apr. 1998 Registered at Yokohama Bar Association (current Kanagawa Bar Association) May 2013 General Manager, Shanghai Nabtesco Hydraulic Co., Ltd. Department, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Apr. 2005 Assistant Professor of Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University Graduate School of Joined Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Jun. 2013 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2014 Deputy Senior General Manager (Engineering), Technology and R&D Division of Nabtesco Corporation Management Sep. 1999 Registered at Dai-ni Tokyo Bar Association Jun. 2015 Director and Senior General Manager, General Administration & Human Resources Jun. 2015 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Apr. 2007 Associate Professor of Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University Graduate School of Joined Autodesk Co., Ltd. Division of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2016 President, NABTEC Co., Ltd. Management Sep. 2002 Registered at the State of California Bar Mar. 2017 Managing Executive Officer, Senior General Manager, Corporate Planning Division and Jan. 2018 Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D Division of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Apr. 2008 Professor of Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University Graduate School of Management Joined Microsoft Co., Ltd. (current Microsoft Japan, Co., Ltd.) Senior General Manager, General Administration & Human Resources Division of Mar. 2018 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Apr. 2010 Professor of Doshisha Business School (to present) Nov. 2006 Joined TMI Associates Nabtesco Corporation Jan. 2019 Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Mar. 2020 Outside Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jan. 2008 Partner of TMI Associates Jan. 2018 Managing Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information Mar. 2010 Partner of Endeavour Law Office Systems, Corporate Communication and Human Resources of Nabtesco Corporation Reasons for appointment Reasons for appointment Jun. 2018 External Director of TIS Inc. (to present) Mar. 2018 Representative Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Mr. Toshiaki Akita has engaged in management of the Company as Director since March 2018, and has Although Ms. Mari Iizuka has not been directly involved in corporate management, she has a high level of Dec. 2018 Partner of Leftright Law & IP (to present) Jan. 2019 President, Accessibility Innovations Company of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) effectively fulfilled his roles and duties. After serving as General Manager of Engineering Promotion Department, expertise in the fields of global management human resources and international management strategies as a Mar. 2020 Outside Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jan. 2020 Senior Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Railroad Products Company and Deputy Senior General Manager of Technology and R&D Division, etc., he Professor of Doshisha Business School. She also held various posts including Chair of Japan Global Compact currently serves as Senior General Manager of Technology and R&D Division, and has broad experience and Academic Network, which was established for collaboration between business and academia for achievement of extensive insight concerning technology overall. Additionally, he has experience as a corporate manager, Reasons for appointment Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Company, having high regard for her experience and insight, has Reasons for appointment including his role as President of NABTEC Co., Ltd. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an Although Ms. Naoko Mizukoshi has not been involved in corporate management except as an outside director, appointed Ms. Mari Iizuka as Outside Director, so that we may seek her supervision and advice utilizing her Mr. Daisuke Hakoda has engaged in management of the Company as Director since June 2015, and has appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. she has a high level of expertise as an attorney-at-law. She also held various posts including outside officers of expertise and insight based on the above. effectively fulfilled his roles and duties. After being engaged mainly in the areas of corporate planning as well as other business entities and posts in public offices including a member of Unfair Competition Prevention accounting and finance for many years, he currently serves as President of Accessibility Innovations Company, Number of shares of the Company held: 2,993 shares Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Subcommittee, Intellectual Property Committee, Industrial Structure Council, Ministry of Economy, Trade and and has broad experience and extensive insight as a corporate manager. Due to these factors, he has been Industry. The Company, having high regard for her experience and insight, has appointed Ms. Naoko Mizukoshi determined to be an appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus as Outside Director, so that we may seek her supervision and advice from decisions from an objective and legal appointed as Director. viewpoint based on the above. Number of shares of the Company held: 18,021 shares Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Shigeru Naoki Kazumasa Kimura Director Director President, Railroad Products Company Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, (Oct. 21, 1958) Information Systems and Corporate Communication (Aug. 17, 1961) Jul. 2013 Plant Manager, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2011 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tsu Plant, Precision Equipment Company Jun. 2014 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2017 Vice President, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation Jun. 2012 General Manager, Manufacturing Department, Tarui Plant, Power Control Company of Aug. 2017 President, Railroad Products Company of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2018 Managing Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Apr. 2015 Representative Director and Vice President of Hyest Corporation (merged into Nabtesco Mar. 2019 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Corporation in Apr. 2016) Mar. 2016 General Manager, Production Management Department, Power Control Company of Reasons for appointment Nabtesco Corporation Mr. Shigeru Naoki has engaged in management of the Company as Director since March 2019, and has Mar. 2017 Executive Officer (to present) and President, Power Control Company of Nabtesco effectively fulfilled its roles and duties. After serving as Plant Manager of Tsu Plant of Precision Equipment Corporation Company, he currently serves as President of Railroad Products Company, and has experience and extensive Jan. 2019 Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information Systems and insight as the manager of a broad range of business areas at the Company. Due to these factors, he has been Corporate Communication of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) determined to be an appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus Mar. 2019 Director of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) appointed as Director. Number of shares of the Company held: 4,200 shares Reasons for appointment Mr. Kazumasa Kimura has engaged in management of the Company as Director since March 2019, and has * The average term of office of outside directors was 2.9 years as of March 24, 2020. effectively fulfilled its roles and duties. After serving as General Manager of Manufacturing Department, Precision * Number of shares held as of December 31, 2019. Equipment Company, General Manager of Production Management Department, Power Control Company and President of Power Control Company, he is currently in charge of Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information Systems as well as Corporate Communication, and has broad experience at the Company and extensive insight concerning production. Due to these factors, he has been determined to be an appropriate person to realize sustainable improvement in corporate value, and thus appointed as Director. 85 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Number of shares of the Company held: 1,679 shares Nabtesco Value Report 2019 86 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Management Team Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of March 24, 2020) Executive Officers (as of January 1, 2020) President Katsuhiro Teramoto Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Kenichi Kikuchi Isao Shimizu Senior Managing Executive Officer Shinji Juman Senior Managing Executive Officer, Component Solutions Segment President, Power Control Company, and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member in charge of Production Innovation (Dec. 18, 1959) (Sep. 3, 1960) Senior Managing Executive Officer Daisuke Hakoda President, Accessibility Innovations Company Managing Executive Officer Yukihiro Imuta General Manager, Business Transformation Division Managing Executive Officer Shigeru Naoki President, Railroad Products Company Apr. 2015 Senior Manager, Accounting & Finance Department of Nabtesco Corporation Apr. 2008 General Manager, Production Control Department, Gifu Plant, Aerospace Company of Managing Executive Officer Toshiaki Akita Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D Division Jul. 2017 General Manager, Business Auditing Department of Nabtesco Corporation Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Jul. 2010 General Manager, Materials Department, Gifu Plant, Aerospace Company of Nabtesco Managing Executive Officer Akiyoshi Kitamura President of Toyo Jidoki Co., Ltd Corporation Jul. 2011 General Manager, Supply Chain Management Department, Gifu Plant, Aerospace Company Managing Executive Officer Atsushi Habe President, Precision Equipment Company Number of shares of the Company held: 676 shares of Nabtesco Corporation Managing Executive Officer Shoji Ijuin Managing Executive Officer, General Administration, Human Resources and Legal & Compliance Jun. 2012 Plant Manager, Gifu Plant, Aerospace Company of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2016 General Manager, Production Innovation Division of Nabtesco Corporation Executive Officer Kiyoshi Ando Deputy Senior General Manager, Technology and R&D Division Mar. 2018 Executive Officer of Nabtesco Corporation Mar. 2020 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Executive Officer Norimasa Takagi President, Aerospace Company Executive Officer Kazumasa Kimura Executive Officer, Corporate Planning, Accounting & Finance, Information Systems and Corporate Communication Number of shares of the Company held: 600 shares Executive Officer Tadashige Eto President, Marine Control Systems Company Executive Officer Koji Nakano President, Shanghai Nabtesco Hydraulic Co., Ltd. Executive Officer Ataru Inoue President, Nabtesco Automotive Co., Ltd. Zenzo Sasaki Takemi Nagasaka Executive Officer Yukihiro Mizutani Responsible for Domestic Businesses, Accessibility Innovations Company Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) General Manager, Human Resources Department, Business Transformation Division and Executive Officer Seiji Takahashi (Nov 1, 1952) (Jan 24, 1956) President, Nabtesco Link Co., Ltd. Responsible for production, Plant Manager, Tsu Plant and Executive Officer Toshiya Fujiwara General Manager, General Administration Department, Precision Equipment Company, and Project Leader, Hamamatsu Plant construction project Apr. 1979 Appointed Public Prosecutor Oct. 1978 Joined Musashi Audit Corporation (currently Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) Apr. 2000 Deputy General Manager, Special Investigation Department of Tokyo District Public Aug. 1981 Joined Sony Corporation Executive Officer Michihito Suzuki Responsible for technology and Railroad Products Company Prosecutor’s Office Sep. 1986 Sony Corporation of America/Director, Tax Department Executive Officer Yasuhito Nakagawa General Manager, Production Innovation Division Sep. 2002 Manager, Facilities Division, Minister’s Secretariat of Ministry of Justice Apr. 2004 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Sony Financial Holdings Inc. Jan. 2004 General Manager, Public Safety Department and General Manager, Transportation Jun. 2004 General Manager, Accounting Department of Sony Corporation Executive Officer Koichi Miyaguchi Plant Manager, Kobe Plant, Railroad Products Company Department of Tokyo District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2004 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. (currently Sony Aug. 2006 Chief Public Prosecutor of Wakayama District Public Prosecutor’s Office Interactive Entertainment Inc.) Executive Officer Hiroshi Usui General Manager, Planning Department, Aerospace Company Jan. 2008 Public Prosecutor of Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2006 Auditor of Sony Music Entertainment (Japan) Inc. General Manager, Sales Management Department and Oct. 2008 Chief Public Prosecutor of Mito District Public Prosecutor’s Office Apr. 2007 Senior General Manager, Accounting Division of Sony Corporation Executive Officer Masakazu Kurita Jul. 2010 Chief Public Prosecutor of Sendai District Public Prosecutor’s Office Jun. 2010 Senior Vice President, Corporate Executive, Senior General Manager, Accounting Division Sales Business Development Department, Precision Equipment Company Aug. 2011 Chief Public Prosecutor of Kyoto District Public Prosecutor’s Office of Sony Corporation Nov. 2012 Retired as Public Prosecutor Jun. 2013 Director of Sony Financial Holdings Inc. Feb. 2013 Registered with Tokyo Bar Association Jun. 2015 Senior Advisor of Sony Corporation Joined Harumi-kyowa Law Offices (to present) Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Mar. Jun. 2016 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) Audit & Supervisory Board Member of DAIO Paper Corporation (to present) Management Structure (as of January 1, 2020) Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Number of shares of the Company held: 500 shares Business Auditing Department Corporate Planning Department Board of Directors Accounting & Finance Department Information System Department Nominating Committee Corporate Communication Department Tetsuro Hirai General Administration Department Remuneration Committee Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) Human Resources Department (Dec. 19, 1955) Compliance Committee Legal & Compliance Department President & CEO Management Committee Technology and R&D Division Strategic Business Development Department Apr. 1980 Joined Toyota Motor Co., Ltd. (current Toyota Motor Corporation) Quality Promotion Department Jan. 2006 General Manager, Vehicle Planning Department, Global Strategic Production Planning Division and Project General Manager of China Division of Toyota Motor Corporation Intellectual Property Department Jan. 2008 General Manager, Machinery Division, Motomachi Plant of Toyota Motor Corporation Nabtesco R&D Center Jun. 2010 Executive Officer of Toyota Tsusho Corporation Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer of Toyota Tsusho Corporation Executive Officers Committee Electric&Electronics Engineering Department Apr. 2018 Technical Supervisor of Toyota Tsusho Corporation (to present) Mar. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Independent) of Nabtesco Corporation (to present) CAE Engineering Department CSR Committee AM Engineering Department Number of shares of the Company held: 0 shares Quality & PL Committee System Development Department ESH Committee Risk Management Committee Manufacturing Engineering Department Production Innovation Division Procurement Planning Department Audit & Supervisory Board Environment & Safety Department Audit & Supervisory Board Members Business Transformation Division Component Solutions Segment Precision Equipment Company Power Control Company Accessibility Innovations Company Aerospace Company Railroad Products Company Marine Control Systems Company 87 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 88 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Financial Data (¥ Million) 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12*5 2016/12*6 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 Major Financial Indicators Net sales 126,249 169,303 198,527 179,543 202,292 219,657 187,000 244,968 282,422 294,626 289,808 Cost of sales 97,817 127,712 148,184 134,859 148,321 158,693 136,576 175,508 201,982 215,043 212,105 Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) 20,467 21,379 27,484 29,670 33,877 37,347 35,129 44,294 51,285 53,184 51,998 Operating income 7,964 20,212 22,858 15,013 20,092 23,615 15,294 25,982 29,468 21,889 25,320 Profit before tax 8,011 21,954 24,847 18,997 23,522 27,026 15,358 26,779 34,907 29,962 27,979 Income taxes expense 3,271 7,485 8,873 5,598 8,140 9,254 5,731 7,843 8,338 6,997 8,028 Non-controlling interests*1 722 1,080 1,217 129 404 25 (1,432) 330 1,423 1,935 2,020 Net income*2 4,017 13,387 14,756 13,269 14,978 17,746 11,059 18,606 25,146 21,029 17,931 At year-end Current assets 89,893 119,003 123,929 112,048 134,159 139,321 128,575 143,792 165,695 179,124 179,154 Property, plant and equipment 44,102 44,442 51,509 54,475 55,225 56,877 55,916 63,155 70,700 80,573 87,083 Total assets 149,480 180,729 208,092 203,056 233,984 245,992 233,381 256,973 301,557 328,568 344,558 Current liabilities 43,610 74,892 70,897 52,322 73,161 64,830 73,000 74,876 96,934 112,558 109,614 Interest-bearing debt 19,920 20,157 31,694 26,389 26,204 16,659 15,333 16,949 27,720 45,310 43,936 Equity 85,167 96,531 107,466 120,857 139,471 158,664 148,924 155,904 177,002 189,255 199,133 Equity capital*3 79,404 90,241 99,092 114,038 131,043 149,862 142,068 147,929 167,537 178,702 187,398 Cash flows Cash flows from operating activities 14,892 27,997 15,104 12,952 27,597 19,949 8,746 27,730 23,071 24,165 38,433 Cash flows from investing activities (6,155) (4,419) (27,464) (13,693) (8,064) (7,880) (4,886) (14,989) (20,186) (21,823) (20,086) Cash flows from financing activities (684) (1,849) 6,035 (10,090) (8,175) (15,888) (19,090) (4,808) (950) 8,396 (13,365) Per share of common stock (¥) Net income per share*4 31.70 105.91 116.74 104.57 117.95 140.24 88.85 150.64 203.85 169.65 144.50 Equity attributable to owners of the parent per share 628.29 713.77 784.12 894.86 1,035.68 1,184.17 1,150.41 1,193.79 1,355.72 1,438.64 1,508.53 Cash dividends per share 9.00 25.00 34.00 34.00 38.00 44.00 44.00 50.00 72.00 73.00 73.00 Major management indicators (%) Operating income margin 6.3 11.9 11.5 8.4 9.9 10.8 8.2 10.6 10.4 7.4 8.7 Return on assets (ROA) 2.7 8.1 7.6 6.5 6.9 7.4 4.6 7.6 9.0 6.7 5.3 Return on equity (ROE) 5.2 15.8 15.6 12.5 12.2 12.6 7.6 13.0 15.9 12.1 9.8 Payout ratio 28.4 23.6 29.1 32.5 32.2 31.4 49.5 35.1 35.3 43.0 50.5 Equity ratio 53.1 49.9 47.6 56.2 56.0 60.9 60.9 57.6 55.6 54.4 54.4 *1 Net income or net loss attributable to non-controlling interests *2 Net income attributable to shareholders of the parent company *3 Equity attributable to owners of the parent *4 Total basic earnings per share *5 Due to the change of the accounting closing date of fiscal year since FY2015/12, the results for FY2015/12 are calculated on a basis of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for the overseas consolidated subsidiaries. *6 Adopted IFRS from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Figures for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 have been restated in IFRS terms. 89 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 90 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Financial Data (¥ Million) (¥ Million) As of December 31, As of December 31, FY2018 FY2019 Consolidated Balance Sheets 2018 2019 Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss Assets Net sales 294,626 289,808 Current assets Cost of sales (215,043) (212,105) Cash and cash equivalents 54,039 58,686 Gross profit 79,583 77,703 Trade receivables 74,952 69,175 1,650 1,000 Other income 1,582 1,795 Contract assets Other receivables 1,643 1,300 Selling, general and administrative expenses (53,184) (51,998) Inventories 43,592 41,257 Other expenses (6,093) (2,180) Other financial assets 280 4,752 Operating income 21,889 25,320 Other current assets 2,969 2,984 Finance income 366 766 Total current assets 179,124 179,154 Finance costs (1,473) (971) Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 80,573 87,083 Equity in earnings of affiliates 9,181 2,864 Intangible assets 5,076 5,127 Profit before tax 29,962 27,979 Right-of-use assets — 9,004 Income tax expense (6,997) (8,028) Goodwill 15,512 14,161 Net income 22,965 19,951 Investment property 5,382 3,928 Investments accounted for using the equity method 29,641 31,952 Other financial assets 9,558 11,210 Net income attributable to Deferred tax assets 2,012 1,868 Owners of the parent 21,029 17,931 Other non-current assets 1,690 1,072 Non-controlling interests 1,935 2,020 Total non-current assets 149,443 165,404 22,965 19,951 Net income Total assets 328,568 344,558 Liabilities and equity Net income per share Liabilities Basic earnings per share (¥) 169.65 144.50 Current liabilities Trade payables 50,297 45,021 Diluted earnings per share (¥) 169.42 144.42 Contract liabilities 5,232 5,579 Bonds and borrowings 34,067 30,719 Other payables 11,809 14,405 Income taxes payable 3,479 4,040 Provisions 1,625 1,162 Lease liabilities — 2,236 Other financial liabilities — 13 Other current liabilities 6,048 6,439 Total current liabilities 112,558 109,614 Non-current liabilities Bonds and borrowings 11,243 13,217 Lease liabilities — 6,568 Liabilities concerning retirement benefit 9,142 9,569 Deferred tax liabilities 4,881 4,540 Other non-current liabilities 1,490 1,916 Total non-current liabilities 26,755 35,810 Total liabilities 139,313 145,424 Equity Capital stock 10,000 10,000 Share premium 15,096 14,932 Retained earnings 155,133 163,794 Treasury shares (2,903) (2,536) Other components of equity 1,377 1,208 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 178,702 187,398 Non-controlling interests 10,553 11,735 Total equity 189,255 199,133 Total liabilities and equity 328,568 344,558 91 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 92 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Financial Data (¥ Million) (¥ Million) FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Profit for the year 22,965 19,951 Cash flows from operating activities Other comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year 22,965 19,951 Depreciation and amortization 10,011 13,093 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Impairment losses 5,223 1,268 Remeasurement of net defined benefit liabilities (assets) (18) (189) Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit assets and liabilities 180 151 Net changes in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (16) 288 Interest and dividends income (259) (302) Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method 677 328 Interest expenses 124 269 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 643 427 Share of (profit) loss of investments accounted for using the equity method (9,181) (2,864) Loss (gain) on sale and disposal of property, plant and equipment 185 400 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Income tax expense 6,997 8,028 Exchange differences on foreign operations (2,628) (919) Decrease (increase) in trade receivables (1,496) 5,972 Total items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (2,628) (919) Decrease (increase) in inventories (4,454) 2,015 Total other comprehensive income after taxes (1,984) (492) Increase (decrease) in trade payables 22 (4,888) 20,980 19,459 Others 104 2,133 Total comprehensive income for the year Sub-total 30,421 45,226 Interest and dividends received 1,190 1,230 Comprehensive income attributable to Interest paid (112) (256) Owners of the parent 19,552 17,602 Income tax paid (7,335) (7,767) Non-controlling interests 1,428 1,856 Net cash provided by operating activities 24,165 38,433 Total comprehensive income for the year 20,980 19,459 Cash flows from investing activities Decrease (increase) in time deposits (73) (4,535) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (20,650) (13,743) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 168 206 Purchase of intangible assets (840) (1,020) Purchase of share options (626) — Others 198 (994) Net cash used in investing activities (21,823) (20,086) Cash flows from financing activities Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 18,023 (3,106) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 130 2,152 Repayment of long-term borrowings (249) (232) Payments of lease liabilities — (2,477) Net decrease (increase) in treasury stock 17 42 Dividends paid (9,184) (9,071) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (340) (674) Net cash used in financing activities 8,396 (13,365) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 10,739 4,982 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 44,121 54,039 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (821) (335) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 54,039 58,686 93 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 94 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Glossary Term Meaning Term Meaning An actuator is a device that converts input energy into mechanical motion. An actuator is used with a drive unit, such as a motor An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) is generally a company that manufactures products to be sold under the brands of Actuator or an engine, and peripheral motion control devices. Generally, an actuator converts electrical energy into motion, but there are OEM other companies. For Nabtesco, however, OEM means to manufacture and sell a component to be used in a new product of a also various other types of actuators including those that convert hydraulic/pneumatic pressure or magnetic force into motion. customer. An automated guided vehicle (AGV) is a type of self-driving vehicle and generally means a self-running cart. It runs along QCD refers to the following three important elements for manufacturing: quality (Q), cost (C) and delivery (D). QCDS means QCD the magnetic guidance of a magnetic tape and other guide paths installed on the floor. AGVs are widely used mainly at QCD(S) plus service (S). Nabtesco is working to improve its QCDS levels by promoting automation, increasing its production management manufacturing sites for the transportation of materials, components and finished products. The application of AGVs has recently efficiency, enhancing its supply chain management and streamlining its logistics operations. AGV been expanded to other facilities including hospitals, where AGVs are used to transport meals. Nabtesco’s RVW series drive unit is used in AGVs and others. We provide a solution through this unit, into which we have The Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) was established as an NGO named the “Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC)” integrated the precision reduction gear RV, a specially designed omnidirectional Mecanum wheel and a motor. It is compact but in 2004, with a view to set the industry’s norms to deal with social, environmental and ethical issues faced across its supply provides a high load capacity and can move omnidirectionally to reduce the turning radius. RBA (Formerly EICC) chains. Subsequently, companies engaged in other industries, including carmakers and aircraft manufacturers to which electronic components were supplied, began to participate in the NGO, enabling it to implement a wider range of initiatives to improve the Additive manufacturing (AM) refers to a method used to deposit materials into products in layers by using a 3D printer and sustainability of supply chains as a whole. other devices. The method is attracting a great deal of attention as a promising tool to reduce the time required for product development as well as development costs. CMET Inc., one of the Nabtesco Group companies, manufactures and sells 3D ROIC is an abbreviation for Return on Invested Capital. An ROIC tree is a tree-structured diagram that shows the elements of AM printers. It provides an AM solution that is useful for both development and production by supplying Stereolithography and Sand ROIC. You can improve ROIC by improving the elements laid out in the tree structure, and the ROIC tree thus provides a method Casting Meister additive manufacturing systems. These products and know-how are being utilized also within the Nabtesco to improve ROIC. Group. For higher profitability and more efficient use of its operating assets, Nabtesco is working to achieve its improvement ROIC tree targets such as the following by breaking them down into the daily tasks to be fulfilled on-site by the business departments: CASE is an acronym coined from the initial letters of four words: Connected, Autonomous, Shared/Service, and Electric. It is improve the fixed assets turnover, reduce the inventory/receivables turnover period in terms of days, and optimize the payment CASE said that the always-on connection of automobiles to the Internet will enable the collection of big data about the situations of conditions. Meanwhile, the administrative departments carefully manage the financial affairs, including managing interestautomobiles and the surrounding roads, thereby accelerating reforms to the automobile industry. bearing debts and making growth investment and shareholders’ return compatible, and are striving to improve the company’s capital efficiency. CDP is an NGO that collects and evaluates information about companies’ environmental measures. The organization is operating a global information disclosure system to help investors, companies, nations, regions and cities manage their environmental Robotic process automation (RPA) represents a type of business process automation technology. RPA helps improve operational impact. Through CDP, companies that account for at least 50% of the world’s total market value are disclosing their RPA CDP efficiency by automating manual operations, such as the manual input of information into computers. environmental data, including that related to climate change. Nabtesco has been disclosing its strategies to deal with climate change and its greenhouse gas emission data through CDP For the promotion of CSR-oriented procurement across our supply chain, we ask each supplier to complete a self-assessment since FY2010 and been included in the CDP’s Climate Change A list for four years in a row since 2016. SAQ by suppliers questionnaire (SAQ), which is intended to increase their awareness of our procurement policy and help them make improvements based on the assessment results. Through a corporate venture capital (CVC) fund, a company invests in companies that will generate synergy effects with its own business and in ventures in new business fields. The Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative helps companies set their greenhouse gas emissions targets on a mediumto CVC Nabtesco established Nabtesco Technology Ventures AG in Zurich, Switzerland as a company to lead its CVC activities in long-term basis toward the attainment of the “two-degree target” (hold the “increase in the global average temperature to 2018. At the same time, we built a strategic partnership with Emerald Technology Ventures, which has 20 years of experience in well below two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels”) upheld under the Paris Agreement, which is an international corporate venturing and a prominent profile in Western countries, thereby accelerating our collaboration with start-up companies. SBT agreement to curb climate change and came into force in 2016. Companies have their CO2 emissions reduction targets examined and certified under the SBT initiative, and Nabtesco became the eighth Japanese company to have its long-term CO2 The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) were developed jointly by S&P Dow Jones Indices of the United States and RobecoSAM emissions target certified under it. of Switzerland. Candidate companies for the DJSI are selected annually based on an assessment of their economic, environmental DJSI and social performance, with the stocks of those found to be implementing comprehensive and advanced measures and expected The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the international goals to be attained by 2030 to make the world a better place. to achieve sustainable growth on a long-term basis included in the indices. Nabtesco has been included in the DJSI World Index The SDGs were included in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted at the UN summit held in September 2015. for three straight years since 2016 and is thus rated highly on a global basis. The SDGs are composed of 17 goals and 169 targets, with a commitment to “Leave no one behind.” SDGs Nabtesco will proactively implement measures for the attainment of the SDGs. Of the 17 goals comprising the SDGs, we are Energy creation means to produce energy internally through photovoltaic power generation and by using fuel cells in addition to particularly focusing on those closely related to our materiality (material CSR issues) and will implement measures for the issues Energy creation promoting energy conservation. with a view to contributing to the creation of a sustainable society. Factory automation (FA) means to automate a series of work processes implemented at a plant, including production and Systematization means to build a system by combining a product with peripheral elements such as engineering and other services FA Systematization shipment, by using robots, sensors and information systems. for the provision of multifaceted value (and a solution). Intellectual Property (IP) Landscape refers to an analysis method and a management strategy that makes use of intellectual The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was created in December 2015 by the Financial Stability Board property-related market information. Nabtesco analyzes IP information across a global market to gain insights into customer (FSB). It is implementing an international initiative to provide a framework for the disclosure of climate change-related financial IP Landscape TCFD needs, technological trends and the situations of competitors in a multifaceted manner. Based on these insights, we search for information, particularly the risks and opportunities posed by climate change, thereby helping investors and others to make new markets and new application areas, business partnership opportunities, M&A candidates and others. appropriate decisions. ISO stands for International Organization for Standardization, which is a Swiss-based non-profit organization that sets The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a global initiative launched at the UN headquarters in 2000. A range of organizations, international industrial standards. The standards set by ISO include famous standards such as ISO 9001 for quality management United Nations Global mainly companies, demonstrate their leadership in a responsible and creative manner and take actions as good citizens for and ISO 14001 for environmental management. The organization also released ISO 26000 on social responsibility as a guidance Compact sustainable growth through this initiative, which states 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment and ISO 26000 standard to be followed by both the public and private sectors in 2010, with 99 countries participating in the process to set anti-corruption. Nabtesco signed the UNGC in 2014 and is a member of the Global Compact Network Japan (GCNJ). this international standard. ISO 26000 has seven core subjects: organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. Third-party logistics (abbreviated as “3PL”) in logistics operations means the outsourcing of logistics functions to third-party 3PL companies. By outsourcing the whole or a part of logistics operations to professional third-party companies, you can utilize To foster after-sale business, Nabtesco provides the maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) service widely across its Transport external resources to increase the efficiency of your logistics activities. Solutions, Accessibility Solutions and Manufacturing Solutions segments. By providing more functions that contribute to the MRO preventive maintenance of equipment in the service, we are helping customers use our products with more safety and a greater 5S stands for seiri (sort), seiton (set in order), seiso (shine), seiketsu (standardize), and shitsuke (sustain). It refers to an activity sense of security and comfort. 5S (activity) mainly conducted at manufacturing sites to reduce unnecessary things, excessive inventory and accidents for higher QCD performance. The Nabtesco Energy Management System (NEMS) is an environmental management system used by the company that makes NEMS use of IT. NEMS helps us collect environmental information, list energy-saving measures and monitor the consumption of energy in real time. We are using this system to execute a PDCA cycle in our energy conservation activities. 95 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 96 Value Creation Path Dialogue with Investors Dialogues with Business Market Dialogues with Society Data Section Corporate Profile Disclosure Policy Corporate Profile (as of December 31, 2019) Breakdown of Shareholding by Investor Type Boundary of the Report Participation in External Initiatives and External (%) Nabtesco Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries Evaluation 0 20 40 60 80 100 The Nabtesco Group announced our support for and signed Company Name Nabtesco Corporation This report covers activities conducted by Nabtesco the United Nations Global Compact in April 2014, thereby Established September 29, 2003 Mar. 2004 29.37 41.68 21.80 Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. However, a further fostering our CSR-oriented management. Our Address 7-9, Hirakawa-cho 2-chome, 0.10 7.05 portion of the nonfinancial data pertains to only Nabtesco long-term greenhouse gas emission targets have been Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo 102-0093, Japan Mar. 2015 20.23 10.49 8.87 59.59 Corporation. officially approved by the Science Based Targets (SBT) TEL +81-3-5213-1133 Initiative. 0.82 FAX +81-3-5213-1171 Period Covered Capital ¥10 Billion Dec. 2015 20.07 11.09 12.02 56.04 January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 Number of Issued 125,133,799 0.78 Shares In light of the importance of providing up-to-date Dec. 2016 22.81 12.62 9.80 54.01 Minimum Trading 100 information, some activities conducted after the period are Unit All of our issued shares are 0.76 also reported. common stock with a minimum Dec. 2017 26.06 12.56 8.80 51.83 The Nabtesco Group’s CSR initiatives are recognized on an trading unit of 100 shares. 0.75 Date of Publication international level, which is evident by the fact that Employees Non-consolidated 2,323 Published in July 2020 (Published annually) Nabtesco is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Consolidated 7,736 Dec. 2018 20.82 12.60 12.06 48.01 Index, FTSE4Good, S&P/JPX CARBON EFFICIENT INDEX and Consolidated 14 (excl. 4 equity method affiliates) 6.51 Performance Data all ESG indices adopted by the GPIF. In addition, we have In Japan Dec. 2019 23.21 12.53 10.34 48.09 Nabtesco has changed the accounting closing date of the obtained the highest evaluations on environmental Companies Overseas 48 (excl. 5 equity method affiliates) 5.83 fiscal year from March 31 to December 31 since FY2015. In measures from the CDP in three different fields. Financial instruments business operators Financial institutions this report, the results for FY2015 are calculated on a basis Other corporations Individuals, etc. Overseas investors of 9 months for Nabtesco Corporation and the other consolidated subsidiaries in Japan, and 12 months for overseas consolidated subsidiaries. Total Shareholder Return (TSR) for the Past 10 Years Nabtesco has also applied the International Financial Nabtesco TOPIX TOPIX Machinery Reporting Standards (IFRS) to its accounting since FY2017. 600 For comparison with the results for FY2017, the results for FY2016 were also recalculated in line with the IFRS. 500 Note about the Forecasts Forecasts made in this report about numerical figures and 400 measures for the future are based on currently available information and on certain judgments and assumptions 300 that Nabtesco considers reasonable. Actual results may vary significantly from such forecasts due to a variety of 200 important factors, including the economic situations of the company’s major markets in and outside Japan and 100 changes in the foreign exchange market. 0 ec ay ct ar Third-Party Assurance ug /Ja n ne ov pr ept eb /Ju ly ec ay ct ar ug n /Ja ne ov pr ep t eb /Ju ly ec 09 /D 10 /M 10 /O 11 /M 11 /A 12 12 /Ju 12 /N 13 /A 13 /S /F 14 14 14 /D /M 15 15 /O 16 /M 16 /A 17 /Ju 17 17 /N 18 /A /S 18 19 /F 19 /D 19 Our environmental and social data is examined by Lloyd’s 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Register Quality Assurance Limited with a view to ensuring the reliability of the calculated data. • Return On Investment (ROI) as of December 31, 2019 Guidelines Referenced Past one year Annualized return Past three years Past five years Cumulative return Annualized return Cumulative return Annualized return Cumulative return Annualized return Past 10 years • International Integrated Reporting Framework published by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Nabtesco 39.3% 28.1% 8.6% 22.5% 4.1% 255.0% 13.5% • WICI Intangible Reporting Framework published by the World Intellectual Capital/Assets Initiative (WICI) TOPIX TOPIX Machinery 18.1% 25.4% 21.3% 21.6% 6.7% 6.7% 36.4% 29.2% 6.4% 5.3% 135.2% 156.3% 8.9% 9.9% • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (Note 1) Total shareholder return (TSR) refers to total investment return for shareholders by combining capital gains and dividends. (Note 2) The above graphs show ROI as of December 31, 2019 in case where investments were made on December 31, 2009. As for the data on Nabtesco shares, investment results • ISO26000 (International standard on the social responsibilities of organizations) calculated based on the stock prices by adding dividends (on the assumption that dividends will not be reinvested) have been indexed by setting the amount of investments as of December 31, 2009 as 100. TOPIX and TOPIX Machinery have also been indexed in a similar manner by using data that included dividends. (Note 3) The above chart indicates ROI (dividend-included) as of December 31, 2019 based on the cumulative return and the annualized return in cases where investments were made at • Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value respective timing during the period between one year ago (on December 31, 2018) and 10 years ago (on December 31, 2009). Creation, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan (Note 4) Figures of annualized return indicate annual average rates of return which are annualized using geometric average of ROI during the applicable period. (Source) Prepared by the Nabtesco Group based on the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s monthly closing stock prices and other data 97 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 Nabtesco Value Report 2019 98
