UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle 1 Principle 10 Businesses should Businesses should work support and respect the against corruption in all protection of internatioits forms, including nally proclaimed human extortion and bribery. rights; and Principle 2 Principle 9 make sure that they are encourage the develop10 1 not complicit in human rights abuses. ment and diffusion of environmentally friendly titechnologies. An tion Hu u p Streams of steady, safe, uninterrupted electric flow keep us rr ma 2 plugged in, on line, up and running. This would be not be 9 Co n Ri g possible without electric sensors. LEM products help encourage hts renewable energy and provide continuous power supply, to ensure the connectedness that improves our quality of life. o n m e nt Principle 8 Principle 3 Envir undertake initiatives Businesses should LEM develops sensors that meet the most demanding standards to promote greater 8 3 uphold the freedom of accuracy and safety and engineers a range of compact environmental of association and the responsibility; and effective recognition of semiconductor-based sensing solutions. A sustainable future the right to collective depends on sensors for smart grids, microturbines, wind and bargaining; solar power for affordable and clean energy. ar ds n d ta Sensor solutions play a role in our everyday lives: in trains, 7 o ur s 4 Lab trams, buses, conventional cars, green cars, elevators. With our Principle 4 Principle 7 strong heritage of nearly 50 years as market leaders, LEM Businesses should the elimination of all forms of forced is at the forefront of best-in-class and new sensors for mobility support a precautionary 6 5 and compulsory labour; applications that provide us with safe, reliable motion. approach to environmental challenges; Principle 5 Principle 6 the effective abolition the elimination of of child labour; and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 3 UN Global Compact 2020 Letter from the CEO For 2021, we are pleased to reconfirm As an example, our electric sensors are used in To ensure constant monitoring of our performance solar applications, windmills, trains, electric and in these domains, we ask an external company to that LEM fully supports the Ten hybrid vehicles. Our other applications help to conduct an anonymous employee engagement Principles of the United Nations control and reduce the amount of electric energy survey every two years. Questions range from labor Global Compact. used. Moreover, we do our best to minimize the practices to well-being or integrity. In 2020, 93% of amount of raw material by reducing our products' our employees worldwide participated in the survey, size while further avoiding unnecessary emissions which showed excellent results again, clearly above Sustainable development and enviby moving LEM's factories closer to our final average and better than two years ago. In particular, ronmental responsibility – as covered markets. scores regarding work-life balance and working environment increased compared to 2018. by UN Global Compact principles 7, 8, This sustainable vision is also reflected in our new and 9 – are at the heart of our activiglobal HQ, currently under construction in Geneva, This year, we decided to go one step further and ty. At LEM, we strive to develop Switzerland. We have set high environmental goals formalize measures to improve the survey's results. for the building, which we aim to reach by further We assigned a human resource specialist to each products that are key to reducing reducing our footprint, including energy and water manager, to develop a clear action plan to improve both energy consumption and CO2 consumption, and waste production. We also plan employee satisfaction and well-being where required. emissions. With our 1,500 employees to install solar panels and charging stations for electric cars, to mention a few examples. At LEM, we share strong values and are committed across 15 countries, we work at the to hiring people based on their talent. We support forefront of megatrends such as Furthermore, the new ways of working imposed by each of our employees in their professional developrenewable energy, mobility, automathe current health care situation have helped raise ment. We are also committed to increasing diversity awareness across our offices. We are committed to amongst our ranks. We are notably very proud to tion, and digitalization. We foster further diminishing our business trips and promothave several women and various nationalities sustainable energy sources and ing home office for our employees when possible. represented amongst our managers and Executive responsible consumption. Together, Committee. Moreover, LEM's Chief Human Resources Finally, in 2020, we have taken another decisive Officer has recently been appointed to the Executive we develop innovative solutions to step on our sustainable journey by harmonizing and Committee. This is a crucial appointment to ensure help our customers and society formalizing clear ESG objectives for the group. the continuity of our best practices and keep our accelerate the transition towards a Our 11 KPIs cover themes such as Environment & employees' well-being at the center of our business. Sustainability, Society, and Governance that can be more sustainable future. found at the end of this report. In light of our strong commitment towards a better and more sustainable future, we look forward to Concerning principles 1 to 6 of the UN Global further reinforcing our adherence to the Ten PrinciCompact, we are committed to fostering a culture ples of the United Nations Global Compact in 2021. that encourages personal development, creativity, teamwork, and innovation. Diversity, inclusion, integrity, and equality are essential and shared values which are at the core of our business and Sincerely yours, come naturally to our people. Frank Rehfeld Chief Executive Officer, December 2020 UN Global Compact 2020 4 5 UN Global Compact 2020 UN Global Compact 2020 6 7 UN Global Compact 2020 Responsibility Sustainable and ethical practices Environmental standards ESG performance Social create long-term benefits for The trends to sustainable energy sources and electromobility are two of LEM’s key growth drivers. Our With our sensors for energy efficient applications, we contribute to a more sustainable and responsible It is our goal to foster a culture that encourages professional development, equal and fair treatment, and society and business longevity. accurate sensing solutions give our customers a world. Equally, we recognize the importance to make that nourishes and empowers every individual. We We operate within a clear competitive edge in energy management solutions. For example, LEM sensors’ high accuracy directly a meaningful contribution within our organization and to keep score of our environmental, social, and govwant to be a company where every employee can feel safe to be creative, innovative, and thrive with value system governed by our impacts the battery pack size of an electric or hyernance (ESG) performance. This is why we started their personal talents. Code of Conduct. brid-electric car, and hence improves car weight and energy consumption. collecting key performance indicator (KPI) data since 2015. Our ambition is to continually develop our interWe make sure that our employees are not subject to nal capabilities and sustainability initiatives, and to discrimination based on characteristics other than We believe that sustainable and ethical practices All our production sites are ISO 14001:2015 certified, report transparently on our progress. inherent factors required for the job. In the financial create long-term value for all key stakeholders in soan environmental certification which we renew regyear 2019/2020, our Geneva site was audited for its ciety and assure the longevity of businesses. Our ularly.Our production activities are compliant with Environmental gender pay gap confi rming that women and men success stems from operating within a clear value REACH (European Regulation for Registration, EvaluWe measure our environmental footprint through the earn the same salary for equivalent positions. To system, following best practice principles and stanation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), consumption of power, water, and petrol, the CO2 help our talent prosper, we encourage them to seek dards, together with the close monitoring of environRoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) as well emissions from air freight, continuous compliance professional development. We executed 908 training mental, social and governance (ESG) key perforas conflict minerals reporting and obligations. LEM with ISO 14001, and the number of supplier audits days in 2019, which is more than double that of 2015. mance indicators (KPI). regularly publishes updates to its standards and reconducted. porting on our website. All LEM manufacturing sites In light of Covid-19, our site in Beijing donated LEM Code of Conduct apply waste sorting and treatment solutions. For Power, water, and petrol consumption are measured 165,000 RMB to finance epidemic prevention mateThe LEM Code of Conduct (CoC) is our key docueach new product, we develop an environmental by the total numbers of sensors sold, as all of them rial for a hospital in Wuhan. Half of the donation came ment. It reflects the United Nations Global Compact, profile before launch, which includes recyclability are directly output related. Petrol is used for our from our employees and half from the company. global environmental standards and our core values. rate and material saving compared to previous or company cars globally, mainly by our sales teams, It is a binding document for employees and business equivalent models. and also to back generators during power shortages Governance partners, such as suppliers and consultants, whose in China. We disclose CO2 emissions from air freight, We want our employees to act based on our CoC to compliance we regularly audit. Every LEM employee as this is the main mode of transportation to get our make sure that our values are well understood across receives e-learning training on the CoC, including inproducts to our customers. all sites, cultures, and positions. This is why we enstructions and case studies, and signs it. LEM Code of Conduct sure all employees sign the CoC upon their arrival Our 4 production sites comply with the ISO 14001 and require them to take an e-learning. The test was Ethics Human rights Business practices United Nations Global Compact standard. Every year, we audit suppliers based on launched in mid-2017, is based on 12 questions and Since 2006 we adhere to the Ten Principles of the their ESG performance and make sure that our ESG has to be retaken every three years. For the year United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact, which are driving principles are well cascaded across our supply chain; 2019, 84% of our employees with more than six – UN Sustainable Development Goals global action to achieve the Sustainable Developthis is our standard procedure before we accept a months at LEM have taken this test. Environmental standards ment Goals by 2030. These principles, which relate new supplier. – Preserving the environment to human rights, labor, environment and anticorrup– Protecting human health tion, are embedded in every aspect of LEM, from our Since 2015, the KPIs for supplier audits, freight emisstrategy to our actions. As we do every year, in 2020 – Utilizing natural resources rationally sions, and petrol and water consumption have Our sensors for energy efficient we provided an update on our progress to the United Nations which is available on our website. In addishown a positive development and we maintain the ISO 14001 certification due to consistent processes. applications contribute to a more tion, we follow the best practice policies of the Unisustainable world. We continually versal Declaration of Human Rights and the UK Bribery Act. develop our ESG initiatives and report transparently on our progress. UN Global Compact 2020 8 9 UN Global Compact 2020 Responsibility ESG Key Performance Indicators 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 vs 2015 Environmental Power consumption (kWh)/total numbers of sensors sold 0.152 0.149 0.141 0.144 0.156 +3% Water usage (L)/total numbers of sensors sold 0.65 0.72 0.63 0.49 0.51 –22% Petrol usage (g)/total numbers of sensors sold 1.25 1.21 0.89 0.85 0.90 –28% Freight emissions in tons of CO2 N/A N/A N/A 7’618 7’577 (vs 2018) –1% Production sites with ISO 14001 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Number of supplier audits 38 36 55 46 44 +16% Social Discrepancy between salaries of men and women* N/A N/A N/A N/A 99.7% Number of training days by external companies 287 410 571 366 908 +217% Governance Code of Conduct signed by our employees 93% 89% 93% 96% 97% +5% % of employees trained on the Code of Conduct N/A N/A N/A 63% 84% (vs 2018) +33% All years are 12 month calendar periods *100% = no discrepancy, Geneva site only UN Global Compact 2020 10 Code of Conduct We are committed to aligning our Human rights 11. We disclose to LEM any situation that may 18. Any queries concerning these principles, or 1. We support and respect the protection of appear as a conflict of interest and, when reports on their violation, need to be addressed operations and strategies with the internationally proclaimed human rights and concerned, refrain from any intervention to line managers or the Human Resources universally accepted United Nations make sure that we are not complicit in human between LEM and concerned partners. department of your workplace or escalated to Global Compact principles in the rights abuses.* 12. As a publicly listed company, LEM informs its corporate via speakup@lem.com. Employees 2. We provide safe & healthy working conditions.* employees, shareholders, the media and reporting a violation in good faith do not have areas of human rights, labor, environ3. We commit to protect our employees and financial analysts as well as other target groups to expect any negative consequences. Such ment and anti-corruption. By doing colleagues against harassment in the workin a comprehensive and transparent manner reports shall be treated with the appropriate so, we can help ensure that markets, place, in particular against any kind of sexual, and on the basis of the principle of equal confidentiality and anonymity. We do not commerce, technology and finance physical or psychological abuse.* treatment. We acknowledge that the Chairman prohibit anonymous reports, but in order to of the Board, CEO and CFO are LEM's exclusive guarantee adequate investigation, we clearly advance in ways that benefit econoLabor communication channel to the general public / encourage identifiable reports. mies and societies everywhere. 4. We uphold the freedom of association and the financial community and will inform the CFO 19. We monitor and review procedures and make effective recognition of the right to collective about any potentially price-sensitive fact in improvements where necessary. bargaining.* order for LEM to comply with its ad-hoc 20. Any employee who violates the law or any of Scope: This code applies to all stake5. We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced disclosure obligations. the company's policies or this Code of Conduct holders of LEM: employees including and compulsory labor and the effective 13. We treat confidential information of all our is subject to disciplinary action including and temporary workers & managers; abolition of child labor.* stakeholders with the utmost care. We do not up to termination of employment. 6. We uphold the elimination of discrimination in pass on any confidential information, even after business partners, including supplirespect of employment and occupation.* having left the company. We protect our data ers, subcontractors, consultants, 7. We undertake not to work under the influence and those of our stakeholders. distributors, agents and other third of any substance that could impair our judg14. We must not benefit from, or enable others to ment or interfere with our effective and benefit from, trading in securities or stocks For the Board of Directors parties associated with us. responsible professional performance, in order based on material non-public information. Geneva, to protect our own safety as well as that of our colleagues and communities. Application of this Code of Conduct ** LEM and its employees use the following Andreas Hürlimann Environment measures to apply this Code of Conduct, and Chairman 8. We support a precautionary approach to we recommend our business partners to apply environmental challenges, we undertake similar measures. initiatives to promote greater environmental 15. We foster a culture within the organization in responsibility and we encourage the developwhich misconduct is never acceptable. All our ment and diffusion of environmentally friendly employees, including our top-level managetechnologies. * ment, are constantly committed to preventing any misconduct of our stakeholders. Business practices 16. We assess the nature and extent of our 9. We commit to be in compliance with all relevant exposure to potential external and internal risks. laws and other applicable standards. This assessment is periodic, informed and 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, documented. including extortion and bribery.* 17. We apply due diligence procedures, taking a We do not offer, promise, grant, accept, proportionale and risk based approach in order tolerate, knowingly benefit from or demand any to mitigate identified risks. We seek to ensure bribes, gifts or other improper advantages that our policies and procedures are embedded which might be construed as influence and understood throughout the organization enhancing. lf it is customary in a cultural through internal and external communication, environment to exchange gifts, these shall be including training. We count on you, our of a symbolic nature. employees, to apply our principles. * As defined in the UN Global Compact and specified in the UN Supplier Code of Conduct ** As defined by UK Bribery Act UN Global Compact 2020 12 13 UN Global Compact 2020 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2020 LEM HOLDING SA Chemin des Aulx 8 1228 Plan-les-Ouates Geneva, Switzerland www.lem.com
