Annual Report 2019 4 The year in review 14 Sustainability 26 Companies overview Contents Ratos Financial statements This is Ratos’s world 2 Financial statements – Contents 41 The year in review 4 Directors’ Report 42 CEO’s comments 6 Chairman’s letter 46 Development model 9 Corporate Governance Report 47 Targets 12 Board of Directors and CEO 54 Sustainability 14 Consolidated income statement 56 Ratos share data 24 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 56 Consolidated statement of financial position 57 Ratos’s companies Consolidated statement of changes in equity 58 Companies overview 26 Consolidated statement of cash flows 59 Aibel 28 Parent company income statement 60 airteam 29 Parent company statement of comprehensive income 60 Bisnode 30 Parent company balance sheet 61 Diab 31 Parent company statement of changes in equity 62 HENT 32 Parent company cash flow statement 63 HL Display 33 Index to the notes 64 Kvdbil 34 Notes to the financial statements 65 LEDiL 35 Auditor’s report 115 Oase Outdoors 36 Plantasjen 37 Additional information Speed Group 38 Additional information – Contents 119 TFS 39 Detailed information on sustainability 120 GRI Index 123 Sustainability Report 125 Five-year summary, Group 126 This is Ratos’s Annual and Sustainability Report for 2019. The formal Annual Report Alternative performance measures 127 comprises pages 42–114. The Sustainability Report on pages 9–11, 14–23, 28–39, 120–124 is Ratos’s statutory sustainability report, as required by the Swedish Annual Definitions 128 Accounts Act. The Sustainability Report also serves as our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. Shareholder information 129 Ratos’s business concept is to develop mid-sized companies headquartered in the Nordics that are or can become market leaders. Ratos is a business group that enables independent mid-sized ­companies to excel by being part of something larger. People, l­ eadership, culture and values are key focus areas for Ratos. Everything we do is based on Ratos’s core values: Simplicity, Speed in Execution and It’s All About People. This is Ratos’s world 12,200 employees 12 companies in three business areas 38 SEK billion in sales 1.8 SEK billion in EBITA 2 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 This is Ratos’s world Three business areas Adjusted for the size of Ratos’s holding, excl. IFRS 16. Ratos’s 12 companies are divided into three business areas. Ratos has chosen to present its companies and business areas, from page 3 to page 27, based on the size of Ratos’s holding for each company. Construction Consumer Industry & Services & Technology Sales: SEK 12,236m Sales: SEK 7,657m Sales: SEK 4,582m Reported growth: 23% Reported growth: 3% Reported growth: 12% EBITA: SEK 302m EBITA: SEK 427m EBITA: SEK 344m EBITA margin: 2.5% EBITA margin: 5.6% EBITA margin: 7.5% Aibel Bisnode Diab Supplier of offshore-based One of Europe’s largest data and Develops, produces and sells ­solutions and maintenance for analysis companies core materials for sandwich the European energy sector ­composite structures Kvdbil airteam Independent online marketplace HL Display Energy-efficient ventilation offering testing, valuation and Store solutions for improved ­solutions broker services for second-hand ­customer experience, profitvehicles ability and sustainability HENT Construction company within Oase Outdoors LEDiL public and commercial real Develops, designs and produces Designs, develops and sells estate innovative camping and outdoor ­secondary optics to lighting equipment ­manufacturers Speed Group Services for logistics and Plantasjen TFS warehouse management as well Chain for plants and gardening Services within clinical trials for as staffing services accessories, with 140 stores the pharmaceutical industry focused on consumers RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 3 The year in review New strategy and improved results Most of the companies developed positively in terms of stability, profitability and growth in 2019. EBITA in Ratos’s companies improved by 29 per cent and organic growth increased by 14 per cent. Corporate governance, with the right CEO and Board in place in each company, was a top priority during the year. Value-creating measures have been carried out, adapted to the situation of each respective company, in order to increase profitability and growth. Read more about Ratos’s way of working on page 9. Financial result Corporate governance • Net sales for Ratos’s business areas increased by 14% New CEOs in four companies. Ensuring strong leadership in organically and amounted to SEK 24,475m (21,531) its companies is one of Ratos’s most important priorities as • EBITA for Ratos’s business areas, excluding IFRS 16, an owner. During the year, new CEOs were appointed in four totalled SEK 1,073m (835) companies: Olav Thorstad in Plantasjen, Mats Johnson in • Basic and diluted earnings per share for full year 2019 Speed Group, Petteri Saarinen in LEDiL and Bassem Saleh in amounted to SEK 2.11 (–1.40) TFS. At airteam Sweden, the Swedish subsidiary of airteam, • The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 0.65 (0.50) per Greger Gunnarsson was appointed as CEO in a newly share ­established role. New Board Chairmen in seven companies. Since 2018, Ratos’s own employees have begun to serve as the chairmen of its various companies. In 2019, a number of changes were made to various chairman positions, with Ratos employees serving as chairmen in seven companies at the end of the year. New dividend policy. Ratos’s Board of Directors has decided on a new dividend policy. The Ratos share is to deliver steadily increasing dividends over time based on growing earnings and a stable financial position. According to the Board’s assessment, a dividend payout ratio of 30–50% of profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent will fulfil these conditions. Aibel. DolWin 5, a project for power conversion from wind farms in the Baltic Sea to the German mainland, is scheduled for completion by 2024. 4 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 The year in review Value-creating measures Sustainability Profitability-enhancement project at Diab. An action proAibel increases its exposure to renewable energy. Aibel gramme intended to improve stability, profitability and won two major contracts in offshore wind power in 2019. growth at Diab was a major focus during the past year. The The company became a supplier to Dogger Bank, the world’s measures implemented included a new organisation, largest offshore wind farm. The facility is expected to genproduct rationalisation, a focus on profitable customer conerate an annual electricity supply equivalent to the annual tracts, investments and a reduction of the share of operating consumption of 4.5 million households. Aibel also won a costs. Diab’s earnings have improved from a loss of SEK ­contract for DolWin5, a project for power conversion from –155m in 2018 to positive EBITA of SEK 190m in 2019. three wind farms in the North Sea to the German mainland. Approximately 40% of Aibel’s total order book at the end of Plantasjen refines its operations. To increase profitability and 2019 was attributable to projects within offshore wind. focus on its core operations, Plantasjen sold its subsidiary Spira, a supplier of flowers and plants to grocery retailers in Diab anticipates a strong wind power market. Diab’s Sweden. At the time of the divestment, Spira had negatively products contribute to the increased growth of renewable impacted Plantasjen’s EBITA with SEK –30m over the past energy (wind turbines) and reduced energy consumption by 12 months. The sale generated a capital loss of SEK –28m. using lightweight solutions. Diab is thus actively contributing to a more sustainable society. During the past year, Diab Restructuring within Speed Group. Over the past year, signed a five-year supplier contract for core materials with Speed Group carried out a restructuring programme to Vestas, one of the world’s leading suppliers of wind turbines. reduce fixed costs and resolve unprofitable customer assignments. The restructuring resulted in savings effects of HENT building in timber. In the past year, HENT continued to approximately SEK 10m in 2019 and is expected to have a win contracts in timber framing, having been commissioned positive effect on EBITA of approximately SEK 30m on an to build “the school of the future” in Bjørnafjorden municiannual basis. pality. The entire project is characterised by a focus on the environment when it comes to choosing the right material TFS implements restructuring measures. In conjunction and solutions. HENT is also building a new cultural centre in with the change of CEO at TFS, the company’s operations Skellefteå primarily out of timber. Additionally, HENT has also were restructured during the year in order to increase their built Mjøstårnet, the world’s tallest timber building, located in efficiency and reduce the company’s fixed costs. The costs ­Brumunddal, Norway. associated with these measures amounted to about EUR 3.9m and the aim is to achieve improved profitability of Kvdbil launches initiative to reduce climate impact. In the approximately EUR 2.8m in 2020. past year, Kvdbil began an initiative with the aim of taking a leading position in reducing the climate impact of the Swedish vehicle fleet. In cooperation with Chalmers Industri­ teknik, the company is working to spread knowledge about the environmental impact of vehicles and their optimal life cycle from the perspective of CO2 emissions. The results of their research and progress will be openly published on the website bilberget.se. In early 2020, Kvdbil decided to stop exporting environmental cars to speed up the conversion of the Swedish vehicle fleet. Plantasjen Plantasjen carried out measures to improve profitability during the year. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 5 CEO’s comments Ratos – a company group developing positively Our company group reported organic growth of 14 per cent cesses must change to enable HENT to continue to grow in 2019, while reported earnings increased 29 per cent without any major negative surprises, Ratos’s CFO Peter Wallin despite major restructuring costs. As a result, we saw has stepped in as Executive Chairman for a period of time. significant improvements in our cash flow, which in turn Speed Group carried out an impressive action programme reduced the level of debt in the companies. It is gratifying focused on operational efficiency and reduced operating to see that all our hard work is paying off and that Ratos is expenses during the year, resulting in significant earnings beginning to produce results. However, there is no lack of improvements. challenges and a great deal of work still needs to be done Bisnode continued its investments in a new range of pro­ before we can achieve our goals for profitability and ducts and solutions for credit and market analysis in a growing shareholder value. market. Its earnings continued to improve during the year. Kvdbil, under its new management team, took decisive The year in review ­measures to improve its unique customer offering and stake 2019 was an eventful year during which all of our focus was on out a position in a growing fossil-free vehicle fleet. The comour existing companies and creating a more effective structure pany’s earnings and sales were strong. and working method at Ratos. Ratos’s organisation has become Oase Outdoors introduced an award-winning generation more focused on company development at the same time as of new camping tents. Unfortunately, production problems the number of employees has decreased. In March, we divided during start-up led to major costs for the company, resulting our companies into three business areas, which now work more in a significant decrease in earnings for the year. closely with the companies’ management groups through Plantasjen’s sales increased during the year, while earnings monthly business reviews and “troika” meetings. The work of decreased as a result of restructuring that included the sale the Board is also shifting focus to more long-term issues. of the unprofitable subsidiary Spira. In October, the company In 2019, we replaced the chairman in seven of our companies: got a new management team, which is now implementing a HENT, HL Display, LEDiL, Oase Outdoors, Plantasjen, Speed focused action programme intended to improve the customer Group and TFS. Ratos currently holds chairman positions in offering and reduce fixed costs. eight of its 12 companies. A shift in management also took place Diab, which acquired a new management team at the end of during the year, with new CEOs appointed in LEDiL, Plantasjen, 2018, noted a substantial increase in earnings and sales during Speed Group and TFS. Nothing is more important for us than the year, while also making major investments to make the having the right management in our companies. We also sold company even more competitive and less sensitive to economic the premises that has housed Ratos’s head office, as heavily fluctuations in a growing market. Long-term supplier contracts increased security requirements risked jeopardising our ability were signed with leading wind power players during the year. to use our offices as we desire. HL Display continued to deliver a positive performance as a The company group has not changed compared with the market-leading supplier in Europe, driven by the expansion of close of 2018. Ratos increased its holding in TFS from 60% to the customer offering and continued efforts to increase its 100% at the start of the year, thereby obtaining full control of production and logistics efficiency. the company. Also at the start of the year, airteam acquired LEDiL noted a decline in profitability during the year, priCreovent and Thorszelius, beginning a journey of growth in marily due to increased operating expenses and a lack of sales Sweden. Plantasjen divested its subsidiary Spira. All other growth during the year. A new CEO took over in December 2019. growth was organic. TFS, whose earnings have underperformed for many years in an industry characterised by favourable profitability and Company group growth, performed well during the year. At the end of year, the Aibel had a successful year, with a very strong order intake and company acquired a new CEO and carried out an action prosales performance. The order intake mainly comprised platgramme with the aim of reducing the company’s costs and forms for offshore wind farms. This is a growing market with achieving increased operational efficiency. favourable prospects – a market where Aibel possesses both great experience and expertise. New strategy airteam received a large order intake of complex buildings In conjunction with Ratos’s Capital Markets Day in November, such as hospitals during the year. Profitability was negatively our future strategy – which rests on our principles for company impacted by a weak performance in the newly acquired Swedish development – was presented. With our new core values of operations, but developed positively towards the end of 2019. “Simplicity”, “Speed in Execution” and “It’s All About People”, HENT, which has seen substantial growth over the past few we will continue to focus on company development with the years, was forced to recognise major write downs on a few aim of strengthening profitability and growth in the company projects during the year. As a result of this and the fact that group. At Ratos, we retain ownership of our companies for as HENT has now reached a size where its structure and prolong as we consider ourselves to be the best owner for the 6 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CEO’s comments company. It is a fundamental principle that our companies company’s operations both now and in the future. We monitor maintain their independence but are also a part of something our sustainability work and are pleased to report that the larger. “Something larger” does not simply refer to being a part number of companies that conduct climate reporting has of a company group with over 12,000 employees, combined increased from five to nine and that all companies now have an sales of SEK 38 billion and a parent company with strong net external whistleblowing system in place. cash. The most important aspect of being part of “something larger” is our network, where experiences are shared between Ratos moving forward companies and industries and where we can create synergies In last year’s annual report, I emphasised that the remaking together. During the year, a number of networks have been of Ratos will take time. In 2019, we took important steps in the created in areas such as purchasing, logistics, HR and sustainright direction. While all of our companies aim to lead their ability. These networks are primarily run and maintained by the respective industry or market when it comes to profitability, companies themselves. One of the platforms for these netsignificant measures still need to be taken in certain comworks was created in 2019 under the name Ratos BELP (Ratos panies to ensure a sustainable positive performance. ProfitBusiness Executive Leadership Program). The programme was ability is not only about shareholder value. Sustainable profitdesigned through exclusive collaboration with SSE Executive ability is the ultimate proof that we are creating positive value Education and will run for nine months. Participants will receive for our customers through an efficient organisation. Being a training in leadership and businessmanship while working on leader in terms of profitability requires high customer satisactual projects lifted from Ratos’s companies. The programme faction as well as employees who are developing and are will not only produce better leaders and businessmen/women, content in their jobs. It also requires that we are a respected but also create organic networks between the companies, member of society that takes sustainability issues seriously which have already reaped the benefits of increased collaboand is perceived as creating long-term value. ration across company borders. I would like to conclude by thanking everyone in the Ratos Sustainability family who showed such dedication in 2019 and have comWe are convinced that there is a strong connection between mitted to our goal of becoming the best Nordic company sustainability and long-term value creation. Our sustainability group for mid-sized companies. agenda is based on the UN Global Compact’s (UNGC) ten principles for responsible business, which we continue to uphold. Jonas Wiström Ratos ensures that sustainability is an integrated part of the CEO RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 7 8 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Development model Ratos’s model for company development Ratos’s model for company development is built on a number of fundamental principles for value creation that we call the Ratos Principles. Founded on our experience of successful company development, these principles permeate our organisation and companies and serve as a guide in our day-to-day operations. The Ratos Principles focus on corporate governance, At Ratos, we make it possible for companies to develop value creation and building networks. rapidly by being a part of something larger. An important The principles determine the form of corporate governance aspect of this is building strong networks between the Ratos that we implement in our companies and are key to the recruitcompanies. There is always a risk of becoming blind to the ment of CEOs and company boards. Our companies must bigger picture in one’s own company and sector. In order to have management teams and boards that share Ratos’s thrive in their respective segments, companies require ideas ­philosophy. and perspectives from other companies and sectors. Each company has identified prioritised value-creating Everything we do as an owner and employer is based on measures intended to take the company to the next level. Ratos’s core values: Simplicity, Speed in Execution and These initiatives, which are based on the Ratos Principles, It’s All About People. are limited in number and specific in their focus. Simplicity Speed in Execution It’s All About People The Ratos Principles Stability – Profitability – Growth Pricing can always be improved Benchmarking At least half of the management Customers talk – we listen Organic growth prioritised group consists of line managers Focus on our strengths Acquired growth with synergies What gets measured gets done to boost value Costs can always be lowered – but don’t measure everything Corporate governance Value-creating Ratos’s network The right CEO measures Ratos enables independent midThe right Board of Directors A handful of company-specific sized companies to excel by being A decentralised structure initiatives that are monitored part of something larger The right incentives RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 9 Development model The Ratos Principles The Ratos Principles Customers talk – we listen. It is the customers who pay the salaries of a company’s employees. Listening to the cusThe Ratos Principles determine how we act and what we tomer allows us to understand problems and opportunities, believe in as an owner. market trends and the value that the company can provide. Armed with this understanding, we can develop product Stability – Profitability – Growth. Reliable profitability offerings and internal processes. Customer satisfaction is should be built from the ground up, and this all starts with therefore a crucial parameter to keep a track of in our stability. Stability is about creating an environment with a ­companies. good ability to predict company development in the near future. Without this ability, it is difficult to reverse a comFocus on our strengths. There is always a risk of devoting pany’s negative profitability. This is why accurate forecasts too much focus and resources to trying to find ways of fixing for sales and EBITA are important parameters to follow. things that are not working. Our experience has taught us Good leadership and a clear business plan are also crucial. that it is simpler to turn something that is working well into We can only begin to focus on profitability once stability something that can work better, rather than turning somehas been achieved. Favourable profitability is the cornerthing that is not working into something that works well. stone of growth. Company strategy must be based on a clear The company must focus its resources on its strengths insight into what drives the company’s profitability. This is and develop them even further. partly about improving gross margins and reducing the amount of fixed costs. A good result is when a company outCosts can always be lowered. We have an obligation to our performs other companies in the same sector in terms of customers and owners to always scrutinise our costs and profitability and achieves a growth rate that is higher than make sure that the company’s operations provide customer market growth. value every step of the way. Constantly finding ways to Profitability is the cornerstone of growth. An exception can improve operational efficiency is a continuous job. Our be made, however, for companies that need to build a market ­experience has taught us that companies that lower their position quickly. Growth is often a natural result of focusing costs are often surprised by just how much costs can be on those products or services that are most profitable. This is reduced without having a negative impact on the operations. a question of focusing on sales, correct pricing and profitable acquisitions. Benchmarking for measuring and comparison. The key to deciding whether or not something is good is finding relevant Line managers in the management group. To establish a common benchmarks for comparison. By compiling benchhealthy dynamic in the management group and to keep the marks between different units in the company and between management group close to the business and the customers, companies in the same industry and by making use of at least half of the management group is to be comprised of external data, the company can challenge itself to further line managers. This creates a good balance between support develop and find out about other companies who have services and those responsible for the customer’s earnings. ­performed even better. What gets measured gets done – but don’t measure Organic growth prioritised, while acquired growth with ­everything. A strong drive to accomplish positive results is synergies also boosts value. Organic profit growth is un­ within all of us. This is why the things that get measured paralleled when it comes to creating value for a company improve. However, it is crucial not to measure too many and, for this reason, is always a top priority for Ratos. parameters, since this can lead to a decrease in clarity. As ­Acquired growth can generate considerable value when such, it is important to limit the amount of measuring points. ­combined with real synergies in terms of expenses and revenue. Pricing can always be improved. Pricing is an important measure for improving profitability in every company. With a good understanding of the customer value that can be created, there are often opportunities to adjust prices in both directions. 10 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Development model Simplicity Speed in Execution It’s All About People Corporate Value-creating Ratos’s network governance measures Corporate governance Ratos’s network The right CEO. It is important for Ratos to make sure that We establish formal and informal networks between the the company has the right CEO with the ability to put together companies to leverage synergies through economies of a strong team. When it comes to producing good results, scale, but perhaps most of all to share knowledge and expenothing is more important than strong leadership. rience. Ratos enables independent mid-sized companies to excel by being part of something larger. We have several The right Board of Directors. The Board of Directors must ­platforms for sharing knowledge: have the right composition given the current situation of the company. Today, more than half of Ratos’s companies have a Ratos BELP. In 2019, we launched the Business Executive Ratos employee as their chairman, while the other comLeadership Programme (BELP) in collaboration with the SSE panies have an external chairman. The size of the board is Executive Education. 25 managers and leading talents from adapted to what is most beneficial for the current situation. Ratos’s companies took part. The programme comprised The Board’s work must be effective and involve minimal four three-day modules focusing on strategy, finance, leadbureaucracy. ership and sales. The purpose of the programme is to provide new insight into international business influences, while also A decentralised structure and culture. Responsibility for creating the potential for a strong internal leadership each Ratos company rests with the company itself and its network. respective management. Decisions in the company should be made as closely as possible to the customers and Ratos Executive Network. Each year, we organise network employees, without any unnecessary bureaucracy. meetings bringing together specialists in different functions to share their knowledge and experience. During 2019 there Quick and correct reporting. The companies’ financial were meetings held and networks created for HR managers, development and ongoing activities are addressed at purchasing managers, heads of sustainability, finance manmonthly meetings attended by the respective company’s agers and CEOs. We also held a meeting specifically to CEO and CFO alongside Ratos’s CEO, CFO and other senior discuss cyber security. executives. Ratos Summit. For 2020, we are arranging Ratos Summit, The right incentives. Incentives are an important aspect of an event where all of the management groups in Ratos’s comRatos’s model for company development. The CEO and other panies will meet for a full-day conference. The day will aim to key individuals are offered incentives for creating value in the increase the spread of knowledge between the companies, company in order to foster a sense of responsibility and a demonstrate good examples and results from the companies ­situation in which each company’s CEO and management in different areas and foster inspiration though external can benefit from the company’s success. The right incentives ­lecturers. attract the most committed leaders. Culture and values Value-creating measures People, leadership, culture and values are key focus areas for Prioritising value-creating measures. Each company has Ratos’s ownership model. Everything we do as an owner and implemented value-creating initiatives. These initiatives, employer is based on Ratos’s core values: Simplicity, Speed which can be large or small, are adapted to each company in Execution and It’s All About People. and are based on the individual company’s situation. They can, for instance, involve new customer offerings, cost proSimplicity. We reject bureaucracy and focus on doing the grammes, add-on acquisitions or initiatives dealing with right things rather than doing things in the right way. Our ­sustainable business operations. ­processes, objectives and reward systems are simple and What these measures have in common is that they come concise. from management, generate value, are long-term in nature and are monitored regularly. They should also be limited in Speed in Execution. We are quick, focused and have a number and specific in their focus. ­solution-oriented approach to our work. It’s All About People. Everything we do is based on the insight that nothing is more important than people. Our leaders and employees make a difference every day. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 11 Targets Targets and target fulfilment Ratos’s overall target is to increase shareholder value while ensuring Ratos’s growth. Targets Outcomes 2019 Financial targets Increased earnings in Ratos’s companies every year EBITA increased from SEK 846m to SEK 1,0731)m A total return greater than SIX Return Index The total return for Ratos’s Class B share was 46% (SIX Return Index 35%) Dividend Dividend amounting to 30–50% of the profit Dividend of SEK 0.652) per share, corresponding after tax attributable to owners of the parent to 31% of profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent Criteria for new investments Dividend policy Ratos has the following criteria for new investments The Ratos share is to deliver steadily increasing diviand long-term holdings: dends over time based on growing earnings and a • Market-leading or the potential to become market-­ stable financial position. According to the Board’s leading assessment, a dividend payout ratio of 30–50% of • Highest profitability in its sector profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent will • Ability to create a healthy cash flow over time fulfil these conditions. • Strong brand • Potential to benefit from Ratos’s networks • Platform for add-on acquisitions Ratos strives to implement quick improvements in its companies but remains an owner with a long-term vision. We own our companies for as long as we consider ourselves to be the best owner. 1) Earnings are defined as reported EBITA excluding IFRS 16 for the relevant company portfolio and period 2) Proposed ordinary dividend 12 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Adelswärdska building, Drottninggatan 2 In 2019, Ratos sold the Stockholm Lejonet 4 property, also known as the Adelswärdska building, which was acquired by Söderberg & Haak in 1938 and has served as Ratos’s head office since then. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 13 Sustainability Sustainable value creation Long-term value is created by developing sustainable companies. This is why sustainability is an integrated part of Ratos’s business strategy. This applies to both Ratos’s parent company and the work carried out as an active owner. Ratos’s greatest contribution to society is acting as an active We have 22 employees at Ratos’s head office and a total of and responsible owner which builds long-term successful about 12,200 employees in 35 countries in our companies. and sustainable companies that create jobs, respect Through active ownership, Ratos acts as a driving force in humanity and the environment, and deliver high-quality ensuring that sustainability work is carried out in our comproducts and services. Ratos also makes a difference in that panies. The foundation of this is Ratos’s policy framework, our principal owners are foundations that promote research consisting of: the Code of Conduct, the Policy for Sustainand, with it, community development. ability and Responsible Investments, and the Environmental Policy (see Ratos’s website). The policy framework is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles for responsible business as well as the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). 14 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Sustainability Ratos’s work with the UN Sustainable Development Goals Ratos supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Ratos’s parent company and Ratos’s companies have the most significant impact on Goal 5, 8, 12, 13 and 16. SDG SDG targets Ratos’s contribution 5.5 Ensure women’s full participation in Ratos’s Code of Conduct stipulates that we are a non-discriminatory workplace that leadership on all levels of decision-making. promotes equal opportunities and diversity. The Code applies to Ratos’s parent company and Ratos’s companies. We keep track of the share of women among Ratos’s employees as well as the share of women in senior positions. 8.1 Sustainable economic growth. Ratos aims to create long-term successful and sustainable companies. One of Ratos’s financial targets is to increase earnings in the companies. In the long term the companies should reach the highest profitability in its sector. 12.2 Sustainable management and use of We insist on and follow up to ensure that Ratos’s companies: natural resources. • Identify their primary environmental impact and implement an environmental 12.6 Encourage companies to adopt policy/environmental plan. sustainable practices and sustainability • Measure, report and follow up on CO2 emissions. reporting. • Adopt sustainability goals. 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive We insist on and follow up to ensure that Ratos’s companies measure, report and capacity to climate-related disasters. follow up on their CO2 emissions. 13.3 Improve awareness and capacity to manage climate change. 16.2 Zero violence against children. Ratos’s parent company has through Net Clean Proactive installed a protection 16.5 Combat corruption and bribery. against child pornographic material on each employee’s computer. Ratos’s companies have the right to use a framework agreement to install this. Ratos’s parent company and Ratos’s companies must ensure transparent and sound corporate governance, and conduct their businesses with good business ethics and proactive anti-corruption initiatives. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 15 Sustainability Four focus areas Bus and e in cy nc ant ess en verna i-c or Tra o nd n sa corpo spa hic n et ptio rat r ru eg nm te ent Em im pl oy o pa vir a ct ee n s E m d cli a n Ratos has four focus areas for its sustainability efforts, which form the basis for its reporting on our sustainability efforts: • Transparency and corporate governance • Business ethics and anti-corruption • Environment and climate impact • Employees The following section contains information on how we address each respective focus area, both within Ratos’s parent company and in Ratos’s companies. 16 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Sustainability Transparency and corporate governance Sustainability is an important part of Ratos’s corporate governance. We place requirements on active sustainability work and transparent sustainability reporting. Corporate governance in sustainability issues Ratos’s companies must: • Ratos’s Board is ultimately responsibility for the • Have a process in place for identifying and managing risk. Group-wide strategy and sustainability initiatives, while • Implement a Code of Conduct in line with Ratos’s Code. operational responsibility rests with Ratos’s CEO. • Identify their primary environmental impact, and • Ratos’s Business Area Managers are responsible for implement an environmental policy/environmental plan. ensuring that sustainability is included on the agenda of • Measure, follow up on and report CO2 emissions. the board and management of each Ratos company. • Adopt sustainability goals and follow up on them at least • The board of each Ratos company is ultimately responsible once each year. for ensuring the company complies with applicable laws, • Have an externally operated and anonymous whistle­ guidelines and policies on sustainability. The operational blowing system. responsibility for sustainability work rests with the com• Prepare a sustainability report inspired by the Global pany’s CEO and management. Reporting Initiative (GRI). Read more about each company’s sustainability work on pages 28–39. Ratos’s sustainability forum promotes an exchange of experiences and cooperation between companies Every year, the sustainability managers from Ratos’s com­ “It was at Ratos’s sustainability forum in 2017 that I learned panies gather for a full-day conference. The purpose of the conabout the Science Based Targets initiative. Now, Diab has ference is to exchange experiences and discuss external trends become the first company working with composite material in and tools in the area of sustainability. It is also an opportunity the world to implement Science Based Targets, and one of to discuss and review Ratos’s expectations of its companies’ seven companies in Sweden to do so. sustainability efforts and sustainability report. “When we get together with the other companies, we also “It’s fantastic to see how powerful it is to share experiences gain ideas about how we can collaborate around sustainability between our companies. It’s also a unique opportunity to talk solutions. Among other collaborations, Diab has worked with about the challenges that we face and help each other to find HL Display to find solutions involving recycled and recyclable solutions,” says Helene Gustafsson, Head of IR, Press and plastic,” says Per Hökfelt. ­Sustainability at Ratos. The theme of this year’s forum was climate change. ­Measur­ing, reporting and following up on CO2 emissions is one of the expectations that Ratos has of its companies. Ratos’s CEO Jonas Wiström took part in the conference. “I really appreciated listening to Jonas Wiström. He is very clear when it comes to Ratos’s commitment to sustainability issues, which in turn inspires us to improve our sustainability efforts,” says Per Hökfelt, Director of Corporate Sustainability at Diab. Ratos in the community In 2019, 17% (SEK 36 million) of Ratos’s dividend went to the c ­ ommitment to entrepreneurship is key to Ratos’s strategy for Ragnar Söderberg Foundation and the Torsten Söderberg community partnerships. In 2019, Ratos provided financial supFoundation, two of the country’s largest private investors in port to our selected partners, including Inkludera Invest and the ­scientific research, mainly within economics, medicine and law. Stockholm School of Economics. Inkludera Invest works with Entrepreneurship and company development are key com­ the promotion of social entrepreneurship. ponents in Ratos’s legacy and in today’s operations. Our RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 17 Sustainability Case: Aibel Aibel’s Code of Conduct is kept alive through e-learning tools, a whistleblowing system and its Compliance Champions initiative. Just like other Ratos companies, Aibel has a Code of Conduct to smartphone. The system enables an anonymous dialogue with ensure a high ethical standard throughout its operations. The the whistleblower from the moment the report is made to when code defines legal and ethical frameworks for how business the case is investigated and concluded. should be conducted, and serves as a guide for the employees in their day-to-day work. The code applies to all employees regardCompliance Champions. To strengthen its work within regulaless of where they are located. Integrity and openness are key tory compliance, Aibel has a programme in place in which ceraspects of the code. To ensure that all employees are familiar tain business units are appointed as Compliance Champions. with the code and understand how it should be applied, an The Champions carry out local compliance campaigns and annual certification is carried out using an e-learning tool where become a vital link between the central compliance function all employees confirm that they have read and will follow the and the operations. Two business units in Norway have acted as code. Compliance Champions since 2016, and in 2017 and 2018, the programme was expanded to Singapore and Thailand. Here, Digital whistleblowing system. To make it possible to report Champions have taken responsibility for important aspects of violations anonymously, Aibel has a digital whistleblowing compliance work, including carrying out due diligence and system which allows all employees to anonymously report audits of important subcontractors and business partners in ­incidents via the company’s intranet from their computer or each region. 18 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Sustainability Business ethics and anti-corruption Ratos requires the implementation of sound business ethics and proactive ­anti-corruption initiatives in its companies. Code of Conduct. Ratos has a Code of Conduct that applies Anti-corruption. Ratos imposes requirements on the preto employees in Ratos’s parent company and Board of vention of corruption. The companies must carry out risk ­Directors. The Code of Conduct contains written anti-­ analyses and implement measures in order to manage corruption and business ethics instructions. New employees ­identified risks. Preventive work includes guidelines for are introduced to Ratos’s Code of Conduct, Work Environ­ employees, training programmes for individuals in positions ment Policy, Employee Manual and Environmental Policy. of risk, and imposing demands and following up on business Deviations and irregularities are reported and followed up partners. During the year, all 12 of Ratos’s companies were using Ratos’s external whistleblowing system. Both Ratos analysed for corruption risks. Six of the companies are conemployees and external stakeholders can report suspected sidered to have an elevated risk of corruption based on their deviations anonymously. operations in exposed industries or in high-risk countries, As in the preceding year, no deviations from the Code of according to the Transparency International Corruption Conduct were reported in 2019, including no reported cases ­Perception Index. of discrimination. Nor was Ratos imposed with any fines or other sanctions due to violations of laws or regulations. No Human rights. Ratos supports and respects the protection whistleblowing reports were filed during the year. of human rights and expects its companies to ensure they are not complicit in any human rights violations. Some of Ratos’s Code requirements for Ratos’s companies. The companies companies have suppliers and partners in countries with an are to implement a Code of Conduct that, at a minimum, elevated risk of violations of human rights or employee rights. ­corresponds to Ratos’s Code of Conduct, which stipulates Respect for human rights and employee rights must be stiputhat recognised international conventions, human rights and lated in the companies’ own codes of conduct, and in their employee rights and conditions must be respected. work relating to suppliers and partners. Whistleblowing system: Every employee has a responsibility to report an incident if they suspect that an action is in breach of the company’s Code of Conduct. To make it possible to report violations anonymously, Ratos has procured an external whistleblowing system, Whistle B, which is fully ­independent of Ratos’s IT systems and online services. 100% 100% of Ratos’s companies of Ratos’s companies have a Code of Conduct have an external whistleblowing system RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 19 Sustainability Environmental and climate impact Ratos endeavours to constantly reduce its environmental and climate impact and requires that its companies do the same. Environmental Policy. Environmental work at Ratos’s parent Requirements for Ratos’s companies. Ratos’s significant company is based on our Environmental Policy and related environmental impact is created through its companies. environmental plan. Since its operations are primarily Ratos expects every company to identify its environmental ­conducted in an office environment, the company’s direct impact and implement an environmental policy. The comenvironmental impact is limited and attributable to business panies’ sustainability reports contain information contrips, especially with air travel. The ambition is to reduce cerning climate impact, energy consumption, waste travel, for example, through the use of video conferencing ­manage­ment and water consumption. Several of Ratos’s and guidelines when choosing a means of transport. We pay companies are working to adapt to a more climate-neutral climate compensation for emissions from all air travel. economy. Aibel won major contracts in offshore wind during In 2019, the parent company’s CO2 emissions amounted to the year, Kvdbil is working to reduce the environmental 174 tonnes (155). Measuring and following up greenhouse impact of the Swedish vehicle fleet, HL Display is developing gas emissions creates awareness about Ratos’s impact and recyclable plastic solutions and several other companies an understanding of effective measures, thereby generating have integrated a sustainability focus into their operations. opportunities to further reduce Ratos’s climate impact. One of Ratos’s Group-wide sustainability goals is to increase the share of climate-reporting companies. Total emissions, tonnes of CO2e/year 2019 2018 2017 Framework agreements for climate reporting systems and Business trips (Scope 3) 153 135 232 support are offered to all companies to facilitate their work. of which, air travel 145 124 216 The number of companies that conduct climate reporting Head office, building (Scope 2)1) 19 16 16 increased to nine during the year (five companies in 2018). of which, electricity consumption (Scope 2) 2 3 3 Other2) (incl. annual report calculated from a general LCA perspective) 6 4 6 Total before climate compensation 174 155 255 Total after purchase of climate compensation 0 0 0 1) Electricity and heat consumption. 2) District heating, paper and printed materials, electricity consumption. 12 of 12 9 of 12 Ratos companies Ratos companies report have a sustainability report their CO2 emissions (8 of 12 companies in (5 of 12 companies in 2018) accordance to GRI standards) 20 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Sustainability Case: HL Sustainable Choice “We support the industry’s goal to reduce the use of plastic and find sustainable alternatives.” A growing number of retail companies and brands are setting is to be able to offer customers sustainable choices for one third goals for reducing their use of plastic. As a result, HL Display has of their product range. New products will continue to be introbecome the first company in the world with a similarly sized duced over the next few years. The initiative is in place to help range to launch an initiative for sustainable retail design using retail companies to reach their goal of having a more sustainrenewable or recycled materials: HL Sustainable Choice. able store,” says Peder Spens Clason, Marketing Director at The concept and solution were the result of a collaboration HL Display. with the IVL Swedish Environmental Research Institute and the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden. Its purpose is to identify recycled and bio-based materials that have the right characteristics in order to create a high-quality product. “Both recycled and bio-based plastic play an important role in the journey toward sustainable retail design. For 2020, our goal RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 21 Sustainability Employees Everything we do is based on the insight that nothing is more important than people. Ratos’s leaders and employees make a difference every day. The Ratos Group employs approximately 12,200 people. Attractive workplace. For Ratos to be able to achieve its insight into strategy and international leadership, while also goals, it is important that Ratos and its companies are creating the potential for a strong internal leadership netresponsible and attractive workplaces with the ability to work. In 2020, we will arrange Ratos Summit, an event where recruit, retain and develop employees and leaders with the all of the management groups in Ratos’s companies will meet right expertise. for a full-day conference. Leadership. Recruiting the right people for senior positions is Diversity and equal opportunities. Ratos works to pro­­ one of Ratos’s most important duties as an owner. The CEO is mote diversity and equal opportunities, both in our own responsible for recruiting a team that has a clear strategy and organisation and in our companies. In addition to valuing can perform and deliver in accordance with this strategy. equal opportunities and diversity from a human rights Every company must have clear processes in place for identiand ­democratic perspective, we are also convinced that fying, developing and rewarding leading talents. these elements help to strengthen our profitability and ­c­ompetitive­ness. A decentralised structure. Responsibility for each Ratos Ratos’s view is that organisations distinguished by company rests with the company itself and its respective diversity and inclusion can create stronger and more management. Decisions in the company should be made dynamic teams. We strive to create an inclusive work enviclose to customers and employees, without any unnecessary ronment that allows everyone the chance to realise their full bureaucracy. potential. Recruitment and career development at Ratos should be based on relevant merits and skills. Pay divisions Core values. Ratos has adopted three core values to guide us without any just reason must be avoided. Ratos should offer in how we work and act, both internally and externally. These equal pay for equal work. This view should also be held in core values are Simplicity, Speed in Execution and It’s All Ratos’s companies. The companies’ annual sustainability About People. reports contain, for example, information on the share of women in senior positions. Networking and leadership development. Ratos enables independent mid-sized companies to excel by being part of Work environment. Ratos strives to create a positive work something larger. We have various platforms for sharing environment that promotes health and well-being for the knowledge. Each year, we organise network meetings bringRatos Group’s approximately 12,200 employees. Based on ing together specialists in different functions to share their identified risks, the companies implement relevant guideknowledge and experience. During 2019, there were meetlines and processes, and pursue a systematic and preventive ings held for HR managers, purchasing managers, heads of work environment agenda. Some companies have operasustainability, finance managers and CEOs. We also held a tions that put employees at a greater risk of personal injury. meeting specifically to discuss cyber security. In 2019, we These companies are working actively to make its employees launched the Business Executive Leadership Programme aware of and provide training in workplace risks. In some (BELP) in collaboration with the SSE Executive Education. companies, there is a risk of skill shortages, high employee 25 managers and leading talents from Ratos’s companies turnover and a dependence on key individuals, which is monitook part. The purpose of the programme is to provide new tored by the companies’ management teams and boards. Share of women in senior Share of women employed at positions, Ratos Group* Ratos, Ratos Group* % % 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 * Pertains to information based on the average number of employees 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 in Ratos’s subsidiaries. 22 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Sustainability 45% 30% of Bisnode’s of Bisnode’s employees are women managers are women Case: Bisnode Bisnode is an innovation-driven company that is entirely dependent on recruiting and developing leading talents in a highly competitive recruitment market. Actively working with diversity and inclusion is an important element of having a sound talent strategy. “At Bisnode, we are passionate about developing a culture that has clearly defined goals for its work. The goal is that the share is characterised by inclusion and respect. We are convinced that of women in senior positions will increase by 2% per year from a team in which the members have different backgrounds, skills the current level of 30%. and characteristics is more innovative and goes on to yield “To increase the share of female managers, we have focused better results. We see diversity as crucial to achieving success on internal recruitment to find the best talents who are already and being competitive in today’s market,” says Cecilia part of our organisation. We expect to meet, or preferably ­Westerholm Beer, Chief HR Officer at Bisnode. exceed, our gender equality goal,” says Cecilia Westerholm Bisnode is working to achieve a more balanced distribution of Beer. men and women on all levels and in all markets in which the Bisnode’s active work with equal opportunities is an example company operates. To assist in this, there is a Code of Conduct of how Ratos’s companies contribute to the UN Sustainable that describes the measures that the company has taken conDevelopment Goal number 5: Gender equality. cerning diversity and equal opportunities. The company also RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 23 Ratos share data Ratos share data Purchase of treasury shares Brief facts 2019 The 2019 Annual General Meeting renewed the mandate for Share listing Nasdaq Stockholm the company to acquire treasury shares. The holding of Total number of shares 324,140,896 treasury shares may not exceed 7% of the total number of Number of shares outstanding 319,014,634 shares in the company. There were no repurchases of Closing price, 30 Dec 2019 SEK 33.42 treasury shares in 2019. At year-end, Ratos owned 5,126,262 (Ratos Class B) Class B shares (corresponding to 1.6% of the total number of Highest/lowest quotation SEK 36.36 / 18.10 shares) with an average purchase price of SEK 68. (Ratos Class B) Market capitalisation, 30 Dec 2019 SEK 11 billion Shareholder statistics Number of Share of Number of shares shareholders capital, % 1–500 30,219 1.58 Ratos’s share increased 44% with a total return (price 501–1,000 7,880 1.98 development including reinvested dividends) of 46% 1,001–5,000 10,586 7.79 compared with the SIX Return Index, which was 35%. 5,001–10,000 1,789 4.13 10,001–15,000 538 2.10 Share price performance 15,001–20,000 312 1.75 The performance of Ratos’s Class B shares was 44% com20,001– 746 80.69 pared with the OMXSPI, which was 30% in the same period. Total 52,070 100 The highest quotation during the year (SEK 36.36) occurred in November and the lowest (SEK 18.10) in March. The closing Breakdown by class of share price on 30 December was SEK 33.42. The total return (price Number of % of % of development including reinvested dividends) for Ratos’s Share class shares voting rights capital Class B share in 2019 amounted to 46% compared with the Class A 84,637,060 77.9 26.1 SIX Return Index, which was 35% during the same period. Class B 239,503,836 22.1 73.9 Total 324,140,896 100 100 Dividend Source: Euroclear Sweden The Board of Directors proposes an ordinary dividend for the 2019 financial year of SEK 0.65 per Class A and B share and a Breakdown of Ratos’s shareholders, % of capital total distribution of SEK 207m. The dividend yield amounts to 1.9% based on the closing price at year-end. Private individuals 33% Banks, insurance and pension companies and Ownership structure mutual funds 11% The ten largest shareholders accounted for 78% of the voting Foundations 19% Swedish legal entities 17% rights and 52% of the share capital. The proportion of shares Foreign shareholders 20% owned by physical or legal entities outside Sweden amounted Source: Euroclear Sweden to 20%. Shareholders in the US, the UK, Luxembourg and France account for the largest shareholdings outside Sweden. Issue of Class B shares Employee ownership in Ratos Since the 2009 Annual General Meeting there has been a Key people at Ratos are encouraged to have a shared outlook decision that Ratos, in connection with acquisitions, may with the company’s shareholders, which is achieved through issue Class B shares in Ratos – through set-off, non-cash or well-balanced incentive programmes. Read more in the for cash payment. This mandate was renewed at the 2019 Director’s Report on pages 42–45 and on Ratos’s website. Annual General Meeting and applies for a maximum of 35 million Class B shares. Analysts who monitor Ratos A current list of analysts who monitor Ratos is available on the website under Investor Relations/Share information/ Analysts. 24 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos share data Data per share* 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 2.11 –1.40 0.72 –1.79 1.29 Dividend per Class A and B share, SEK 0.651) 0.50 2.00 2.00 3.25 Dividend per Class C share (preference share), SEK 100 100 Dividend per Class A and B share as % of earnings per share 311) neg. 278 neg. 252 Dividend per Class A and B share as % of equity 21) 2 7 6 9 Equity, SEK 2) 29 27 30 31 36 Closing market price, Class B share, SEK 33.42 23.28 35.84 43.14 48.83 Market price/equity, % 115 85 118 139 135 Dividend yield, Class B share, % 1.91) 2.1 5.6 4.6 6.7 Total return, Class B share, % 46 –30 –13 –6 9 P/E-ratio 15.8 neg. 49.9 neg. 37.9 Highest/lowest price paid, Class B share, SEK 36.36/18.10 38.58/21.92 48.7/35.1 52.6/35.9 65/44.40 Key figures* 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Market capitalisation, SEKm 3) 10,550 7,530 11,723 16,252 17,563 Number of shareholders 52,070 57,909 59,526 66,057 61,740 Average number of Class A and B shares outstanding before dilution 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,014,428 319,012,617 Number of outstanding Class A and B shares at year-end 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,013,290 Dividend, SEKm 4) 2071) 160 638 723 1,111 * Relates to B shares unless otherwise specified. 1) Proposed dividend. 2) Equity attributable to owners of the parent divided by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at the end of the period. 3) Refers to shares outstanding (including preference shares from 2015–2016). 4) Dividend refers to ordinary shares and to preference shares in 2015–2016. Ratos’s shareholders Number Share of 31 Dec 2019 Class A shares Class B shares capital, % votes, % Söderberg family with companies, etc. 46,613,895 17,476,162 19.77 44.54 Ragnar Söderberg Foundation 17,235,241 11,499,909 8.87 16.93 Torsten Söderberg Foundation 12,056,186 16,063,900 8.68 12.58 State Street Bank and Trust CO, W9 0 9,620,682 2.97 0.89 Spiltan Fonder 0 9,009,143 2.78 0.83 Avanza Pension 60,984 6,255,674 1.95 0.63 CBNY-Norges Bank 0 6,248,190 1.93 0.58 Société Générale Paris 0 5,994,409 1.85 0.55 RoosGruppen 0 4,489,309 1.38 0.41 BNY Mellon SA/NV (former BNY), W8IMY 310 4,461,305 1.38 0.41 Treasury shares 0 5,126,262 1.58 0.47 Others 8,670,444 143,258,891 46.86 21.18 Total 84,637,060 239,503,836 100 100 Source: Euroclear Sweden RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 25 Ratos’s companies Ratos’s business areas and companies Ratos’s 12 companies employ some 12,200 people, with For full-year 2019, sales in the companies amounted to combined sales of SEK 38 billion and EBITA of approximately SEK 24,475m, corresponding to organic growth of 14%, SEK 1.8 billion, not adjusted for Ratos’s holding. Since 2019, while EBITA increased 29% from SEK 835m to SEK 1,073m, the companies are divided into three business areas: Conadjusted for Ratos’s holdings. struction & Services, Consumer & Technology and Industry. Share of sales Share of EBITA Employees by business area by business area by business area Construction & Services 50% Construction & Services 28% Construction & Services 47% Consumer & Technology 31% Consumer & Technology 40% Consumer & Technology 28% Industry 19% Industry 32% Industry 25% Construction Consumer Industry & Services & Technology Sales: SEK 12,236m Sales: SEK 7,657m Sales: SEK 4,582m Reported growth: 23% Reported growth: 3% Reported growth: 12% EBITA: SEK 302m EBITA: SEK 427m EBITA: SEK 344m EBITA margin: 2.5% EBITA margin: 5.6% EBITA margin: 7.5% On pages 26–39, EBITA and interest-bearing net debt are adjusted for the effects of IFRS 16. 26 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos’s companies EBITA 2019 Adjusted for holding, SEKm, excl. IFRS 16 Construction & Services Consumer & Technology Industry 54 –28 1,073 136 182 53 30 8 336 62 16 4 221 l T p e il b ay iL TF be rt EN ro u od Kv O db ut do ia pl D S co R ea m at Ai m H sn or D is LE G Pl s ai d Bi an ta D pa os ee sj en L H ni 's Sp Oas es e Cash flow from Interest-bearing Ratos’s holding Net sales EBITA operations net debt (%) SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2019-12-31 2019-12-31 Aibel 12,562 8,450 690 648 1,502 1,702 32 airteam 1,135 918 89 89 81 181 70 HENT 9,504 8,394 22 162 –16 –611 73 Speed Group 707 738 5 –8 70 64 70 Construction & Services, companies total 23,908 18,500 806 891 1,637 1,336 Construction & Services, adjusted for Ratos’s holding 12,236 9,982 302 382 574 270 Bisnode 3,776 3,696 480 471 500 1,508 70 Kvdbil 384 332 30 8 40 16 100 Oase Outdoors 427 421 10 36 30 246 78 Plantasjen 4,327 4,233 53 77 573 2,361 99 Consumer & Technology, companies total 8,914 8,682 574 591 1,142 4,131 Consumer & Technology, adjusted for Ratos’s holding 7,657 7,450 427 441 982 3,608 Diab 1,874 1,496 190 –155 –4 798 96 HL Display 1,594 1,554 138 96 192 346 99 LEDiL 433 439 81 109 90 207 66 TFS 924 841 –28 –6 39 5 100 Industry, companies total 4,826 4,330 381 43 315 1,357 Industry, adjusted for Ratos’s holding 4,582 4,099 344 11 283 1,250 Companies total 37,648 31,512 1,761 1,526 3,095 6,824 Total, adjusted for Ratos’s holding 24,475 21,531 1,073 835 1,839 5,128 Change, adjusted for Ratos’s holding 14% 29% RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 27 Ratos’s companies Aibel www.aibel.com Aibel is a leading supplier of offshore-based solutions and maintenance for the European energy sector. The company operates in the new-build market (Field Development) within offshore wind power and the oil and gas industry as well as within maintenance (Modification & Yard Services). Aibel thereby provides optimal and innovative soluThe year tions in engineering, construction, modifications and maintenance Aibel has steadily worked to strengthen its competitiveness through throughout the entire life cycle. The company’s skilled employees enhanced productivity, digitisation and regular process reviews. work close to their customers at the company’s eight offices in Norway This ensures high-quality deliveries of existing project portfolio and and South East Asia. Aibel also operates two shipyards, one in Haugea competitive advantage to win new contracts in the oil, gas and wind sund (Norway) and one in Laem Chabang (­ Thailand) with complete segments. During the year, Aibel won two significant contracts within prefabrication and design capabilities. Aibel has a strong market offshore wind power. ­position based on the company’s business model, which covers the entire value chain, including front-end engineering design (FEED), Sustainability engineering, procurement, construction and installation. Aibel focuses on its social and environmental responsibility and sustainability in general. The company achieves this by being an attracMarket tive, safe and inspiring workplace for its employees, showing respect The market for maintenance and modification services for oil and gas for the environment and its surroundings, working against corrupproduction platforms remained healthy, and the market for the expantion in all its forms, and creating value for its owners and clients. sion of offshore wind power – both of wind farms and offshore power Aibel’s sustainability policy, Code of Conduct and environmental generation – experienced strong growth during the year. The market ­policies are its top governing documents and are based on the for electrification from land of oil and gas offshore fields is growing UN Global Compact’s principles for responsible business. thanks to its environmental benefits. Aibel has a market-leading ­position, long-term customer relations and core expertise coupled with a strong business model in a market that has potential for growth. Sales by operating area Sales by market Modifications & Yard Services 47% Norway 96% Field Development & Offshore Wind 53% Rest of Europe 3% Rest of the world 1% FINANCIAL FACTS, NOKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 11,689 7,907 9,081 10,679 7,385 EBITA 642 606 309 46 267 Cash flow from operations 1,397 –92 575 1,041 – Interest-bearing net debt 1,609 2,634 2,211 2,453 4,060 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 No. of serious incidents (per million working hours) 0.3 serious incidents (per million working hours) 0.2 0.2 No. of integrity due diligence (IDD) audits conducted at suppliers 10 12* 231 (12)* Share of employees who have completed the Code of Conduct 90% 95% 91% certification, % Sorting of waste, % >80% 85% 88% Implement energy and CO2 reduction projects annually Minimum of two projects annually 4 N/A OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 32% Co-owners: Ferd 50%, Sixth AP Fund (represented by Ratos) 18% 68% * Number of new suppliers that have undergone an IDD Time of acquisition 2013 process: 12 with high risk, for which on-site audits have been performed, 231 with minimal and low risk (2018). 28 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos’s companies airteam www.airteam.dk airteam offers high-quality, effective ventilation solutions in Denmark and Sweden. The company focuses on project development, project management and procurement where the projects, to a large extent, are carried out by a broad network of quality-assured subcontractors. Furthermore, airteam offers maintenance and service of its the business further through organic growth in existing markets and installed ventilation solutions. Its customers are often major through acquisitions and international expansion. In 2019, airteam ­construction contractors in both renovation and new builds. continued its expansion in Sweden through the acquisition of ­Creovent & Thorszelius. The company then focused on integrating Market the Swedish operations, which consists of a number of add-on The Nordic construction market has growth potential based on ­acquisitions, and creating a clearer governance structure. increased demand for effective, high-quality ventilation solutions. There is an underlying need for large-scale renovation projects and Sustainability new builds in which ventilation plays an increasingly important role. airteam’s sustainability agenda is deeply embedded in its business Intensified regulation and specific requirements for energy efficiency operations through the development of environmentally sustainable, and better indoor climate are also expected to drive new business energy-efficient ventilation solutions that contribute to a healthy and opportunities. The Danish ventilation market is fragmented and improved indoor climate. Accordingly, the energy efficiency of the ­airteam is one of the leading players in its niche. company’s products and customer health and safety are key sustainability issues for airteam. airteam’s employees are its most The year important asset and the focus areas in relation to the company’s airteam has a leading market position and an attractive business employees include performance and career development, safety model coupled with a strong, customer-oriented corporate culture on building sites as well as work environment and conditions. and dedicated employees. There is continued potential to develop Sales by market Denmark 79% Sweden 21% FINANCIAL FACTS, DKKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 801 667 633 604 501 EBITA 63 64 60 37 75 Cash flow from operations 57 51 88 39 – Interest-bearing net debt 130 61 72 153 – SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Number of work-related accidents with absence To reduce the number of work-related accidents leading to 5 6 absence Employee turnover, % To reduce employee turnover and retain employees for longer 13% 21% Sick leave (total number of sick-leave hours in relation To reduce sick leave compared with the preceding year 3% 2% to the potential total number of work hours), % Employees receiving regular performance and career To increase the percentage who receives development reviews 91% 72% development reviews, % OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 70% Co-owners: Management and Board of Directors 30% Time of acquisition 2016 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 29 Ratos’s companies Bisnode www.bisnode.com Bisnode’s core business is to support corporate processes in terms of credit and business decisions as well as marketing information through the use of data-driven solutions, making it easier for the company’s customers to make smart decisions. Bisnode uses local and global data of the highest quality from more than 550 data sources. Abstract data is analysed and interpreted into relevant Sustainability material for business decisions. Bisnode operates in 19 European In pace with the digital transformation, digital sustainability has been countries, and supplies local and global quality data to companies, identified as Bisnode’s most significant sustainability issue taking government agencies, organisations and municipalities through its into account Bisnode’s business model. Digital sustainability strategic partner Dun & Bradstreet. includes data security, data protection and personal integrity. In 2019, Bisnode continued to pursue the transition to a renewable Market energy supply in its offices and servers. Bisnode is convinced that The European data and analysis market is growing in both B2B diversity and a cohesive workplace drives innovation and attracts and B2C. The total European market is estimated to be around talent. Consequently, the company endeavours to increase the share EUR 6 billion. It is expected to continue to grow as digitisation, of women in the company, particularly in executive positions. This ­globalisation and new technologies facilitate faster and more commitment to sustainability is regulated in our Code of Conduct, ­cost-effective ­processing of large volumes of data. which is based on the UN Global Compact. The year During the year, Bisnode continued its development of data-driven analysis products and the transformation of its offering and merger into a joint platform, which will ultimately lead to improved ­profitability. Sales by operating area Sales by market Credit Solutions 48% Sweden 27% Marketing Solutions 28% Switzerland, Germany, Austria 26% Business Information Solutions 24% International markets 47% FINANCIAL FACTS, SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 3,776 3,696 3,555 3,458 3,535 EBITA 484 471 397 228 275 Cash flow from operations 500 380 397 177 – Interest-bearing net debt 1,508 1,378 1,566 1,745 1,896 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 CO2 emissions, CO2e, 1,000 tonnes General targets: 100% renewable energy for Bisnode’s office and 4.8 4.8 (Scope 2 and business trips) servers. Reduce emissions related to air and road travel. CO2/FTE, tonnes 2.4 2.6 Share of women among employees, % 45% 45% Number of incidents reported concerning GDPR* 0 GDPR incidents 11 12 OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 70% Co-owners: Bonnier 30% Time of acquisition 2004 * Reported to the Swedish Data Protection Authority. 30 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos’s companies Diab www.diabgroup.com Diab is a global company that develops, manufactures and sells core materials for sandwich composite structures. Sandwich composite structures are lightweight structures that are used to achieve high strength with lightweight and are used in applications such as aircraft, leisure boats, wind turbines, trains and industrial applications. The company has production units in Sweden, Italy, the US, China, Sustainability Lithuania and Ecuador as well as sales organisations in a number Diab’s products contribute to the increased growth of renewable of other countries. energy (expansion of wind turbines) and reduced energy consumption by using lightweight solutions. Diab is thus actively contributing Market to a more sustainable society. Diab places considerable emphasis on The market for core material is growing rapidly as a result of the sustainability issues, such as energy usage in the company, safety underlying demand for energy efficiency, which is leading to a greater and ethics. Therefore, the company has policies, processes and need for high-strength, lightweight solutions. activities in place to manage the risk of corruption and fraud. Diab is the first company in the world within the field of composite materials The year whose science-based climate targets have been approved to lower A strong market in the Wind Solutions business area combined with its carbon footprint by 2050. continued high demand in marine and aerospace contributed to strong growth for Diab during the year. Diab improved its earnings through measures to boost profitability, implementing a new governance model and increasing its sales. During the year, Diab signed a five-year supplier contract for core materials with Vestas, one of the world’s leading suppliers of wind turbines. The contract is expected to generate net sales of SEK 2–2.5 billion through 2023. Sales by operating area Sales by market Wind Solutions 55% Europe 47% Marine 25% Asia Pacific 39% Transport, Industry, Aerospace 20% North and South America 14% FINANCIAL FACTS, SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 1,874 1,496 1,439 1,516 1,450 EBITA 190 –155 1 109 154 Cash flow from operations –4 –68 23 7 – Interest-bearing net debt 798 890 773 890 796 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 CO2/product (tonnes) 9 10 Lost-time accident rate 0 lost-time accidents 15 20 (per million worked hours) Whistleblowing incidents (number investigated) The number of whistleblowing incidents is to 3 1 remain low OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 96% Co-owners: Management and Board of Directors 4% Time of acquisition 2001/2009 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31 Ratos’s companies HENT www.hent.no HENT is a leading construction company that mainly focuses on new construction of public and commercial real estate. HENT focuses on project development, project management and purchasing. Its ­projects are carried out with their own project administration and in collaboration with a knowledgeable network of quality-assured subcontractors. HENT conducts projects throughout Norway and in Sustainability selected segments in Sweden and Denmark. HENT’s most important asset – and its most important sustainability consideration – is its people. The company therefore focuses Market on issues such as health and safety, working conditions, and The total construction market in Norway amounts to approximately employee satisfaction and development opportunities. Being a conNOK 310 billion of which new-build public and commercial real estate tributor to ethical business in its industry is also a key priority and accounts for approximately NOK 50–60 billion. The new-build goal for HENT. Prequalification of subcontractors, procedures for market is cyclical, but has historically shown good structural growth. quality management and on-site inspections are some of the means The Norwegian construction market is fragmented and HENT is one used to achieve this goal. HENT aims to limit its climate impact while of the leading players in the market. at the same time leveraging business opportunities by producing sustainable buildings. The year In 2019, HENT carried out write-downs on a handful of projects. HENT’s operations have grown substantially under Ratos’s ownership and the focus for the year was to strengthen the organisation through improved risk management and an improved tender process. During the year, this also meant that the volume of tenders was limited in order to adapt the operations to existing capacity. Sales by region Norway 73% Sweden 16% Denmark 11% FINANCIAL FACTS, NOKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 8,843 7,855 7,034 7,834 5,462 EBITA 20 152 253 234 180 Cash flow from operations –15 99 132 172 – Interest-bearing net debt –578 –694 –663 –695 –504 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Sick leave, % (Number of possible workdays/ <3.5% 3.2% 3.2% Total sick leave x 100) GHG emissions, tonnes (Scope 1) Reduce GHG emissions by 20% between 2019 and 2022 1,164 2,432 Frequency of work-related accidents resulting in at ≤3.6 1.6 3.2 least one day’s absence from work (H1) Recycled waste, % 85% recycled waste 83.6% 87.6% Employee turnover, % ≤8% employee turnover 11.7% 11.6% OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 73% Co-owners: Management 27% Time of acquisition 2013 32 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos’s companies HL Display www.hl-display.com HL Display is a European leader in store solutions for improved ­customer experience, profitability and sustainability, particularly for grocery retailers. HL Display helps its customers to achieve increased sales by providing attractive store environments, lowering costs through the automation of routine procedures and reducing the loss of goods. The company sells items such as pull-feeds for M ­ erchandising Solutions product segment having grown rapidly products, shelf dividers, category solutions for fruit and vegetables, over the past year. Many other initiatives have also helped to drive bulk bins for lightweight items (such as sweets and nuts) and positive profitability, with the EBITA margin having grown from datastrips. HL Display’s products are installed in approximately 6.2% to 8.7% during 2019. 295,000 stores worldwide. Sustainability Market HL Display works actively with sustainability issues and was the first in HL Display’s market is largely driven by developments in the offline the market to succeed in introducing a product segment for recycled grocery retail sector, an increased focus on store experience and and bioplastic-based plastic solutions (HL Sustainable Choice). In store operation efficiency. The company operates in a fragmented 2020, more than one-third of the company’s range will be available market with many local competitors, where HL Display is one of the within Sustainable Choice. The main environmental impacts for global players and dominant in Europe. HL Display are related to raw materials used in production, energy ­consumption and plastic waste. HL Display’s sustainability efforts are The year therefore focused on increasing the use of recycled material, develHL Display has been transforming its company for some time by oping new materials and reducing the use of water in the company’s decentralising the sales organisation, reducing complexity and operations. Other goals include safe workplaces that provide a good improving its cost structure. The company has also increased its work environment. HL Display also defines environmental requirefocus on innovation and category solutions, with the important ments for its s ­ uppliers in the company’s purchasing policy. Sales by operating area Sales by market Store Communications 42% Nordic countries 22% Marketing Solutions 39% Rest of the EU 67% Secondary Displays and Lighting 13% Outside the EU 11% Services 6% FINANCIAL FACTS, SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 1,594 1,554 1,445 1,417 1,488 EBITA 138 96 43 67 8 Cash flow from operations 192 97 49 70 – Interest-bearing net debt 346 447 503 569 627 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Recycled non-hazardous waste, tonnes Maximise internal recycling of waste from production 2,225 2,551 Number of work-related accidents with absence Eliminate all work-related accidents leading to absence 9 9 Share of business partners and key suppliers to have 100% of business partners and key suppliers have undergone 100% 100% undergone sustainability screening, % sustainability screening Share of production units with ISO 14001 certification, % 100% of production units with ISO 14001 certification by 2020 75% 75% Annual water consumption, (m3) Reduce annual water consumption by 20% by 2020 377,759 366,631 OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 99% Co-owners: Key employees in the company 1% Time of acquisition 2001/2010 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 33 Ratos’s companies Kvdbil www.kvdbil.se The KVD Group is Sweden’s largest online marketplace offering valuation and broker services for second-hand vehicles (company cars and private cars), machines and heavy vehicles as well as sales of related products and services. The KVD Group is made up of Kvdbil, an independent marketplace for second-hand cars; the car valuation companies Bilpriser and Smart 365; and Kvdpro, which brokers year included the launch of car purchases directly on the website machines and heavy vehicles. Every week more than 500 second-­ and a private car rental service. Together, these initiatives resulted in hand cars are sold on kvdbil.se. Kvdbil handles the entire transaction higher volumes and income during the year. from client order to end customer and guarantees the quality of the brokered car by means of testing. Sustainability By offering an effective, independent and well-functioning marketMarket place for the second-hand and thirdhand market, Kvdbil contributes The market for sales of second-hand cars is stable. Kvdbil’s market to more efficient use of resources and sustainable societal developshare is approximately 10% in Sweden, with strong growth in the ment. Kvdbil aims to have satisfied return customers and offers new ­private cars segment. When it comes to the brokerage of private and existing employees an attractive work environment. Customers’ cars, the company’s main competitors are traditional car dealers willingness to recommend Kvdbil and employee satisfaction are thus and private sales to other private individuals. key factors for the Group’s development. Over the past year, Kvdbil began an initiative with the aim of taking a leading position in The year reducing the climate impact of the Swedish vehicle fleet by calcuKvdbil has further developed its offering to the consumer market, lating the optimal life cycle for cars and spreading this knowledge. thereby increasing its market share in the consumer segment. In early 2020, Kvdbil decided to stop exporting green vehicles in ­Kvdbil’s value-creating initiatives in the consumer market over the order to accelerate the adjustment of the Swedish vehicle fleet. Sales by operating area Cars 86% Machines & Heavy Vehicles 11% Car valuations 3% FINANCIAL FACTS, SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 384 332 346 321 317 EBITA 30 8 30 37 29 Cash flow from operations 40 16 20 27 – Interest-bearing net debt 16 37 141 143 159 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Recommendation willingness, buying customers Recommendation willingness, buying customers +21 +26 (scale of –100 to +100) Recommendation willingness, selling customers Recommendation willingness, selling customers +50 +35 (scale of –100 to +100) CO2 emissions, CO2e tonnes Reduce CO2emissions by 20% by 2020 283 264 (Scope 1+2 and business trips) CO2 emissions, CO2e tonnes/employee Reduce CO2emissions by 20% by 2020 based on gross level 1.5 1.4 (Scope 1+2 and business trips) for CO2emissions in 2016 (2.0 per employee) Employee sick leave, % 3.5% 4.1% OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 100% Time of acquisition 2010 34 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos’s companies LEDiL www.ledil.com LEDiL designs, develops and sells secondary optics for LED lighting globally. Secondary optics process light from the LED to achieve the lamp’s optimal function, with the highest energy efficiency possible. Development and design are carried out in Salo, Finland. Products are sold worldwide through the company’s own sales force, agents and distributors. Most production is performed by subcontractors in efficiency. Petteri Saarinen was recruited as the new CEO during the Finland, China and the US. The company’s products are used in year and assumed the role in December. Petteri is a proven leader ­commercial applications such as street lighting, stores and offices. and has managed companies through changes and towards profitability and growth. Market LEDiL’s market is driven in part by the general lighting market and Sustainability LED market penetration. Almost all contemporary LED lighting has Enhancing the efficiency and performance of LED lighting and some form of secondary optics or reflector. Underlying growth in thereby further reducing its climate impact, is a top priority in LEDiL’s lighting is driven by a rising population and continued urbanisation. operations. The company’s optical solutions help provide light that LED technology has revolutionised the lighting market through light enhances the well-being and safety of people as well as results in quality, design flexibility, lower energy consumption, environmental lower energy consumption. From LEDiL’s perspective, sustainability friendliness and superior operating life. entails responsible operations throughout the supply chain. The entire organisation and the company’s subcontractors apply the The year company’s Code of Conduct and related policies, thereby laying the LEDiL experienced weaker growth and profitability than expected foundation for LEDiL’s sustainable performance. during the year. This was the result of somewhat weaker growth in the market, in particular in Europe, but also a decrease in internal Sales by market Europe 67% Asia 13% North America 14% Rest of the world 6% FINANCIAL FACTS, EURm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 40.9 42.8 40.3 38.6 31.7 EBITA 7.7 10.6 11.1 11.1 10.2 Cash flow from operations 8.5 9.3 6.2 9.9 – Interest-bearing net debt 19.9 29.3 37.1 12.8 19.9 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Share of subcontractors who have subscribed to LEDiL’s 80% of subcontractors are to subscribe to the Code of 77% 71% Code of Conduct, % Conduct Share of employees who have participated in sustainability 100% of employees are to participate in sustainability 99% 99% training, % training Cumulative energy saving by products sold annually, TWh 3 TWh cumulative energy saving by products sold annually 4.3 4.2 Employee sick leave, % Employee sick leave <3% 2.6% 1.6% CO2 emissions, CO2e tonnes (Scope 3) 5,199 N/A OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 66% Co-owners: Company founder, management and Board of Directors 34% Time of acquisition 2014 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 35 Ratos’s companies Oase Outdoors www.oase-outdoors.dk Oase Outdoors develops, designs and sells innovative camping and outdoor equipment under three strong brands, namely O ­ utwell®, Easy Camp® and Robens®. Oase Outdoors offers a broad product range mainly comprising tents, camping furniture, sleeping bags and other outdoor equipment. The three independent brands clearly cater to different target groups – for example, families, beginners, impact on profit for the year. Going forward, the company will focus festival goers and experienced adventurers – who have different on developing its core products in order to drive organic growth requirements in terms of quality and price, and who want to enjoy through favourable profitability. In January 2020, the Outwell brand the outdoors with high-quality equipment. won “The owner satisfaction Award in Best Mainstream Tents” from the Camping and Caravanning Club. Market The camping equipment and outdoor products market is attractive, Sustainability stable and growing with many latent growth trends. New products Given that Oase Outdoors operates in elevated-risk markets, prevenand material technologies as well as consumers’ increasing desire tive anti-corruption and social compliance initiatives are key sustainfor close-to-nature experiences and outdoor recreation are a few of ability issues. Oase Outdoors has implemented an anti-corruption the trends fuelling demand for high-quality, user-friendly equipment. policy and is expanding its work on business environment and social compliance initiatives and extending its due diligence processes The year relating to the company’s business partners. Corporate culture and Oase Outdoors enjoys a strong market position and a reputable engagement are also prioritised, making employee satisfaction a brand for camping tents in Europe. During the year, Oase Outdoor ­pivotal sustainability issue that is measured through targeted was negatively impacted by costs to address quality problems, which employee satisfaction surveys. have now been fully addressed and resolved, but had an adverse Sales by market Europe 82% Nordic countries 15% Rest of the world 3% FINANCIAL FACTS, DKKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 301 306 316 332 265 EBITA 7 26 41 37 29 Cash flow from operations 21 3 26 35 – Interest-bearing net debt 176 198 210 220 – SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Share of relevant employees (22) who have completed the 100% 27% N/A anti-corruption training course, % High-risk suppliers (determined through internal evaluation) to Minimum of one high-risk supplier evaluated according 7 1 be evaluated according to the environmental criteria defined by to BEPI in 2018/2019 the Business Environmental Performance Initiative (BEPI) High-risk suppliers (determined through internal evaluation) to Minimum of ten high-risk suppliers included in BSCI in 7 7 be included in the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) 2018/2019 Employee satisfaction – Trust Index for 2018, % Minimum Trust Index of 80% 83% 85% OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 78% Co-owners: Company CEO and other key individuals 22% Time of acquisition 2016 36 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos’s companies Plantasjen www.plantasjen.no www.plantagen.se Plantasjen is the Nordic region’s leading chain for sales of plants, flowers and related accessories, with more than 140 stores in Norway, Sweden and Finland and a primary focus on consumers. Market The market for plants and gardening accessories has stable growth Sustainability and underlying positive trends in the form of increased interest in With its core operations in plants and gardening accessories, cultivation, gardening and interior design. The Nordic market for ­Plantasjen endeavours to integrate sustainability issues into its plants and accessories is estimated at approximately EUR 3.3 billion operations. Plants are extremely important to both Plantasjen’s with a steady annual growth rate of around 2–3%. operations and the community in general. Plantasjen’s ambition is that its products will contribute in a positive way to both human The year ­well-being and biodiversity. Plantasjen focuses its sustainability Plantasjen enjoys a leading market position and a strong brand in agenda on working with social sustainability and auditing stakea non-cyclical market with stable growth. During the year, Olav holders in the supply chain as well as streamlining operations in Thorstad assumed the role as CEO of Plantasjen. Olav has extensive ­Plantasjen’s stores, transportation and offices. For those stores built operational experience in consumer goods. During the year, as greenhouses, there is potential to optimise energy consumption. ­Plantasjen’s subsidiary Spira was divested. As of the date of the A prerequisite for Plantasjen’s success in the long term is that the divestment, Spira had burdened Plantasjen’s EBITA in an amount of company conducts itself as a good employer that attracts, develops SEK –30m over the past 12 months. The sale generated a capital loss and retains talented employees. of SEK –28m. In the near future, the company will work on improving in-store customer satisfaction and its own e-commerce as well as ­initiatives to increase profitability. Sales by market Norway 58% Sweden 36% Finland 6% FINANCIAL FACTS, NOKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 4,026 3,961 3,881 3,624 3,517 EBITA 49 72 213 228 247 Cash flow from operations 533 –71 359 264 – Interest-bearing net debt 2,232 2,376 2,100 2,262 – SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Sale of plant products/total sales, % 53.0% 53.7% Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) total 75 74 Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) leadership index 76 75 Share of suppliers* in risk countries** that have been socially audited, % 90.4% 84.8% CO2 emissions from energy consumption, tonnes 23,867 27,747 OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 99% * Suppliers that produce Plantasjen’s products under a Co-owners: Management 1% private label. ** Definition of risk countries according to Business Time of acquisition 2016 Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 37 Ratos’s companies Speed Group www.speedgroup.se Speed Group is a Swedish supplier of logistics and staffing services. The company is one of the Nordic region’s leading third-party ­logistics (3PL) providers, with effective automation solutions and a total of approximately 200,000 square metres of warehouse space in Borås, Gothenburg and Stockholm. Within staffing, Speed Group offers flexible staffing services of both blue and white-collar perSustainability sonnel. The company also offers additional services in recruitment Motivated, committed and competent employees are a requirement and education. for Speed Group’s success. The company therefore endeavours to build a sustainable, equal opportunities organisation and to be perMarket ceived as an attractive employer. A healthy and safe work environDemand for efficient logistics services is steadily increasing in pace ment is an important strategic issue for Speed Group. The company with the growth in e-commerce, escalating outsourcing, the centraliworks systematically to minimise the risk of work-related accidents sation of warehouses in strategic locations and the rising complexity and to prevent work-related ill health. Speed Group’s environmental of logistics systems. There is also a major market demand for flexible and climate impact are primarily attributable to its energy consumpstaffing solutions with specialised and competent personnel. tion. Being energy efficient and adapting its properties and operations are thus important issues for the company. Speed Group has The year also chosen to further co-locate its operations in order to reduce An important area of focus for Speed Group is to improve the internal transport. ­efficiency of existing contracts and thereby increase profitability for the company. Over the past year, the company carried out a restructuring programme to reduce fixed costs and resolve unprofitable customer assignments, which led to savings and improved earnings during the year. Sales by operating area Logistics services 82% Staffing services 18% FINANCIAL FACTS, SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 707 738 513 562 536 EBITA 5 –8 24 34 25 Cash flow from operations 70 –52 –3 105 – Interest-bearing net debt 64 69 –28 –50 41 SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Serious work-related accidents A maximum of one serious work-related accident 3 2 Share of managers who are women, % Long-term target: Share of women managers is to reflect the 15% 12% share of women employees Energy intensity, district heating, kWh/sqm 1.85 kWh/sqm 1.83 1.93 Energy intensity, electricity consumption 21.44 kWh/SEK thousand 19.32 19.55 kWh/SEK thousand OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 70% Co-owners: Company founders 30% Time of acquisition 2015 38 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Ratos’s companies TFS www.tfscro.com TFS is a global, mid-sized, clinical contract research organisation (CRO) that supports pharmaceutical companies through the entire clinical development process. TFS focuses its scientific and medical competence across a broad therapeutic spectrum, with industry-­ leading capabilities in dermatology, oncology and haematology. TFS has two business Areas: Clinical Development Services (CDS), which The year offers clinical trials for small pharmaceutical companies during the During the year, Bassem Saleh was appointed as the CEO of TFS. development process, and Strategic Resourcing Solutions (SRS), Bassem most recently served as Business Area Manager for CDS. which offers resource solutions featuring clinical professionals and In conjunction with the change of CEO, a restructuring was carried targeting major pharmaceutical companies. Over the past five years, out in order to increase the efficiency of the operations and reduce TFS has been involved in approximately 1,100 studies in 40 countries the company’s fixed costs. The costs associated with these across Europe and North America. ­measures amounted to about EUR 3.9m and the aim is to achieve improved profitability of approximately EUR 2.8m in 2020. Market The global CRO market is a high-growth market, driven primarily Sustainability by increased regulatory complexity for studies combined with an TFS considers a sustainable environment integral to the organizaincreased share of clinical studies that are outsourced. The CDS tion. TFS’s corporate culture thrives on delivering high-quality business area primarily focuses on pharmaceutical customers and ­services, with sustainability regarded as a cornerstone in its partnercompeting with other mid-sized CROs. The SRS business area is ships with customers. When it comes to sustainability, TFS’s focus ­primarily focused on other major pharmaceutical customers and areas include equal opportunities, patient safety and data integrity, usually competes with staffing companies specialising in medical compliance with laws and regulations, talent development, business resources. ethics and anti-corruption. Sales by operating area Sales by region Clinical Development Services 79% Nordic countries 82% Strategic Resourcing Solutions 21% Southern Europe 11% Central Europe 4% USA 3% FINANCIAL FACTS, EURm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 87.3 82.0 91.6 83.7 73.7 – Services 61.9 55.9 58.6 60.2 52.9 – Reimbursable expenditure 25.4 26.0 33.0 23.5 20.7 EBITA –2.6 –0.6 –0.7 6.7 4.8 Cash flow from operations 3.7 –2.0 1.2 1.4 – Interest-bearing net debt 0.5 7.0 4.0 0.4 – SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS TARGET 2019 2018 Share of employees receiving regular performance and career devel100% 52% N/A opment reviews, % Share of women in the organisation, % 50% 76% 75% Share of employees who have received anti-corruption training, % 100% 99% 99% OTHER KEY FIGURES 2019 Ratos’s holding 100% Time of acquisition 2015/2019 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 39 40 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Financial statements Contents Directors’ Report 42 Chairman’s letter 46 Corporate Governance Report 47 Board of Directors and CEO 54 Consolidated income statement 56 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 56 Consolidated statement of financial position 57 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 58 Consolidated statement of cash flows 59 Parent company income statement 60 Parent company statement of comprehensive income 60 Parent company balance sheet 61 Parent company statement of changes in equity 62 Parent company cash flow statement 63 Index to the notes 64 Notes to the financial statements 65 Auditor’s report 115 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 41 Directors’ Report Directors’ Report The Board of Directors and the CEO of Ratos AB (publ) 556008-3585 hereby submit the 2019 Annual Report for the parent company and the Group. The registered office of the Board is in Stockholm, Sweden. The company’s activities 30–50% of profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent will Ratos is a business group that enables independent mid-sized comfulfil these conditions. panies to excel by being part of something larger. People, leadership, On 11 July, Ratos AB sold its property, Stockholm Lejonet 4, to the culture and values are key focus areas for Ratos. Ratos has its roots in National Property Board of Sweden. The sales proceeds amounted to Söderberg & Haak – Sweden’s first wholesaler of iron and iron prodSEK 550m and the capital gain was SEK 487m. ucts – which was formed on 5 May 1866. In 1934, the assets were placed in an investment company under the name Ratos, as in Ragnar Acquisitions and Torsten Söderberg. Ratos was listed in 1954. The business direcRatos acquired no companies in 2019. Ratos acquired the remaining tion has changed a few times over the years, but the connecting shares (40%) in the subsidiary Trial Form Support International AB thread throughout Ratos’s history is entrepreneurship, business (TFS) from the company’s partner and founder. After the acquisition, development and community involvement. Ratos’s ownership share totals 100%. At 31 December 2019, 22 people worked at Ratos’s head office. Ratos owned 12 companies in the Nordic region at 31 December 2019. Divestments Ratos divested no companies in 2019. Company Ratos’s holding, 31 December 2019 Aibel 32% Dividends from companies airteam 70% HENT issued a dividend of SEK 250m, of which Ratos’s share totalled Bisnode 70% SEK 175m. Diab 96% HENT 73% Capital contributions HL Display 99% During the year, Ratos provided capital contributions to Plantasjen Kvdbil 100% (SEK 207m), Diab (SEK 220m), LEDiL (SEK 28m), Oase Outdoors LEDiL 66% (SEK 34m) and TFS (SEK 47m). Oase Outdoors 78% Events in the companies Plantasjen 99% airteam continued its expansion in Sweden through the acquisition of Speed Group 70% Creovent AB (Creovent) and Thorszelius Ventilation & Service AB TFS 100% (Thorszelius), leading installers of climate and ventilation solutions in the Stockholm and Uppsala regions. The acquisition of Creovent & Financial targets Thorszelius was completed in the first quarter of 2019. Ratos’s overall target is to increase shareholder value while ensuring Aibel has won several major orders within the strategically Ratos’s growth. Ratos’s financial targets focus on the earnings trend important area of offshore wind power, including DolWin5. The Euroand the total return on the share: pean grid operator TenneT awarded the Aibel/Keppel consortium a 1. Increased earnings every year contract for the supply of an HVDC platform (HVDC, or high-voltage 2. The total return on the Ratos share should, over time, outperform direct current, which is a system for transmitting electricity over long the average on Nasdaq Stockholm distances using direct current) and an onshore converter station for the offshore grid connection project DolWin5. The order, which was Criteria for new investments not made public, is one of Aibel’s largest projects to date. Ratos has the following criteria for new investments and long-term Diab signed a five-year supplier contract for core materials with holdings: Vestas, one of the world’s leading suppliers of wind turbines. The con• Market-leading or the potential to become market-leading tract will utilise the capacity of several existing and new PET produc• Highest profitability in the sector tion lines as well as existing IPN/PVC core material production lines, • Ability to create a healthy cash flow over time and is expected to generate net sales of SEK 2–2,5 billion until 2023. • Strong brands In October, Plantasjen sold its subsidiary Spira as a part of refining • Potential to benefit from Ratos’s networks its operations. With some 110 employees, the company has annual • Platform for add-on acquisitions sales of approximately SEK 350m. The accounting effect of the sale is approximately SEK –30m. Ratos strives to implement quick improvements in its companies but In December, Plantasjen concluded its discussions with its lenders. remains an owner with a long-term vision. We own our companies for During part of 2019, bank loans were recognised as short-term but as long as we consider ourselves to be the best owner. recognised as long-term at year-end. Events during the year Environmental impact During the first quarter, Ratos implemented changes to its manageOperations that require a permit under the Environmental Protection ment group and reorganised its operations to improve efficiency. Act are conducted within some subsidiaries. Permits relate to environThese changes included dividing the companies into three business mental impact in the form of emissions of solvents to air as well as areas – Construction & Services, Consumer & Technology and dust, effluent and noise. Ratos AB’s direct environmental and climate Industry. impact is limited. The Board of Directors decided on a new dividend policy during the year. The Ratos share is to deliver steadily increasing dividends over Sustainability time based on growing earnings and a stable financial position. Long-term value is created by developing sustainable companies. This According to the Board’s assessment, a dividend payout ratio of is why sustainability is an integrated part of Ratos’s business strategy. 42 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Directors’ Report This applies to both Ratos’s parent company and the work carried out corresponding to approximately SEK 800m for the full year, has been as an active owner. moved from operating activities to financing activities. IFRS 16 had no Ratos’s greatest contribution to society is acting as an active and effect on total cash flow for the year. responsible owner which builds long-term successful and sustainable companies that create jobs, respect humanity and the environment, Financial position and leverage and deliver high-quality products and services. Ratos also makes a difThe Group’s cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ference in that our principal owners are foundations that promote amounted to SEK 3,219m (3,404) and interest-bearing net debt research and, with it, community development. totalled SEK 7,826m (3,549). The total translation effect of currency There are 22 employees at Ratos’s head office and a total of about for interest-bearing liabilities amounted to approximately SEK 30m, 12,200 employees in 35 countries in our companies. Through active of which approximately SEK 100m related to liabilities to credit instituownership, Ratos acts as a driving force in ensuring that sustainability tions and approximately SEK –80m to financial lease liabilities. Taking work is carried out in our companies. The foundation of this is Ratos’s IFRS 16 Leases into account, interest-bearing net debt in the Group policy framework, consisting of: the Code of Conduct, the Policy for increased. Interest-bearing net debt, excluding IFRS 16, amounted to Sustainability and Responsible Investments, and the Environmental SEK 3,623m. Policy (see Ratos’s website). The policy framework is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles for responsible business as well as Credit facilities and new issue mandate the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). The parent company has a credit facility of SEK 1 billion including a Ratos’s CEO has overall responsibility for the Group-wide strategy bank overdraft facility. The purpose of the facility is to be able use it as and sustainability initiatives as well as responsible investments. All needed for bridge financing. The parent company should normally be business area managers at Ratos are responsible for ensuring that unleveraged. The credit facility was unutilised at the end of the year. sustainability is included on the agenda of each company’s manageIn addition, there is also a mandate from the 2019 AGM to issue a ment and board. The CEO and management of each company have ­maximum of 35 million Ratos Class B shares in conjunction with operational responsibility for the company’s sustainability efforts agreements on acquisitions. through direct delegation from Ratos’s management. For more information, see pages 9–11, 14–23, 28–39 and 120–124 Parent company for the statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Operating profit amounted to SEK 365m (–114). Profit for the year Annual Accounts Act. included the capital gain of SEK 495m from the sale of the Lejonet 4 property. The capital gain is differentiated from the profit reported in Consolidated result the Group due to the application of different accounting principles. Sales for the full year amounted to SEK 25,061m (23,125). Operating The parent company’s profit before tax amounted to SEK 552m profit for the full year amounted to SEK 1,655m (293). Operating profit (–239), of which SEK 175m (114) pertains to dividends from Group for the year includes positive effects of IFRS 16 (100) compared with companies. The parent company’s cash and cash equivalents totalled the preceding year, a capital gain from Ratos’s sale of the Lejonet 4 SEK 1,607m (1,734). property (487), the repayment of promissory notes following the sale of the subsidiary Euromaint (31) and the capital loss from Plantasjen’s Events after the reporting period sale of Spira (–28) SEKm. The results for the year-earlier period No significant events have occurred since the end of the financial included capital gains attributable to HENT’s sale of its residential year that are expected to have a material impact on the consolidated development operations (89), Ratos’s sale of Jøtul (26) and Gudrun financial statements. Sjödén Group (36), and impairment of the consolidated value of Plantasjen (–600). Future outlook Operating profit includes profit/a share of profits from the compa2019 marked yet another year of intensive work related to Ratos’s nies of SEK 1,265m (944). companies. No new investments were made outside our existing Ratos’s management costs amounted to SEK –126m (–117). ­companies. The work related to Ratos’s companies focused on Net financial items totalled SEK –595m (–400). This deterioration ensuring stability and profitability followed by growth in each comin net financial items is primarily attributable to additional interest pany. A number of measures were taken during the year, including expenses of approximately SEK –200m regarding IFRS 16. Underlying a change of CEO, streamlining production and changes to the com­ net interest improved due to the lower average debt. position of the boards of certain companies. A concerted effort to Profit before tax for the full year amounted to SEK 1,061 (–107). This reverse the profitability trend in existing companies followed by a includes profit/a share of profits from the companies of SEK 653m more effective central Ratos organisation has laid the foundation for (566). a more stable development moving forward. At the close of 2019, The implementation of IFRS 16 Leases resulted in an improvement Ratos AB had cash of SEK 1.6 billion at its disposal. to operating profit of SEK 100m. Excluding IFRS 16, operating profit amounted to SEK 1,555m. Profit before tax declined by SEK 102m. Risks and uncertainties Excluding IFRS 16, profit before tax for the year amounted to SEK Ratos’s value and internal rate of return depends on developments in 1,163m. the companies which Ratos owns and the ability to realise the value in these companies. The success and value development of the compaConsolidated cash flow nies primarily depend on how skilled each company’s management Cash flow for the full year amounted to SEK –264m (–485), of which group is and how well the board implements improvements. Value is cash flow from operating activities accounted for SEK 1,909m (732). also dependent on external factors such as the general macroecoCash flow from investing activities amounted to SEK –107m (–256) nomic climate as well as on how the markets develop in which the and cash flow from financing activities to SEK –2,065m (–962). companies are active. If this does not meet expectations, there is a The improvement in cash flow is primarily attributable to operating risk that the value of individual investments can fall, which can result activities, with both improved profitability and lower tied-up capital in the return being less favourable than expected. Ratos performs an having an effect throughout the year. The sale of Ratos’s property has annual mapping and risk assessment and risk management of the been excluded from cash flow from operating activities and is companies and Ratos’s parent company which is aggregated, comincluded in cash flow from investing activities in an amount of piled and assessed by Ratos’s management and Board. Risk efforts SEK 550m. have a broad perspective and include external, strategic, financial, The implementation of IFRS 16 Leases resulted in an improvement operational risks and risks related to compliance and sustainability. in cash flow from operating activities, since the cash flow from leases, Also refer to Ratos’s Corporate Governance Report. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 43 Directors’ Report From time to time, Ratos and its respective companies become party ordinary tasks. Such remuneration may not exceed an amount correto legal processes, the outcome of which may be uncertain. Current sponding to 25 per cent of the fixed annual cash salary and may not be disputes, and provisions attributable to them, are continuously monipaid more than once each year per individual. Any resolution on such tored and followed up by Ratos’s audit committee. remuneration shall be made by the board of directors based on a proThrough its activities, the Group is exposed to various types of posal from the compensation committee. financial risks related to trade receivables, trade payables, loans and For the CEO, pension benefits, including health insurance (Sw: sjukderivative instruments. The financial risks consist of liquidity risk, försäkring), shall be premium defined. Variable cash remuneration interest rate risk, credit risk and currency risk. Ratos’s Board approves shall not qualify for pension benefits. The pension premiums for prethe financial strategy for the parent company while the subsidiaries’ mium defined pension shall amount to not more than 30 per cent of boards adopt financial strategies for each company. The parent comthe fixed annual cash salary. pany’s financial policy, which provides guidelines for management of For other senior executives, pension benefits, including health financial risks, is adopted annually by Ratos’s Board. The Board evaluinsurance, shall be premium defined. Variable cash remuneration shall ates and where necessary proposes changes to the financial policy. not qualify for pension benefits. The pension premiums for premium Although the Group has no central treasury management function, defined pension shall amount to not more than 30 per cent of the fixed Ratos’s head office assists the subsidiaries with overall financial matannual cash salary. ters. Each subsidiary prepares its own financial policy to suit the comOther benefits may include, for example, reimbursements for pany’s operations and risks. For further information, refer to Note 25 dental care and health care (including medication), medical insurance Financial risks and risk policy. (Sw: sjukvårdsförsäkring) and company cars. For the CEO, such benefits may be paid out to a customary limited extent. The work of the Board of Directors The Corporate Governance Report includes a report on the work of Termination of employment the Board. See pages 47–53. Upon termination of an employment, the notice period may not exceed twelve months. Fixed cash salary during the notice period and The board of directors’ proposal for guidelines severance pay may not together exceed an amount corresponding to for executive remuneration the fixed cash salary for six months for the CEO and twelve months for These guidelines cover members of the board of directors, the CEO other senior executives. Additionally, remuneration may be paid for and other senior executives in Ratos’s management team. The guidenon-compete undertakings. Such remuneration shall compensate for lines are applicable to remuneration agreed, and amendments to loss of income, amount to not more than 60 per cent of the fixed remuneration already agreed, after adoption of the guidelines by the monthly cash salary at the time of termination of employment, shall annual general meeting 2020. These guidelines do not apply to any only be paid in so far as the previously employed senior executive is remuneration decided or approved by the general meeting. not entitled to severance pay and be paid during the time the non-compete undertaking applies, however not for more than twelve The guidelines’ promotion of the company’s business months following termination of employment for senior executives. strategy, long-term interests and sustainability When termination is made by the senior executive, the notice period Information regarding the company’s business strategy and longmay not exceed six months, without any right to severance pay. term interests, including its sustainability, is available on the company’s website (https://www.ratos.se/). Criteria for awarding variable cash remuneration, etc. A prerequisite for the successful implementation of the company’s The variable cash remuneration shall be linked to predetermined and business strategy and safeguarding of its long-term interests, measurable criteria which can be financial or non-financial. They may including its sustainability, is that the company is able to recruit and be individualized quantitative or qualitative objectives. The criteria retain qualified personnel. To this end, it is necessary that the comshall be designed so as to contribute to the company’s business pany offers competitive remuneration. These guidelines enable the strategy and long-term interests, including its sustainability, by for company to offer the executive management a competitive total example being clearly linked to the business strategy or promote the remuneration. executive’s long-term development. The proportion of variable cash Long-term share-related incentive plans have been implemented remuneration varies depending on the senior executive’s position in in the company. Such plans have been resolved by the general the company. The portion of the variable cash remuneration linked to meeting and are therefore excluded from these guidelines. For the outcome of financial criteria is normally 100 per cent for the CEO more information regarding these incentive plans, please see and the CFO, 85 per cent for the Business Area Managers and 65 per https://www.ratos.se/. cent for other senior executives, even if the portion can be larger or Variable cash remuneration covered by these guidelines shall smaller depending on the specific circumstances, and shall be depenaim at promoting the company’s business strategy and long-term dent on (i) EBITA growth in Ratos’s company portfolio, (ii) growth in interests, including its sustainability. earnings before tax (EBT) for the Ratos group, and (in certain cases) (iii) EBITA growth for portfolio companies in the business area where a Types of remuneration, etc. member of a business area team works. Variable cash remuneration is The remuneration to senior executives shall be on market terms and paid out in an amount of 50 per cent in the year after the remuneramay consist of the following components: fixed cash salary, variable tion is earned and 50 per cent in the year thereafter. cash remuneration, pension benefits and other benefits. Additionally, To which extent the criteria for awarding variable cash remuneration the general meeting may – irrespective of these guidelines – resolve has been satisfied shall be evaluated/determined when the measureon, among other things, share-related or share price-related remunerment period has ended. The board of directors is responsible for the ation. evaluation so far as it concerns variable remuneration to the CEO, The satisfaction of criteria for awarding variable cash remuneration based on a proposal from the compensation committee. For variable shall be measured over a period of one year. The variable cash remucash remuneration to other senior executives, the CEO is responsible neration may amount to not more than 100 per cent of the total fixed for the evaluation. For financial objectives, the starting point for the annual cash salary. Further variable cash remuneration may be evaluation shall be the latest financial information made public by the awarded in extraordinary circumstances, provided that such extra­ company. ordinary arrangements are limited in time and only made on an ­individual basis, either for the purpose of retaining executives, or as remuneration for extraordinary performance beyond the individual’s 44 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Directors’ Report Salary and employment conditions for employees Ratos share data In the preparation of the board of directors’ proposal for these remuTotal number of Class A shares at year-end 84,637,060 neration guidelines, salary and employment conditions for employees of the company have been taken into account by including informaTotal number of Class B shares at year-end 239,503,836 tion on the employees’ total income, the components of the remunerTotal number of shares 324,140,896 ation and increase and growth rate over time, in the compensation committee’s and the board of directors’ basis of decision when evaluClass A shares carry entitlement to one vote per share and Class B ating whether the guidelines and the limitations set out herein are reashares to one-tenth of a vote per share. Class A shares can be issued sonable. The development of the gap between the remuneration to the in a maximum number that corresponds to 27% of the share capital senior executives and remuneration to other employees will be disand Class B shares in a number that corresponds to 100% of the closed in the remuneration report. share capital, Class C shares in a number that corresponds to 10% of the share capital and Class D shares in a number that corresponds to The decision-making process to determine, 10% of the share capital. At year-end, the Söderberg family with comreview and implement the guidelines panies owned shares corresponding to 19.77% of the capital and The board of directors has established a compensation committee. 44.54% of the voting rights. The Ragnar Söderberg Foundation had The committee’s tasks include preparing the board of directors’ deci8.87% of the capital and 16.93% of the voting rights. The Torsten sion to propose guidelines for executive remuneration. The board of Söderberg Foundation has 8.68% of the capital and 12.58% of the directors shall prepare a proposal for new guidelines at least every voting rights. fourth year and submit it to the annual general meeting. The guideThe company knows of no agreements between shareholders that lines shall be in force until new guidelines are adopted by the general might lead to restrictions in the right to transfer shares. meeting. The compensation committee shall also monitor and ­evaluate programmes for variable remuneration for the executive Holdings of treasury shares manage­ment, the application of the guidelines for executive The 2019 Annual General Meeting renewed the mandate that the ­remuneration as well as the current remuneration structures and company may repurchase Class A and Class B shares. Acquisition compen­sation levels in the company. The members of the compen­ may take place on one or more occasions prior to the next Annual sation ­com­mittee are independent of the company and its executive General Meeting. Acquisition are to take place on Nasdaq Stockholm manage­ment. The CEO and other members of the executive manageat a price within the price band prevailing on Nasdaq Stockholm on ment do not participate in the board of directors’ processing of and each occasion. A maximum number of shares may be acquired so that resolutions regarding remuneration-related matters in so far as they the company’s holding at any time does not exceed 7% of all the are affected by such matters. shares in the company. No Class A or B shares were repurchased in 2019. At year-end, the Derogation from the guidelines company held 5,126,262 Class B shares, corresponding to 1.6% of the The board of directors may temporarily resolve to derogate from the total number of shares with a quota value of SEK 3.15 per share. A total guidelines, in whole or in part, if in a specific case there is special cause of SEK 355m was paid for the shares at an average price of SEK 68. for the derogation and a derogation is necessary to serve the company’s long-term interests, including its sustainability, or to ensure the Proposed distribution of profit company’s financial viability. As set out above, the compensation comSEK mittee’s tasks include preparing the board of directors’ resolutions in Share premium reserve 128,695,169 remuneration-related matters. This includes any resolutions to deroRetained earnings 6,290,987,806 gate from the guidelines. Loss for the year 552,087,301 Total 6,971,770,276 The Board of Directors proposes the following ­distribution of profit: Dividend to holders of Class A and B shares, SEK 0.65 per share 1) 207,359,512 To be carried forward 6,764,410,764 1) B  ased on the number of shares outstanding on 6 February 2020. The number of treasury shares on that date was 5,126,262 and may change during the period until the record date for dividends. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 45 Chairman’s letter Chairman’s letter During the summer, we sold the building that had been Ratos’s home for many ­generations, and while I must confess that it did cause a certain sense of sorrow, it was without a doubt the right thing to do for the future. Walls can evoke many ­emotions, both positive and negative, but the sale gave a clear signal that Ratos has now entered a new phase. We have a smaller, efficient organisation – a forward-looking team order to reach our shared goals. These boundaries and principles who are all looking ahead to 2020 and beyond. We have left behind us ­provide support, rather than limitations. Being open and transparent the days when our model for value creation focused on transactions, enables us to focus on our assignments, rather than on people. and have instead adopted a long-term focus on operating profit in Everyone in the company now has a clear goal to become the best in each business. their industry. Knowing where we are headed provides clarity and Re-establishing trust will take time, but Ratos is already well on its inspiration! way. Over the past year, we delivered more positive improvements and Based on my experience, developing companies and people will fewer negative surprises than in 2018. Our earnings per share always lead to numerous new opportunities that we are not yet aware improved significantly, even when adjusted for the capital gain on the of. We need to be logical and pick our battles wisely, rather than sale of our property, and most of the companies in the portfolio perfighting in vain, but must always strive to develop fast than others. formed better than in the preceding year. Our underlying operating In a few years, Ratos will comprise a number of leading companies in profit and cash flow from operating activities, excluding capital gains a limited number of industries. and losses, were stronger than they have been for a long time. Two years have passed since I took over as Chairman, and the ­Normally, earnings can be expected to increase every year, and with atmosphere at Ratos is now productive. I would even dare to say sales of SEK 38 billion, we should have good potential for continued that we are experiencing a positive trend. However, we still have the improvements (our margin currently averages only about 5%). lion’s share of our work ahead of us. There is certainly no shortage Being part of the Ratos Group creates added value thanks to the challenges, but I am grateful to have made such progress and look culture we aim to create based on what we refer to as the Ratos ­forward to 2020 with great confidence! ­Principles. Working together to formulate these principles and then I would like to thank all of our shareholders and employees, actively implementing them is a very exciting and rewarding task – like and hope that you will join us on our journey. taking a journey into the future. Our principles and culture set boundaries which, although it may sound contradictory, provide a sense of Per-Olof Söderberg freedom and allow the individual to develop their own competence in Chairman of the Board 46 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Governance structure at Ratos 1 Shareholders through general meeting Highest decision-making body. Decides on 4 adoption of income statement and balance sheet, discharge from liability, distribution Auditor of profits, Articles of Association, Board, Examines the company’s annual auditor, Nomination Committee composiaccounts, accounting records and tion and proposals, remuneration and administration. 2 remuneration principles for management Nomination Committee and other key matters. Shareholders’ body which nominates Board members and auditors and pro3b poses their fees. 3 Audit Committee Ensures compliance with financial Board of Directors reporting and internal controls. Overall responsibility for the company's organisation and administration. Appoints 3a the CEO. Adopts strategies and targets. Handles and makes decisions on GroupCompensation Committee wide matters. Prepares matters relating to remuneration and employment conditions for the CEO and senior executives. 5 CEO and management team Manages the business in accordance with the Board's guidelines and instructions. The CEO leads the work of the management group. Corporate governance in Ratos Ratos AB is a public limited liability company and the basis for goverKey internal rules and documents nance of Ratos is both external and internal regulations. In order to • Articles of Association establish guidelines for the company’s activities, the Board has pre• Rules of procedure for the Board of Directors and Board Committees pared and adopted several policy documents. These provide guidance • Decision-making procedures/authorisation instructions to the organisation and employees based on the basic values and • Instructions to the President and CEO and reporting instructions ­principles that must characterise the operations and conduct. • Internal guidelines, policy documents and manuals which provide Ratos applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) guidelines for the Group’s operations and employees, such as and did not report any non-compliance with the Code in the 2019 Ratos’s communication policy, owner policy, Code of Conduct and financial year, except with regard to the composition of the Nominapolicy for sustainability, corporate responsibility and responsible tion Committee (see Nomination Committee on page 49). investments This Corporate Governance Report seeks to avoid repetition of information that is included in applicable regulations and primarily to describe corporate governance for Ratos AB. Read more about Ratos’s corporate governance The company’s auditors have performed a statutory examination of the Corporate Governance Report. Read more about Ratos’s corporate governance on our website under Investor Relations/Corporate governance: Key external rules • Corporate governance reports from previous years • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Accounting legislation and recommendations • Information from general meetings in previous years • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers • Nomination Committee • Swedish Corporate Governance Code • The Board and its committees • Incentive systems • Auditor RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 47 Corporate Governance Report 1 Shareholders and general meetings All Board members who were elected at the Annual General Meeting as well as Ratos’s CEO and auditor were present at the Meeting. ­Minutes and information about the 2019 Annual General Meeting in Share capital and shareholders both Swedish and English as well as the CEO’s address to the Meeting Ratos has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1954. At year-end, are published on Ratos’s website. the share capital amounted to SEK 1,021m divided among a total of 324,140,896 shares, of which 84,637,060 Class A shares and Resolutions at the 2019 Annual General Meeting included the fol239,503,836 Class B shares. The company’s Class A shares carry lowing: entitlement to one vote per share while Class B shares carry entitle• Dividend of SEK 0.50 per Class A and B share, a total of SEK 160m. ment to one-tenth of a vote per share. Class A and B shares carry the • Fees of SEK 970,000 to the Chairman of the Board and SEK same right to a share of the company’s assets and to the same 485,000 to each member of the Board as well as fees to auditors amount of dividend. The general meeting decides on dividends. • Re-election of Board members Per-Olof Söderberg, Ulla Litzén, At year-end, Ratos had a total of 52,070 shareholders according to Karsten Slotte, Jan Söderberg and Jonas Wiström and the new statistics from Euroclear Sweden. The ten largest shareholders election of Eva Karlsson. Annette Sadolin declined re-election. accounted for 78.4% of the voting rights and 51.6% of the share Re-election of Per-Olof Söderberg as Chairman of the Board ­capital. More information about Ratos’s shares and shareholders • Election of the audit firm Ernst & Young AB (EY) is provided on pages 24–25. • Adoption of guidelines for remuneration to senior executives • Offer to CEO and other key employees in Ratos to acquire convertGeneral meetings ibles and warrants in Ratos The general meeting is the highest decision-making body in Ratos and • Authorisation for the Board to acquire Ratos shares up to 7% of all it is through attendance that Ratos’s shareholders exercise their influshares ence on the company. Normally, one general meeting is held each • Authorisation for the Board to decide on a new issue of a maximum year, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, which is convened of 35 million Class B shares to be used for acquisitions in Stockholm before the end of June. Notice is published in the form of an announcement in the Official Swedish Gazette (Postoch Inrikes Tidningar) and on Ratos’s website. Publication of the notice is 2 Nomination Committee announced in Svenska Dagbladet. All documentation required ahead of the Meeting is available on the website (www.ratos.se) in Swedish and English. The Annual General Meeting has decided on the principles for how the A shareholder with at least one-tenth of the votes in Ratos is entiNomination Committee should be appointed and these principles apply tled to request an extraordinary general meeting. The Board and until otherwise decided by the general meeting. The Nomination ComRatos’s auditor can also convene an extraordinary general meeting. mittee is to comprise a minimum of five members together with the In order to have a matter considered at an Annual General Meeting, Chairman. The Nomination Committee’s members are to be appointed a shareholder must submit a written request to the Board in good time by the largest shareholders in terms of voting rights, or group of shareso that the matter can be included in the notice of the meeting, norholders in the Euroclear Sweden system (such a group is considered mally approximately seven weeks before the Annual General Meeting. one shareholder), based on Euroclear Sweden AB’s shareholder statisThe closing date for such requests is stated on Ratos’s website. tics at 31 August the year before the Annual General Meeting. If a shareShareholders who are registered on Euroclear Sweden’s list of holder waives the entitlement to appoint a member, the shareholder shareholders and who have notified their attendance to the company who is the next largest owner in terms of voting rights is to appoint a in due time are entitled to attend the Meeting, in person or through a member. The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee proxy, and to vote for their holding of shares. Shareholders may bring are to be independent in relation to the company and management. The an assistant to the meeting provided they have notified the company. Nomination Committee’s mandate period extends until a new NominaA summary of the main resolutions to be made at the Annual General tion Committee has been appointed. If a member resigns from the Meeting is presented in Ratos’s Articles of Association on Ratos’s Nomination Committee, the owner that appointed the member is website. ­entitled to appoint a replacement. If the owner who the member of the Nomination Committee represents considerably reduces its share2019 Annual General Meeting holding in the company, the Nomination Committee can offer another The 2019 Annual General Meeting was held on 8 May at Skandia­ shareholder the opportunity to appoint a replacement. scenen, Cirkus, in Stockholm, Sweden. The Meeting was attended by The current composition of the Nomination Committee was 215 shareholders, proxies and assistants, who together represented announced on Ratos’s website and disclosed through a press release 75.6% of the voting rights and 44.5% of the capital. on 30 September 2019. The Nomination Committee comprises: 2020 Annual General Meeting Attendance at Annual General Meetings Number % Ratos’s 2020 Annual General Meeting will be held on 1 April 800 80 2:00 p.m. at Skandiascenen, Cirkus, in Stockholm, Sweden. 600 60 For matters related to the Nomination Committee and the Annual General Meeting, refer to Ratos’s website. For further 400 40 information about the Annual General Meeting, see page 129. Number of share200 20 holders attending/ represented 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 0 Share of votes, % 48 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Governance Report • Jenny Parnesten, appointed by the Ragnar Söderberg Foundation (also the Chairman of the Board) and Jan Söderberg are members of as well as own and related parties’ holdings, Chairman of the Nomithe Nomination Committee and regarded as non-independent in relanation Committee tion to the company’s major shareholders. Against the background of • Jan Söderberg, own holdings these persons’ extensive experience of Board work, their in-depth • Maria Söderberg, appointed by the Torsten Söderberg Foundation knowledge of Ratos and roots in the ownership group, and their netas well as own holdings work in Swedish industry, it was deemed beneficial to the company to • Erik Brändström, appointed by Spiltan Fonder AB deviate from the Code on this point. • Håkan Roos, appointed by RoosGruppen AB as well as own holdings No violations of Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers or good • Per-Olof Söderberg, Chairman of Ratos’s Board practice in the stock market have occurred. Combined, the Nomination Committee represents 62% of the voting rights for all the shares in the company. 3 Board of Directors A summary of the Nomination Committee’s tasks is presented in Ratos’s instructions to the Nomination Committee on Ratos’s website. Composition of the Board Ratos’s Board is to comprise of a minimum of four and a maximum Nomination Committee’s work ahead of of nine members with a maximum of three deputies. The Board is the 2020 Annual General Meeting appointed by the shareholders at each Annual General Meeting. Ahead of the 2020 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination ComThe mandate period is thereby one year. mittee held three minuted meetings and was in regular contact in The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved that the Board is to between. In its work, the Nomination Committee has taken note of the ­consist of six members and no deputies. The Meeting re-elected internal evaluation of the Board’s work. ­Per-Olof Söderberg, Ulla Litzén, Karsten Slotte, Jan Söderberg and Ratos develops mid-sized companies headquartered in the Nordics Jonas Wiström and newly elected Eva Karlsson. Annette Sadolin that are or can become market leaders. In 2019, Ratos adopted a new declined re-election. Per-Olof Söderberg was re-elected as Chairman strategy that is currently being implemented. This new strategy of the Board. The CEO is part of the Board and attends Board meetrequires the Board to have a broad industrial background as well as a ings. The composition of the Board and an assessment of each Board documented ability to operate and develop companies in different member's independence is presented in more detail on pages 54–55. industries and phases of development. The Nomination Committee deems the members proposed for re-election to have broad and comResponsibilities and duties of the Board plementary experience that more than adequately meets these The Board has overall responsibility for Ratos’s organisation and requirements and deems that ongoing continuity in the work of the manage­ment of its affairs, in the interests of both the company and its Board is paramount given the company’s current stage of developshareholders. The Board adopts financial targets, decides on the comment. Consequently, the Nomination Committee sees no reason at pany’s strategy and business plan, and ensures good internal control, this time to elect another Board member and feels that the proposed risk management and an adequate sustainability programme. The composition of six members is suitable and appropriate. work of the Board is regulated by, among other things, the Swedish The requirement for independence is also assessed as having Companies Act, the Articles of Association, the Code and the formal been met. work plan adopted by the Board for its work. The Board’s overarching The Nomination Committee has continued to discuss requirements responsibility cannot be delegated but the Board may appoint comfor diversity based in part on the Code’s requirement for stipulating mittees tasked to prepare and evaluate matters ahead of a decision how the diversity policy has been applied and has chosen to use Rule by the Board. 4.1 of the Code, which states that the Board is to exhibit diversity and Each year, the Board adopts a formal work plan for its work breadth of qualifications, experience and background, and strive for designed to ensure that the company’s operations and financial an equal gender balance. Following deliberation by the Nomination ­circumstances are controlled in an adequate manner. The formal Committee regarding, for example, the Board members’ background work plan describes the special role and duties of the Chairman of and experience, it is noted that the gender balance will be unchanged the Board, decision-making procedures, instructions for Ratos’s CEO compared with previous years as the members proposed include and reporting as well as areas of responsibility for the committees. two women and four men, resulting in a gender distribution of Furthermore, the Board also adopts annually a number of policy docu33.3%/66.7% for the proposed Board. According to the Nomination ments for the company’s operations and ensures that there is satisCommittee, this is in accordance with the requirement for an equal factory control of the company’s compliance with laws, rules and gender balance. internal guidelines. The Board ensures compliance through various Proposals regarding fees to the members of the Board as well as tools including Ratos’s annual risk management process and assurremuneration for committee work have been prepared by the four ance mapping, in which responsibility for and validation of internal members of the Nomination Committee who are not members of processes and identified risks are clarified. Ratos’s Board. The main duty of the Chairman of the Board is to lead the work of Shareholders have been informed that proposals to the Annual the Board and ensure that Board members carry out their respective General Meeting can be submitted to the Nomination Committee. duties. The Nomination Committee’s proposals, an account of the work of the Nomination Committee ahead of the 2020 Annual General Work of the Board in 2019 Meeting as well as complementary information on proposed memDuring 2019, a total of 13 minuted Board meetings were held: five bers of the Board will be announced in conjunction with the Notice of ­ordinary meetings, one statutory meeting, and seven extra Board the Meeting and be presented at the 2020 Annual General Meeting. meetings. Board meetings have a recurrent structure with established No fees have been paid for participation in the Nomination key items. Information and documentation for decision ahead of ­Committee. Board meetings are usually sent out approximately one week before each meeting. Ratos’s General Counsel has taken the minutes at the Deviations/violations Board meetings. Ratos deviates from the Code’s rule 2.4, second paragraph, which At every ordinary Board meeting, information is presented about states that if more than one Board member sits on the Nomination the company’s financial position and important events that affect the Committee, a maximum of one of them may be non-independent in company’s operations. At extra Board meetings, acquisition and relation to the company’s major shareholders. Per-Olof Söderberg divestment matters are normally examined as well as financing and RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 49 Corporate Governance Report Composition of the Board Attendance at meetings 2019 Compensation Elected Independent of Independent of Total fee 2), Committee Audit Committee Board Name 1) year the company major shareholders SEK thousand meetings meetings meetings Per-Olof Söderberg 2000 Yes No 1,120 8/8 5/5 13/13 Jan Söderberg 2000 Yes No 635 7/8 5/5 13/13 Eva Karlsson 2019 Yes Yes 585 – 3/3 8/8 Ulla Litzén 2016 Yes Yes 635 – 5/5 13/13 Karsten Slotte 2015 Yes Yes 635 8/8 5/5 13/13 Jonas Wiström 3) 2016 No Yes 0 – – 11/13 Total 3,610 1) Annette Sadolin declined re-election at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. 2) Relates to fees for the Annual General Meeting year 2019/2020. 3) Jonas Wiström received no fee for the role as ordinary Board member. incentive matters. Extra Board meetings are held when such matters The Compensation Committee works in accordance with an adopted requiring a Board decision arise. 2019 was characterised by the new formal work plan. Normally, early in the autumn, an examination is strategy for Ratos, the CEO’s presentation of the companies’ business carried out to see whether there are any major remuneration-related areas and strategies, capital contributions and other financing matmatters of principle to prepare. If such matters exist, they are ters. Senior executives at Ratos attended Board meetings to present addressed ahead of a final proposal at the ordinary meetings in specific matters. December and January. In 2019, the Compensation Committee made a thorough evaluation of Ratos’s remuneration structures and incenEvaluation of the Board tive programmes, which resulted in proposals from the committee to The Board annually evaluates the work of the Board in a structured leave the structure for variable cash salary for 2019 essentially process where members are given an opportunity to express their unchanged and, as in 2018, to propose to the 2019 Annual General opinions on working methods and efficiency, Board material, the perMeeting a new long-term incentive programme in the form of a warformance of the members and the scope of the assignment in order to rants and convertible debenture programme. Prior to the 2020 Annual develop the Board’s working methods. For the 2019 financial year, the General Meeting, adjustments were proposed to the remuneration evaluation was performed internally with the members answering an guidelines due to the new rules that entered into force in the area. The anonymous questionnaire, and the results of the evaluation have been Compensation Committee also conducts an annual review of Ratos’s presented by the Chairman with a subsequent discussion by the long-term incentive systems, which Ratos’s Board of Directors then Board. Furthermore, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee held submit an account of on the company’s website no later than three individual interviews with each Board member. The results of the evalweeks before the Annual General Meeting. uation have been reported to the Nomination Committee. The evaluaDuring 2019, Per-Olof Söderberg (Chairman of the Board and of the tion indicates that the Board work is deemed to function well. Compensation Committee), Jan Söderberg and Karsten Slotte were members of the Compensation Committee. Committees The Compensation Committee held eight minuted meetings in The Board has established a Compensation Committee and an Audit 2019 and was in regular contact in between. Ratos’s General Counsel Committee in order to structure, improve efficiency and assure the has taken the minutes of the Committee. The Compensation quality of its work, and to prepare the Board’s decisions within these ­Committee provides continuous oral reports to the Board and subareas. The members of these committees are appointed annually at mits proposals on matters that require a Board decision. Minutes are the statutory Board meeting. made available to all members of the Board. The CEO and other senior executives normally attend the meetings of the committee to present specific matters. 3a Work of the Compensation Committee The Compensation Committee has both an advisory function ­(follow-up and evaluation) and a preparatory function for decision 3b Work of the Audit Committee matters prior to their examination and decision by Ratos’s Board. In 2019, all Board members except the CEO served on the Audit ­Committee. Ulla Litzén is the Chairman of the committee. The com­ The following matters, among others, are handled by the Compensapany’s auditor participated in five Audit Committee meetings in 2019. tion Committee: The Audit Committee held five minuted meetings. Ratos’s General • the CEO’s terms of employment, and terms for management and Counsel has taken the minutes of the Committee. those directly subordinated to the CEO The Audit Committee has both an advisory and preparatory • Follow and evaluate variable remuneration programmes for ­function for decision matters prior to review and decision by Ratos’s ­company management Board. • Matters of principle concerning pension agreements, severance Each year, the Audit Committee adopts a fiscal cycle for its working pay, notice periods, bonus/earnings-related remuneration, fees, duties and areas for which the Audit Committee is responsible. In benefits, etc. 2019, adjustments were made to the Audit Committee’s fiscal cycle • Prepare matters and decisions relating to the incentive systems for and formal work plan. The Audit Committee is responsible for and Ratos and the companies, in some cases for decision by the Board monitors according to an adopted schedule, among other things, and/or the general meeting accounting and reporting, audit, internal control, corporate gover• The Board’s proposal to the Annual General Meeting on guidelines nance, risk management, purchases of non-audit-related services, tax for remuneration to senior executives payment, the parent company’s guarantee and equity commitments, IT security, insurance, disputes and strategic accounting matters as 50 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Governance Report well as compliance with rules and regulations and certain policy docustrategically, operationally and financially. As an owner, Ratos is to add ments adopted by Ratos’s Board. Furthermore, the Audit Committee and create value but value creation and governance are therefore not oversees Ratos’s externally operated whistleblowing system. The identical in all situations. Having a clear division of responsibility Audit Committee’s work follows Ratos’s interim reporting and Ratos’s between owner, board and CEO is important for the governance of work on valuation matters and impairment testing, with five regular Ratos’s companies as well as for the parent company Ratos AB, and is meetings held every year where the auditor participates in all Comtherefore a key part of Ratos’s business model and success as an mittee meetings. Specific matters addressed in 2019 included valuaowner. Read more about Ratos’s exercise of its ownership role on tion and impairment matters, follow-up of bank terms, commitments pages 9–11. concerning capital contributions and disputes. The CEO and senior executives normally attend the meetings of the Committee to present CEO and management team specific matters. The CEO is appointed by the Board and is responsible, together with The Audit Committee submits proposals on matters that require a the management team, for daily operations in Ratos in accordance Board decision and the minutes are made available to all members of with the Board's instructions. The CEO provides the Board with the Board. The Chairman of the Committee maintains regular contact ­regular updates on operations and ensures so that the Board memwith the company’s auditor. bers receive information on which to base well-considered decisions. Ratos’s management team consisted of the CEO, CFO, two Vice Remuneration to the Board of Directors Presidents, the General Counsel and the Head of IR and Press from The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved that remuneration to the the beginning of 2019 until November, when the Vice President Investordinary members of the Board should be paid in an amount of SEK ments & Ownership Excellence left the management team. The role 485,000 per member and year. Remuneration to the Chairman of the of the management team is to prepare and implement strategies, Board should amount to SEK 970,000 per year. It was decided to pay manage corporate governance and organisational matters, and an additional SEK 150,000 per year to the Chairman of the Audit ­monitor Ratos’s financial development and Ratos’s sustainability ­Committee and SEK 100,000 per year to other members of the Com­programme. mittee. It was decided to pay SEK 50,000 per year to the Chairman of The companies’ financial development and ongoing activities are the Compensation Committee and SEK 50,000 per year to other addressed at monthly meetings attended by the respective compamembers of the Committee. ny’s CEO and CFO alongside Ratos’s CEO, CFO and other senior executives. 4 Auditor Remuneration to senior executives Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives were approved at the 2019 Annual General Meeting. More information about basic and Ratos’s auditor is appointed annually by the Annual General Meeting. variable salary is available in Note 7. Nominations are made by the Nomination Committee. The auditor is tasked on behalf of shareholders to examine the company’s annual accounts and consolidated financial statements as well as the adminEvaluation of the need for an internal audit istration of the company by the Board and the CEO, remuneration of senior executives, the sustainability report and the corporate governance work. The review work and auditor’s report are presented at the Ratos develops mid-sized companies headquartered in the Nordics Annual General Meeting. that are or can become market leaders. At the close of the year, Ratos At the 2019 Annual General Meeting, the audit firm Ernst & Young had 12 companies operating in three business areas in different indusAB (EY) was elected as auditor until the next Annual General Meeting. tries with various risks. With regard to Ratos and the need for an EY appointed Erik Sandström as Chief Auditor. In addition to his internal audit, it has been judged more suitable to discuss and decide assignment in Ratos, Erik Sandström is Chief Auditor for, among for each individual company according to need, size and complexity, others, Autoliv, Gränges and Mycronic. At the 2020 Annual General rather than from parent company or Group level. Meeting, EY was proposed as the company’s audit firm until the next Ratos performs an annual review of risks where significant risks in Annual General Meeting. the companies are summarised and discussed in Ratos’s management and Board (refer to page 52). Ratos’s management and Board Auditor’s fees can use this as a basis to identify a need for a closer look at/developRemuneration is paid to the company’s auditor in accordance with a ment of certain areas, the opportunity to identify areas that need to be special agreement on this matter in accordance with a resolution at centralised/strengthened, and to provide guidance to the Audit the Annual General Meeting. For a specification of audit fees and fees ­Committee for audit priorities for the companies. for other assignments, see Note 8. Ratos’s policy for the purchase of In addition, the audit measures carried out by the auditor for the non-audit-related services is continuously monitored by the Audit parent company and Group, including an audit of internal controls, are Committee, which also evaluates the content of both auditing and important instruments for identifying shortcomings and providing a consulting services. basis for more in-depth measures/follow-up and the basis for decision regarding future audit priorities for the companies. With 20 employees at the beginning of 2020, the parent company 5 Governance in Ratos Ratos AB is a relatively small company which lacks complex functions that are difficult to analyse. The need to introduce an internal audit function for the parent company Ratos AB must therefore be regarded Ratos's principles for active ownership and as negligible. Against this background, the Audit Committee has the exercise of its ownership role decided, as in previous years, not to establish an internal audit Ratos’s business concept is to develop mid-sized companies head­function at Group level or for the parent company Ratos AB. quartered in the Nordics that are or can become market leaders. Ratos enables independent mid-sized companies to excel by being part of something larger. Ratos’s owner policy includes specific strategic foundations that provide a basis for how we choose to act as an owner and how we view corporate governance. One of these foundations is that Ratos’s companies must be independent of each other, RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 51 Corporate Governance Report Internal control The Board has overarching responsibility for ensuring that Ratos has Ratos’s CEO that the company concerned has implemented an an effective and adequate process for risk management and internal ­appropriate process and internal control for management of the control. The purpose is to provide reasonable assurance that opera­company’s risks. tions are conducted in an appropriate and effective manner, that Ratos provides support to its companies in the form of structures external reporting is reliable and that laws as well as internal rules and and models, and works continuously to strengthen their risk propolicy documents are complied with. This work is conducted through cesses as well as its own. Ratos has supplemented the risk managestructured Board work as well as by tasks being delegated to management process to include an assurance mapping, meaning a clarificament, the Audit Committee and other employees. In addition, the tion of responsibilities and validation of internal processes and Group engages in a dialogue with the its auditors regarding their identified risks. Ratos’s most material risks are summarised in the ongoing observations as well as the annual audit of internal control Directors’ Report on pages 42–45. completed during the third quarter and presented by Ratos’s auditors to the Audit Committee. Responsibilities and authorities are also Internal control of financial reporting defined in Ratos’s assurance mapping, which is part of Ratos’s risk Internal control of financial reporting is based on how Ratos’s management process, and in instructions for powers of authorisation, ­operations are conducted and how the organisation is built up. policy documents and manuals which provide guidelines and guidRatos’s operations focus on the development of mid-sized com­ ance for the Group’s operations and employees. As a complement to panies. Ratos has three business areas – Construction & Services, the companies’ financial reporting and sustainability reporting, Ratos Consumer & Technology and Industry – and each business area sends an annual compliance survey to all the CFOs of the companies. ­currently consists of four companies. Each business area has a The findings are compiled and reported by the General Counsel to the ­dedicated team that also works actively in the companies’ boards. Audit Committee, providing a basis for, among other things, decisions Each company is independent of other companies owned by Ratos. regarding future audit priorities for the companies. The intention is not that these companies’ systems and reporting Furthermore, the board of each company is responsible for should be integrated into the Ratos Group, but rather that resources ensuring that the company in question complies with laws and regulabe used for follow-up and development of financial reporting from tions as well as for compliance with internal policy documents and subsidiaries and associates. Ratos’s aim, as part of its value-creating guidelines. A procedure has gradually been implemented to work with the companies, is to create independent and high-quality strengthen the follow-up of these matters. organisations with a quality of financial reporting that corresponds to that of a listed company. Ratos’s risk management process Ratos has the overarching responsibility but the decisions and Ratos performs an annual review of risks where significant risks in its management of each company are carried out based on the needs, own operations and the companies are summarised and discussed in size and complexity of the company. Internal control of financial Ratos’s management and Board. The process is intended to give reporting is therefore designed to be appropriate in Ratos AB as well Ratos’s management and Board of Directors an understanding of the as in the companies. Evaluations and decisions are made by each Group’s most material risks. board and management. This means that the material risks that affect As part of good corporate governance, the companies are expected internal control of financial reporting are identified and managed by to have a continuous process for identifying, assessing and managing Ratos as well as at the company level. their risks. Each company’s CEO and management have operational The basis for internal control of financial reporting consists of an responsibility for ensuring that an appropriate risk management prooverarching control environment where organisation, decision-­ cess is in place and has been approved by the individual company’s making processes, authority and areas of responsibility have been board. All company chairmen are asked every year to confirm to documented and communicated in several guiding documents. This Recommended internal risk management process for Ratos 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Identification Classification Management Reporting Report to owner 1. Identification: Ratos recommends a broad process where all relevant 3. Management: A plan for how identified risks should be managed should operational, strategic, financial and legal areas are covered in order to be drawn up with activities and means to eliminate/ reduce/monitor the ­identify the companies’ most material risks. Each company should identify risk and specifying who is responsible. and discuss risks at a suitable level in the organisation in a company-­ adapted process. 4. Reporting: The risk assessment and management plans are presented and discussed in each company’s board at least once a year. 2. Classification: Classification and ranking of identified risks based on probability, degree of impact, type of risk and time perspective. 5. Report to owner: A report that summarises the biggest risks at Ratos and the companies is compiled and presented to the Ratos Board annually. 52 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Corporate Governance Report means that authority and responsibility within Ratos AB are estabcompleteness, accuracy and compliance with Ratos’s accounting lished in several internal guidelines, policy documents and manuals. principles. Ratos Accounts has an active dialogue with each company. This applies, for example, to the division of work between the Board Any deviations noted in the legal and operational follow-up are corand the CEO and other bodies set up by the Board, instructions for rected following a dialogue with the company concerned. Perforpowers of authorisation as well as accounting and reporting instrucmance and risks that are identified are communicated monthly to the tions. This also serves to reduce the risk of irregularities and inapproCEO and CFO who, where appropriate, in turn report to Ratos’s Board. priate favouring of a third party at the company’s expense. Every month, the companies provide a report in which the activities All companies report complete accounts and forecasts on a in the company and the company’s development are described and monthly basis. These reports are entered into a Group-wide con­ analysed. The report is submitted to Ratos’s management each solidated reporting system. This is the foundation for the Group’s­ month and to Ratos’s Board each quarter. The reports are suppleconsolidated financial reporting. Each company is responsible for its mented with monthly meetings between the companies and Ratos’s own financial management and for ensuring that the reports are cormanagement, during which the reporting is discussed and analysed to rect, complete and delivered in time for the Group’s reporting. The understand each company’s financial development and follow up on financial reporting is designed to follow the applicable laws and reguthe company’s operations. latory frameworks, such as IFRS. The companies’ application of IFRS Accounts relating to acquisitions and investments as well as major in their reporting and how they comply with the principle choices transactions and accounting matters are discussed and regularly Ratos has made are followed up regularly. As support for the com­ ­reconciled with Ratos’s auditors. Group consolidation includes a panies’ reporting, Ratos Accounts has a number of supporting number of reconciliation controls, both manual and automatic, such instructions and documents to ensure the financial reporting is as in the Group-wide consolidated reporting system. ­complete and accurate. Ratos Accounts is organised and staffed on the basis of the need to ensure that the Group maintains a high accounting standard and Quality assurance for financial reporting complies with IFRS and other standards within accounting. Working It is the opinion of the Board that the quality of a company’s reporting duties include preparing regular accounts mainly for the parent comis primarily determined by the organisation’s competence in pany and preparing closing accounts for both the parent company accounting matters as well as how the accounting, reporting and and the Group. A total of four people are employed within the function, finance functions are staffed and organised. At Ratos, the business which is headed by Ratos’s CFO. The employees have long profesarea teams and Ratos Accounts are involved in the reporting from the sional experience in reporting and accounting. companies. This means that the quality of the accounting and Through the Audit Committee, the Board oversees the internal reporting of the companies is continuously examined and developed. ­control and the accuracy of the financial reporting and evaluates Ratos’s business area teams, together with Ratos Accounts, evaluate ­recommendations for improvement. The Audit Committee submits the material reported by the companies analytically, looking at its proposals on matters that require a Board decision. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 53 Board of Directors and CEO Board of Directors and CEO Auditor Jonas Wiström, CEO Secretary to the Board Ulla Litzén At the 2019 Annual Meeting, the Board member since 2016. Magnus Stephensen, General Board member since 2016. auditing firm Ernst & Young AB, with Chairman of the Board April 2016 – Counsel, Ratos. Independent in relation to the comauthorised public accountant Erik December 2017. President and CEO pany, company management and Sandström as Chief Auditor, was since December 2017. Independent major shareholders in the company. elected for the period until the 2020 in relation to major shareholders in MSc Econ and MBA. Annual General Meeting has been the company. Dependent in relation Born 1956, Swedish. held. to the company and company Board member in Electrolux, Epiroc, management. Husqvarna and NCC. MSc Eng. Former CEO of W Capital ManageBorn 1960, Swedish. ment AB (wholly owned by the Vice Chairman of the Board in Wallen­berg Foundations) and Business Sweden. ­Managing Director, and member Former President and CEO ÅF, of the Management Group, ­President and CEO Prevas, CEO Investor AB. ­Silicon Graphics northern Europe and positions within Philips, SaabShareholding in Ratos (own): Scania and Sun Microsystems. 20,000 B shares Options issued by Ratos’s principal Shareholding in Ratos (own): owner: 85,000 170,000 B shares Warrants in Ratos: 200,000 Convertible debentures in Ratos: 250,000 Options issued by Ratos’s principal owner: 260,000 Board’s and CEO’s holdings at 31 December 2019 54 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Board of Directors and CEO Per-Olof Söderberg, Chairman Karsten Slotte Eva Karlsson Jan Söderberg, Bord member since 2000 and Board member since 2015. Board member since 2019. Deputy Chairman Chairman of the Board since Independent in relation to the comIndependent in relation to the comBoard member since 2000 and December 2017. Independent in pany, company management and pany, company management and Deputy Chairman of the Board since relation to the company and commajor shareholders in the company. major shareholders in the company. December 2017. Independent in pany management. Dependent in B.Sc. Econ. Master’s degree in industrial work relation to the company and relation to major shareholders in the Born 1953, Finnish. environment. ­company management. Dependent company. Chairman of the Board in LEDiL. Born 1966, Swedish. in relation to major shareholders in MSc Econ, SSE. MBA Insead. Board member of Antti Ahlströms Vice President Product Supply the company. Born 1955, Swedish. arvingar, Conficap, Royal Unibrew Arcam EBM. Board member in MSc Econ. Chairman of the Board and and Scandi Standard among others. Assa Abloy AB, Bräcke Diakoni and Born 1956, Swedish. co-founder in Söderberg & Partners Former President and CEO in the Valcon A/S. Founder and Chairman of the Board AB. Board member and co-founder Karl Fazer Group 2007–2013 and Former President and CEO of in Söderbergföretagen. Board of SOBRO AB. Chairman of the prior to that as Managing Director of Armatec AB, CEO of SKF Sweden member of Blinkfyrar, Constant Board and founder of the associaCloetta-Fazer 2002–2006. and Global Manufacturing Manager Clean, Elisolation, Nordic Plastics tion Inkludera. Deputy Chairman of Industry division, Director Industrial Group, Motala Intressenter and the Board in Stockholm School of Shareholding in Ratos (own): Marketing & Product Development SEAB Nordic. Member of the Lund Economics. 8,600 B shares at SKF and positions within the SKF School of Economics Management Former CEO of Dahl. Options issued by Ratos’s principal Group within Manufacturing Advisory Board. Board member of owner: 42,500 ­Management. My Special Day Foundation. Shareholding in Ratos (own and Former positions include the Presirelated parties): 16,684,396 A shares, Shareholding in Ratos (own): 0 dent and CEO of Bröderna Edstrand 1,425,635 B shares and senior positions in Dahl Invest AB, Fosselius & Alpen and Esselte. Shareholding in Ratos (own and related parties): 14,503,583 A shares, 3,873,000 B shares RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 55 Financial statements Consolidated income statement SEKm Note 2, 4 2019 2018 Net sales 3 25,061 23,125 Other operating income 3 588 126 Work performed by the company for its own use and capitalised 126 128 Raw materials, consumables and change in inventories –14,357 –13,085 Employee benefit costs 7, 22 –6,359 –6,107 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and right-of-use assets 11, 12, 13 –1,194 –1,167 Other external costs 8, 26 –2,349 –3,010 Capital gain from Group companies 5 3 104 Impairment and capital gains for investments recognised according to the equity method 5 44 Share of profits from investments recognised according to the equity method1) 6, 14 137 133 Operating profit2) 1,655 293 Financial income 9 37 50 Financial expenses 9 –632 –450 Net financial items2) –595 –400 Profit/loss before tax 1,061 –107 Income tax1) 10 –234 –155 Profit/loss for the year 827 –262 Attributable to Owners of the parent 673 –448 Non-controlling interests 153 186 Earnings per share, SEK 21 Basic earnings per share 2.11 –1.40 Diluted earnings per share 2.11 –1.40 1) For 2018, tax attributable to profit from investments recognised according to the equity method has been moved from the line “Income tax” to the line “Share of profits from investments recognised according to the equity method”. For 2018, tax in an amount of SEK –38m has been moved. Profit/loss for the year is unchanged. 2) For 2018, the change in the contingent consideration of SEK 11m was moved from net financial items and instead impacted operating profit. In net terms, profit/loss before tax before tax is unchanged. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEKm Note 2019 2018 Profit/loss for the year 827 –262 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 22 Remeasurement of defined benefit pension obligations, net –97 –15 Tax attributable to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 10 19 1 –77 –14 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 19 Translation differences for the year 151 209 Change in hedging reserve for the year –2 –10 Tax attributable to items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 10 2 2 151 201 Other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax 74 187 Total comprehensive income for the year 901 –75 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to Owners of the parent 750 –307 Non-controlling interests 151 232 56 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position SEKm Note 4 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Goodwill 11 11,610 11,274 Other intangible assets 11 1,853 1,761 Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets 12, 13 5,596 1,586 Investments recognised according to the equity method 14 1,121 1,092 Shares and participations 16 8 8 Other receivables 16 83 113 Deferred tax assets 10 508 486 Total non-current assets 20,780 16,320 Current assets Inventories 17 1,072 1,060 Tax assets 85 71 Trade receivables 16, 25 2,918 2,657 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 457 452 Contract assets 32 548 539 Other receivables 16 325 282 Derivative instruments 16 2 17 Cash and cash equivalents 16, 30 3,219 3,404 Total current assets 8,625 8,483 Total assets 29,405 24,803 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 18, 19 1,021 1,021 Other capital provided 417 417 Reserves –94 –223 Retained earnings including profit/loss for the year 7,953 7,486 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 9,298 8,701 Non-controlling interests 20 1,920 1,929 Total equity 11,218 10,630 Liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 16, 25 8,399 4,938 Other non-current liabilities 16, 32 269 456 Provisions for pensions 22 642 524 Other provisions 23 21 21 Deferred tax liabilities 10 464 429 Total non-current liabilities 9,795 6,368 Current interest-bearing liabilities 16, 25 2,046 1,586 Trade payables 16 2,813 2,279 Tax liabilities 168 225 Contract liabilities 32 1,230 1,267 Derivative instruments 16 5 5 Other liabilities 607 688 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 1,076 1,050 Provisions 23 448 705 Total current liabilities 8,392 7,805 Total liabilities 18,188 14,173 Total equity and liabilities 29,405 24,803 For information about the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 27. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 57 Financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to owners of the parent Other Retained earnings NonTotal Share capital incl. profit/loss controlling equity SEKm Note 18, 19, 20 capital provided Reserves for the year Total interests provided Opening equity, 1 January 2018 1,021 417 –374 8,596 9,660 1,886 11,546 Adjustment1) 0 –29 –29 –17 –46 Adjusted equity 1,021 417 –374 8,567 9,631 1,869 11,500 Profit/loss for the year –448 –448 186 –262 Other comprehensive income for the year 150 –10 141 46 187 Comprehensive income for the year 150 –457 –307 232 –75 Dividend –638 –638 –42 –680 Non-controlling interests’ share of capital contribution, new share issue and impaired equity 9 9 Value of conversion option for convertible debentures, net 2 2 2 Option premiums, net 1 1 1 Put options, future acquisitions from non-controlling interests 8 8 –114 –106 Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests 3 3 –15 –12 Disposal of shares in subsidiaries to non-controlling interests 1 1 5 6 Non-controlling interests at acquisition 0 0 Non-controlling interests in disposals –15 –15 Closing equity, 31 December 2018 1,021 417 –223 7,486 8,701 1,929 10,630 Opening equity, 1 January 2019 1,021 417 –223 7,486 8,701 1,929 10,630 Adjustment2) –3 –16 –20 –2 –22 Adjusted equity 1,021 417 –227 7,470 8,681 1,927 10,608 Profit/loss for the year 673 673 153 827 Other comprehensive income for the year 133 –57 77 –2 74 Comprehensive income for the year 133 617 750 151 901 Dividend –160 –160 –75 –235 Non-controlling interests’ share of capital contribution, new share issue and impaired equity 15 15 Value of conversion option for convertible debentures, net 2 2 2 Option premiums, net 2 2 2 Put options, future acquisitions from non-controlling interests –8 –8 54 46 Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests 30 30 –154 –123 Disposal of shares in subsidiaries to non-controlling interests –0 –0 2 1 Closing equity, 31 December 2019 1,021 417 –94 7,953 9,298 1,920 11,218 1) Adjustments for 2018 pertain to changes to the valuation of an associated company to Aibel which Aibel has reclassified from assets held for sale to investments recognised according to the equity method. 2) Mainly pertains to adjustment of the opening balance for the transition to IFRS 16 Leases. 58 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows SEKm Note 30 2019 2018 Operating activities Operating profit 1,655 293 Adjustment for non-cash items 1) 547 1,069 2,202 1,362 Income tax paid –230 –147 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 1,972 1,215 Cash flow from change in working capital Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in inventories –40 –73 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables –311 –730 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in operating liabilities 288 321 Cash flow from operating activities 1,909 732 Investing activities Acquisition, Group companies –93 –82 Disposal, Group companies 94 92 Acquisitions, investments recognised according to the equity method –2 –0 Disposals, investments recognised according to the equity method 233 Acquisition and disposal, intangible assets/property, plant and equipment 1) –120 –510 Investments and disposals, financial assets 0 1 Received interest 13 10 Cash flow from investing activities –107 –256 Financing activities Non-controlling interests’ share of issue/capital contribution 15 9 Repurchase/final settlement options –27 –10 Option premiums paid 6 7 Acquisition and disposal of shares in subsidiaries from non-controlling interests –130 –11 Dividends paid –160 –638 Dividends paid, non-controlling interests –75 –55 Borrowings 1,314 2,542 Amortisation of loans –1,879 –2,475 Paid interest –465 –301 Amortisation of financial lease liabilities –665 –31 Cash flow from financing activities –2,065 –962 Cash flow for the year –264 –485 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 3,404 3,881 Exchange differences in cash and cash equivalents 79 7 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 3,219 3,404 1) 2019 includes a capital gain of SEK 487m from the sale of Ratos’s property, which was transferred to investing activities. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 59 Financial statements Parent company income statement SEKm Note 2019 2018 Other operating income 3 512 22 Other external costs 8 –59 –55 Personnel costs 7, 22 –86 –77 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 –2 –4 Operating profit/loss 365 –114 Profit/loss from investments in Group companies 5 186 –108 Result from other securities and receivables accounted for as non-current assets 9 1 2 Other interest income and similar profit/loss items 9 6 12 Interest expenses and similar profit/loss items 9 –5 –29 Profit/loss after financial items 552 –239 Tax 10 0 0 Profit/loss for the year 552 –239 Parent company statement of comprehensive income SEKm Note 19 2019 2018 Profit/loss for the year 552 –239 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Change in fair value reserve for the year –7 Other comprehensive income for the year 0 –7 Comprehensive income for the year 552 –245 60 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Financial statements Parent company balance sheet SEKm Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 12 2 59 Financial assets Participations in Group companies 29 7,770 6,931 Receivables from Group companies 15, 16 2 5 Other securities held as non-current assets 16 0 Total non-current assets 7,773 6,995 Current assets Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 15.16 8 5 Other receivables 34 19 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 4 2 Cash and bank balances 16, 30 1,607 1,734 Total current assets 1,653 1,760 Total assets 9,426 8,755 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 18, 19 Restricted equity Share capital 1,021 1,021 Statutory reserve 289 289 Unrestricted equity Share premium reserve 129 129 Fair value reserve 0 0 Retained earnings 6,291 6,685 Profit/loss for the year 552 –239 Total equity 8,281 7,885 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Convertible debentures 16 35 16 Liabilities to Group companies 16 357 572 Other interest-bearing liabilities 16 44 48 Non-interest bearing liabilities Other liabilities 11 6 Deferred tax liabilities 1 0 Total non-current liabilities 448 643 Current provisions Other provisions 23 328 140 Total current provisions 328 140 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to Group companies 16 92 Other interest-bearing liabilities 16 1 0 Non-interest bearing liabilities Liabilities to Group companies 16 225 33 Trade payables 16 5 4 Other liabilities 3 4 Accrued expenses and deferred income 24 44 45 Total current liabilities 369 87 Total equity and liabilities 9,426 8,755 For information about the parent company’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities, see Note 27. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 61 Financial statements Parent company statement of changes in equity Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Share Statutory Share premium Fair value Retained Profit/loss Total equity SEKm Note 18, 19 capital reserve reserve reserve earnings for the year ­provided Opening equity, 1 January 2018 1,021 289 129 7 5,829 1,491 8,765 Other disposition of earnings 1,491 –1,491 Profit/loss for the year –239 –239 Change in fair value reserve for the year –7 –7 Comprehensive income for the year 0 –239 –245 Dividend –638 –638 Option premiums 2 2 Value of conversion option for convertible debentures 2 2 Deferred tax, conversion option –0 –0 Closing equity, 31 December 2018 1,021 289 129 0 6,685 –239 7,885 Opening equity, 1 January 2019 1,021 289 129 0 6,685 –239 7,885 Other disposition of earnings –239 239 Profit/loss for the year 552 552 Comprehensive income for the year 552 552 Dividend –160 –160 Option premiums 2 2 Value of conversion option for convertible debentures 2 2 Deferred tax, conversion option for convertible debentures –1 –1 Closing equity, 31 December 2019 1,021 289 129 0 6,291 552 8,281 62 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Financial statements Parent company cash flow statement SEKm Note 30 2019 2018 Operating activities Profit/loss before tax 552 –239 Adjustment for non-cash items –470 254 82 16 Income tax paid – – Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 82 16 Cash flow from change in working capital Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables –17 0 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in operating liabilities –22 –61 Cash flow from operating activities 43 –45 Investing activities Acquisition, shares in subsidiaries –660 –120 Disposal, shares in subsidiaries 62 Liabilities to Group companies1) 78 236 Acquisition, property, plant and equipment –2 Disposal, property, plant and equipment 550 Cash flow from investing activities –32 177 Financing activities Repurchase/final settlement options –3 Convertible debentures 20 18 Dividend paid –160 –638 Cash flow from financing activities –140 –623 Cash flow for the year –128 –491 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,734 2,226 Exchange differences in cash and cash equivalents 1 –1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,607 1,734 1) Liability that arose in conjunction with divestments of companies. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 63 Notes Index to the notes Note 1 page 65 Accounting principles Note 2 page 74 Operating segments Note 3 page 77 Revenue recognition Note 4 page 78 Acquired and divested businesses Note 5 page 80 Capital gain from Group companies and investments recognised according to the equity method Note 6 page 80 Share of profit from investments recognised according to the equity method Note 7 page 81 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration to senior executives and boards Note 8 page 85 Fees and disbursements to auditors Note 9 page 86 Financial income and expenses Note 10 page 87 Taxes Note 11 page 89 Intangible assets Note 12 page 93 Property, plant and equipment Note 13 page 94 Right-of-use assets Note 14 page 95 Investments recognised according to the equity method Note 15 page 96 Receivables from Group companies Note 16 page 96 Financial instruments Note 17 page 98 Inventories Note 18 page 99 Equity Note 19 page 100 Disclosure of other comprehensive income and change in reserves and non-controlling interests Note 20 page 101 Non-controlling interests Note 21 page 102 Earnings per share Note 22 page 102 Pensions Note 23 page 103 Provisions Note 24 page 104 Accrued expenses and deferred income Note 25 page 104 Financial risks and risk policy Note 26 page 108 Leases Note 27 page 109 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Note 28 page 109 Related party disclosures Note 29 page 110 Participations in Group companies Note 30 page 111 Cash flow statement Note 31 page 112 Key estimations and assessments Note 32 page 113 Contract assets and contract liabilities Note 33 page 113 Events after the reporting period Note 34 page 113 Exchange rates Note 35 page 113 Parent company details 64 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Notes to the financial statements Note 1 Accounting principles Compliance with standards and laws The Group has chosen to measure the opening lease liability and Ratos’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accoropening right-of-use asset for most of its leases at the same amount dance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554), RFR 1 as of 1 January 2019, with the right-of-use asset, in certain cases, Complementary Accounting rules for groups, International Finanadjusted for prepaid lease payments recognised in the balance cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations of the stansheet as of 31 December 2018. For leases classified as finance dards (IFRIC) as endorsed by the EU. The parent company applies leases in accordance with IAS 17, the carrying amount for the rightthe same accounting principles as the Group except in cases of-use asset and lease liability according to IFRS 16, as of 1 January ­specified in the section Parent company’s accounting principles on 2019, corresponds to the carrying amount of the lease asset and page 73. lease liability in accordance with IAS 17 immediately prior to the transition to IFRS 16. For loss-making agreements, the Group has Changed accounting principles due to new or amended IFRS chosen to reduce the value of the right-of-use asset by the amount As of 2019, Ratos applies IFRS 16 Leases. The following changes recognised as other non-current liabilities as of 31 December 2018. have been made with respect to the application of the new standard. The effect on equity is therefore limited. When determining the value In other respects, the reporting and measurement principles are of the right-of-use assets and financial lease liability, the most critunchanged compared with those applied in Ratos’s 2018 Annual ical assessments are the following: Report while no other adjustments of IFRS consider to have a mate• Lease payments have been discounted by the incremental borrial impact on the financial statements. rowing rate. The same interest rate has been used for similar leases. The change in Plantasjen’s interest-bearing liability IFRS 16 Leases accounts for approximately 70% of the Group’s change. The Changed accounting principles due to new IFRS 16 Leases weighted incremental borrowing rate for the Group upon initial IFRS 16 Leases has replaced IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining application was 5.2%. Plantasjen has used an average increWhether an Arrangement Contains a Lease and related rules as of mental borrowing rate of 6.2%. the 2019 financial year. Under the new standard, the lessee is • Options to extend and terminate contracts have been taken into required to recognise all contracts that meet the definition of a lease account for the leases when it has been considered reasonably as a right-of-use asset and financial liability in the statement of certain that these will be exercised. financial position. The standard entails no difference for the lessee • Historical information has been used when assessing the term of between operating and finance leases. Leases that previously coma lease in cases when an option exists to extend or terminate a prised operating leases will now be recognised in the balance sheet, contract. which entails that expenses previously recognised as operating expenses corresponding to the lease payments for the period have The transition effect for the Ratos Group concerning IFRS 16 now been replaced by depreciation and interest expense in income Transition statement. Payments for short-term leases and low-value leases are SEKm 31 Dec 2018 effect 1 Jan 2019 expensed on a straight-line basis in profit or loss for practical reaASSETS sons. Short-term leases are leases with a term of 12 months or less. For the Ratos Group’s financial statements, this has entailed Right-of-use assets 496 4,021 4,517 improved operating profit before depreciation, increased costs Deferred tax assets 0 4 4 related to depreciation and amortisation, weaker net financial items Current receivables 0 –13 –13 and increased total assets. Cash flow from leases has been moved Total assets 496 4,012 4,508 from operating activities to financing activities (amortisation of EQUITY AND LIABILITIES loans and interest paid). With the application of IFRS 16, the total Equity –187 –17 –205 lease cost is normally higher in the first few years of a lease, and Financial lease liabilities then later diminishes over time. This is because the interest expense ­(interest-bearing) 683 4,181 4,864 decreases over time as the lease liability is amortised. In the consoliOther non-current liabilities 0 –151 –151 dated statement of financial position and the balance sheet, rightTotal equity and liabilities 496 4,012 4,508 of-use assets are presented together with property, plant and equipment and lease liabilities as financial liabilities. More detailed information is presented in Note 26. Effect of transition from IAS 17 Leases to IFRS 16 Leases Ratos has chosen to apply the modified retrospective approach SEKm during the transition to IFRS 16 using the practical expedients conFuture payments for operating tained in the standard. This means the accumulated effect of the leases at 31 December 2018 5,648 application of IFRS 16 will be recognised in retained earnings in the Less contracts classified as opening balance as of 1 January 2019 without restating comparative Short-term leases –39 figures. The comparative figures for 2018 in this annual report are thus based on earlier policies and are only restated for figures where Leases for which the underlying asset is of low value –88 specified. Leases that are of a low value as well as leases with a term Service agreements not covered by IFRS 16 –136 of 12 months or less, referred to as short-term leases, or that end Discounted by the incremental borrowing rate –1,045 within 12 months from the transition date, were not included in the Financial lease liability at 31 December 2018 according to IAS 17 683 lease liability but rather will continue to be expensed on a straightAdjustments due to handling of options to extend or line basis during the lease term. Variable expenses as well as propterminate a contract 12 erty taxes and other variable property expenses, such as mainteCurrency translation –179 nance costs, electricity, heat and water, have been excluded from Other adjustments 8 the lease liability calculation to the extent they can be separated. Financial lease liability at 1 January 2019 4,864 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 65 Notes Note 1, cont. See also Note 26 for further details about how the result for the reporting period, while current assets essentially comprise period and interest-bearing net debt have been affected by IFRS 16. amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months Approximately SEK 600m of the opening lease liability is shortfrom the end of the reporting period. term. Non-current liabilities essentially comprise amounts that the Ratos Group has an unconditional right to choose to pay later than New IFRS that have not yet come into force 12 months from the end of the reporting period. If such a right does Several new standards, amendments and improvements to existing not exist at the end of the reporting period or if the liability is standards and interpretations have not come into force for the 2020 expected to be regulated within the normal business cycle, the liafinancial year and have thus not been applied in the preparation of bility amount is recognised as a current liability. this financial report. Ratos has deemed that none of these amendments, which have not yet come into force, are expected to entail Consolidation principles and business combinations any material impact on the Group’s financial statements. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IFRS 3 BusiConditions for preparation of the financial statements ness Combinations. Subsidiaries are consolidated by applying the of the parent company and the Group acquisition method. Associates and joint ventures are consolidated The parent company's functional currency is Swedish kronor (SEK), by applying the equity method. which also comprises the presentation currency for the parent company and the Group. This means that the financial statements are Subsidiaries presented in Swedish kronor. Subsidiaries are companies over which Ratos exercises control. Amounts are presented in SEK million (SEKm) unless otherwise Control exists when the Group is exposed to or is entitled to a varistated. Rounding may apply in tables and calculations, which means able return from its holding in the company and is able to affect the that the stipulated total amounts are not always an exact amount of return through its controlling influence in the company. Subsidiaries the rounded amounts. are included in the consolidated financial statements with effect Measurement of assets and liabilities is based on historical cost from the date when control is transferred to the Group. except for the following assets and liabilities which are measured in another manner: Potential voting rights • Financial assets and liabilities can be measured at either fair value Consolidation is normally carried out on the basis of the current or amortised cost. ownership interest. Potential voting rights relate to votes that may • Associates and joint ventures are recognised in accordance with be added after the exercise of, for example, convertibles and the equity method. options. Potential shares carrying voting rights that can be utilised • Valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on how or converted without delay are taken into account when assessing carrying amounts for assets and liabilities are expected to be realwhether a significant influence or control exists. The existence of all ised or settled. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and such potential voting rights is taken into account, i.e. not only those tax regulations decided or announced as per the end of the related to the parent or owner company. reporting period. • Assets held for sale are recognised at the lower of the prior carAcquisition method rying amount and fair value with deduction for selling costs. Subsidiaries are recognised according to the acquisition method. • Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable This method means that acquisition of a subsidiary is regarded as a value. transaction whereby the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s • Provisions are measured at the amount required to settle an obliassets and assumes its liabilities. In the purchase price allocation gation, with any present value calculation. (PPA), the fair value on the acquisition date is identified of acquired • A net obligation relating to defined benefit pension plans is meaidentifiable assets and assumed liabilities as well as any non-consured at the present value of an estimate of the future benefit trolling interests. For business combinations, there are two alternaearned by the employees with deduction for any plan assets tive methods for recognising goodwill, either a proportionate share linked to the respective pension plan, measured at fair value. of or full goodwill. Full goodwill means that a non-controlling interest is recognised at fair value. The choice between these two methods is The Group’s accounting principles, summarised below, are applied made individually for every acquisition. consistently to all periods presented in the Group’s financial stateAcquisition-related costs, with the exception of costs attributable ments. These principles are also applied consistently to reporting to the issue of an equity instrument or debt instrument, are recand consolidation of parent companies, subsidiaries and associates. ognised directly in profit or loss for the year. In step acquisitions goodwill is identified on the date control is obtained. If the company Estimations and assessments already owned an interest in the acquired subsidiary this is remeaPreparation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS sured at fair value and the change in value recognised in profit or requires assessments and estimations to be made as well as loss for the year. In business combinations where the consideration assumptions that affect the application of the accounting principles transferred, any non-controlling interest and fair value of the previand the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, income and ously owned interest exceed the fair value of acquired assets and expenses. The final outcome can deviate from the results of these assumed liabilities, the difference is recognised as goodwill. When estimations and assessments. the difference is negative, called a “bargain purchase,” the differThe estimations and assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis. ence is recognised directly in profit or loss for the year. Payments Changes in estimations are recognised in the period in which the that relate to settlement of an earlier business commitment are not changes are made. included in the PPA but recognised in profit or loss. Contingent conWhen applying IFRS, assessments which have a material effect on siderations are recognised at fair value on the date of acquisition. If the financial statements, such as estimations made that may result the contingent consideration is classified as a financial liability, this in substantial adjustments to the following year’s financial stateis remeasured at fair value on each reporting date. The change in ments are described in greater detail in Note 31. value is recognised in profit or loss for the year. If the contingent consideration, on the other hand, is classified as an equity instruClassification ment no remeasurement is performed and adjustment is made Non-current assets essentially comprise amounts expected to be within equity. recovered or paid after more than 12 months from the end of the 66 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 1, cont. Acquisitions and divestments in subsidiaries If the ownership interest in a joint venture or associate is reduced where the controlling interest is unchanged but joint control (JV) or significant influence (associates) is retained, Acquisitions and divestments of interests in subsidiaries where only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in Ratos has an uninfluential control of in the transaction are recother comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss where ognised as a transaction within equity, meaning between owners of appropriate. the parent and non-controlling interests. Transactions eliminated on consolidation Put options issued to owners with non-controlling interests Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, income and expenses, and Put options issued to owners with non-controlling interests refer to unrealised gains or losses arising from intra-Group transactions agreements that give the owner the right to sell interests in the combetween Group companies, are eliminated in their entirety. pany, either at a fixed price or a fair value at a future period in time. The Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associates are amount that may be paid if the option is exercised is initially receliminated to an extent that corresponds to the Group’s ownership ognised at the present value of the strike price applicable at the period in the company. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same in time when the option can first be exercised as financial liability with manner as unrealised gains, but only if there is no indication of a corresponding amount directly in equity. Ratos has chosen to firstly impairment. recognise non-controlling interests in equity and, if this is insufficient, in equity attributable to owners of the parent. The liability is adjusted Foreign currency to the strike price applicable on the date when the option can first be Transactions exercised. If the option is not exercised by maturity, the liability is Transactions in foreign currency are translated into the functional derecognised and a corresponding adjustment of equity made. currency at the exchange rate that prevails on the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated Disposal of subsidiaries into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the Subsidiaries are excluded from the consolidated financial stateend of the reporting period. ments with effect from the date when the Group ceases to have a Exchange differences that arise on translation are recognised in controlling influence. At that point in time, every remaining holding profit or loss for the year. Changes in value due to currency translais measured at fair value. The change in value is recognised in profit tion relating to operating assets and liabilities are recognised in or loss for the year. The fair value is used as the first carrying operating profit. amount and provides the basis for future recognition of the Non-monetary assets and liabilities recognised at historical costs remaining holding as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. are translated at the exchange rate on the transaction date. All amounts relating to the sold subsidiaries which were previously Non-monetary assets recognised at fair value are translated to the recognised in other comprehensive income, are recognised as if the functional currency at the rate that prevails on the date of fair value Group directly sold the attributable assets or liabilities, meaning measurement. that amounts previously recognised in Other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. Financial statements of foreign operations Assets and liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and Associates and joint ventures – equity method other consolidated surplus and deficit values, are translated into Associates are companies over which Ratos exercises a significant Swedish kronor at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the influence. A significant influence means the possibility of particireporting period. Income and expenses in a foreign operation are pating in decisions concerning the company’s financial and opertranslated into Swedish kronor at an average rate that comprises an ating strategies, but does not imply control or joint control. Norapproximation of the rates on each transaction date. Translation difmally, ownership corresponding to not less than 20% and not more ferences that arise on translation of foreign operations are recthan 50% of the voting rights means that a significant influence ognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the exists. Circumstances in individual cases may lead to a significant translation reserve in equity. influence even with ownership of less than 20% of the votes. If the foreign operation is not wholly owned, the translation differA joint venture is a joint arrangement through which the parties ences are allocated to non-controlling interests on the basis of its have joint controlling influence over the arrangement and are entiproportional ownership. At disposal of a foreign operation the accutled to net assets from the arrangement. Joint controlling influence mulated translation differences attributable to the operation are exists when joint exercise of the controlling influence over an operarecognised whereby they are reclassified from the translation tion is contractually stipulated. It exists only when it is required that reserve to profit or loss for the year. In the event a disposal is made the parties sharing the controlling influence must give their consent but control remains, a proportionate share of accumulated translaregarding operations-related decisions. tion differences is transferred from other comprehensive income to Associates and joint ventures are recognised according to the non-controlling interests. equity method. The equity method means that the book value in the Group of the shares in associates corresponds to the Group’s share Net investment in foreign operations of equity in associates, and any residual values on consolidated surMonetary non-current receivables to a foreign operation for which plus and deficit values minus any intra-Group profits. In the consolisettlement is not planned and will probably not take place in the dated income statement, the Group’s share of associates’ profits foreseeable future, are in practice part of net investment in foreign after tax is recognised as “Share of profits from investments recoperations. An exchange difference that arises on the monetary ognised according to the equity method”. Dividends received from non-current receivable is recognised in other comprehensive associates reduce carrying amounts. income and accumulated in the translation reserve in equity. Acquisition-related costs, with the exception of costs attributable When a foreign operation repays monetary non-current receivto the issue of an equity instrument or debt instrument, are included ables or provides a dividend and the parent company has the same in acquisition cost. holding as previously, the accumulated translation differences are When the Group’s share of recognised losses in the associate not transferred from the translation reserve in equity to profit or exceeds the carrying amount of the interests in the Group, the value loss for the year. At disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated of these interests is reduced to zero. Future losses are thus not recexchange differences attributable to monetary non-current receivognised unless the Group has provided guarantees to cover losses ables are reclassified from the translation reserve in equity to profit arising in the associate. The equity method is applied until the date or loss for the year. on which the significant influence ceases. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 67 Notes Note 1, cont. Revenue recognition Costs incurred for internally generated goodwill and internally genRevenue recognition in accordance with IFRS 15 shall take place in erated trademarks are recognised in profit or loss when the cost is the manner that best reflects the transfer of promised goods or serincurred. vices to the customer, based on a five-step model stipulated in the standard. To apply the model, a company must identify a contract Subsequent expenditure that includes a performance obligation to transfer a good or service Subsequent expenditure for capitalised intangible assets is recto the customer at a fixed transaction price (selling price). The transognised as an asset in the statement of financial position only if it action price consists of the amount of consideration to which a comincreases the future economic benefits for the specific asset to pany expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised which it is attributable. All other expenditure is recognised as an goods or services to a customer. When the transaction price is expense when it arises. determined, it must be allocated to the performance obligations in the contract. Revenue is recognised when the performance obligaBorrowing costs tion is satisfied. Revenue is recognised either over time or at a point Borrowing costs that are attributable to the construction of so-called in time, depending on when control is transferred to the customer. A qualifying assets are capitalised as part of the qualifying asset’s cost. company satisfies a performance obligation over time if one of the A qualifying asset is an asset which necessarily takes a significant following criteria is met: time to complete. In the first instance, borrowing costs are capitalised 1. the customer immediately receives the benefits when the obligawhich were incurred on loans that are specific to the qualifying asset. tion is satisfied In the second instance, borrowing costs are capitalised which arose 2. the company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that on general loans that are not specific to any other qualifying asset. the customer controls 3. the company’s performance does not create an asset with an Amortisation alternative use for the company and the company has the right to Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis payment for performance completed to date. over the estimated useful life of intangible assets, provided such useful lives are not indeterminable. Useful lives are tested annually For more information about revenue recognition, refer to Note 3. or when required. Depreciable intangible assets are amortised from the date when Financial income and expenses they are available for use. The estimated useful lives are: Net financial items include dividends, interest as well as costs for raising loans, calculated using the effective interest method, and Number of years Group exchange-rate fluctuations relating to financial assets and liabilities. Trademarks 20 Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive dividends is Databases 5–10 established. Capital gains or losses that arise in conjunction with Customer relations 5–10 divestments of financial assets and impairment of financial assets Business systems 3–10 are also recognised in net financial items, as are unrealised and realOther intangible assets 3–10 ised changes in value relating to financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. Changes in the value of derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied are recProperty, plant and equipment ognised in net financial items. Owned assets In addition, payments relating to finance leases are divided Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the Group at cost between interest expense and amortisation. Interest expense is recafter deduction for cumulative depreciation and any impairment ognised as a financial expense. losses. Cost includes the purchase price as well as costs directly Exchange gains and exchange losses are recognised net. attributable to the asset in order to put it in place and in a condition to be utilised in accordance with the purpose of its acquisition. Intangible assets Examples of directly attributable costs included in cost are costs for Goodwill delivery and handling, installation, registration of title, consulting Goodwill is measured at cost minus any cumulative impairment services and legal services. losses. Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairThe carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is ment or when there is an indication that the asset has declined in derecognised from the statement of financial position upon disposal value. Goodwill that arose at acquisition of associates or joint venor sale or when no future economic benefits are expected from use. tures is included in the carrying amount for investments. Gains or losses that arise from the sale or disposal of an asset comprise the difference between the selling price and the carrying Research and development amount of the asset with deduction for direct selling costs are recResearch expenditure is recognised as an expense as incurred. In ognised as other operating income/expense. the Group, development costs are only recognised as intangible assets provided the product or process is technically and financially Borrowing costs usable, and the conditions exist to complete development and Borrowing costs that are attributable to the construction of thereafter use or sell the asset or the expenditure can be calculated so-called qualifying assets are capitalised as part of the qualifying in a reliable manner. The carrying amount includes all directly attribasset’s cost. A qualifying asset is an asset which necessarily takes a utable expenditure, such for material and services, employee benesignificant time to complete. In the first instance, borrowing costs fits as well as registration of a legal entitlement. Amortisation is are capitalised which were incurred on loans that are specific to the started when the product goes into operation and is distributed on a qualifying asset. In the second instance, borrowing costs are capistraight-line basis over the period in which the product provides talised which arose on general loans that are not specific to any economic benefits. Other development costs are expensed in the other qualifying asset. period in which they arise. Subsequent expenditure Other intangible assets Subsequent expenditure is added to cost only if it is probable that Other intangible non-current assets acquired by the Group are recthe future economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue ognised at cost with deduction for impairment and, if the asset has a to the company and the cost can be estimated in a reliable manner. determinable useful life, cumulative amortisation. All other subsequent expenditure is recognised as an expense in the 68 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 1, cont. period in which it arises. Decisive for assessment of when a subseLease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of future quent expenditure is added to cost is whether the expenditure lease payments. Lease payments are discounted by the lease’s relates to replacement of identified components, or parts of the implicit interest rate, if the implicit interest rate can be easily detersame, whereby such expenditure is recognised as an asset. mined, but the typical method is for the Group to use the increIn cases where a new component is created, the expenditure is mental borrowing rate. Future lease payments calculated at present also added to cost. Any undepreciated carrying amounts on value consist primarily of fixed payments, variable lease payments replaced components, or parts of components, are disposed of and based on an index and obligations to pay the residual value at the recognised as an expense when the replacement takes place. end of the lease. Lease liabilities that fall due within 12 months are Repairs are recognised as an expense on a current basis. classified as current liabilities and liabilities that fall due after 12 months as non-current liabilities. Depreciation principles Upon determining the term for a lease, extension options are Depreciation is carried out on a straight-line basis over the estitaken into account if it is likely that they will be exercised. Instead of mated useful life per component. Land is not depreciated. the term of the lease, the lessee uses the likely amount of time by which it will be extended. The ability to extend/terminate a lease is Number of years Group only included in the term of the lease if it is reasonable to expect that Buildings 10–50 the lease will be extended or not concluded. Certain options can be Equipment 3–10 exercised at a later occasion. The incremental borrowing rate is used as the discount rate for The residual value and useful life of an asset are assessed annually. the calculation of present value. This is the rate that the lessee would pay on a loan to purchase an asset equivalent to the one in the Leases, valid up to and including 31 December 2018 lease liability. Among other things, the lease’s term, country, curCosts for operating leases are recognised in profit or loss on a rency, collateral and credit risk for the lender are taken into account. straight-line basis over the lease term. Benefits received in conjunction with signature of a lease are recognised in profit or loss as a Financial instruments reduction of lease payments on a straight-line basis over the term of Financial instruments recognised in the statement of financial posithe lease. Variable payments are recognised as an expense in the tion on the assets side include cash and cash equivalents, trade period in which they arise. receivables, shares and participations, other receivables and derivLeases are classified in the consolidated financial statements as ative instruments. On the liabilities side, there are trade payables, either finance or operating leases. A finance lease exists when the interesting-bearing liabilities, other liabilities and derivative instrueconomic risks and benefits associated with ownership are essenments. tially transferred to the lessee. If this is not the case, it is an operating lease. Recognition and derecognition from the Assets attributable to finance leases are recognised as an asset in statement of financial position the statement of financial position and measured initially at the A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the statement lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of of financial position when the company becomes a party to the conminimum lease payments at the start of the contract. The obligation tractual provisions of the instrument. A receivable is recognised to pay future lease payments is recognised as non-current and curwhen the company has performed and a contractual obligation to rent liabilities. Leased assets are depreciated over the useful life of pay exists, even if an invoice has not yet been sent. Trade receivthe asset while lease payments are recognised as interest and ables are recognised in the statement of financial position when an amortisation of liabilities. invoice has been sent. A liability is recognised when the counterAssets leased under operating leases are normally not party has performed and a contractual obligation to pay exists, even ­recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position. if an invoice has not yet been received. Trade payables are recNor do operating leases give rise to a liability. ognised when an invoice has been received. Financial assets and liabilities can be measured at fair value, cost or amortised cost. Leases, valid as of 1 January 2019 A financial asset is derecognised from the statement of financial Up to and including the 2018 financial year, leases (rent) for propposition when the contractual rights are realised, expired or the erty, vehicles, inventory and equipment are recognised as operating company loses control over them. The same applies to part of a or finance leases according to IAS 17. As of 1 January 2019, the financial asset. A financial liability is derecognised from the statemajority of leases are recognised as right-of-use assets with associment of financial position when the contractual obligation is met or ated liabilities, beginning when the asset is available for use by the otherwise extinguished. The same applies to part of a financial lialessee. All leases are considered finance leases. Upon the initial recbility. ognition of a lease, the value of the right-of-use asset and the lease A financial asset and a financial liability are offset and recognised liability are normally equal. Each lease payment is apportioned to with a net amount in the statement of financial position only if a legal interest and amortisation of the lease liability. The interest is recright to offset these amounts exists and there is an intention to ognised as a financial expense in income statement, apportioned settle these items with a net amount or at the same time realise the over the lease term so that each period is charged with an amount asset and settle the liability. reflecting a fixed interest rate on the underlying lease liability. Acquisition and divestment of financial assets are recognised on The right-of-use asset is measured at cost, which reflects the the trade date which is the day when the company undertakes to value of the lease liability, plus any initial direct expenditure, plus acquire or divest the asset except in cases where the company obligations for disassembly, removal or recovery at the end of the acquires or divests listed securities when settlement date lease. As a general rule, the right-of-use asset is depreciated on a accounting is applied. straight-line basis over the term of the lease or, given an option to extend, the period during the lessee expects to use the asset. Classification and measurement Leases that are of a low value as well as leases with a term of 12 Initially financial assets and liabilities are measured at a cost corremonths or less, referred to as short-term leases, are not included in sponding to fair value with the addition of transaction costs. An the lease liability but rather are expensed on a straight-line basis exception is financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair during the lease term. Low-value leases refer to leases with a value value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value under SEK 50,000 or USD 5,000 or the individual company’s mateexcluding transaction costs. riality level. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 69 Notes Note 1, cont. Fair value for listed financial assets corresponds to the listed purClient money chase price of the asset at the end of the reporting period. Fair value Client money, which is recognised as assets and liabilities in the of unlisted financial assets is determined by applying valuation techstatement of financial position, includes payment received for a niques such as recently completed transactions, price of similar specific receivable on behalf of a client and to be paid to the client instruments or discounted cash flows. Amortised cost is deterwithin a specific period. Client money is cash and cash equivalents mined on the basis of the effective interest calculated on the acquisiwith a limited right of disposition, so that the same amount is rection date. Effective interest is the rate that discounts the estimated ognised as liabilities. Client money is not classified as cash and cash future cash flows throughout the expected life of the financial instruequivalents but as other current receivables. ment to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. The calculation includes all charges made or received by the conDerivative instruments and hedge accounting tractual parties that are part of effective interest, transaction costs The Group’s derivative instruments are acquired to hedge the risks and all other premiums or discounts. of interest rate and currency exposure to which the Group is The classification of investments as debt instruments is due to exposed. In order to hedge this risk, various types of derivative the Group’s business model for management of financial assets and instruments are used such as forward contracts, swaps and hedges the contractual terms of the asset’s cash flows. For equity instruof net investments in foreign operations. ments that are not held for trading, recognition depends on whether All derivative instruments are recognised at fair value in the statethe Group, on the acquisition date for the instrument, made an irrement of financial position. Transaction costs are initially charged to vocable choice to recognise the equity instrument at fair value earnings. The changes in value that arise on remeasurement can be through other comprehensive income. The Group only reclassifies recognised in different ways depending on whether or not hedge debt instruments in cases where the Group’s business model for the accounting is applied. instrument is changed. Category classification is shown in Note 16. In accordance with IFRS 9, the Group documents the relationship Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately availbetween the hedging instrument and the hedged item when the transable balances held by banks and similar institutions as well as shortaction is entered into as well as the Group’s target for risk manageterm liquid investments with a maturity from the acquisition date of ment and the risk management strategy pertaining to the hedge. Both less than three months which are only exposed to an insignificant when entering into the hedging transaction and on an ongoing basis, risk for fluctuations in value. the Group also documents its assessment as to whether or not the The Ratos Group’s financial assets and liabilities are classified derivatives used for the hedging transaction are, and remain, efficient according to the categories listed below. in terms of offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged items or in terms of the cash flows pertaining to them. The outcome related to Amortised cost hedges are recognised in profit or loss for the year at the same time as Assets held for the purpose of collecting contractual cash flows and gains or losses are recognised for the hedged items. where these cash flows solely consist of the principal amount and If hedge accounting is discontinued before the maturity of the interest, are recognised at amortised cost. Interest income from derivative instrument, the derivative instrument returns to classificasuch financial assets is recognised as financial income by applying tion as a financial asset or liability measured at fair value through the effective interest method. Gains and losses that arise during profit or loss, and the future changes in value of the derivative instruderecognition from the statement of financial position are recment are therefore recognised directly in profit or loss for the year. ognised directly in profit or loss in other gains and losses together with exchange rate earnings. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency The category of amortised cost includes trade receivables, other Forward contracts are used to hedge a receivable or liability with receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade payables, liabilities to exchange rate risk. Hedge accounting is not used for protection in credit institutions, financial lease liabilities and other interthese cases since a financial hedge is reflected in the financial stateest-bearing liabilities. Trade receivables are recognised at the ments through both the underlying receivable or liability and the amount at which they are expected to accrue, with deduction for hedging instrument being recognised at the exchange rate on the loss provisions. Trade payables that have a short anticipated matuclosing date and changes in exchange rates are recognised in profit rity are measured at nominal amounts without discount. or loss for the year. Changes in exchange rates for operating receivables and liabiliFair value through profit or loss ties are recognised in operating profit or loss while changes in Assets and liabilities that do not meet the requirements to be meaexchange rates for financial receivables and liabilities are recsured at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive ognised in net financial items. income are measured at fair value through profit or loss. The Group measures all equity instruments at fair value. Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of financial assets/liabilities measured Hedges of forecast purchases/sales in foreign currency at fair value through profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss. A The forward contracts used to hedge future cash flows and forecast gain or loss for a debt instrument that is measured at fair value purchases and sales in foreign currency are recognised in the statethrough profit or loss and that is not part of a hedging relationship is ment of financial position at fair value. Where hedge accounting is recognised net in profit or loss in the period in which the gain or loss applied, changes in value for the period are recognised in other comarises. prehensive income and accumulated changes in value in the Debt instruments included in the category are contingent considhedging reserve within equity until the hedged flow is recognised in erations, synthetic options, put options and derivatives, with the profit or loss for the year, whereby the hedging instrument’s accuexception of derivatives that are identified and effective hedging mulated changes in value are reclassified to profit or loss for the instruments in conjunction with hedge accounting. The purpose of a year where they meet and match profit or loss effects from the derivative instrument, which is not classified as a hedging instruhedged transaction. ment, determines if the change in value is recognised in net financial If hedge accounting is not applied, changes in value for the period items or in operating profit or loss. Any change in the value of issued are recognised directly in profit or loss for the year. synthetic options where market premiums have been paid is recognised in net financial items. Hedging of future interest flows Equity instruments included in the category are holdings of To hedge uncertainty in future interest flows relating to loans at shares and participations that are not recognised as subsidiaries or floating interest, interest rate swaps are used, where the company associates. receives floating interest and pays fixed interest. These interest rate 70 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 1, cont. swaps are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position. Reversal of impairment The interest coupon is recognised on a current basis in profit or loss as Goodwill impairment is not reversed. an interest expense. In the event hedge accounting is applied, unrealImpairment losses on other assets are reversed if there has been ised changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap are recognised a change in the assumptions that form the basis of calculation of the in other comprehensive income and included as part of the hedging recoverable amount. An impairment is only reversed to the extent reserve until the hedged item affects profit or loss for the year and prothe asset’s carrying amount after reversal does not exceed the carvided the criteria for hedge accounting and effectiveness are met. rying amount the asset would have had if no impairment had been Gains or losses attributable to the ineffective part are recognised in recognised, taking into account the amortisation that would then profit or loss for the year and are included in net financial items. have taken place. If hedge accounting is not applied, changes in value for the period Financial assets are written off when a reasonable expectation of are recognised directly in net financial items in profit or loss for the payment no longer exists, for example when a debtor has failed to year. comply with a repayment plan or a receivable has fallen due for a certain number of days. When loans and receivables are written off, Hedging of net investments measures continue to be undertaken to recover the receivable. If a Hedging of net investments in foreign operations is recognised in a previously written off receivable is recovered, the amount is recsimilar manner to cash flow hedges. ognised in profit or loss. The portion of the gain or loss on a hedging instrument considered as effective hedging is recognised in other comprehensive Inventories income and accumulated in equity. Gains or losses attributable to Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable the ineffective portion are recognised directly in profit or loss as value. other income or other costs. Cost comprises all costs for purchase, costs for manufacture and Accumulated gains and losses in equity are reclassified in profit other costs of bringing the goods to their current location and condior loss when the foreign operations are partially or entirely divested. tion. Cost for goods that are not exchangeable and for goods and services that are produced for and held separately for specific projImpairment ects are determined based on the specific costs attributable to the On each closing date, an assessment is made of whether there is any respective product. indication that an asset has an impaired value. If such indication For other goods, cost is calculated according to the first-in, exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. first-out principle or through methods based on a weighted average. Assessment of carrying amount is performed in another manner Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary for certain assets. This applies to inventories, assets held for sale, course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and assets under management used for financing of employee benefits selling costs. and deferred tax assets, see respective headings below. IAS 36 is applied to impairment of assets other than financial assets which Equity are recognised according to IFRS 9. The Group’s equity is allocated to share capital, other capital provided, reserves, retained earnings including profit/loss for the year Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets, property, and non-controlling interests. plant and equipment, and right-of-use assets The value of goodwill, intangible assets, property, plant and equipPurchase of treasury shares ment, and right-of-use assets is calculated at the end of each Acquisitions of treasury shares are recognised as a reduction of reporting period to determine if there is any indication of an impairequity. ment requirement. If such an indication exists, the recoverable Proceeds from the sale of treasury shares are recognised as an amount of the asset is calculated. Additionally, the recoverable increase in equity. Any transaction costs are recognised directly in amount for goodwill, other intangible assets with an indeterminable equity. useful life and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use is calculated annually, regardless of whether there is any indication of an Dividends impairment requirement. Dividends are recognised as a liability after the Annual General In the Ratos Group, goodwill and intangible assets with an indeMeeting has approved the dividend. terminable useful life are attributed to a company, i.e. a subsidiary or associate, where each company comprises a cash-generating Employee benefits unit. Testing of carrying amounts is performed per company, Defined contribution pension plans including the value of goodwill and intangible assets which are Plans where the company’s obligation is limited to the contributions attributable to the company in question. the company has undertaken to pay are classified as defined contriAn impairment is charged to operating profit or loss and recognised bution pension plans. In such case, the size of the employee’s penwhen the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairsion depends on the contributions paid by the company to the plan ment is allocated in the first instance to goodwill. The recoverable or to an insurance company and the return on investment provided amount is the higher of fair value with deduction for selling costs and by the contributions. Consequently, it is the employee who bears value in use. For a more detailed description, see Note 11. the actuarial risk and the investment risk. The company’s obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised Impairment of financial assets as an expense in profit or loss for the year as they are earned. The Group measures future expected credit losses related to investObligations for retirement pension and family pension for salaried ments in debt instruments recognised at amortised cost and fair employees in Sweden are secured through insurance with Alecta. value, respectively, with changes through other comprehensive According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting income based on forward-looking information. Board, UFR 10, this is a defined benefit plan that covers several In accordance with the rules in IFRS 9, the Group applies a simpliemployers. Information which makes it possible to report this plan fied approach for impairment testing of trade receivables. The as a defined benefit plan has not so far been made available. approach entails that the reserve for expected credit losses is calcuThe pension plan according to ITP which is secured through an lated based on the risk of loss over the entire lifetime of the receivinsurance with Alecta is therefore reported as a defined contribuable and is recognised when the receivable is initially measured. For tion plan. more information, see Note 25. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 71 Notes Note 1, cont. Defined benefit plans If a synthetic option is utilised by the holder the financial liability is The Group's net obligation relating to defined benefit plans is calcusettled. The realised profit or loss is recognised in profit or loss as a lated separately for each plan through an estimation of the future benfinancial item. If the synthetic options expire and are worthless, the efits that the employees have earned through their employment in recognised liability is taken up as income. both current and past periods. The remuneration is discounted to a In cases when a market premium is not paid, these are recognised present value and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The and measured in accordance with IFRS 2. A basic premise for IFRS 2 discount rate is the rate at the end of the reporting period for a firstis that the company bears the cost that it incurred by not receiving a class corporate bond with a maturity that corresponds to the Group's market premium. The expense that initially corresponds to the pension obligations. When there is no active market for such corpomarket value of the liability is recognised as employee benefits. In rate bonds the market rate on government bonds with a correcertain cases the expense is accrued over an earning period. The liasponding maturity is used instead. This calculation is performed by a bility is remeasured on a current basis at fair value and changes in qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. value are recognised in profit or loss for the year. When the terms in a plan improve, the portion of the increased benefits attributable to the employees’ past service is recognised as an Incentive programmes, convertible debentures expense in profit or loss. Remeasurements which arise as a result of The parent company has issued convertible debentures to its perdefined benefit plans also include the return on plan assets (excluding sonnel, who paid market value. Recognition of the convertible interest), gains or losses arising from changes to demographic and debentures is divided up into an interest-bearing debt and a converfinancial assumptions, experience-based gains or losses. These are sion option. The conversion option is recognised in equity. The initial recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. All other fair value of the debt portion of the convertible debentures was calcosts related to defined benefit plans are recognised under personnel culated by using the market rate on the issue date for an equivalent costs in the income statement. The Group recognises interest on non-convertible bond. On initial recognition, the debt is measured at defined benefit obligations under net financial items in the income amortised cost until it is converted or falls due. The remainder of the statement. In the Group’s Other comprehensive income, remeasurecash and cash equivalent is apportioned to the conversion option, ment of pension obligations for investments that in the Group are recrecognised net after tax in equity, and is not remeasured. The conognised according to the equity method are also recognised. vertible debenture issued entails no personnel costs. In the event of Adjustments based on experience (profit and loss) are made as a any future conversion of the subordinated loan, new shares will be consequence of the result due to mortality, sick leave, employee issued that increase equity at the same time as the debt portion is turnover, changes in salary and return on plan assets during the transferred to equity. If conversion does not take place, the debt will year deviating from assumptions made. be repaid to the participants on the due date. Other long-term benefits Incentive programmes, warrants The portion of variable remuneration to employees that is only paid if The parent company has issued warrants to personnel. The warthe employee remains in service, is recognised under other non-currants are offered free of charge, which means that the participants rent liabilities. The remuneration is discounted to a present value and retain a benefit equivalent to the market value. The market value in the fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The discount rate is connection with allotment was calculated using the Black–Scholes determined on the same basis as for defined benefit pension plans. model. The associated benefits and social security contributions are recognised in their entirety as personnel costs upon issuance Compensation in the event of termination of employment since there are no vesting, performance or market conditions. The Costs for benefits in conjunction with termination of employment cost of the benefit is recognised with an equivalent increase of are only recognised if the company is demonstrably obligated, equity. In the event of any future utilisation of warrants, the parent without any realistic possibility of withdrawal, by a formal, detailed company retains cash and cash equivalents corresponding to the plan to terminate an employment prior to the normal date. When exercise price, whereupon new shares will be issued and the exerbenefits are provided as an offering to encourage voluntary attricise settlement recognised as an increase in equity. tion, an expense is recognised if it is probable that the offer will be accepted and the number of employees that will accept the offer can Earnings per share be estimated in a reliable manner. Earnings per share are based on consolidated profit/loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent divided by average outShort-term benefits standing ordinary shares. Short-term employee benefits are calculated without discount and When calculating diluted earnings per share, earnings and the recognised as expenses when the relative services are received. average number of shares are adjusted to take into account the Incentive programmes, call options effects of potential ordinary shares, which, for the reported periods, Ratos AB issued call option programmes between 2013 and 2017. pertain to convertible debentures and warrants issued to The call option programmes are secured through purchases of treaemployees. Dilution resulting from convertible debentures is calcusury shares. Purchases of treasury shares are recognised as a lated by increasing the number of shares by the total number of reduction of equity. The options have been acquired at a market shares to which the convertibles correspond and increasing earnprice and the option premium is recognised directly in equity. In the ings by the recognised interest expense after tax. event of future exercise of the options, the exercise price will be paid The dilution effect of option programmes (warrants and call and increase equity. options) depends on options during the year. Calculation of the number of shares is based on the difference between the exercise Incentive programmes, synthetic options price for all outstanding options and the average market price of a Ratos AB issued synthetic options between 2007 and 2017. Syncorresponding number of shares. This difference corresponds, thetic options may also be issued by subsidiaries. taking the average market price for Ratos shares into account, to a Premiums received are recognised as a financial liability. This did certain number of shares. These shares, together with the present not initially imply any cost for the company since measurement of number of shares, provide an estimated number of shares which is the options’ fair value corresponds to the premium received by the used to obtain the dilution effect. company. Potential ordinary shares are considered to have a dilutive effect The liability is remeasured on a current basis to fair value by only during periods when they result in lower earnings or a higher applying an options valuation model taking current terms into account. loss per share. The changes in value during the term of the options are recognised as a financial item. 72 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 1, cont. Provisions Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendations for listed A provision differs from other liabilities since there is uncertainty about companies are also applied. RFR 2 means that the parent company the payment date or the size of the amount to settle the provision. in the annual accounts for a legal entity must apply all EU endorsed A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position IFRS and statements as far as this is possible within the framework when the Group has an existing legal or constructive obligation as a of the Annual Accounts Act, the Income Security Act and taking into consequence of an event and it is probable that an outflow of ecoaccount the correlation between accounting and taxation. nomic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable The recommendation states what exemptions and additions estimation of the amount can be made. should be made to IFRS. Provisions are made in the amount that is the best estimate of The differences between the Group’s and the parent company’s what is required to settle the existing obligation on the closing date. accounting principles are stated below. If the effect of timing of the payment is significant, provisions are The accounting principles set out below for the parent company calculated by discounting the anticipated future cash flow at an are applied consistently to all periods presented in the parent cominterest rate before tax that reflects current market assessments of pany’s financial reports. the value in time of the money and, where applicable, the risks associated with the provision. Classification and presentation A provision for an onerous contract is recognised when the The parent company’s income statement and balance sheet are expected economic benefits to the Group from a contract are lower presented in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act’s than the unavoidable costs of meeting obligations under the contract. schedule, while the statement of comprehensive income, statement A provision for guarantees is recognised when the underlying of changes in equity and statement of cash flows are based on IAS 1 products or services are sold. The provision is based on historical Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 7 Statement of Cash data on guarantees and a weighing up of possible outcome in relaFlows, respectively. The differences between the consolidated tion to the probabilities inherent in the outcome. financial statements which apply in the parent company’s income statement and balance sheet mainly comprise recognition of finanRestructuring cial income and expenses, non-current assets, equity and the A provision for restructuring is recognised when there is an adopted, occurrence of provisions as a separate heading in the balance sheet. detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either started or been publicly announced. No provision is made for Anticipated dividends future operating expenses. Anticipated dividend from a subsidiary is recognised in cases where the parent company alone is entitled to decide on the size of the diviTax dend and this has been decided before the parent company pubIncome taxes comprise current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes lished its financial statements. are recognised in profit or loss except when the underlying transacAssociates and subsidiaries tion is recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity, Investments in associates and subsidiaries are recognised in the when the inherent tax effect is recognised in other comprehensive parent company according to the cost method. income or in equity. This means that transaction costs are included in the carrying Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received relating to the curamount for holdings in subsidiaries and associates. In the Group, on rent year, applying the tax rates decided or in practice at the closing the other hand, transaction costs are recognised for subsidiaries date. Current tax also includes adjustments of current tax attributdirectly in profit or loss. able to past periods. Contingent considerations are measured on the basis of the probDeferred tax is calculated on the basis of the difference between ability that the consideration will be paid. Any changes in provision/ reported and tax assessment value of assets and liabilities. A valuareceivable increase/reduce cost. In the consolidated financial statetion is performed based on the tax rates and tax regulations decided ments contingent considerations are measured at fair value with or announced as per the end of the reporting period. Deferred tax changes in value through profit or loss. assets relating to deductible temporary differences and loss carry forwards are only recognised to the extent it is probable that these Group contributions and shareholder contributions will be utilised. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is In cases where the parent company provides a shareholder contrino longer assessed as probable that they can be used. bution these are capitalised as shares and participations, to the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legal right to offset extent no impairment is recognised. current tax assets and liabilities exists, and when the deferred tax The parent company can neither give nor receive a Group contriassets and liabilities pertain to taxes charged by the same tax authority bution due to its tax status; see Tax below. and there is an intention to settle these through a net payment. When necessary, a provision is recognised in the form of tax liabilTax ities pertaining to an uncertain tax position. An uncertain tax posiThe parent company is taxed according to the rules for investment tion is deemed to exist when there is uncertainty about whether a companies. This means that any capital gains that arise from shares particular treatment will be approved by the tax authority. For and other ownership rights are not liable to tax. Capital losses are example, the application of tax legislation for a certain transaction not deductible. or under certain conditions may be unclear. The company reports a standard income corresponding to 1.5% of the market value of listed shares that at the start of the year have Contingent liabilities been held for less than one year or where the ownership interest A contingent liability is recognised when there is a possible commit(voting rights) is less than 10%. Dividends received and interest ment that stems from events that have taken place and when their income are recognised as taxable income. Interest expenses and occurrence is only confirmed by one or more uncertain future overheads are tax deductible as are dividends paid. These rules norevents or when there is a commitment that is not recognised as a liamally result in the parent company not paying any income tax. bility or provision since it is not probable that an outflow of ecoRatos's consolidated tax expense therefore almost exclusively comnomic benefits will be required. prises tax in associates and subsidiaries. Parent company’s accounting principles Leases The parent company prepares its annual accounts in accordance The parent company applies the exemption rule in RFR 2 and with the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting ­recognises lease payments as a cost on a straight-line basis over the Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. The lease term. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 73 Notes Note 2 Operating segments Ratos develops mid-sized companies headquartered in the Nordics companies they include. This classification provides information that are or can become market leaders. Over time, Ratos is to genabout the Ratos Group’s primary analysis requirement and give the erate the highest possible shareholder value by actively exercising reader an opportunity to gain an understanding of the various its ownership to realise the potential of a number of selected compaindustries in which Ratos is involved in order to assess the Group’s nies. At the end of 2019, Ratos owned 11 subsidiaries and one assosensitivity to market trends and other economic factors that could ciated company. The companies are active in different sectors, and impact revenue. operate strategically, operationally and financially independent of Ratos’s management, which is the Ratos Group’s “chief operating each other. Ratos has three business areas – Construction & Serdecision-maker,” monitors operations on the basis of the developvices, Consumer & Technology and Industry – and each business ment in all of Ratos’s business areas and companies, based on area consists of four companies. The most relevant basis for revRatos’s financial targets which stipulate that the earnings of the enue classification is based on the three business areas and the companies should increase each year. Profit/loss SEKm Net sales EBITDA EBITA Net financial items before tax Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Aibel 140 121 140 121 140 121 airteam 1,135 918 92 91 89 89 –8 –5 82 83 HENT 9,504 8,394 32 173 22 162 10 3 32 165 Speed Group 707 738 23 6 5 –8 –2 –5 –18 –32 Total Construction & Services 11,347 10,050 287 390 257 364 0 –7 236 337 Bisnode 3,776 3,690 627 601 480 464 –113 –122 348 321 Kvdbil 384 332 45 20 30 8 –1 –2 29 6 Oase Outdoors 427 421 13 39 10 36 –14 –10 –4 26 Plantasjen 4,327 4,233 172 192 53 77 –184 –183 –137 –116 Total Consumer & Technology 8,914 8,676 857 852 574 585 –312 –317 236 236 Diab 1,874 1,496 246 –11 190 –155 –57 –26 133 –181 HL Display 1,594 1,554 176 133 138 96 –32 –27 106 69 LEDiL 433 439 104 125 81 109 –8 –10 73 99 TFS 924 841 –18 4 –28 –6 –1 –1 –29 –14 Total Industry 4,826 4,330 508 252 381 43 –98 –64 283 –27 Total companies all periods presented 25,087 23,056 1,652 1,494 1,212 993 –409 –389 756 546 Gudrun Sjödén Group 10 10 10 Jøtul 70 4 0 10 10 Total companies divested during periods presented 70 14 10 10 20 Effect of IFRS 16 805 100 –203 –102 Total companies 25,087 23,125 2,457 1,508 1,313 1,003 –611 –379 653 566 Euromaint 31 31 31 Gudrun Sjödén Group 36 36 36 Jøtul 26 26 26 Capital gains 31 62 31 62 31 62 Impairment Plantasjen –600 Profit/loss from companies 25,087 23,125 2,488 1,570 1,343 1,065 –611 –379 684 28 Ratos management costs and revenue 371 –114 369 –117 369 –117 Other income and costs, including transaction costs –2 1 –2 1 –2 1 Costs that will be charged to the companies –1 2 –1 2 –1 2 Financial items 17 –21 17 –21 Items attributable to the parent company and central companies 368 –110 366 –114 17 –21 383 –134 Other/eliminations –26 –7 –7 0 –7 Group total 25,061 23,125 2,850 1,460 1,703 952 –594 –400 1,061 –107 In the above table, consolidated profit includes 100% of subsidiaries’ profit and the owned share of investments is recognised according to the equity method. For the companies, EBITDA, EBITA, net financial items and profit before tax are presented excluding IFRS 16 for 2019 in order to improve comparability with the preceding year. Of the above net sales, the following amounts are attributable to sales to other Group companies: airteam SEK 25m (0) and Bisnode SEK 1m (0). 74 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 2, cont. Reconciliations between EBITDA, EBITA, operating profit and profit before tax are presented below. SEKm 2019 2018 EBITDA 2,850 1,460 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets attributable to ordinary operations –1,146 –508 of which, effect of IFRS 16 –705 EBITA 1,703 952 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets resulting from acquisitions –48 –659 Operating profit 1,655 293 Financial income 37 50 of which, interest income 19 13 Financial expenses –632 –450 of which, interest expenses –466 –301 of which, effect of IFRS 16 –202 Profit/loss before tax 1,061 –107 Interest-bearing SEKm net receivable (+) / net debt (–)1) Consolidated value2) Company 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Aibel 704 725 airteam –181 –84 497 443 HENT 611 711 436 413 Speed Group –64 –69 259 278 Total Construction & Services 366 558 1,896 1,859 Bisnode –1,508 –1,378 2,150 2,156 Kvdbil –16 –37 503 481 Oase Outdoors –246 –273 213 188 Plantasjen –2,361 –2,434 544 575 Total Consumer & Technology –4,131 –4,122 3,410 3,400 Diab –798 –890 783 454 HL Display –346 –447 709 621 LEDiL –207 –301 570 495 TFS –5 –72 402 246 Total Industry –1,357 –1,710 2,464 1,816 Total companies –5,122 –5,274 7,771 7,074 Effect of IFRS 16 –4,203 Items attributable to the parent company and central companies3) 1,521 1,725 1,527 1,627 Other/eliminations –22 Group total –7,826 –3,549 9,298 8,701 1) Excluding shareholder loans. For the companies, interest-bearing net receivables/liabilities are presented excluding IFRS 16 for 2019. 2) Holdings are shown at consolidated values, which correspond to the Group’s share of the holdings’ equity, any residual values on consolidated surplus and deficit values minus any intra-Group profits. Shareholder loans are also included. 3) Consolidated value includes cash and cash equivalents in the parent company of SEK 1,607m (1,734). RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 75 Notes Note 2, cont. Cash flow Depreciation/amortisation SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Aibel Aibel airteam 81 71 airteam –12 –2 HENT –16 106 HENT –60 –11 Speed Group 70 –52 Speed Group –107 –33 Total Construction & Services 135 125 Total Construction & Services –180 –46 Bisnode 500 380 Bisnode –250 –158 Kvdbil 40 16 Kvdbil –25 –12 Oase Outdoors 30 5 Oase Outdoors –8 –3 Plantasjen 573 –76 Plantasjen –498 –126 Total Consumer & Technology 1,142 324 Total Consumer & Technology –782 –298 Diab –4 –68 Diab –92 –70 HL Display 191 97 HL Display –76 –38 LEDiL 90 95 LEDiL –29 –16 TFS 39 –20 TFS –27 –18 Total Industry 315 103 Total Industry –224 –142 Cash flow from operations in the companies 1,593 553 Total companies all periods presented –1,185 –485 Cash flow from subsidiaries divested during Depreciation/amortisation in subsidiaries the current year –22 divested during the current year –4 Investments and disposals, intangible assets/ Attributable to the parent company and property, plant and equipment 670 510 central companies –2 –4 Income tax paid –230 –147 Group total –1,187 –492 Attributable to the parent company and central companies 43 –45 The above table pertains to amortisation of intangible assets and Eliminations –167 –116 depreciation of property, plant and equipment. Of the above depreCash flow from operating activities 1,909 732 ciation/amortisation, SEK –48m (–58) of assets resulting from acquisitions. Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and Net sales1) right-of-use assets SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Norway 9,935 9,553 5,906 3,917 Sweden 5,885 5,809 7,052 5,769 Other Nordic countries 2,963 2,338 3,484 2,997 Rest of Europe 4,569 4,141 2,316 1,105 North America 697 462 139 50 Rest of the world 1,012 822 161 783 25,061 23,125 19,059 14,621 1) Net sales are based on where the customer is based geographically. No individual customer accounts for more than 10% of total net sales. 76 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 3 Revenue recognition Net sales Diab Group Sale of goods Composite material SEKm 2019 2018 The performance obligation is to deliver composite material to cusBreakdown of net sales tomers. The performance obligation is met when the goods are Sale of goods 8,932 8,434 delivered from the factory to the customer. Payment terms vary Service contracts 5,246 5,113 between 30 and 120 days. The company has no obligation for Construction contracts 10,614 9,312 returns or repayment. Warranty is provided that the product Reimbursable expenditure 269 267 matches the specification. The agreement contains a separate 25,061 23,125 transaction price. In cases of variable remuneration (price reductions, volume discounts and so forth) or other discounts, a corresponding amount is apportioned to all performance obligations SEKm 2019 2018 based on their relative separate selling prices. Time of revenue recognition At a point in time 10,728 10,316 HENT Over time 14,332 12,810 Construction contracts 25,061 23,125 The company’s operations mainly involve performing contractual assignments (projects) with a duration from a few months to two to Performance obligations and key assessments when applying IFRS three years and apply to all types of construction and engineering 15 are described below. See Note 32 for more information on conprojects. The performance obligation is to construct buildings for tract assets and contract liabilities. customers. The transfer of the risk to the customer takes place on a Of the Group’s total net sales, 84% (84) is attributed to the subcontinuous basis and revenue recognition is effected over time (persidiaries below. centage of completion method) since the buildings are constructed on the customer’s land, no alternative use for the constructed buildBisnode ings exists and the company has a right to payment. The percentage Service contracts of completion method means revenue is recognised as work proSubscription-based sales gresses, based on the degree of completion. The degree of compleThe performance obligation entails providing customers with contion is assessed on the basis of the completed production and is nortinuous access to databases and offering customers recurring advimally calculated as the relationship between costs incurred at the sory services through subscription-based sales. There are essenend of the accounting period and the expected total cost of each tially two types of subscription contracts: fixed-price contracts and project. Earnings in a project are recognised from the first month click-based contracts. The performance obligation is met proporrevenue is recognised, corresponding to the costs incurred. As soon tionally over the term of the contract, with revenue recognised when as a final result can be reliably estimated, earnings are continuously the performance obligation has been met. Fixed-price contracts are recognised in relation to the degree of completion in the project. typically invoiced in advance, while click-based contracts are Normally, the customer is invoiced each month with payment terms invoiced in arrears, per click in the database. Payment terms for of 30 days. Each project has different payment plans. Invoicing subscription contracts vary between ten and 60 days. The company takes place either as work progresses or in accordance with the has no obligation for returns, repayment or warranty. The agreeagreed payment plan. Payment terms for the final invoice to the cusments contain a separate selling price. In cases of variable remunertomer are normally 60 days. Accrued revenue that is not invoiced is ation (price reductions, volume discounts and so forth) or other disrecognised as a contract asset. Invoiced revenue that is not yet counts, a corresponding amount is apportioned to relevant earned is recognised as a current contract liability. The company obligations based on their relative separate selling prices. has no obligation for returns or repayment. The company has a guarantee obligation and makes a provision for compensation One-off selling claims. The assessment of guarantee commitments is based on hisThe performance obligation entails providing the customer with torical data from similar projects. The warranty period is normally access to the database, advisory services and the issue of certifibetween three and five years. The agreement contains a separate cates, at a specific time. The performance obligation is met when selling price. the service or data is delivered to the customer, upon which revenue is recognised at the time of delivery. Payment terms for one-off HL Display sales vary between ten and 60 days. The company has no obligation Sale of goods for returns, repayment or warranty. The agreements contain a sepShop fittings and customised goods arate selling price. In cases of variable remuneration (price reducThe performance obligation entails delivering shop fittings and custions, volume discounts and so forth) or other discounts, a corretomised fittings to customers, and the obligation is met on delivery. sponding amount is apportioned to relevant obligations based on Revenue is recognised when the performance obligation is met, their relative separate selling prices. taking anticipated bonuses and discounts into account. The customisations are simple in nature and the projects are only for a relatively short period of time, entailing no revenue recognition over time. Payment terms vary between 30 and 90 days. The company normally has no obligation for returns and repayment. General guarantee commitments are not available, though these may apply in certain individual customer contracts. Contracts regarding shop fittings and customised goods contain a separate selling price. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 77 Notes Note 3, cont. Note 4 Acquired and divested businesses Plantasjen 2019 Sale of goods Acquisition of shares from non-controlling interests The performance obligation entails the sale of, for example, plants, On 11 January, Ratos acquired the remaining shares (40%) in the cut flowers and gardening equipment to customers in shops or subsidiary Trial Form Support International AB (TFS) from partner online. Sales can be made in cash or credit. The obligation is met and founder Daniel Spasic for an equity value of EUR 11m (SEK immediately upon payment in the store, since the risk is transferred 117m). After the acquisition, Ratos’s ownership share totals 100%. to the buyer in connection with the payment. In online sales, the risk is transferred when the item is delivered to the customer. In these Acquisitions within subsidiaries cases, revenue is recognised when the goods leave the warehouse, On 14 February, airteam acquired Creovent AB and Thorszelius Venwhich is the same time as the risk is transferred since all deliveries tilation & Service AB, leading installers of climate and ventilation are same-day. With credit sales, risk is transferred to the customer solutions in the Stockholm and Uppsala regions. The acquired comupon delivery, which is when the revenue is recognised. Payment panies are subsidiaries of the airteam group. For the impact on terms vary between 15 and 45 days. The obligation for returns varies Ratos’s financial statements, refer to the table below. Carrying between seven and 30 days. Guarantee commitments are five days amounts are final. Acquisition-related expenses for the acquisition for cut flowers and 12 months for outdoor plants. A provision is rectotal just over SEK 1m and are included in other costs in the consoliognised for returns, the size of the provision is based on the previous dated income statement for 2019. The fair value and nominal value month’s sales. Contracts include a separate selling price. In cases of of trade receivables amount to SEK 22m. No trade receivables are variable remuneration (price reductions or volume discounts) or considered uncertain. For the January to December period, net other discounts, these are apportioned to all performance obligasales amounted to SEK 213m. Besides this acquisition within airtions based on their relative separate selling prices. A loyalty club is team, a minor acquisition of operations took place in Bisnode during used in Sweden, where purchases are registered and result in a the period. refund of 2%, paid as bonus vouchers. These bonuses reduce revenue since the obligation is recognised as a liability and is measured Acquisitions of Group companies – within subsidiaries in accordance with historic outcomes. Within SEKm airteam Other operating income Intangible assets 73 Group Property, plant and equipment 8 Other operating income Deferred tax assets SEKm 2019 2018 Current assets 33 Capital gain from divestment of property, plant Cash and cash equivalents 4 and equipment 489 2 Other non-current liabilities –6 Rental income 6 30 Deferred tax liabilities –4 Exchange gains 0 17 Current liabilities –88 Other operating income 93 78 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 19 588 126 Goodwill 95 Consideration transferred 115 Parent company of which, cash paid 77 Other operating income of which, contingent consideration 34 SEKm 2019 2018 Acquisition-related expenses 1 Internal sales 6 5 Share acquired, % 74 Capital gain from divestment of property, plant and equipment 495 Divestments within subsidiaries Rental income 3 5 In October, Plantasjen sold its subsidiary Spira (formerly SABA Other operating income 8 11 Blommor AB), which is a supplier of flowers and plants to grocery 512 22 retailers in Sweden. The buyer is the Dutch company Groenland BV. With some 110 employees, Spira has annual sales of approximately SEK 350m. The sale resulted in a capital loss of SEK 28m. The divestment of Spira was intended to refine Plantasjen’s operations and strengthened its profitability. 78 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 4, cont. 2018 Net sales from Samdistribution Logistics Sweden AB’s operations, Divested subsidiaries which have been included in the consolidated income statement Cash flow effect from divested companies is provided in Note 30. since the date of acquisition, amount to SEK 158m. Profit before tax amounts to SEK 8m during the corresponding period. For the JanDivestment of Jøtul uary to December period, net sales amounted to SEK 184m and The divestment of Ratos’s holding of 93% in Jøtul was concluded in profit before tax to SEK 7m. Fair value and nominal value on trade March 2018. The enterprise value amounted to approximately NOK receivables amount to SEK 10m. No trade receivables are consid364m. The divestment generated a capital gain of SEK 26m. ered uncertain. Net sales from Luftkontroll Energy i Örebro AB’s operations, Divested companies recognised according to the equity method which have been included in the consolidated income statement Divestment of Gudrun Sjödén Group since the date of acquisition, amount to SEK 55m. Profit before tax In September 2018, Ratos signed an agreement to sell all of its amounts to SEK 1m during the corresponding period. For the Janshares in Gudrun Sjödén Group for a selling price corresponding to uary to December period, net sales amounted to SEK 59m and profit SEK 225m for 30% of the shares. The sale was finalised in Sepbefore tax to SEK 2m. Fair value and nominal value on trade receivtember 2018 and the capital gain was SEK 36m. ables amount to SEK 6m. No trade receivables are considered uncertain. Acquisitions within subsidiaries In January, Kvdbil acquired Smart Software 365 AB. In the first Divestments within subsidiaries quarter, the Danish group airteam acquired shares in Luftkontroll During the second quarter, HENT divested its residential developEnergy i Örebro AB, a leading installer of ventilation solutions in ment operations, the subsidiary HENT Eiendomsinvest, to FredensMälardalen, as part of its expansion into Sweden. As of 1 March borg Bolig. The agreement includes a potential additional purchase 2018, Speed Group acquired all of the shares in Samdistribution consideration if Fredensborg Bolig decides to utilise an option linked Logistics Sweden AB, which is a leading logistics player in the to the expansion of a project outside Oslo. The divestment involved Swedish book market. During the second quarter, Bisnode acquired a capital gain of NOK 84m, including a potential additional purchase SIDA Datum Serviss, which was Dun & Bradstreet’s Latvian franconsideration. In October, Speed Group sold its shares in Speed chise partner. In December, LEDiL acquired shares in Delivered LimProduction AB. The buyer was Inission Borås AB. The sale was carited, based in Hong Kong. ried out to refine Speed Group’s service offering, focusing on logisThe acquired companies are subsidiaries in their respective tics, staffing, recruitment and training. The sale generated a capital groups. The subsidiaries included in the Ratos Group at year-end loss of SEK –12m. and whose acquisitions had the greatest impact on Ratos’s financial statements are presented below. Carrying amounts are final. Acquisition-related expenses for the acquisitions above total approximately SEK 3m and are included in other costs in the consolidated income statement for 2018. Fair value and nominal value on trade receivables amounts to SEK 17m. No trade receivables are considered uncertain. Acquisitions of Group companies – within subsidiaries Within Within SEKm airteam Speed Group Intangible assets 36 Property, plant and equipment 0 4 Deferred tax assets 0 Current assets 11 29 Cash and cash equivalents 9 1 Deferred tax liabilities –8 Current liabilities –8 –32 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 12 30 Goodwill 28 24 Consideration transferred 40 53 of which, cash paid 26 42 of which, contingent consideration 10 Acquisition-related expenses 2 1 Share acquired, % 75 100 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 79 Notes Note 5 Capital gain from Group companies and investments recognised according to the equity method Group Parent company Capital gain from sale of Group companies Profit/loss from investments in Group companies SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Jøtul 26 Dividend 175 114 Euromaint 31 Gain from the sale of shares 11 614 Companies within the Plantasjen group –28 Impairment –836 Companies within the HENT group 90 186 –108 Companies within the Bisnode group 0 Companies within the Speed group –12 3 104 Capital gain from sale of investments recognised according to the equity method SEKm 2019 2018 Companies within the HENT group 8 Gudrun Sjödén Group 36 0 44 Note 6 Share of profit from investments recognised according to the equity method Group SEKm 2019 20181) Share of profit Aibel 135 121 Gudrun Sjödén Group 10 Share of profit from investments recognised according to the equity method, owned by Group companies 2 2 137 133 1) For 2018, tax of SEK –38m attributable to profit from investments recognised according to the equity method has been moved from the line “Income tax” to the line “Share of profits from investments recognised according to the equity method”. 80 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 7 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration to senior executives and boards Average number of employees1) Group 2019 2018 Salaries and other remuneration Of whom, Of whom, Board and senior Other Total women, % Total women, % SEKm executives employees Total Parent company 20 40 26 38 2019 Group companies 8,507 41 8,831 41 Group, total 276 4,565 4,842 Group total 8,527 8,839 (of which, bonus) (42) (42) Of whom, in: Of which, in Sweden 131 1,298 1,429 Sweden 2,657 41 2,769 40 (of which, bonus) (28) (28) Norway 1,666 38 1,718 37 Of which, in other countries 145 3,267 3,412 Denmark 429 31 414 33 (of which, bonus) (14) (14) Finland 321 55 335 54 Average number of people 155 Australia 10 30 11 18 2018 Belgium 154 31 162 30 Group, total 310 4,309 4,619 Bosnia-Herzegovina 6 83 5 60 (of which, bonus) (39) (39) Ecuador 136 7 120 8 Of which, in Sweden 119 1,310 1,429 Estonia 50 92 54 93 (of which, bonus) (12) (12) France 109 53 111 58 Of which, in other countries 191 2,999 3,190 United (of which, bonus) (27) (27) Arab Emirates 9 22 7 29 Average number of people 238 India 8 38 9 33 Indonesia 9 67 Social security costs Italy 339 7 302 9 SEKm 2019 2018 China 328 35 395 39 Croatia 48 50 46 54 Social security costs 1,316 1,261 Latvia 8 75 4 25 (of which, pension costs) (412) (331) Lithuania 189 32 213 29 Of the Group’s pension costs, SEK 41m (45) refers to the boards and Netherlands 31 61 34 73 senior executives in the Group’s companies. The Group’s outPoland 493 60 508 55 standing pension commitments to these amount to SEK 27m (20). Romania 9 56 8 38 Russia 14 36 15 33 Parent company Switzerland 101 38 97 44 Salaries and other remuneration Serbia 21 67 24 71 SEKm 2019 2018 Slovakia 20 70 28 79 Slovenia 83 61 92 42 Senior executives and CEO Spain 252 77 264 76 Average number of people1) 6 6 UK 209 35 204 29 South Korea 7 29 11 55 Salaries and other remuneration2) 33 27 Thailand 17 59 17 59 (of which, bonus)3) (13) (4) Czech Republic 98 49 105 44 Salaries and other remuneration, other Germany 434 41 464 47 employees 20 18 Hungary 78 54 76 51 Total 52 46 USA 133 42 142 41 1) Per 31 December 2019 the number was five (six) people. Austria 60 48 64 55 2) Excluding vacation bonus pay 3) Variable cash salary is disbursed over a two-year period and is divided into 50% for Other countries 2 50 each year. However, the expense for each year’s variable salary is expensed in its 8,527 8,839 entirety in the year the remuneration is earned. 1) Excluding Aibel, which is recognised according to the equity method Social security costs Gender distribution, Board and senior executives SEKm 2019 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Social security costs 30 26 Share of women Share of women (of which, pension costs) (13) (11) Board of Directors Of the parent company’s pension costs, SEK 2.3m (2.1) refers to the Parent company 33% 33% CEO. Group total 22% 23% Management Parent company 20% 17% Group total 29% 39% RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 81 Notes Note 7, cont. Remuneration to Board and senior executives Convertible debentures and warrants Guidelines and principles for remuneration to issued in 2018–2019 senior executives The 2018 and 2019 Annual General Meetings voted to introduce a The guidelines for remuneration and incentive systems for senior long-term incentive programme for the CEO and other key perexecutives as set out below were approved by the 2019 Annual Gensonnel in Ratos consisting of convertibles and warrants (referred to eral Meeting. The following guidelines were applied throughout below as the “Instruments”), where participants in the programme 2019. are free to decide how large a share of the Instruments offered The incentive system for the company’s business organisation is should comprise convertibles (which extend for no more than four of major strategic importance for Ratos. Against this background, a years) and/or warrants (which extend for no more than five years). remuneration and incentive system has been drawn up designed to One prerequisite for allotment of warrants is that the employee has offer competitive terms at the same time as the company’s signed an agreement regarding repurchase etc. with the company employees are motivated to work in the interests of the sharewhereby the company or purchaser designated by the company has holders. the right to repurchase warrants if the participant’s employment is The incentive system comprises a number of components – basic terminated. salary, variable salary, pension provisions, warrants and convertible The standard valuation model for warrants (Black & Scholes) was debentures – and rests on five basic principles. applied to calculate the value. As the warrants are being offered free • Ratos’s employees shall be offered competitive terms of employof charge to participants, they will receive a benefit corresponding ment in an industry where competition for qualified employees is to the market value of the warrant at the date of the allotment intense. (option premium). The net expense for participants, after subsidies, • Both individual efforts and the Group’s performance must be will be approximately 50% of the taxable benefit. linked to clear targets set by the Board. • Variable cash salary that is to be paid to senior executives is to be Call option programmes issued 2015–2017 linked to joint and individual targets set annually. The targets are Annual general meetings from 2001 up to and including 2017 have both quantitative and qualitative and aim to fulfil Ratos’s longdecided on call option programmes directed to senior executives term strategy and earnings trend that benefit the shareholders. and other key people within Ratos. Members of the Board of Ratos • Each year the Board sets a limit for the total variable salary, which are not included in this offer. Employees have paid a market preshall amount to a maximum of approximately 0.6% of the compamium for the call options in all programmes. Acquisition of call ny’s equity at the start of the financial year. options is subsidised by the purchaser receiving extra remuneration • Key people at Ratos shall be encouraged to have the same percorresponding to a maximum of 50% of the option premium after spective as the company’s shareholders which will be achieved deduction for 55% standard tax, whereby the remuneration is through reasonably balanced incentive programme where divided into equal parts for five years. Payment of remuneration is employees can share in price rises. normally conditional upon continued employment and continued holding of options acquired from Ratos or shares acquired through As far as possible, pension benefits shall be defined contribution the options. The call options are issued on treasury shares. pension solutions, but certain pension benefits that follow the ITP plan are defined benefit plans. There is no agreed retirement age. Synthetic options issued in 2007–2017 The Board shall be entitled to deviate from these guidelines if speThe 2017 Annual General Meeting, like all Annual General Meetings cial circumstances should prevail in an individual case. since 2007, resolved on a cash-based option programme related to Ratos’s investments in the companies. The programme is carried Variable cash salary for senior executives out through the issue of synthetic options that are transferred at The variable cash salary is related to the annual shared and indimarket price. The programme gives the CEO and other key people vidual targets. The targets are both quantitative and qualitative and within Ratos an opportunity to share in the investment result of the aimed at meeting Ratos’s long-term strategy. The Board chose to individual companies. Options related to an individual investment leave the structure for variable cash salary largely unchanged for only have a value if Ratos’s annual return on the investment exceeds 2019, as this is considered to be on market terms and appropriate. 8%. According to the 2017 option programme, the total value of the Variable cash salary is disbursed over a two-year period and is issued options at the closing date will be a maximum of 5% of the difdivided into 50% for each year. However, the expense for each ference between the actual realised value for Ratos’s investment at year’s variable salary is expensed in its entirety in the year the remuthe closing date and the cost increased by 8% per year. Acquisitions neration is earned. A ceiling has been established in relation to each of synthetic options are subsidised by the purchaser receiving extra senior executive’s fixed salary and could, for 2019, amount to a maxremuneration corresponding to a maximum of 50% of the option imum of 100% of fixed salary. premium up to 5% of Ratos’s total investment in the relevant comFollow-up and evaluation of variable cash salary is conducted at pany after deduction for 55% standard tax, whereby the remunerathe end of each year. Target fulfilment by the CEO and senior execution is divided into equal parts for four years and is normally conditives is followed up and evaluated by the Compensation Committee tional upon continued employment in the Ratos Group and and then approved by the Board of Directors following proposal continued holding of options acquired from Ratos. from the Compensation Committee. 82 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 7, cont. Remuneration to Ratos’s Board and senior executives 2019 Board fee/basic Variable Other Pension Pension SEKm salary1) remuneration2) benefits3) costs Total commitments Per-Olof Söderberg, Chairman of the Board 1.1 – – – 1.1 – Eva Karlsson, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Jan Söderberg, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Karsten Slotte, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Ulla Litzén, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Jonas Wiström, CEO 7.5 5.0 0.5 2.3 15.3 – Other senior executives4) 12.4 7.8 1.4 3.6 25.2 – 1) Basic salary excluding vacation bonus. The Board fee pertains to the fee for the meeting year from May 2019 up to and including April 2020. 2) Variable remuneration refers to bonuses attributable to 2019. 50% to be paid in 2020 and 50% in 2021. Variable remuneration also includes subsidies on warrants. 3) Other benefits include benefits for warrants. The non-material value of company cars is included. 4) Refers to six people who were members of the management group in 2019, one of whom for part of the year. As of 31 December 2019, the number is five. Remuneration to Ratos’s Board and senior executives 2018 Board fee/basic Variable Other Pension Pension SEKm salary1) remuneration2) benefits3) costs Total commitments Per-Olof Söderberg, Chairman of the Board 1.1 – – – 1.1 – Annette Sadolin, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Jan Söderberg, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Karsten Slotte, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Ulla Litzén, Board member 0.6 – – – 0.6 – Jonas Wiström, CEO 6.9 1.1 0.4 2.1 10.6 – Other senior executives4) 16.1 3.2 1.1 5.1 25.6 – 1) Basic salary excluding vacation bonus. The Board fee pertains to the fee for the meeting year from May 2018 up to and including May 2019. 2) Variable remuneration refers to bonuses attributable to 2018. 50% to be paid in 2019 and 50% in 2020. Variable remuneration also includes subsidies on warrants. 3) Other benefits include benefits for warrants. The non-material value of company cars is included. 4) Refers to eight people who were members of the management group in 2018, five of whom for part of the year. As of 31 December 2018, the number is six. The amounts also include remuneration for two people who resigned during the year, and one person who resigned in January 2019. The amounts include remuneration during the period of notice for these three individuals. Remuneration to the CEO Other senior executives Variable remuneration Variable remuneration The size of variable remuneration is decided by the Board based on For remuneration to the other senior executives, see the above a proposal from the Compensation Committee and within the table. framework of the total variable remuneration component for senior executives and other key people. Acquisition of warrants is subsiPension terms dised within the framework of the incentive programme for senior Pension benefits comprise a defined contribution pension solution. executives. There is no agreed retirement age. Pension terms Terms for severance pay Pension premiums amount to 30% of basic salary. The pension is a In the event of notice being given by the company or by the senior defined contribution plan. There is no agreed retirement age. executive, a period of notice of six months normally applies. There is no agreement regarding severance pay in any employment conTerms for severance pay tract. A six-month (six) notice period will apply if notice is given by the CEO or the company. There is no agreement regarding severance pay. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 83 Notes Note 7, cont. Call options issued in 2015–2017 Issued 2015, Number Issued 2016, Number Issued 2017, Number Benefit, SEKm Holding1) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Chairman of the Board2) – – – – – – – – Other Board members2) – – – 255,000 – – – – Jonas Wiström, CEO2) 3) – – – 260,000 – – – – Other senior executives – 10,000 3,000 23,000 20,000 45,000 – – 1) Relates to own and related parties’ holdings, including any overallotment. 2) Options in Ratos issued by Ratos’s principal owner. Acquisitions were made at market value. The standard valuation model (Black & Scholes) was applied to calculate the value. The call options extend through 18 March 2021. Utilisation of call options to buy shares in Ratos can be done during the period 1 October 2019 to 19 March 2021. Each call option entitles the holder to purchase one Class B share in Ratos from the issuers. The exercise price shall correspond to 125% of the average of the calculated volume-weighted price paid for Ratos Class B shares on Nasdaq Stockholm for each trading day during the period 12–16 September 2016, taking dividends into account. The programme was prepared by the principal owners together with external advisors. 3) Jonas Wiström’s holding refers to options issued by the principal owners acquired during his term as Chairman of the Board. Synthetic options issued in 2007–2017 Proceeds received upon redemption Benefit SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Board of Directors – – – – CEO and other senior executives – 0.2 – – Warrants and call options issued by Ratos 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Warrants Call options Warrants Call options No. of Corresponding No. of Corresponding No. of Corresponding No. of Corresponding options no. of shares options no. of shares options no. of shares options no. of shares Outstanding at beginning of period 429,811 429,811 1,732,100 1,732,100 2,318,000 2,318,000 Issued 518,700 518,700 515,472 515,472 Repurchased –85,661 –85,661 Expired1) –574,500 –574,500 –585,900 –585,900 Outstanding at end of period 948,511 948,511 1,157,600 1,157,600 429,811 429,811 1,732,100 1,732,100 of which, redeemable 0 0 1) The exercise price for the call options was SEK 48.5 per share (56.9). The share price when the options expired was SEK 19.2 (33.1). Disclosures on warrants issued during the period Each warrant carries entitlement to purchase one share. 2019 2018 Maturity date 14 June 2024 8 June 2023 Taxable benefit including social security costs, SEKm 2.7 2.2 Total payments to Ratos if shares acquired, SEKm 17.5 15.6 84 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 7, cont. Option terms for outstanding call options 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Option price, Exercise price, Right to purchase No. of Corresponding No. of Corresponding Maturity date SEK per option SEK per share no. of shares options no. of shares options no. of shares 20 March 2019 7.30 48.50 1.00 574,500 574,500 20 March 2020 6.50 51.20 1.00 462,100 462,100 462,100 462,100 19 March 2021 4.80 40.70 1.00 453,000 453,000 453,000 453,000 18 March 2022 4.50 42.80 1.00 242,500 242,500 242,500 242,500 1,157,600 1,157,600 1,732,100 1,732,100 Maximum increase in number of shares in relation to outstanding shares at end of period 0.4% 0.5% The cash amount that Ratos may receive on exercise of outstanding options amounts to SEK 52m (81). Option terms for outstanding warrants1) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Option price, Exercise price, Right to purchase No. of Corresponding No. of Corresponding Maturity date SEK per option SEK per share no. of shares options no. of shares options no. of shares 8 June 2023 3.30 36.22 1.00 429,811 429,811 429,811 429,811 14 June 2024 3.93 33.81 1.00 518,700 518,700 948,511 948,511 429,811 429,811 Maximum increase in number of shares in relation to outstanding shares at end of period 0.3% 0.1% 1) As the warrants are being offered free of charge to participants, they will receive a benefit corresponding to the market value of the warrant at the date of the allotment (option premium). The net expense for participants, after subsidies, will be approximately 50% of the taxable benefit. Incentive programmes in Ratos’s subsidiaries Ratos makes active efforts to ensure that an incentive strategy is in These exceptions did not have any material effect on the Ratos place for boards and senior executives of the companies in which Group’s income statement and balance sheet. In total, financial liaRatos invests. There are a number of different incentive probilities relating to synthetic options in the Ratos Group amounted to grammes which include shares, warrants, synthetic options and SEK 241m (183). During the year, the Group’s earnings were affected synthetic shares. Investments are made on market terms with some by SEK –77m (–24) relating to synthetic option liabilities. exceptions. Note 8 Fees and disbursements to auditors Group Parent company Audit assignment refers to the statutory audit of the annual report SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 and accounting records as well as the administration by the Board of Directors and the CEO. Senior Auditor 1) Audit-related activities in addition to audit assignment refers to Audit assignment 18 16 3 2 other audit procedures conducted in accordance with contracts or Audit-related activities in addition to agreements, for example audit of liquidations, and advice pertaining audit assignment 1 1 0 0 to audits. This also includes other tasks which are in the business of Tax advice 1 1 the company’s auditors, and advice or other assistance which is Other services 0 0 caused by observations on such examinations or implementation of Total fee to EY 20 18 3 2 other such work tasks. Other auditors Tax advice refers to preparation of tax returns, tax consultations, Audit assignment 1 7 tax advice in conjunction with company acquisitions, setting of Total fee to auditors 21 26 3 2 transfer price, requesting advance notification or other statements from tax authorities, and tax services related to personnel outside 1) PwC was the Senior Auditor for the 2018 financial year and EY for the 2019 financial year. Sweden. Other fees refers to all other services provided by the auditing firms and tax consultants, for example advice in transactions and in conjunction with acquisitions and divestments, valuation services, advice regarding accounting matters as well as advice regarding processes and internal controls. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 85 Notes Note 9 Financial income and expenses Group Fair value through Amortised cost profit or loss Total SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial income Interest income 19 13 0 19 13 Result from sale 1 2 1 2 Change in value, synthetic options 10 23 10 23 Change in value, derivatives – hedge accounted 8 8 – not hedge accounted 4 5 4 5 Other financial income 3 0 3 0 22 13 15 38 37 50 Financial expenses Interest expenses –466 –301 –1 –466 –301 Interest expenses, convertible debentures –2 –1 –2 –1 Change in value, synthetic options –87 –47 –87 –47 Change in value, derivatives – not hedge accounted 0 –2 0 –2 Other financial expenses –60 –57 0 –5 –60 –63 Changes in exchange rates, net –9 –24 –9 –24 Impairment 3 –3 0 3 –3 –534 –386 –88 –55 –622 –441 Pensions, interest expenses –10 –9 –632 –450 Interest income attributable to financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss amounts to SEK 19m (13). Interest expenses attributable to financial liabilities not measured at fair value through profit or loss amounts to SEK 466m (301). Profit for the year includes SEK 4m (7) which relates to ineffectiveness in cash flow hedges. The Group has no fair value hedges. Parent company Fair value through Amortised cost profit or loss Total SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial income Interest income 0 0 0 0 Result from sale 1 2 1 2 Change in value, synthetic options 4 1 4 1 Changes in exchange rates, net 1 6 1 6 Other financial income 4 4 1 10 6 3 7 14 Financial expenses Interest expenses 0 0 0 0 Interest expenses, convertible debentures –2 –1 –2 –1 Change in value, synthetic options –23 –23 Other financial expenses –4 –6 –4 –6 –5 –7 –23 –5 –29 Interest income attributable to financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss amounts to SEK 0m (0). Interest income attributable to financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss amounts to SEK 0m (0). 86 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 10 Taxes Recognised in income statement Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities SEKm 2019 2018 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets ­liabilities Tax expense for the year –202 –258 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years –3 –2 SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Deferred tax –29 105 Intangible assets 25 9 363 354 Total recognised tax expense in the Group –234 –155 Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets 55 18 16 14 Reconciliation effective tax Financial assets 50 50 1 2 Inventories 20 13 0 SEKm 2019 2018 Trade receivables 5 5 1 1 Profit/loss before tax 1,061 –107 Other receivables 5 10 0 183 Less profit from investments recognised Construction contracts 250 according to the equity method –137 –133 Interest-bearing liabilities 2 1 1 1 924 –240 Provisions for pensions 111 84 Tax according to current tax rate, 21.4% (22) –198 53 Other provisions 93 146 Effect of special taxation rules for investment Other liabilities 18 2 3 1 companies 7 10 Loss carry-forward 300 273 Effect of different tax rates in other countries –18 8 Untaxed reserves / Tax allocation Non-deductible expenses –79 –227 reserves 6 14 9 12 Non-taxable income 23 58 Tax assets/tax liabilities 690 625 645 568 Increase in loss carry-forward without correOffsets –181 –139 –181 –139 sponding capitalisation of deferred tax –34 –80 Tax assets/tax liabilities, net 508 486 464 429 Impairment of previously capitalised loss carry-forward –53 –7 Of deferred tax assets, SEK 7 (11) is expected to be used within one Use of previously non-capitalised loss caryear and SEK 335 (392) has no fixed utilisation date. Of deferred tax ry-forward 105 35 liabilities, SEK 50m (45) is expected to be used within one year and Capitalisation of previously non-capitalised loss SEK 232m (371) has no fixed utilisation date. carry-forward 28 0 Total loss carry-forwards and similar items amounted to SEK Tax attributable to previous years –5 –2 16,001m, of which SEK 117m is attributable to subsidiaries adminisEffect of changed tax rates / tax rules –2 –1 tered centrally by Ratos and SEK 13.6 billion is attributable to the Other –8 –2 parent company. Of these loss carry-forwards, SEK 186m matures Reported effective tax –234 –155 within fem years and SEK 15,650m has no fixed maturity date. The tax value of the loss carry-forwards is SEK 3,299m. Of the group’s Non-deductible expenses include a remeasurement of synthetic total loss carry-forwards, a deferred asset has been recognised in options in an amount of SEK 19m and non-deducible interest an amount of SEK 300m (273). expenses of SEK 30m. In the preceding year, non-deductible Since it is improbable that unrecognised tax assets will lead to expenses included impairment of the consolidated value by SEK lower tax payments in the future, these have not been assigned any 132m. value. Usually there are no temporary differences between the Tax items recognised in other comprehensive income accounting and tax-based value of Swedish-company holding of SEKm 2019 2018 Swedish subsidiaries at the time of dividend payment, as these diviDeferred tax attributable to change in hedging dends are not subject to taxation. Therefore deferred tax is not reserve 2 1 reported on distributable earnings of Swedish subsidiaries. Deferred tax attributable to remeasurement of Deferred tax is also not reported in other cases where a dividend is defined benefit pension commitments 19 2 subject to taxation. This is because the holding company can decide 21 3 on the timing for the reversal of these temporary differences, and it is not expected that such taxable dividend payments will be made in the foreseeable future. Parent company The parent company is taxed according to the rules for investment companies. For a more detailed description of these rules, see Note 1 Accounting principles. These rules normally result in the parent company not paying any income tax. The parent company’s tax expense for 2019 amounted to SEK 1m (0). Ratos AB has an accumulated loss carry-forward that at the close of 2019 amounted to approximately SEK 13.6 billion (14). RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 87 Notes Note 10, cont. Change in deferred tax 2019 Recognised Acquired and Opening Recognised in other divested business Closing balance, in income ­comprehensive Translation Reclassifi­ combinations/­ balance, SEKm 2019 statement income/equity difference cations subsidiaries 2019 Intangible assets –342 12 –9 3 –338 Property, plant and equipment and rightof-use assets 2 38 2 –2 –1 –4 38 Financial assets 49 –2 2 2 49 Inventories 13 6 1 20 Trade receivables 5 0 1 5 Other receivables –173 0 –5 183 –5 Construction contracts –68 –183 –250 Interest-bearing liabilities –1 1 0 1 Provisions for pensions 84 2 19 2 3 111 Other provisions and liabilities 147 –42 6 –6 107 Loss carry-forward 273 30 –3 300 Untaxed reserves / Tax allocation reserves 0 –6 –1 –4 Tax assets/tax liabilities, net 58 –29 21 –8 –1 44 Change in deferred tax 2018 Recognised Acquired and Opening Recognised in other divested business Closing balance, in income ­comprehensive Translation Reclassifi­ combinations/­ balance, SEKm 2018 statement income difference cations subsidiaries 2018 Intangible assets –345 17 –10 –4 –342 Property, plant and equipment –55 –2 –4 7 56 2 Financial assets 46 4 –2 2 –1 49 Inventories 14 –3 2 13 Trade receivables 6 –1 5 Other receivables –255 92 –10 –173 Interest-bearing liabilities 7 –5 4 –7 –1 Provisions for pensions 80 1 1 3 –1 84 Other provisions and liabilities 164 –3 6 –11 –9 147 Loss carry-forward 312 7 6 –52 273 Untaxed reserves / Tax allocation reserves 4 –1 –3 0 Tax assets/tax liabilities, net –22 105 3 –7 –14 –9 58 88 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 11 Intangible assets Group Internally generated Acquired intangible assets intangible assets TradeCustomer Data­ Business Other Data­ Business Other Projects in SEKm Goodwill marks relations bases systems assets bases systems assets progress Total Accumulated cost Opening balance 1 January 2018 13,172 1,141 492 216 99 360 544 242 422 160 16,848 Business combinations 60 36 96 Investments 9 82 4 179 275 Company disposals –496 –194 –93 –3 –785 Divestments/disposals –22 –35 –26 –22 0 –107 Reclassifications1) –102 –83 216 243 –140 –156 –23 Exchange differences for the year 250 21 12 9 3 7 19 –2 –36 0 283 Closing balance 31 December 2018 12,987 968 504 202 0 227 753 538 225 183 16,587 Opening balance 1 January 2019 12,987 968 504 202 0 227 753 538 225 183 16,587 Business combinations 176 176 Investments 5 96 188 289 Company disposals –7 –16 –23 Divestments/disposals –23 –1 –33 –10 –67 Reclassifications –2 176 2 –3 –173 0 Exchange differences for the year 190 26 4 3 2 3 7 4 0 238 Closing balance 31 December 2019 13,346 994 469 205 0 227 936 610 215 197 17,200 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Opening balance 1 January 2018 –1,589 –43 –335 –214 –32 –266 –454 –153 –337 –3,424 Amortisation for the year –3 –28 –1 –28 –57 –65 –16 –198 Impairment for the year –600 –5 0 –605 Accumulated amortisation and impairment company disposals 486 77 1 565 Divestments/disposals 21 35 24 12 93 Reclassifications1) 33 42 –36 –109 98 28 Exchange differences for the year –10 2 –9 –7 –1 –7 –16 0 37 –10 Closing balance 31 December 2018 –1,713 –44 –372 –201 0 –182 –528 –307 –205 –3,553 Opening balance 1 January 2019 –1,713 –44 –372 –201 0 –182 –528 –307 –205 –3,553 Amortisation for the year –3 –23 –1 –21 –84 –64 –7 –204 Impairment for the year –1 –3 –1 –5 Accumulated amortisation and impairment company disposals 11 –16 –5 Divestments/disposals 23 0 34 10 67 Reclassifications 2 –22 5 16 0 Exchange differences for the year –22 –1 –2 –3 –2 –1 –4 –3 –38 Closing balance 31 December 2019 –1,735 –48 –362 –205 0 –204 –637 –355 –191 –3,736 Carrying amount according to statement of financial position: At 31 December 2019 11,610 946 107 1 0 23 299 255 24 197 13,463 At 31 December 2018 11,274 924 132 2 0 45 224 231 20 183 13,035 1) Primarily concerns the reclassification of acquired business systems and other acquired assets to internal generated business systems and other internally generated assets. Pertains to the reclassification from other internally generated assets to internally generated databases and business systems. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 89 Notes Note 11, cont. Impairment and testing for goodwill and intangible Impairment of goodwill assets with indeterminable useful lives Impairment Goodwill and intangible assets with indeterminable useful lives at 31 SEKm 2019 2018 December 2019 amounted to a book value of SEK 12,538m (12,776). Below is a breakdown of the amount in cash-generating units, which Plantasjen 600 comprise the respective company. 600 Intangible Impairment of goodwill in 2019 Goodwill assets1) No impairment. SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Bisnode 4,303 4,254 Impairment of goodwill in 2018 Plantasjen 1,672 1,629 704 682 Plantasjen LEDiL 997 981 The Board of Ratos AB resolved on impairment in the fourth quarter airteam 965 787 17 17 of SEK 600m attributable to Plantasjen. As a result of a weak earnHENT 921 892 ings trend combined with the fact that the company’s measures to improve profitability are expected to take longer than originally HL Display 735 722 anticipated, Ratos recognised an impairment loss of SEK 600m for Diab 573 573 the consolidated carrying amount of Plantasjen. After impairment, 10,166 9,838 721 699 the consolidated carrying amount for Plantasjen totalled SEK 575m. Companies without separate signifThis amount corresponds to the recoverable amount established icant value 1,445 1,436 207 203 based on fair value less selling costs. Key assumptions in addition to 11,610 11,274 928 902 profit multiple are sales growth, gross margin and EBITA margin. The profit multiple used is on a par with listed comparable compa1) Intangible assets relates to trademarks with indeterminable useful lives and which are therefore not amortised. Trademarks with indeterminable useful lives are key nies. assets for the subsidiaries that have measured these assets. Work on improving and developing trademarks is ongoing. Net cash flows generated by trademarks are not Impairment testing in companies with expected to cease in the foreseeable future. Trademarks are therefore regarded as significant goodwill items having indeterminable useful lives. The impairment testing and key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amounts of companies in which goodwill was deemed Ratos continuously assesses whether there is any indication that to be significant in size are described below. Goodwill attributable to any company has declined in value. In the event that such an indicaother companies is not significant in each one separately in relation tion exists, the recoverable amount of the company is calculated. to the Ratos Group’s total goodwill. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indeterminable useful lives are also tested annually, regardless of whether there is any indiBisnode cation of a decline in value. Testing of carrying amounts is done by Impairment testing for Bisnode is based on fair value less selling calculating each company’s recoverable amount. The recoverable costs. The fair value is included in level 3 and is based on inputs in a amount, which comprises the higher of value in use and fair value measurement model. The forecast includes an assumption of a less selling costs, is compared with the carrying amount. If the slightly higher growth rate in the coming years. Growth is driven by recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, an impairan expanding market for credits and data-driven marketing, an ment is recognised. Primarily goodwill is impaired. appropriate product portfolio and the launch of new products. The improved EBITA margin is based on an initiative to increase efficiency and scalability. Bisnode’s transformation of its offering continues and the rate of growth for the new products is healthy. Calculations show that the recoverable amount exceeds the book value and there is thus no need for impairment. Plantasjen Impairment testing for Plantasjen is based on a value-in-use calculation. This value uses future cash flow calculations based on the most recent earnings forecast. The rate of growth after the forecast period amounts to 2% (2). The estimated cash flows have been calculated at present value using a discount rate of 8% (8) after tax and 11% (10) before tax. Since Ratos acquired Plantasjen in November 2016, a decrease in customer volumes has had an adverse impact on the sales trend and EBITA margins. The forecast for next year includes initiatives to improve the customer experience, reduce wastage and continue to reduce costs. Combined with the divestment of the loss-making subsidiary Spira (previously Saba Blommor) in 2019, these initiatives are expected to lead to a better EBITA margin during the forecast period. Calculations show that the recoverable amount exceeds the book value and there is thus no need for impairment. In 2018, Ratos’s consolidated carrying amount for Plantasjen was impaired by SEK 600m. 90 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 11, cont. LEDiL HL Display Impairment testing for LEDiL is based on a value-in-use calculation. Impairment testing for HL Display is based on a value-in-use calcuThis value uses future cash flow calculations based on the most lation. This value uses future cash flow calculations based on the recent earnings forecast. The rate of growth after the forecast most recent earnings forecast. The rate of growth after the forecast period amounts to 2%. The estimated cash flows have been calcuperiod amounts to 2% (2). The estimated cash flows have been callated at present value using a discount rate of 8% after tax and 10% culated at present value calculated using a discount rate of 7% (8) before tax. LEDiL forecasts more cautious sales growth over the after tax and 9% (10) before tax. Forecast cash flows are based on next few years based on a weaker market. Profitability is expected to the company being a market leader in Europe and having a good be stable over the next few years as a result of sales growth and strategic position with diversified customer exposure. Sales growth improved cost efficiency and continued investments in R&D. Calcuis expected to remain stable over the next few years. Improvement lations show that the recoverable amount exceeds the book value initiatives and cost-efficiency programmes in progress are expected and there is thus no need for impairment. to improve the EBITA margin during the forecast period. Calculations show that the recoverable amount exceeds the book value and HENT there is thus no need for impairment. Impairment testing for HENT is based on fair value less selling costs. The fair value is included in level 3 and is based on inputs in a meaDiab surement model. Net sales increased in 2019, driven by a strong Impairment testing for Diab is based on a value-in-use calculation. order book, while the EBITA margin fell due to the adverse effect of This value uses future cash flow calculations based on the most project write downs. The company has carried out measures that recent earnings forecast. The rate of growth after the forecast have impacted both internal processes and the organisation. A sigperiod amounts to 2% (2). The estimated cash flows have been calnificant number of the projects that have faced major challenges will culated at present value using a discount rate of 8% (8) after tax and be concluded in the beginning of 2020. The forecast for the coming 10% (10) before tax. The company’s measures for improved profityears is based on the sales forecast and the current order book, ability began to yield results during the year, and the wind market is which was characterised by favourable orders received for the year. strong. Future growth is driven by a fundamental demand for lightActivity within tenders has been better adapted to the organisaweight material (to build strong and lightweight structures) with a tion’s capacity and to the greater selection available due to the sustainability perspective. Diab operates in a growth market where ongoing favourable market situation. Calculations show that the the wind segment is expected to drive significant growth. The comrecoverable amount exceeds the book value and there is thus no pany has signed multi-year supplier contracts for core materials and need for impairment. will invest in new product lines to meet the market’s increased demand for material. An increase in capacity utilisation and greater airteam production efficiency are expected to result in improved EBITA marImpairment testing for airteam is based on a value-in-use calculagins. Calculations show that the recoverable amount exceeds the tion. This value uses future cash flow calculations based on the most book value and there is thus no need for impairment. recent earnings forecast. The rate of growth after the forecast period amounts to 2% (2). The estimated cash flows have been calculated at present value using a discount rate of 8% (8) after tax and 10% (10) before tax. airteam has a strong profitability focus and anticipates a slightly higher EBITA margin at the same time as growth is expected to be in line with underlying market growth during the forecast period. The Danish and Swedish construction market have structural growth potential based on increased demand for effective, high-quality ventilation solutions. Calculations show that the recoverable amount exceeds the book value and there is thus no need for impairment. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 91 Notes Note 11, cont. Material assumptions used to calculate value in use Material assumptions used to calculate fair value Value in use for a company is based on Ratos’s share of the present Fair value was determined in accordance with level 3 of the valuation value of the company’s future estimated cash flow. hierarchy. Fair-value calculations are primarily sensitive to deviaValue-in-use calculations are primarily sensitive to deviations tions from the following assumptions: from the following assumptions: • Profit multiple • Earnings forecast • EBITA forecast • Discount rate • Growth rate Profit multiple The profit multiple used is on a par with listed comparable compaOther key assumptions for the calculation of the value in use include nies. sales growth as well as gross and EBITA margins. The assumptions used are modified for each company since each company in itself is EBITA forecast an independent unit with unique circumstances. Key assumptions See the section above regarding earnings forecast. are described on page 90–91 under the heading “Impairment testing in companies with significant goodwill items”. Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis of the value-in-use calculations has been carEarnings forecast ried out for one assumption at a time, where long-term growth rate Assessment of the earnings forecast is based on the budgets and has been reduced by 1 percentage point, the discount rate has been forecasts most recently adopted by management as well as reasonraised by 1 percentage point and the forecast cash flow has been able and verifiable assumptions that comprise Ratos’s best estimareduced by 10%. A sensitivity analysis of the fair-value calculations tion of the economic conditions that are expected to prevail during has been carried out for one assumption at a time, where the profit the forecast period. The basis for estimating the value of these is in multiple was adjusted downward by 1% and the EBITA forecast was accordance with previous experience as well as external sources. adjusted downward by 10%. The earnings forecast encompasses a maximum of five years. For all of the companies, the assessment is that no reasonable changes in key assumptions will result in the estimated recoverable Discount rate amount falling below the carrying amount. Future cash flows are present-value calculated using a discount rate. Ratos has used a discount factor after tax where estimated future cash flows also include tax. On the basis of the return requirement after tax (WACC) actually applied, Ratos has carried out a translation to an estimate corresponding to a return requirement before tax by dividing by one minus tax rate. The discount factor reflects market assessments of monetary values over time and specific risks inherent in the asset. Growth rate A final value is assessed after the forecast period. This is done using an assumption of stable growth in nominal terms for each company that matches the assumed long-term growth rate for relevant products, industries, countries and markets. In the impairments tests for 2019, this growth rate was 2–2.5% (2–3). 92 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 12 Property, plant and equipment Group Land and Construction SEKm buildings Equipment in progress Total Accumulated cost Opening balance 1 January 2018 1,510 3,607 98 5,215 Investments 21 164 67 252 Divestments/disposals –4 –119 –123 Assets in acquired companies 6 6 Assets in disposed companies –7 –737 –743 Transferred from construction in progress 1 104 –105 Reclassifications –5 29 –30 –6 Exchange differences for the year 32 60 1 94 Closing balance 31 December 2018 1,548 3,115 31 4,695 Opening balance 1 January 2019 1,548 3,115 31 4,695 Investments 39 141 205 385 Divestments/disposals –82 –84 –166 Assets in acquired companies 8 8 Assets in disposed companies –7 –7 Transferred from construction in progress 1 23 –23 0 Reclassifications –7431) –36 –19 –798 Expensed –1 –1 Exchange differences for the year 48 45 93 Closing balance 31 December 2019 810 3,205 193 4,209 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Opening balance 1 January 2018 –618 –2,769 –3,387 Depreciation for the year –73 –222 –295 Impairment for the year –69 –69 Accumulated depreciation in acquired companies –2 –2 Accumulated depreciation in disposed companies 5 584 589 Divestments/disposals 4 109 113 Reclassifications 2 –3 –1 Exchange differences for the year –14 –43 –57 Closing balance 31 December 2018 –693 –2,415 –3,108 Opening balance 1 January 2019 –693 –2,415 –3,108 Depreciation for the year –34 –209 –242 Impairment for the year –2 –2 Accumulated depreciation in disposed companies 4 4 Divestments/disposals 28 73 101 Reclassifications 2461) 19 266 Exchange differences for the year –17 –36 –53 Closing balance 31 December 2019 –470 –2,566 –3,036 Carrying amount according to statement of financial position At 31 December 2019 340 639 193 1,173 At 31 December 2018 855 700 31 1,586 Of which finance leases 476 20 496 1) Reclassifications for the year pertain mainly to finance leases, refer to Note 13 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 93 Notes Note 12, cont. Parent company Land and SEKm buildings Equipment Total Accumulated cost Opening balance 1 January 2018 82 20 103 Investments 2 2 Divestments/disposals –5 –5 Closing balance 31 December 2018 82 16 99 Opening balance 1 January 2019 82 16 99 Divestments/disposals –82 –11 –94 Closing balance 31 December 2019 0 5 5 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 1 January 2018 –24 –18 –42 Depreciation for the year –2 –1 –4 Divestments/disposals 5 5 Closing balance 31 December 2018 –26 –14 –40 Opening balance 1 January 2019 –26 –14 –40 Depreciation for the year –1 –1 –2 Divestments/disposals 28 11 38 Closing balance 31 December 2019 0 –4 –4 Carrying amount according to statement of financial position At 31 December 2019 0 2 2 At 31 December 2018 56 3 59 Note 13 Right-of-use assets Group Land and SEKm buildings Equipment Total Accumulated cost Transition effect upon application of IFRS 16 4,008 0 4,008 Additional contracts during the year 347 72 419 Divestments and premature contract terminations –53 –28 –81 New contracts upon acquisitions 4 4 8 Contracts in disposed companies –2 –2 –4 Changes in existing contracts 194 –9 185 Reclassifications1) 631 194 826 Other changes 5 0 5 Exchange differences for the year –101 0 –102 Closing balance 31 December 2019 5,034 231 5,265 Land and SEKm buildings Equipment Total Accumulated depreciation and impairment Divestments and premature contract terminations 17 9 25 Accumulated depreciation on new contracts upon acquisitions –1 –2 –4 Accumulated depreciation in disposed companies 1 1 2 Reclassifications1) –110 –44 –155 Depreciation for the year –665 –75 –741 Other changes 2 25 27 Exchange differences for the year 3 1 4 Closing balance 31 December 2019 –755 –86 –841 Carrying amount according to statement of financial position At 31 December 2019 4,279 144 4,423 1) SEK 496m pertains to leases classified as finance lease assets as of 31 December 2018 in accordance with IAS 17 and has been reclassified from property, plant and equipment. SEK 13m pertains to prepaid leasing costs and has been reclassified from prepaid expenses and accrued income. 94 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 14 Investments recognised according to the equity method Change in carrying amounts Impairment testing Aibel Group At 31 December 2019, the carrying amount for Aibel totalled SEK 704m. Completed impairment testing for 2019, based on a valSEKm 2019 2018 ue-in-use calculation, indicates no impairment requirement. As with Carrying amount, 1 January 1,092 1,204 the value-in-use calculation for 2018, sales growth and assumptions Adjusted opening amount –46 on EBITA margin in the forecast cash flows have been modified for Investments 2 0 the current market conditions. The forecast business volumes and Divestments –118 –189 profit levels are based on existing contracts and order books as well Share of profit from investments recognised as adopted forward-looking transactions, with profitability assumpaccording to the equity method 170 171 tions based on contracts signed and historical experience. The disShare of tax from investments recognised count rate after tax amounted to 9% (9) and the discount rate according to the equity method –33 –38 before tax amounted to 12% (12). No reasonable changes in key Dividend –13 assumptions will result in the estimated value in use falling below Share of other comprehensive income from the carrying amount. For a description of the methods for impairinvestments recognised according to the equity ment testing, see Note 11. method –9 –11 Exchange differences 30 1 Carrying amount at year-end 1,121 1,092 Investments recognised according to the equity method breakdown between significant and individually insignificant investments 2019 2018 Individually Individually insignificant Gudrun Sjödén insignificant SEKm Aibel1) investments Total Aibel1) Group2) investments Total Investments recognised according to the equity method 49% 30% Included in the Group as follows: Share of profit/loss before tax 168 2 170 159 10 2 171 Income tax –33 0 –33 –35 –4 0 –38 Share of other comprehensive income –10 –9 –13 1 –12 Share of comprehensive income 125 2 128 112 8 2 121 Consolidated value 1,108 13 1,124 1,066 26 1,092 100% Net sales 12,562 8,450 578 Profit/loss for the year 270 251 22 Other comprehensive income –20 –26 5 Total comprehensive income 250 225 27 Non-current assets 8,052 6,545 Current assets 3,248 2,207 Non-current liabilities –5,019 –4,091 Current liabilities –4,064 –2,751 Net assets 2,217 1,910 1) Aibel Holding I AS is 49% owned by NCS Invest. More information about the Group structure is provided in Note 29 Participations in Group companies. Ratos owns 64% of NCS Invest through NCS Intressenter. 2) Gudrun Sjöden Group was divested in September 2018. Gudrun Sjödén Group was 30% owned by GS Intressenter AB. Summary reconciliation of financial information for significant investments recognised according to the equity method Gudrun Sjödén Aibel 49%1) Aibel 100% Group 100% SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 2018 Share in net assets 1,108 951 Opening balance net assets 1910 1,778 610 Other 115 Adjusted opening balance –93 Carrying amount 1,108 1,066 Profit/loss for the year before tax 336 320 34 1) Consolidated value, adjusted for the share subject to non-controlling holding, Income tax –66 –69 –12 amounts to SEK 704m (725). Other comprehensive income –20 –21 5 Translation differences 57 –5 Divestments –637 Closing balance net assets 2,217 1,910 0 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 95 Notes Note 15 Receivables from Group companies Parent company Non-current receivables Current receivables Group companies Group companies SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Accumulated cost Accumulated cost at 1 January 5 12 at 1 January 5 2 Subsequent expenditure 200 8 Subsequent expenditure 241 6 Counterparty exchange 7 Reclassifications 1 Reclassifications –4 –2 Settlements –238 –4 Settlements –200 –20 Closing balance 8 5 Closing balance 2 5 Note 16 Financial instruments Group 31 December Total Fair value Derivatives according to statement Amortised cost through profit or loss used for hedging of financial position SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial assets Shares and participations 0 1 8 8 8 8 Other receivables1) 40 81 5 2 45 82 Derivative instruments 2 17 2 17 Trade receivables 2,918 2,657 2,918 2,657 Cash and cash equivalents 3,219 3,404 3,219 3,404 6,177 6,142 13 9 2 17 6,192 6,168 Surplus in pension plans, asset 1 6,192 6,169 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities – Liabilities to credit institutions 5,144 5,536 5,144 5,536 – Finance leases 4,871 683 4,871 683 – Convertible debentures 35 16 35 16 – Other interest-bearing liabilities 125 97 269 192 395 289 Other non-current liabilities 244 285 244 285 Trade payables 2,813 2,279 2,813 2,279 Derivative instruments 2 5 3 5 5 12,988 8,612 513 479 5 3 13,506 9,094 Provisions for pensions 642 524 14,148 9,617 1) Other receivables include SEK 45m (82) which is interest-bearing. 96 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 16, cont. Fair value Fair value hierarchy Forward contracts are measured at fair value taking interest rates Assets Level 2 Level 3 and prices on the closing date into account. Fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discount of estimated future cash flows SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 according to the maturity dates and terms of the contract and Derivatives taking into account the market interest rate for similar instruments – Forward contracts 2 17 at the end of the reporting period. Fair value of receivables with Contingent considerations 5 2 floating interest corresponds to their carrying amount. Since most 2 17 5 2 of the interest-bearing liabilities carry floating interest, and often a margin based on debt/equity ratio, fair value at the end of the Change, level 3 reporting period corresponds to carrying amount. The tables below provide disclosures of how fair value is deterContingent mined for the financial instruments measured at fair value in the Assets ­considerations Statement of financial position. Classification of how fair value is SEKm 2019 2018 determined is based on the following levels. Opening balance 2 0 Recognised in operating profit or loss 1 Level 1: Financial instruments measured according to listed prices Subsequent expenditure 4 28 in an active market. Settlements 0 –28 Level 2: Financial instruments measured according to directly or Closing balance 5 2 indirectly observable market data not included in level 1. Level 3: Financial instruments measured on the basis of inputs that Fair value hierarchy are not based on observable market data. Liabilities Level 2 Level 3 SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Synthetic options 241 183 Derivatives – Interest rate swaps 2 – Forward contracts 5 2 Put options to non-controlling interests 244 285 Contingent considerations 28 9 5 5 513 477 Change, level 3 Contingent Liabilities Synthetic options Put options ­considerations SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 183 159 285 173 9 7 Recognised in net financial items 77 24 Recognised in operating profit or loss –8 2 Recognised against non-controlling interests –67 –62 Newly issued/subsequent expenditure 6 7 141 168 41 6 Settlements –27 –10 –121 –1 –14 –6 Translation difference 2 3 5 7 0 0 Reclassifications 0 Closing balance 241 183 244 285 28 9 Remeasurement of financial instruments in level three is included in these parameters are developed for different option programmes. profit for the year, and refer to liabilities included in the closing balPossible covariance has more to do with macroeconomic factors. ance, amount to SEK 69 (26). Put options to non-controlling interests are measured starting The closing balance for synthetic options represents the total from the terms of the purchase agreement and shareholder agreeassessed value of a number of outstanding options within the Group ment, discounted to the balance sheet date. The key parameter in which have Ratos’s various companies as underlying assets. Ratos the valuation is the value development of the shares which is based values its synthetic options on the basis of accepted market princion results until the estimated maturity date. ples. Decisive parameters in conjunction with valuation of options Measurement of contingent considerations takes into account are assumed market values relating to the underlying assets, the the present value of expected payments, discounted with a risk-advolatility of the underlying assets and the length of the remaining justed interest rate. Different possible scenarios for forecast results option term. As a rule, there is no strong correlation between how are taken into account to assess the size of the expected payments and the probability of these. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 97 Notes Note 16, cont. Parent company 31 December Total Fair value according to statement Amortised cost through profit or loss of financial position SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial assets Receivables from Group companies 10 10 10 10 Cash and cash equivalents 1,607 1,734 1,607 1,734 1,617 1,744 1,617 1,744 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities, Group companies 449 572 449 572 Non-interest bearing liabilities, Group companies 225 33 225 33 Other interest-bearing liabilities 1 44 48 44 48 Convertible debentures 35 16 35 16 Trade payables 5 4 5 4 715 626 44 48 759 674 Fair value hierarchy Change, level 3 Liabilities Level 3 Liabilities Synthetic options SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Synthetic options 44 48 Opening balance 48 30 44 48 Recognised in net financial items –4 21 Settlements –3 Closing balance 44 48 Remeasurements of synthetic options are included in profit or loss for the year, with SEK 4m (–21), relating to assets and liabilities in the closing balance. Note 17 Inventories Group The cost of inventories recognised and included in the cost of goods sold amounts to SEK 4,022m (3,934). Write-down of inventories SEKm 2019 2018 recognised as expense during the year amounts to SEK 45m (21) Raw materials and consumables 76 59 and is included in the cost of goods sold. The part of inventories Products in progress 170 159 measured at net realizable value totals SEK 26m (9). Finished products and goods for resale 826 842 1,072 1,060 98 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 18 Equity Share capital Ordinary Class A Ordinary Class B Number 2019 2018 2019 2018 Shares in the company at 1 January 84,637,060 84,637,060 239,503,836 239,503,836 Shares in the company at 31 December 84,637,060 84,637,060 239,503,836 239,503,836 Total number of shares Quota value SEKm Shares in the company at 1 January 2019 324,140,896 3.15 1,021 Shares in the company at 31 December 2019 324,140,896 3.15 1,021 Conversion of shares Retained earnings The 2003 Annual General Meeting resolved that a conversion clause Retained earnings comprise the previous year’s retained earnings allowing conversion of Class A shares to Class B shares should be and profit after deduction for profit distribution provided during the added to the Articles of Association. This means that owners of year. Costs for purchases of treasury shares, call option premiums Class A shares have an ongoing right to convert them to Class B received and any additional transaction costs are recognised shares. In 2019, 0 Class A shares (0) were converted into Class B directly in retained earnings. shares. Equity management Group The Group’s target is to have a good financial position that contribOther capital provided utes towards maintaining the confidence of investors, creditors and Relates to equity provided by the owners. This includes share prethe market, and provides a basis for continued development of busimium reserves paid in conjunction with new issues. ness operations, and that the long-term return generated to shareholders is satisfactory. Reserves Ratos’s overall target is to increase shareholder value while Includes all exchange rate differences that arise on translation of ensuring Ratos’s growth. Ratos’s financial targets focus on the earnfinancial reports from foreign operations in a currency other than ings trend in the company portfolio and the total return on the share: SEK. Reserves also include the effects of cash flow hedges. The financial targets are: (1) the earnings of the company portfolio should increase each year, and (2) the total return on Ratos shares Retained earnings including profit/loss for the year should, over time, outperform the average on Nasdaq Stockholm. Retained earnings includes earned profits/losses and remeasureEarnings in the company portfolio are defined as reported EBITA ment of defined benefit pension plans recognised in other compreexcluding IFRS 16 for the relevant company portfolio and period. For hensive income for the parent company and its subsidiaries and 2019, this amounted to SEK 1,073m, compared with SEK 846m for associates. Previous provisions to the statutory reserve are also 2018. The total return on Ratos’s Class B shares in 2019 amounted included in this item. to 46%, compared with the performance for the SIX Return Index, which was 35%. Parent company The Board of Directors decided on a new dividend policy during Restricted reserves the year. The Ratos share is to deliver steadily increasing dividends Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distribution. over time based on growing earnings and a stable financial position. According to the Board’s assessment, a dividend payout ratio of Statutory reserve 30–50% of profit after tax attributable to owners of the parent will The purpose of the statutory reserve has been to save part of net fulfil these conditions. profits not used to cover a loss carried forward. The statutory The Board of Directors proposes an ordinary dividend for the reserve also includes amounts transferred to the share premium 2019 financial year of SEK 0.65 per Class A and B share, correreserve prior to 1 January 2006. sponding to a total divided of SEK 207m. Dividend yield amounts to 1.9% based on the closing price at year-end. Unrestricted equity Since the 2009 Annual General Meeting, there has been a deciThe following funds together with profit for the year comprise unresion that Ratos, in connection with acquisitions, may issue Class B stricted equity, meaning the amount that is available for dividends shares in Ratos through set-off, non-cash or for cash payment. This to shareholders. mandate was renewed at the 2019 Annual General Meeting and applies for a maximum of 35 million Class B shares. Share premium reserve Capital is defined as total equity including non-controlling interWhen shares are issued at a premium, i.e. more is paid for the shares ests. Neither the parent company nor any of the subsidiaries is subthan their quota value, an amount corresponding to the amount ject to external capital requirements, such as under the supervision received in excess of the quota value of the shares is transferred to of an authority. For a description of loan agreements linked to the share premium reserve. After 1 January 2006, an allocation to a financing and their terms, see Note 25 Financial risks and risk policy. share premium reserve comprises unrestricted equity. Treasury shares included in the equity item retained earnings including Fair value reserve profit for the year The parent company applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act’s 2019 2018 rules relating to measurement of financial instruments at fair value Number of shares according to Chapter 4, Section 14 a-e. Recognition takes place Opening treasury shares 5,126,262 5,126,262 directly in the fair value reserve when the change in value relates to a Closing treasury shares 5,126,262 5,126,262 price change on a monetary item that comprises part of the company's net investment in a foreign operation. Accounting treatment is Number of shares outstanding shown in Note 19. Total number of shares 324,140,896 324,140,896 Treasury shares –5,126,262 –5,126,262 319,014,634 319,014,634 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 99 Notes Note 18, cont. Options Conversion option for convertible debentures 2018–2019 Call options 2015–2017 The 2018 and 2019 Annual General Meetings resolved on the issue The 2013–2017 Annual General Meetings decided to issue call of convertible debentures to personnel. The convertible debentures options on treasury shares. Terms for call options outstanding at 31 are divided up into an interest-bearing debt, as stated in Note 16, and December 2019 are described in Note 7 (page 82). According to the a conversion option. The conversion option is recognised in equity. outstanding option programme, 1,157,600 treasury shares are A more detailed description is available in Note 7. reserved for transfer. In total, the number of repurchased Class B shares amounts to 5,126,262. Dividend After the reporting period, the Board proposed the following Warrants 2018–2019 ­dividend: The 2018 and 2019 Annual General Meetings resolved on the issue SEKm of warrants to personnel. Terms for warrants outstanding are Dividend to holders of Class A and B shares SEK 0.65 per share1) 207 described in Note 7. To be carried forward 6,764 1) Based on the number of shares outstanding on 6 February 2020. The number of treasury shares on that date was 5,126,262 and may change during the period until the record date for dividends. The proposed dividend for 2018 was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2019. The proposed dividend for 2019 will be presented for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 1 April 2020. Note 19 Disclosure of other comprehensive income and change in reserves and non-controlling interests Majority's share of reserves Translation Hedging Non-controlling SEKm reserve reserve Total interests Total Opening carrying amount 1 January 2018 –331 –43 –374 –135 –509 Adjustment 0 0 0 Adjusted opening carrying amount –331 –43 –374 –135 –509 Translation differences for the year 142 142 51 194 Translation differences attributable to discontinued operations 15 15 0 15 Cash flow hedges – recognised in other comprehensive income –9 –9 –1 –10 – tax attributable to change for the year 2 2 0 2 Closing carrying amount 31 December 2018 –173 –50 –223 –84 –308 Opening carrying amount 1 January 2019 –173 –50 –223 –84 –308 Adjustment1) –44 41 –3 0 –3 Adjusted opening carrying amount –217 –9 –226 –84 –311 Translation differences for the year 119 119 33 152 Translation differences attributable to discontinued operations 15 15 –13 1 Cash flow hedges – recognised in other comprehensive income 0 0 –2 –2 – tax attributable to change for the year 0 0 0 1 Closing carrying amount 31 December 2019 –84 –9 –94 –66 –160 1) SEK 41m pertains to a correction between the translation reserve and hedging reserve Translation reserve Parent company The translation reserve includes all exchange rate differences that Specification of equity item reserves arise on translation of financial reports from foreign operations that SEKm 2019 2018 have prepared their financial reports in another currency than the currency in which the Group’s financial reports are presented. Fair value reserve Hedging of net investments in foreign currencies is also included. Opening balance 7 The parent company and Group present their financial reports in Remeasurement recognised in other compreSwedish kronor. hensive income –7 Closing balance 0 0 Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of cumulative net change in fair value of the cash flow hedging instruments attributable to cash flows that have not yet occurred. 100 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 20 Non-controlling interests 2019 Individually insignificant SEKm NCS Invest Bisnode LEDiL HENT non-controlling interests Total In their entirety, 100% Non-current assets 1,108 5,546 1,053 1,192 Current assets 0 1,117 130 2,275 Non-current liabilities 0 –2,126 –241 –237 Current liabilities –6 –1,459 –127 –2,630 Net assets 1,102 3,077 815 600 Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 397 927 273 163 160 1,920 Net sales 3,776 433 433 Profit/loss for the year 135 248 57 15 Other comprehensive income 20 –6 10 23 Total comprehensive income 155 242 67 38 Cash flow from operating activities 0 616 95 –82 Cash flow from investing activities –2 –203 –24 3 Cash flow from financing activities 2 –244 –59 –172 Cash flow for the year 0 169 13 –251 Profit/loss for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 48 75 19 4 7 153 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 7 –2 4 6 –18 –2 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests –75 0 –75 Non-controlling interests, share 36% 30% 34% 27% 2018 Individually insignificant SEKm NCS Invest Bisnode LEDiL HENT non-controlling interests Total In their entirety, 100% Non-current assets 951 5,161 1,021 979 Current assets 1,087 102 2,102 Non-current liabilities –1,789 –275 –91 Current liabilities –6 –1,374 –100 –2,422 Net assets 945 3,085 748 568 Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 340 929 252 156 251 1,929 Net sales 3,690 439 439 Profit/loss for the year 119 233 92 150 Other comprehensive income –13 92 27 13 Total comprehensive income 106 325 119 163 Cash flow from operating activities 508 110 92 Cash flow from investing activities –202 –20 87 Cash flow from financing activities –214 –73 –59 Cash flow for the year 92 16 119 Profit/loss for the year attributable to non-controlling interests 43 70 31 41 1 186 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests –5 28 9 3 11 46 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests –42 –13 –55 Non-controlling interests, share 36% 30% 34% 27% RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 101 Notes Note 21 Earnings per share Note 22 Pensions Calculation of earnings per share is carried out as follows: In the Group there are both defined benefit and defined contribution SEKm 2019 2018 pension plans. The Ratos Group does not have any Group-wide policy relating to pensions, it is therefore up to the board of each Profit/loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent 673 –448 company to decide on pension solutions for the company. Used in calculating earnings per share before dilution 673 –448 Defined contribution pensions Pension plans mainly comprise retirement pensions. Pension preInterest expense for convertible debenmiums are salary-related and expensed on a current basis. tures, net 2 1 Used in calculating earnings Defined benefit pensions per share after dilution 675 –447 Pension plans mainly comprise retirement pensions. Earned penWeighted average number of shares sion is based on the number of years within the pension plan and Total number of ordinary shares 324,140,896 324,140,896 salary at retirement. Pension obligations are either financed Effect of holding of treasury shares –5,126,468 –5,126,468 through pension foundations or similar, or by the company. The defined benefit plans are not the main solution for the subsidiaries Weighted average number before dilution 319,014,634 319,014,634 and only constitute a complement to the defined contribution pension plans. Of Ratos’s current subsidiaries, five have defined benefit Convertible debentures 1,151,778 724,528 pension plans. Bisnode has the largest defined benefit pension obliWeighted average number gation in the Group in terms of amount. This obligation totals SEK after dilution 320,166,412 319,424,669 545m (446) and is divided among plans in five different countries. Basic earnings per share, SEK 2.11 –1.40 Diab has a pension obligation of SEK 87m (70). Together, Bisnode Diluted earnings per share, SEK 2.11 –1.40 and Diab account for 98% (98) of the Group’s defined benefit pension liability. Call options Pension obligations for salaried employees in Sweden (ITP) are At the close of 2019, Ratos AB had three outstanding call option propartially secured through insurance with Alecta. The pension plan grammes for which the exercise price was SEK 51.20, SEK 40.70 secured through Alecta is reported as a defined contribution plan, and SEK 42.80, respectively, which exceed the average price for since there is insufficient data for Ratos to be able to report its share ordinary shares. These options have no dilution effect and were of the pension plan as defined benefit. Alecta’s surplus can be disexcluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. If the tributed to policyholders and/or the insured. At year-end 2019, average price for ordinary shares in future rises to a level above the Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio amounted exercise price for the options, these options will lead to dilution. to a preliminary 148% (142). The collective funding ratio comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets expressed as a percentage of Warrants insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta's actuarial calAt the end of 2019, Ratos AB had two outstanding warrant proculation assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. SEK 85m grammes. The exercise prices for these programmes are SEK 36.22 (84) was paid to Alecta in premiums for the year. and SEK 33.81, respectively, and exceed the average price for ordinary shares. These warrants are not included when calculating Group earnings per share after dilution as they have no dilution effect. The Pension cost warrants are included in earnings per share after dilution when the SEKm 2019 2018 exercise price of the warrants exceeds the average price for ordiCost regarding current service period 18 16 nary shares. Past service cost 0 0 Convertible debentures Net interest 10 9 Convertible debentures issued during the financial year were Effects of curtailments and settlements 0 0 included when calculating diluted earnings per share from the date Pension costs for defined benefit pensions 28 25 of issue by increasing the number of shares by the total number of Pension costs for defined contribution pensions, shares to which the convertibles correspond and increasing earnAlecta 85 85 ings by the recognised interest expense after tax. The convertibles Pension costs for defined contribution pensions, are not included when calculating basic earnings per share. For furother 122 118 ther information on convertibles, refer to Note 7. Pension costs for the year 235 228 Pension costs are included in the income statement on the line Employee benefit costs with the exception of net interest which is included in net financial items in the income statement. SEK 80m is expected to be paid in premiums to Alecta for 2020. 102 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 22, cont. Plan assets comprise the following: SEKm 2019 2018 Equity instruments 2 Defined benefit pension plans Financial fixed-income assets 2 SEKm 2019 2018 Properties 2 Present value of funded obligations 499 432 Assets held by insurance companies 291 268 Fair value of plan assets –291 –274 291 274 208 158 Present value of unfunded obligations 436 366 Of the plan assets, SEK 16m pertains to listed assets and SEK 274m Effect of limitation rule for net assets –3 –2 to unlisted assets. Net liability in the statement of financial position 642 523 Key actuarial assumptions used at the end of the reporting period Amount recognised in the balance sheet Bisnode Diab Provisions for pensions 642 524 2019 2018 2019 2018 Surplus in defined benefit plans recognised as Net liability in the statement of financial non-current financial receivables –1 position 545 446 87 70 Net liability in the statement of financial Discount rate, %: position 642 523 First-class bonds, Sweden 1.6 2.4 2.0 3.0 First-class bonds, Germany 1.0 1.7 Changes in defined benefit pension obligations First-class bonds, Switzerland –0.2 0.9 SEKm 2019 First-class bonds, Finland 1.6 Opening balance 773 First-class bonds, Italy 0.3 1.0 Pensions earned during the year 23 First-class bonds, other 0.6 1.6 Interest expense 12 Inflation, % 1.6 1.7 2.0 2.0 Benefits paid –10 Anticipated rate of salary increase, % 2.3 1.6 3.0 3.0 Pension bligations in acquired/divested companies 0 Annual increase in pensions and paid-up Actuarial gains/losses: policies, % 1.8 1.0 3.0 Financial assumptions 92 Demographic assumptions 0 Parent company Assumptions based on experience 1 The parent company’s pension costs for defined contribution pensions amounted to SEK 8 (12), of which SEK 0m (0) pertains to Other 0 Alecta. Exchange differences for the year 17 Defined benefit obligations, year-end 908 Changes in plan assets Note 23 Provisions SEKm 2019 Opening balance 274 Group Interest income 0 Provisions, non-current Contribution from employer 3 SEKm 2019 2018 Contribution from employees 0 Guarantee commitments Benefits paid 0 At the beginning of the year 6 9 Return on plan assets excl. the above interest income 2 Provisions for the year 0 –3 Other 2 Unutilised reversed provisions –1 Exchange differences for the year 10 Translation difference 0 0 Plan assets, year-end 291 At the end of the year 6 6 Other Specification of changes in the net liability recognised in the statement of financial position At the beginning of the year 15 53 Provisions for the year 2 2 SEKm 2018 Utilised provisions –1 –1 Net liability at 1 January 485 Unutilised reversed provisions 0 Net cost recognised in income statement 25 Provisions in disposed company –42 Remeasurement of pension obligation Translation difference 0 3 recognised in other comprehensive income1) 4 At the end of the year 16 15 Premiums and pensions paid –9 Exchange differences on foreign plans 16 Total non-current provisions 21 21 Net liability at 31 December 523 Provisions that are non-current liabilities 1) In the Group’s Other comprehensive income, remeasurement of pension obligations for investments that in the Group are recognised according to the equity method are and maturity structure is recognised. Guarantee commitments Provisions relate to guarantee commitments for work carried out. Provision for guarantees start to be estimated when a service is completed or an item is transferred to a customer. In order to estimate amounts, historical data relating to repairs and exchanges in mainly used. Guarantee periods extend over 2–10 years. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 103 Notes Note 23, cont. Note 25 Financial risks and risk policy Other provisions Principles for funding and financial risk management Other non-current provisions include provisions relating to legal The Group through its activities is exposed to various types of finanrequirements. Other provisions are expected to be settled within cial risks related to trade receivables, trade payables, loans and 2–5 years. derivative instruments. Ratos’s financial risks consist of: • liquidity risks Provisions that are current liabilities • credit risks Provisions, current • interest rate risks • currency risks SEKm 2019 2018 Guarantee commitments Ratos’s Board approves the financial strategy for the parent comAt the beginning of the year 551 496 pany while the subsidiaries’ boards adopt financial strategies for Provisions for the year 174 188 each company. Utilised provisions –70 Unutilised reversed provisions –259 –74 Parent company The parent company’s financial policy, which provides guidelines for Provisions in acquired companies 3 –69 management of financial risks, is adopted annually by Ratos’s Translation difference 20 11 Board. The Board evaluates and where necessary proposes At the end of the year 419 551 changes to the financial policy. Other At the beginning of the year 155 161 Group companies Provisions for the year 35 104 Although the Group has no central treasury management function, Utilised provisions –35 –91 Ratos’s head office assists the subsidiaries with overall financial Unutilised reversed provisions –133 –22 matters. The board of each subsidiary adopts its financial policy. The Group endeavours to have a good financial position that conReclassifications 8 0 tributes towards maintaining the confidence of investors, creditors Translation difference 0 3 and the market and provides a basis for continued development of At the end of the year 29 155 business operations at the same time as the long-term return generTotal current provisions 448 705 ated for the shareholders is satisfactory. Parent company Liquidity risks Definition Provisions, current The risk that a company may experience difficulties in meeting obliSEKm 2019 2018 gations associated with financial liabilities settled using cash or Other another financial asset. At the beginning of the year 140 140 Current liquidity risks Provisions for the year 333 57 The parent company is normally unleveraged but must have a Utilised provisions –28 –61 binding loan commitment from a bank. Pledging shares or other Unutilised reversed provisions –132 0 assets as collateral for own commitments or for commitments of Exchange effect –2 3 the holding’s or a third party may be performed following a Board Reclassifications 18 0 decision. The parent company may not issue guarantees with any At the end of the year 328 140 lender for the commitments of the holding or a third party. Guarantees relating to provision of equity capital may be provided Of the parent company’s provisions SEK 317m (135) relates to provifollowing a Board decision. Access to capital and flexibility are sions for subsidiaries and associates. ensured by the parent company having a rolling non-current loan facility, which amounts to SEK 1 billion, including a bank overdraft facility. This credit facility can also be used to finance dividends and Note 24 Accrued expenses and day-to-day running expenses during a period of few or no divestdeferred income ments. In addition, the parent company has an authorisation from the Annual General Meeting to issue shares in conjunction with agreements on acquisitions; see also Note 18 Equity management. Group Every subsidiary manages its own financing. At 31 December SEKm 2019 2018 2019, the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities to credit institutions amounted to SEK 5,144m (5,536). Total unutilised credit facilities Personnel costs 801 529 amounted to SEK 2,352m (2,007). Customer bonus 15 8 Loan agreements in subsidiaries normally contain financial key Sales commission 13 figures known as covenants. The key figure levels are unique for Other 246 512 each subsidiary. The most usual key figures are interest-bearing net 1,076 1,050 debt in relation to profit before depreciation and net interest, interest coverage and cash flow. If a subsidiary does not fulfil the terms of a long-term loan agreeParent company ment by or before the end of the reporting period with effect that the SEKm 2019 2018 company does not have an unconditional right to postpone payment Personnel costs 29 31 of the debt for a minimum 12 months, the liability is classified as current. Other 15 15 44 45 104 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Maturity structure for financial liabilities The maturity analysis does not include liabilities relating to synThe following anticipated maturity structure is shown for the thetic options. Synthetic options have established maturity dates, Group’s financial liabilities at 31 December 2019, comprising undisbut depending on terms or conditions, such as the divestment of counted cash flows relating to amortisation and estimated interest companies, the date of maturity may vary. At 31 December 2019, the payments based on forward contracts alternatively actual interest Group’s liabilities for synthetic options amounted to SEK 241m as well as estimated margins. (183). Translation to SEK of amounts in foreign currency has been done at the exchange rate that applied at the end of the reporting period (closing day rate). Maturity structure for financial liabilities 31 Dec 2019 SEKm Within 1 year Within 2 years Within 3 years Within 4 years 5 years or more Total Liabilities to credit institutions 1,452 765 1,223 928 1,159 5,526 Financial lease liabilities 883 757 686 605 3,177 6,108 Other interest-bearing liabilities 17 1 1 123 8 150 Trade payables 2,818 2,818 Put options 500 500 Contingent considerations 7 7 13 1 28 Forward contracts – outflow 219 219 – inflow –214 –214 Total 5,182 1,530 1,924 1,656 4,844 15,136 31 Dec 2018 SEKm Within 1 year Within 2 years Within 3 years Within 4 years 5 years or more Total Liabilities to credit institutions 1,603 772 1,889 1,381 104 5,749 Financial lease liabilities 79 77 74 72 827 1,130 Other interest-bearing liabilities 18 1 1 1 97 118 Trade payables 2,279 2,279 Put options 285 285 Contingent considerations 6 1 1 1 1 9 Interest rate swaps 2 2 Forward contracts – outflow 136 136 – inflow –134 –134 Total 3,988 851 1,965 1,740 1,028 9,574 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 105 Notes Note 25, cont. Credit risks Current commercial credit risks Definition The parent company does not have any trade receivables or conCredit risks comprise risks in financial and in commercial transactract assets. The Group has trade receivables and contract assets tions. In its financial activities the Group is exposed to counterparty that are within the scope of the model for expected credit losses. credit risk in conjunction with investment of surplus liquidity in bank Cash and cash equivalents are also within the scope of impairment accounts, fixed-income securities and in conjunction with the purin accordance with IFRS 9, but the impairment in question is not chase of derivative instruments. Commercial exposure mainly comconsidered material. prises the credit risk in the Group’s trade receivables and contract The carrying amount of the Group’s trade receivables and conassets, and relates to customers failing to meet their payment comtract assets, in the statement of financial position, reflects maxmitments. imum exposure to credit risk. The Group’s subsidiaries operate within a number of different sectors and in a large number of geoCurrent financial credit risks graphic markets, which provides a good risk spread. In order to reduce the parent company’s financial credit risk and Due to its industry spread, combined with its global operations, provide the parent company with a high level of preparedness for the Group has no significant concentration on individual customers. investments, cash and cash equivalents are invested in banks or The Group applies the simplified approach for calculating expected fixed-income securities with low interest rate risk, low credit risk and credit losses. The method means expected losses over the entire high liquidity. In addition to placing cash and cash equivalents in lifetime of the receivable are used as a basis for trade receivables bank accounts or deposit accounts with Nordic banks approved by and contract assets. Ratos, investments may only be made in securities (treasury bills, To calculate expected credit losses, each subsidiary applies its commercial papers, bonds or similar) issued by the Kingdom of own impairment model for trade receivables and contract assets Sweden, Swedish municipalities, banks and companies that have based on assumptions and historical information. This includes a received a rating of at least A+ from independent valuation insticustomer’s payment history, loss history and current and fortutes. The duration of investments of securities may not exceed six ward-looking information on macroeconomic factors that may influmonths except for securities issued by the Kingdom of Sweden ence the customer’s ability to pay. The historical level of losses is where treasury bills may have a maximum duration of 12 months adjusted on the basis of anticipated changes to these factors. and government bonds a maximum of 24 months. At 31 December Trade receivables and contract assets are grouped on the basis of 2019, cash and cash equivalents in the parent company amounted credit risk characteristics and the number of days delay. Contract to SEK 1,607m (1,734). assets relate to not yet invoiced work and in all material respects At 31 December 2019, cash and cash equivalents in the Group have the same risk characteristics as already invoiced work for the amounted to SEK 3,219m (3,404). During 2019, there were no credit same type of contract. The Group is therefore of the opinion that losses from investments of cash and cash equivalents. loss levels for trade receivables offer a reasonable estimate of loss levels for contract assets. Based on this, loss provisions for trade receivables and contract assets are based on the following: 31 Dec 2019 Overdue Overdue Overdue Overdue more than SEKm Not overdue 0–60 days 61–180 days 181–365 days one year Total Recognised trade receivables – gross 1,923 623 257 47 114 2,964 Expected loss level, % 0% 1% 4% 17% 14% 2% Provisions for credit losses –6 –7 –10 –8 –16 –46 Recognised contract assets – gross 548 Expected loss level, % 0% Provisions for credit losses 0 31 Dec 2018 Overdue Overdue Overdue Overdue more than SEKm Not overdue 0–60 days 61–180 days 181–365 days one year Total Recognised trade receivables – gross 1,956 444 90 105 117 2,711 Expected loss level, % 0% 1% 10% 14% 16% 2% Provisions for credit losses –6 –7 –9 –14 –18 –54 Recognised contract assets – gross 539 Expected loss level, % 0% Provisions for credit losses 0 106 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 25, cont. Changes to loss provisions during the year are specified below: Sensitivity analysis If interest rates change by 1 percentage point in all countries where Trade the Ratos Group has loans or investments, the effect on net financial Contract assets ­receivables items, based on liabilities to credit institutions at year-end which are SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 not hedged, will total approximately SEK 51m (51). This sensitivity Opening balance, 1 January 0 0 –54 –67 analysis is based on all other factors (such as exchange rates) Changes to loss provisions recremaining unchanged. ognised in profit or loss –6 –9 Receivables written off during the Currency risks year 3 3 Definition Reversal of unutilised amount 12 18 Currency risk is the risk that changes in exchange rates have a negaExchange differences 0 0 tive impact on the consolidated income statement, statement of Loss provisions, divested companies 2 financial position and/or cash flows. Currency risk exists both in At 31 December 0 0 –46 –54 translation exposure linked to foreign Group companies and in monetary financial assets and liabilities. Impairment is recognised in trade receivables and contract assets taking into account customers’ ability to pay. The impairment of Current currency exposure of monetary financial assets trade receivables is recognised in profit or loss and amounted to and liabilities as per the end of the reporting period SEK 15m (10). In the parent company, investments may typically only be made in Swedish currency. Normally, currency hedging is not applied to Interest rate risks shares, shareholder loans or similar balance sheet items in the Definition parent company. Transaction exposure ahead of an acquisition or Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates will affect disposal of a foreign company can be currency hedged. the Group’s financial result and cash flow. The Group manages its currency risks in accordance with the financial policy and risk management strategy adopted by the board Current interest rate risks of each subsidiary. Currency exposure net and related sensitivity The parent company is not exposed to interest rate risk since the analysis refers to the position at the closing date and includes trade parent company is normally unleveraged. receivables, trade payables, liabilities to credit institutions and The Group's exposure to interest rate risk mainly occurs in subinternal financial receivables and liabilities. sidiaries' long-term borrowing. The fixed-interest term depends on The net fair value of forward contracts amounted to SEK 3 (15) at the individual subsidiary’s structure and adopted financial policy 31 December 2019. Of this amount, SEK 2m (17) is recognised in the and risk management strategy. In the event that the fixed-interest statement of financial position as assets and SEK 5m (2) as liabiliperiod has changed, interest rate swaps are used. ties. The amount recognised on forward contracts that are hedge Interest rate swaps correspond to 0% (7) of the Group’s liabilities accounted amounted to SEK 3m, of which SEK 2 is recognised as an to credit institutions at 31 December 2019. The fair value of interest asset and SEK 5 as a liability. In the Group, hedges are used for net rate swaps amounted to SEK 0m (2). Of the Group’s outstanding investments in foreign operations. interest rate swaps, 0% (100) mature within 36 months. The Group’s currency risk exposure at the close of the reporting period, expressed in SEK, is evident in the table below: EUR NOK DKK GBP USD SEK SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Trade receivables 293 210 47 17 16 13 46 45 447 223 53 120 Other receivables 239 221 3 30 46 134 41 353 259 15 16 Liabilities to credit institutions –692 –883 –98 –96 0 –1 –426 –171 –419 –289 –804 –488 Trade payables –210 –192 –24 –11 –59 –42 –36 –47 –372 –264 –80 –134 Currency exposure financial assets and liabilities –370 –645 –75 –87 –13 16 –281 –131 10 –71 –816 –487 Forward contracts –14 –114 –2 109 110 152 –168 –168 –9 Exposure, net –384 –759 –75 –87 –14 125 –172 21 –159 –239 –816 –497 Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity analysis is calculated based on monetary financial A change in SEK of 10% against Ratos’s exposure of net flows in receivables and liabilities in foreign currency as per the end of the EUR, NOK, DKK, GBP and USD would have a negative effect on earnreporting period. Changes in currency rates mainly affect the conings of approximately SEK 80 (86). The greatest impact on profit, solidated profit. Where hedge accounting is applied, other compreafter net financial items, arises when liabilities to credit institutions hensive income is affected until settlement. The effect is then transare translated. ferred to the consolidated profit. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 107 Notes Note 26 Leases Group Leases as of 31 December 2019 Up to and including the financial year 2018, leasing (rental) of propOf the total lease assets (right-of-use assets) of SEK 4,423m, 97% erty, vehicles, inventory and equipment are reported as operational comprises land and buildings. Accordingly, only the terms and condior financial leases according to IAS 17. As of 1 January 2019, all tions of this type of lease asset is described. The Group’s leases consist leases are reported as right-of-use assets with associated liabilities, primarily of commercial premises, warehouse facilities and offices. beginning when the asset is available for use by the lessee in accorA property lease also normally includes one or several extension dance with IFRS 16. options. An extension option is included in the calculation if it is deemed likely that it will be exercised. Variable expenses as well as Operating leases where the company is the lessee property taxes, value-added tax and other variable property Payments made during the financial year relating to leases amount to: expenses such as maintenance costs, electricity, heat and water etc. are excluded from lease liability calculations to the extent they SEKm 2018 can be separated from the cost of rent. To calculate the lease liability Minimum lease payments 866 (current value of future lease payments) pertaining to property, the Variable payments 3 alternative rate/return on properties/average borrowing rate/ Total leasing costs 869 model based on the company’s interest rate for internal loans is used as the discount rate. The majority of leases include some form Commitments for operating leases at 31 December: of indexing, normally the consumer price index. The companies SEKm 2018 have applied the exemption rule and thus not included low-value Payments within 1 year 877 assets, meaning leases with a value under SEK 50,000 or USD 5,000 or the individual company’s materiality level. The initial cost Between 1–5 years 2,545 for right-of-use assets corresponds to the initial value of the lease >5 years 2,226 liability less direct expenditure and obligations. 5,648 Refer to the table below for a further description of the companies with the highest-value lease assets, land and buildings. Of total future payments for operating leases, SEK 5,283m perThe contracts have lengths that vary between 5 to 20 years, tained to Plantasjen. Most of Plantasjen’s operating lease consists although most contracts have a length of 10 to 15 years. Most conof commercial premises. tracts give the companies a unilateral right to extend the contract length. Other contracts give the companies an indirect right of Financial leases where the company is the lessee tenure. The right to contract extension can only be exercised by the Payments made during the financial year relating to leases amount to: company and not by the lessee. The contracts cannot be cancelled SEKm 2018 before the contracted end date. Contracts can be extended multiple times and don’t necessarily have an end date, given the fact that Minimum lease payments 82 there are no obstacles to repeatedly extending the contract length. Total leasing costs 82 The companies expect that the leasing contracts for a small number Present value of financial lease liabilities are distributed as follows: of properties will end prematurely, in which case the leasing debt / asset will be adjusted, when agreement is meet about premature SEKm 2018 move from some buildings. For 2019 the adjustment amounts are Within 1 year 34 not material. Leasing contracts for certain properties and land are Between 1–5 years 135 not expected to be extended. Extension options are not included in >5 years 514 most leasing debt / asset contracts. Companies evaluate on a 683 yearly basis whether or not it is likely that a leasing contract will be extended. Future changes in contract period length can occur in conjunction with the re-negotiation of a contract and / or in the event of a premature ending of a rental contract, in which case the leasing debt and the right of use asset value will be adjusted. Group Income statement SEKm 2019 2018 Included in the following line Income from sub-leasing 36 25 Other operating income Depreciation/amortisation and impairment for the year1) –741 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and right-of-use assets Costs pertaining to short-term leases1) –28 Other external costs Costs pertaining to low-value leases1) –55 Other external costs Costs pertaining to variable lease payments1) –31 Other external costs Interest expenses –251 –50 Financial expenses Total impact on earnings, leases –1,070 –24 Statement of cash flows SEKm 2019 2018 Included in the following line Short-term leases, low-value leases and variable lease payments1) –113 Operating activities Amortisation of financial lease liabilities –665 –31 Financing activities Interest paid on financial lease liabilities –251 –50 Financing activities Total impact on cash flow, leases2) –1,029 –81 1) No comparative figures for 2018. 2) Excluding the impact from sub-leasing. 108 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 26, cont. Note 27 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Statement of financial position Group SEKm 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Pledged assets Non-current financial lease liability, interSEKm 2019 2018 est-bearing 4,189 648 Real estate mortgages 24 25 Current lease liability, interest-bearing 682 35 Chattel mortgages 179 111 Reported according to statement of financial Shares in Group companies 7,043 7,277 position 4,871 683 Other pledged assets 3,402 3,286 See Note 25 for the anticipated maturity date of the undiscounted 10,648 10,698 financial lease liability value. Contingent liabilities 3,000 2,953 See Note 13 Right-of-use assets for right-of-use assets recognised in Of other pledged assets amounting to SEK 3,402m, HENT accounts the statement of financial position. for SEK 3,332m. This amount pertains to assets that HENT has pledged to the bank in the form of collateral in inventories, trade Impact of IFRS 16 receivables and other operating assets. Owned companies Contingent liabilities arise as part of the Group’s normal business adjusted for holdings Group, consolidated activities, including in connection with the fulfilment of various conIncluding Excluding Including Excluding tractual obligations. At year-end, there was no indication that conSEKm IFRS 16 IFRS 16 IFRS 16 IFRS 16 tingent liabilities would give rise to any payments. Of contingent liaEBITDA 2,290 1,474 2,850 2,045 bilities amounting to SEK 3,000m, HENT accounts for SEK 2,406m, EBITA 1,196 1,073 1,703 1,603 airteam for SEK 279m and Bisnode for SEK 142m. Of HENT’s continProfit/loss before tax 470 564 1,061 1,163 gent liabilities, SEK 1,918m was in parent company guarantees that Interest-bearing net debt the company has made available to customers/suppliers as assurat end of period 9,394 5,128 7,826 3,623 ance that HENT’s subsidiaries will meet their contractual obligations and SEK 488m as collateral made available to the bank. BisnoThe table above shows alternative performance measures APM, de’s contingent liabilities pertain to bank guarantees for the rental of meaning financial information not defined in accordance with IFRS. premises in subsidiaries. airteam’s contingent liabilities arose at the See page 127 for reconciliations and page 128 for definitions. start of the project contract when the company issues guarantees in connection with contract documentation. Leases entered into with occupancy in 2020 or later Bisnode signed a lease with access in 2021 and a term of five years Parent company with an estimated value of approximately SEK 80m. Speed Group The parent company has no pledged assets. The parent company signed leases for two properties. Occupancy in the properties will has contingent liabilities to subsidiaries and associates amounting take place in the third quarter of 2020 and the terms of the leases is to SEK 609m (603). 15 and ten years, respectively, with the right to terminate the agreement after ten and 12 years. A preliminary forecast of the value in use is estimated at approximately SEK 285m and SEK 52m. Note 28 Related party disclosures Sales and leasebacks In 2019, Ratos AB sold its property, Lejonet 4, to the National PropTransactions with related parties are made on market terms. erty Board of Sweden and entered into an agreement to lease back the office until 31 December 2021. The property is used as an office Parent company for Ratos. The sale and leaseback transaction provided Ratos with The parent company has a related party relationship with its Group increased cash and cash equivalents in the form of the considercompanies. For more information, refer to Note 29. The parent comation received, while still retaining use of the office premises. The pany has no pledged assets. The parent company has contingent liaearnings from the transaction are included in Other operating bilities to subsidiaries and associates amounting to SEK 609m (603). income as a reduction in the capital gain. The parent company’s transactions with subsidiaries and associates for the year and the parent company’s balance sheet items in relation to its subsidiaries and associates at the end of the year are presented below. Financial Other Capital SEKm income income contribution Dividend 2019 0 6 535 175 2018 4 5 120 114 Contingent SEKm Receivable Provision Liability liability 31 Dec 2019 10 317 674 609 31 Dec 2018 10 135 606 603 During the year, Ratos provided a contribution of SEK 28m to LEDiL, SEK 34m to Oase Outdoors, SEK 47m to TFS, SEK 207m to Plantasjen and SEK 220m to Diab. Transactions with key persons in leading positions Remuneration to senior executives and Board members is specified in Note 7. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 109 Notes Note 29 Participations in Group companies Parent company Based on the impairment tests that Ratos does annually, see Note 11, the possible indication of impairment of the recognised carrying SEKm 2019 2018 amount of participations in Group companies is evaluated. No Accumulated cost opening balance at 1 January 11,936 13,180 impairment took place in 2019. In 2018, the parent company recInvestments 843 157 ognised an impairment loss on the carrying amounts of two compaWound up –420 –1,401 nies: EMaint AB of SEK 26m and Blomster Intressenter AB of SEK At the end of the year 12,359 11,936 810m. Accumulated impairment opening balance –5,005 –4,913 Wound up 416 744 Impairment for the year –836 At the end of the year –4,589 –5,005 Value according to balance sheet 7,770 6,931 Subsidiary, corp. reg. no., registered office Number of Owned Owned SEKm shares share, % 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Company share, % Directly owned companies Bisnode Business Information Group AB, 556681–5725, Stockholm 84,263,330 70 1,897 1,897 Owner companies to holdings Blomster Intressenter AB, 559077–8675, Stockholm 50,000 100 1,103 576 Plantasjen4) 98 HL Intressenter AB, 556809–4402, Stockholm 50,000 100 566 566 HL Display4) 96 Kelly Intressenter 1 AB, 556826–5705, Stockholm 50,000 100 345 344 Kvdbil 100 Kompositkärnan Förvaltning AB, 556777–2271, Stockholm 100,000 100 910 710 Diab 96 Medcro Holding AB, 559026–2019, Stockholm 50,000 100 423 259 TFS3) 100 Miehdnort AB, 556801–4731, Stockholm 100,000 100 314 313 HENT 73 NCS Intressenter AB, 556801–8435, Stockholm 100,000 100 693 805 Aibel1) 32 Noiro Holding AB, 556993–7104, Stockholm 50,000 100 491 462 LEDiL 66 Outdoor Intressenter AB, 559067–2456, Stockholm 50,000 100 195 162 Oase Outdoors4) 79 Speed Group Intressenter AB, 556801–8419, Stockholm 100,000 100 286 286 Speed Group 70 Vento Intressenter AB, 559052–2057, Stockholm 50,000 100 335 335 airteam 70 Other companies EMaint AB, 556731–5378, Stockholm 100,000 100 23 23 GS Intressenter AB, 559067–2415, Stockholm5) 50,000 100 160 160 Kamin Intressenter AB, 556801–8427, Stockholm2) 4 Quartzin Intressenter AB, 556835–3824, Stockholm 50,000 100 23 23 Ratos Fastighets AB, 556308–3863, Stockholm 50,000 100 6 6 7,770 6,931 1) NCS Intressenter AB owns 64% of the shares in NCS Invest AB where the remaining 36% of the shares are owned by the Sixth AP Fund. NCS Invest in turn owns 49% of the shares in Aibel. Ratos’s direct holding in Aibel therefore amounts to 32%. 2) Wound up during the year. 3) Medcro Holding AB owns 100% of the shares in Medcro Interessenter AB which in turn owns 100% of the shares in TFS. 4) Owned share refers to ordinary shares. 5) The company is in liquidation. 110 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 30 Cash flow statement Group Parent company Company disposals – Group SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Dividends received 14 2 176 117 Intangible assets 28 221 Interest received 13 10 0 0 Property, plant and equipment 3 154 Interest paid –465 –301 –4 –6 Financial assets 3 139 Deferred tax assets 1 Adjustment for non-cash items Inventories 5 179 Group Parent company Current receivables 57 120 SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents –1 101 Share of profit from investments Total assets 94 916 ­recognised according to the equity Non-controlling interests 6 method –137 –133 Non-current liabilities and provisions 629 Dividend 14 2 0 Current liabilities and provisions 48 179 Capital gains/losses –488 –140 –506 –614 Total liabilities 48 815 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment of assets 1,194 1,167 2 840 Consideration transferred 114 195 Unrealised exchange differences 5 –2 –1 –6 Minus: Provisions, etc. –42 176 36 34 Purchase promissory note –18 Adjustment for Contingent consideration –4 –2 non-cash items 547 1,069 –470 254 Cash and cash equivalents in the disposed operations 1 –101 Cash and cash equivalents Effect on Group’s cash and cash equivalents 94 92 Group Parent company SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Acquired companies – Group Cash and bank balances 3,219 3,404 1,607 1,734 SEKm 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 3,219 3,404 1,607 1,734 Intangible assets 73 38 Property, plant and equipment 8 5 Unutilised credit facilities Financial assets 0 Unutilised credit facilities amount to SEK 2,352m (2,007) for the Deferred tax assets 0 Group and SEK 1,000m (1,000) for the parent company. Inventories 8 Current receivables 33 33 Cash and cash equivalents 4 12 Total assets 117 97 Non-controlling interests 0 Non-current liabilities and provisions 6 Deferred tax liabilities 4 8 Current liabilities and provisions 88 43 Total liabilities 98 51 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 19 46 Goodwill 104 57 Consideration transferred 123 103 Minus: Promissory note –5 Provision contingent consideration –41 –10 Cash and cash equivalents in the acquired operations –4 –12 Paid contingent consideration 14 6 Effect on Group’s cash and cash equivalents 93 82 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 111 Notes Note 30, cont. Changes in liabilities attributable to financing activities – Group Cash flow Non-cash effect changes Opening RepurAcquired Closing balance Option chase/final and Change in ­balance 1 January BorrowAmortipremiums settlement divested Reclassiexchange Other 31 December SEKm 2019 ings sation paid options companies fications rates changes 2019 Liabilities to credit institutions, non-current 4,009 104 –299 66 –198 77 45 3,803 Liabilities to credit institutions, current 1,528 1,087 –1,500 198 22 5 1,341 Financial lease liabilities 683 –665 –79 4,932 4,871 Convertible debentures 16 20 –2 1 35 Other interest-bearing ­liabilities1) 285 103 –80 6 –27 4 81 371 Total liabilities from financing activities 6,520 1,314 –2,544 6 –27 66 –2 24 5,064 10,422 Cash flow Non-cash effect changes Opening RepurAcquired Closing balance Option chase/final and Change in ­balance 1 January BorrowAmortipremiums settlement divested Reclassiexchange Other 31 December SEKm 2018 ings sation paid options companies fications rates changes 2018 Liabilities to credit institutions, non-current 4,906 1,172 –189 –515 –1,481 98 19 4,009 Liabilities to credit institutions, current 954 1,262 –2,195 –24 1,481 35 14 1,528 Financial lease liabilities 698 –31 –2 0 15 3 683 Convertible debentures 18 –2 0 16 Other interest-bearing ­liabilities1) 280 90 –90 7 –10 6 2 285 Total liabilities from financing activities 6,838 2,542 –2,506 7 –10 –541 –2 154 38 6,520 1) In addition to the above, contingent considerations of SEK 28m (9) are also included in other interest-bearing liabilities, which amount to a total of SEK 399m (294). Note 31 Key estimations and assessments Ratos’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS. Key sources of uncertainty in estimations This requires management to make assessments, estimations and The value of subsidiaries and associates, including goodwill, is assumptions that affect the application of accounting principles and tested annually by calculating a recoverable amount, meaning the the recognised amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. higher of value in use or fair value with deduction for selling costs for Estimations and assessments are based on historical experience, each company. Calculation of these values requires a number of external information and assumptions which management regards assumptions on future conditions and estimations of parameters as reasonable under prevailing circumstances. Changed assumpsuch as profit multiples and future profitability levels. A description tions can result in adjustments to recognised figures and the actual of this procedure is provided in Note 11. Future events and new inforoutcome can differ from estimations and assessments made. mation can change these assessments and estimations. Within the framework of IFRS, a choice can be made in certain cases between different principles. The choice of principle requires Percentage of completion of projects in some cases management to make assessments as to which prinWith respect to construction contracts, Ratos recognises revenue ciple provides the most true and fair picture of Ratos’s operations. over time, applying the percentage of completion method. A basic Development within accounting and the choice of principles are condition for assessing the percentage of completion is that project discussed also with Ratos’s Audit Committee. revenue and project costs can be reliably determined. Reliability Key sources of uncertainty in estimations are shown below. requires that the companies’ project management systems are followed and their project management has the necessary qualities. The assessment of project revenue and project costs is based on a number of estimations and assessments that are dependent on the project management team’s experience and knowledge regarding project management, education and previous project management experience. Due to the use of assessments, the final results may differ from the gradually accrued earnings. 112 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Notes Note 32 Contract assets and Statement of financial position contract liabilities Receivables from customers for assignments under a construction contract SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Contract revenue 15,118 10,243 Contract assets Billing –14,643 –9,937 Construction contracts 475 306 Total receivables from customers 475 306 Other assets 73 232 Of which current contract receivables 475 306 Total current contract assets 548 539 Contract liabilities Liabilities to customers for assignments under a construction contract Other contract liabilities 15 24 SEKm 2019 2018 Total non-current contract liabilities 15 24 Billing –15,893 –14,223 Construction contracts 363 253 Contract revenue 14,972 13,458 Other contract liabilities 867 1,015 Total liabilities to customers –921 –765 Total current contract liabilities 1,230 1,267 Of which, current contract liabilities –363 –253 Date for recognition of non-current contract liabilities Other contract liabilities Within 1–3 years 15 23 Note 33 Events after the reporting period After 3 years 1 Total non-current contract liabilities 15 24 No significant events have occurred since the end of the financial Contract liabilities included in the opening year that are expected to have a material impact on the consolidated balance, financial statements. recognised as income during the year Construction contracts 201 137 Other contract liabilities 631 610 Note 34 Exchange rates Total contract liabilities recognised as income 832 747 Average rates Backlog of orders SEK 2019 2018 Of Ratos’s five largest subsidiaries in terms of sales, HENT had a backlog of orders amounting to NOK 15 billion at 31 December 2019 Danish kronor, DKK 1.418 1.376 (NOK 13.4 billion at 31 December 2018). Approximately 50% of the Euro, EUR 10.589 10.257 backlog of orders is expected to be recognised in income in 2020 Norwegian kronor, NOK 1.075 1.069 and the rest in 2021–2024. Bisnode had a backlog of orders of SEK 0.5 billion, of which SEK 0.3 billion is expected to be recognised in Closing day rates income in 2020 and the rest in 2021–2022. Diab had a backlog of SEK 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 orders of SEK 0.4 billion at 31 December 2019, which is expected to Danish kronor, DKK 1.397 1.376 be fully recognised in income in 2020. The backlog of orders relating to the other two subsidiaries (HL Euro, EUR 10.434 10.275 Display and Plantasjen) does not exceed 12 months. Norwegian kronor, NOK 1.058 1.024 Significant changes to contract assets and contract liabilities The increase in current contract assets and contract liabilities attributable to construction contracts pertains mainly to HENT and Note 35 Parent company details is due to the company’s growth. The decrease in other current contract assets and contract liabilities is mainly attributable to TFS and Ratos AB is a Swedish registered limited company with its registered is due to a change in the company’s presentation of contract assets office in Stockholm. The parent company’s shares are registered on and contract liabilities compared with earlier years. Nasdaq Stockholm. The address of the head office is Box 1661, SE–111 96 Stockholm and the visiting address is Drottninggatan 2. Loss provision for contract assets The consolidated financial statements for 2019 comprise the Contract assets are within the scope of the model for expected parent company and its Group companies. The Group also includes credit losses. See the section on credit risk in Note 25 for a descripthe owned shares in investments recognised according to the equity tion and calculation of the loss provision. method. Construction contracts Construction contracts are recognised as revenue according to the stage of completion of the project in accordance with IFRS 15. Refer to Note 1 Accounting principles and Note 3 Revenue recognition. Income statement SEKm 2019 2018 Contract revenue 10,614 9,312 Net profit 854 877 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 113 Notes The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s certification The consolidated financial statements and annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the international financial reporting standards referred to in European Parliament and Council of Europe Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of 19 July 2002, on application of international financial reporting standards and generally accepted auditing standards, and give a true and fair view of the parent company’s and Group’s financial position and results of operations. The statutory Board of Directors’ report gives a true and fair view of the development of the Group’s and parent company’s operations, financial position and results of operations and describes significant risks and uncertainties facing the parent company and Group companies. Stockholm, 5 March 2020 Per-Olof Söderberg Chairman Ulla Litzén Eva Karlsson Board member Board member Karsten Slotte Jan Söderberg Board member Board member Jonas Wiström Board member, CEO The annual accounts and the consolidated financial statements were approved for publication by the Board on 5 March 2020. The consolidated income statement and statement of financial position and the parent company income statement and balance sheet will be presented for adoption at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 April 2020. Our auditor’s report was submitted 5 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorized Public Accountant 114 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Ratos AB (publ), corporate identity number 556008-3585 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report Ratos AB (publ) except for the corporate governance statement on that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit c ­ ommittee pages 47–53 for the year 2019. The annual accounts and consoliin accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. dated accounts of the company are included on pages 41–114 in this document. Basis for Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accorWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards dance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all mateon Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in rial respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further December 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indepenyear then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The dent of the parent company and the group in accordance with proconsolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden, and have otherwise fulAnnual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the filled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these financial position of the group as of 31 December 2019 and their requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowlfinancial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in edge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the Audit Reguaccordance with International Financial Reporting Standards lation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited com(IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our pany or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on companies within the EU. pages 47–53. The statutory administration report is consistent with We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the income statement and the statement of financial position for the group. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 115 Auditor’s report Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesWe have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the finanaccounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on cial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements. Valuation of Goodwill and shares in subsidiaries Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter Goodwill amounts to SEK 11,610m in the consolidated statement In our 2019 audit we have evaluated the group’s, and the parent of financial position and shares in subsidiaries amounts to company’s, process to prepare impairment tests and to identify SEK 7,770m in the parent company’s balance sheet at year end. cash generating units. We have audited the significant estimates As disclosed in note 11, the goodwill value is tested annually, or as used in the impairment test by, among other procedures, comsoon as indicators of impairment are identified, by calculating paring them to historical outcome, forecasts and to peer compathe recoverable amount and comparing it to the carrying value. nies. We have also performed sensitivity analyses for changes in Shares in subsidiaries are assessed for impairment indicators key estimates. regularly and if indicators are identified the assets recoverable We have involved internal valuations specialists in performing amount is calculated. The impairment tests for 2019 did not our audit procedures and to evaluate the valuations models that result in any impairment. have been used. As stated in note 11, the recoverable amount is determined as Finally, we have assessed the appropriateness of the disclothe value in use or the fair value less cost to sell. Significant estisures in the annual report. mates in the calculation of value in use are, amongst others, expected future earnings, growth and discount rate. Also valuation to fair value requires certain estimates and judgments depending on how the fair value is determined. Due to the estimates and judgments required to prepare the impairment test and due to the size of the carrying amounts we have assessed the valuation of goodwill in the group, and shares in subsidiaries in the parent company, to be a key audit matter. Revenues from construction contracts recognized over time Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter In 2019 revenues from construction contracts recognized over In our 2019 audit we have evaluated the company’s revenue rectime amounted to SEK 10,614m. ognition process for construction contracts. We have audited Revenues from construction contracts are recognized based significant contracts and the revenue recognized based on the on percentage of completion, which is calculated as the cost criteria in IFRS 15. In addition, we have for a sample of projects, incurred compared to total estimated cost for each project. The and for significant projects, tested the company’s estimate of accounting principles are disclosed in note 3. Revenue recognieach project’s total cost, percentage of completion and revenue tion over time requires estimates and judgments in order to recognition. determine the total project cost and the value of the ongoing Finally, we have assessed the appropriateness of the discloconstruction contracts. Key estimations and assessments are sures in the annual report. disclosed in note 31 Due to the estimates and judgments required in order to calculate the percentage of completion and the fact that revenues from construction contracts recognized over time is a significant part of the company’s revenues, we have assessed that this constitutes a key audit matter. 116 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Auditor’s report Other Information than the annual accounts As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional and consolidated accounts judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the This document also contains other information than the annual audit. We also: accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–40 • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the and 119–129. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to responsible for this other information. fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and does not cover this other information and we do not express any appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolithan for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identiforgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the overfied above and consider whether the information is materially inconride of internal control. sistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control releprocedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise vant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of appears to be materially misstated. expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, internal control. conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other infor• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the mation, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures report in this regard. made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of and the Managing Director accounting in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the comthe Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated pany’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the prepathe annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such discloration of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free sures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the annual from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for report. However, future events or conditions may cause a comthe assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue pany and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclogoing concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but manner that achieves fair presentation. to do so. • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of financial information of the entities or business activities within Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things the group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We oversee the company’s financial reporting process. are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. Auditor’s responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of signiffrom material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to icant audit findings during our audit, including any significant defiissue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable ciencies in internal control that we identified. assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstateindependence, and to communicate with them all relationships and ment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our indeand are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they pendence, and where applicable, related safeguards. could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidetermine those matters that were of most significance in the audit dated accounts. of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 117 Auditor’s report Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated give rise to liability to the company, or accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, Directors and the Managing Director of Ratos AB (publ) for the year the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statuthe company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to tory administration report and that the members of the Board of assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for in accordance with the Companies Act. the financial year. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted Other matters auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions The audit of the annual accounts for 2018 was performed by another that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed auditor who submitted an auditor’s report dated 2 April 2019, with appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance unmodified opinions in the Report on the annual accounts. with the Companies Act. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Basis for opinions standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and mainWe conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stanthe administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s dards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. AddiWe are independent of the parent company and the group in accortional audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgdance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have ment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that requirements. are material for the operations and where deviations and violations We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion conResponsibilities of the Board of Directors cerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board and the Managing Director of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriawe examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selections of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this tion of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considproposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. ering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s The auditor’s examination of the corporate and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and posigovernance statement tion in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate goverThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizanance statement on pages 47–53 has been prepared in accordance tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes with the Annual Accounts Act. among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the Our examination of the corporate governance statement is congroup’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organizaducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The audition is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and tor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reasthat our examination of the corporate governance statement is difsuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing ferent and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally instructions and among other matters take measures that are necesaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examinasary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and tion has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points Auditor’s responsibility 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member with the Annual Accounts Act. of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, 103 99 Stockholm, was appointed respect: auditor of Ratos AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 8th of May 2019. Stockholm, 5 March 2020 Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorized Public Accountant 118 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Additional information Contents Detailed information on sustainability 120 GRI Index 123 Sustainability report 125 Five-year summary, Group 126 Alternative performance measures 127 Definitions 128 Shareholder information 129 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 119 Additional information Detailed information on sustainability This section contains detailed information that complements the description of Ratos’s sustainability efforts on pages 14–23. Ratos’s materiality analysis and additional information about Ratos’s sustainability efforts in the parent company are presented in this section. Finally, this section also includes a report on Ratos’s investment process in the acquisition of new companies and a follow-up of the sustainability efforts of Ratos’s companies. Significant sustainability aspects and our stakeholders Stakeholder dialogues Ratos’s most significant sustainability issues are identified through tainability agenda and strengthen long-term value creation. intelligence gathering, industry analysis, risk mapping and stakeRatos’s latest materiality analysis was carried out in 2016 and was holder dialogues. Combined, these analyses and dialogues form discussed among Ratos’s management group in 2018. Since 2018, Ratos’s materiality analysis. Based on the most significant aspects, we have defined climate and equal opportunities as material Ratos defines goals and action plans to drive and develop the susissues, leading to a prioritisation of these issues. Stakeholder dialogues Materiality analysis (2016)* STAKEHOLDERS METHOD OF INTERACTION 1) MONITORING AND SOME DEGREE RATOS’S PRIORITISED TRANSPARENCY OF REPORTING SUSTANIABILITY ISSUES HIGH Employees at Ratos • Interviews with representatives in connection with stakeholder dialogues in 2016 Sound corporate governance • Staff meetings, performance reviews and transparency • Structured discussion groups focusing on Ratos’s values, corporate culture, proSound business ethics, SIGNIFICANCE FOR RATOS’S STAKEHOLDERS cesses and future development anti-corruption Business ethics, anti-corruption, Drive corporate Employees • Interviews with representatives in connecportfolio responsibility in the of Ratos’s companies tion with stakeholder dialogues in 2016 companies portfolio companies, • Meetings within Ratos’s annual functional risks and opportunities forum (CEO, CFO, HR, Sustainability, etc.) Attract and develop the portfolio company The companies’ man• Interviews with representatives in connecemployees agement groups and tion with stakeholder dialogues in 2016 Criteria for Attract and develop board members • Group-wide assessment of the work of the responsible the parent company boards investments employees Owners and investors • Interviews with representatives in connection with stakeholder dialogues in 2016 Human rights, health, • Participation in surveys from/or dialogues Tax Sustainable value chain, safety and working conditions, with organisations such as CDP, parent company porfolio companies ­RobecoSAM, Vigeo and Sustainalytics Environment and Equality and • General meetings climate impact, diversity • Dialogues and individual meetings Emissions and parent company climate impact, Resource efficiency, MEDIUM Experts • Interviews in connection with stakeholder portfolio companies portfolio companies dialogues in 2016 (materials, energy) • Discussions as needed MEDIUM SIGNIFICANCE FOR RATOS’S STAKEHOLDERS HIGH * The aspect “Attract and develop the right parent company employees” is relevant within the organisation. The remaining aspects are relevant within and outside the 1) A total of 17 individuals were interviewed during stakeholder dialogues in 2016. organisation. About Ratos’s sustainability report Ratos reports in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and this year’s report follows the GRI Standards: Core option (see pages 123–124 for GRI index). The company’s statutory sustainability report in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act is presented on pages 9–11, 14–23, 28–39 and 120–124. As of 2015, Ratos submits its sustainability report to the Global Compact as its Communication on Progress (COP). 120 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Additional information Ratos’s parent company Employees Work environment in the parent company As a parent company, Ratos endeavours to promote a good work-life Ratos’s systematic efforts to create a good work environment are balance. For example, the option exists to adapt working hours to based on the Group’s Work Environment Policy. This extends to all the requirements of the individual or to work from home. Ratos also physical and social conditions of significance in the work environinvests in its employees’ health by offering medical and health insurment. Ratos’s CEO has the ultimate responsibility for the work enviance, preventive health exams and fitness subsidies. Parental leave ronment and the day-to-day work is carried out by the work environis encouraged, and provisions are in place to give those on parental ment team. Discussing the work environment is a standing item on leave a smooth transition when returning to work. the agenda of Ratos’s monthly management group meetings. Issues Ratos organises a number of activities each year in order to concerning the psychosocial work environment of the employees strengthen the sharing of experience and expertise in the Group. (of the parent company) as well as discrimination and harassment Talent development is addressed at annual performance reviews. are included in Ratos’s annual employee satisfaction survey. In 2019, performance reviews were held with all of the employees Sick leave is generally low and was under 0.18% (0.14) during in the parent company. the year. Employees, type and function at Ratos’s head office as of 31 December 2019 Number and proportion based on the type of employment in relation to gender. The information below has been obtained from Ratos’s salary system. Women % Men % <30 years 30–50 years >50 years Permanent employment 1) 9 41 13 59 4 10 8 Management group 1 20 4 80 2 3 Organisation 8 47 9 53 4 8 5 Total 9 13 Ratos’s Board of Directors 2 33 4 67 6 Employees who have resigned 2 4 4 2 New employees 1 3 2 1 1 1) All full-time employees but one. During the year, Ratos had three interns with a fixed-term contract of around six months. Average parental leave 2019 Age distribution 2019 Number of months of parental leave (last Number of permanent employees per age 12-month period, average), Ratos’s head office ­category, Ratos’s head office 4 8 Women Men Women Men 3 6 2 4 1 2 0 18 19 18 19 0 < 30 years 30–50 years > 50 years Women on Men on parental leave parental leave RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 121 Additional information Ratos’s investment process Sustainability is a part of Ratos’s thorough due diligence when Ratos does not invest in companies that operate in the arms acquiring companies. The due diligence process looks at the susindustry, contribute to environmental damage, produce or actively tainability-related risks, opportunities, maturity and work of the supply pornography, or manufacture tobacco products. When new company in question. The assessment forms part of Ratos’s docuinvestments are assessed, Ratos takes a stand against breaches of mentation ahead of the investment decision and provides a recominternational conventions. The guiding principle at Ratos is to avoid mendation for continued corporate governance. investing in companies that systematically contribute to violating human rights, the fundamental rights of employees or corruption. A follow-up of the companies’ sustainability efforts Ratos’s requirements and expectations in terms of the companies’ sustainability efforts are based on international conventions, relevant legislation as well as Ratos’s Policy for Sustainability and Responsible Investments, the Environmental Policy and the Code of Conduct. How Ratos’s companies live up to Ratos’s requirements and expectations is presented in the table below. Environmental External whistle­ Sustainability Code of Conduct Policy blowing system CO2 reporting reporting1) Aibel Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes airteam Yes No Yes No No Bisnode Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Diab Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes HENT Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes HL Display Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Kvdbil Yes Yes Yes Yes No LEDiL Yes Yes Yes Yes No Oase Outdoors Yes No Yes No No Plantasjen Yes No Yes Yes Yes Speed Group Yes Yes Yes No Yes TFS Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes 1) All companies issue a sustainability report, eight companies in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. 122 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Additional information GRI Index Ratos’s sustainability reporting refers to the 2019 calendar year. to Ratos’s parent company. The guidance on the aspects and The figures presented are from 1 January 2019 until 31 December ­indicators 205-1 and FS10 encompass both the parent company 2019 unless otherwise specified. This report has been prepared in and holdings. accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This is Ratos’s fifth All calculations of energy and carbon emissions are comparisons sustainability report according to GRI and Ratos intends to report between the financial years 2017 and 2019, with 2016 as base year annually. for environmental data. Information is obtained from third-party In line with Ratos’s signing of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), suppliers, unless specified otherwise. All calculations regarding Ratos submits a Communication on Progress (COP) every year that the environment are based on the GHG Protocol. Calculations presents its work with UNGC’s ten principles. COP information can that concern employees are based on GRI’s models and all data be found in Ratos’s 2019 Annual Report. The reporting of Ratos’s is reported using the metric system. All HR data is calculated ­significant aspects and topic-specific disclosures are largely limited per employee. GRI Standards Index with financial services sector disclosure Compliance: Fully Partial UNGC Standard & Title Page Comments ­principles Com­pliance GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 3, 129 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 3 102-3 Location of headquarters 129 102-4 Location of operations 1, 28–39, 129 102-5 Ownership and legal form 24–25 102-6 Markets served 1, 3, 28–39 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2, 3, 14 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 14, 22, 121 Only encompasses Ratos’s headquarters. 102-9 Supply chain 3–5, 26 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 3–5, 26 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 123–124 We apply the precautionary principle by focusing on 7 climate reporting and environmental policy in the companies. 102-12 External initiatives 14–15 102-13 Membership of associations 123 The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 9, 11, 19 Guidance 102-18 Governance structure 6, 13, 17, 47–53 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 120 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 123 Ratos has not entered into any collective agreements. 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 120 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 120 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 120 Omissions: Not possible to report results divided into each stakeholder group due to inadequate data ­collection by third-party provider. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 123 Additional information GRI Standards Index with financial services sector disclosure, cont. Compliance: Fully Partial UNGC Standard & Title Page Comments ­principles Com­pliance Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 3, 4, 42, 110 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 120 102-47 List of material topics 120 102-48 Restatements of information 124 No changes. 102-49 Changes in reporting 124 No changes. 102-50 Reporting period 125 2019. 102-51 Date of most recent report 124 28 March 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle 124 Yearly. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 124 Jonas Wiström, CEO, +46 8 700 17 00, Helene Gustafsson, Head of IR and Press, +46 8 700 17 00 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 120, 124 Core Level. 102-55 GRI content index 123–124 102-56 External assurance 125 Material topics, guidance and topic-specific disclosures Compliance: Fully Partial UNGC Standard & Title Page Comments ­principles Com­pliance GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARD SERIES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 19 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 19 10 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 19 10 GRI 300 ENVIRONMANTAL STANDARD SERIES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 20 8–9 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 20 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 20 8 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARD SERIES GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 103-3 Management Approach 19, 22, 121 1–6 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave 121 Omissions: Retention 6 rates not reported due to limitations in the current system. GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 121 6 transition assistance programmes GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 121 6 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 22, 121 6 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 19 6 actions taken GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in 19 1–6, 10 the social and economic area GRI G4 SECTOR DISCLOSURES GRI Financial Services FS6 Percentage of portfolio divided into region, size 3, 26–27 1–9 and sector GRI Financial Services FS10 Share of the portfolio companies that the organisation 19–20, 122 1–9 has interacted with on environmental or social issues 124 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Additional information Sustainability report Ratos’s sustainability report was prepared in accordance with GRI most important indexes concerning each company’s significant Standards: Core Option and in line with Swedish legislation sustainability issues. Additional information on the Parent regarding the companies’ sustainability reporting and diversity ­Company’s sustainability work can be found on pages 120–124. policy in accordance with Chapter 6, Sections 10–14 and Chapter 7, In addition to Ratos’s sustainability report, large majority-owned Sections 31a-c of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The report, portfolio companies (meaning companies that independently including indicators and data points, refers to the 2019 financial qualify for sustainability reporting in accordance with the EU year unless otherwise stipulated. Refer also to the GRI Index on ­directive as adopted in national legislation or the equivalent) have pages 123–124 for a description of the report and its principles. prepared their own sustainability reports in accordance with GRI Ratos’s sustainability report includes a description of the Standards and the auditor of each company has verified that the strategy and model for company development (pages 9–11), report complies with relevant legislation. Large portfolio companies accounts of material sustainability issues in its capacity of an active include Bisnode, Diab, HENT, HL Display, Plantasjen, Speed Group responsible owner, including policies and processes for managing and TFS. The Ratos associate Aibel also prepared its own sustainthese, and an account of the results on pages 14–23. A brief account ability report in accordance with legislation. The portfolio com­ of each portfolio company’s sustainability agenda is included in the panies’ individual sustainability reports will be published on Ratos’s company descriptions (pages 28–39). The sustainability indicators website during the second quarter of 2020. reported for the portfolio companies constitute a selection of the Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Ratos AB (publ), corporate identity number 556008-3585 Engagement and responsibility ­ tatutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of s It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less ­sustainability report for the year 2019 on pages 9–11, 14–23, 28–39 in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International and 120–124 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards Annual Accounts Act. in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s Opinion auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm March 5, 2020 Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorized public accountant * This is a translation of the original auditors’ report in Swedish. In the event of any ­differences between the translation and the original statement in Swedish, the Swedish version shall prevail. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 125 Additional information Five-year summary, Group 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Key figures 1) Basic earnings per share, SEK 2.11 –1.40 0.72 –1.79 1.29 Dividend per Class A and B share, SEK 0.652) 0.50 2.00 2.00 3.25 Dividend per Class C share (preference share), SEK 120 100 Dividend yield, % 1.92) 2.1 5.6 4.6 6.7 Total return, % 46 –30 –13 –6 9 Market price, year-end, SEK 33.42 23.28 35.84 43.14 48.83 Equity per share, 31 December, SEK 3) 29 27 30 31 36 Equity, SEKm 4) 9,298 8,701 9,660 11,283 12,882 Return on equity, % 7 –5 3 –4 4 Equity ratio, % 38 43 46 45 47 Average number of shares before dilution 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,014,428 319,012,617 Number of Class A, B and C shares outstanding 5) 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,014,634 319,722,042 319,753,436 Income statement, SEKm Profit/share of profit from companies 756 566 679 295 664 Capital gain from sale of Group companies 31 62 596 1,672 1,101 Impairment, companies and loss from bankruptcy –600 –482 –2,504 –565 Profit/loss from companies 787 28 792 –538 1,200 Income and expenses in the parent company and central companies 383 –135 –134 –353 –308 IFRS 16-effect –102 Other/Eliminations –7 Consolidated profit/loss before tax 1 061 –107 658 –890 892 Income tax –234 –155 –251 –180 –216 Consolidated profit/loss after tax 827 –262 407 –1,071 676 Profit/loss attributable to owners of the parent 673 –448 268 –500 496 Statement of financial position, SEKm Intangible assets 13,463 13,035 13,424 14,834 14,293 Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use-assets 5,596 1,586 1,827 1,970 1,789 Financial assets 1,213 1,213 1,323 2,372 2,522 Deferred tax assets 508 486 478 594 490 Current assets 8,625 8,483 8,270 10,034 13,529 Assets 29,405 24,803 25,323 29,805 32,623 Equity 11,218 10,630 11,546 13,286 15,302 Provisions 1,111 1,250 1,204 1,139 1,160 Deferred tax liabilities 464 429 500 501 392 Interest-bearing liabilities 10,450 6,529 6,838 8,181 8,232 Non-interest bearing liabilities 6,163 5,965 5,235 6,696 7,538 Equity and liabilities 29,405 24,803 25,323 29,805 32,623 1) Relates to Class B shares unless specified otherwise. 2) Proposed ordinary dividend. 3) Equity attributable to owners of the parent divided by the number of outstanding ordinary shares at the end of the period. The 2015–2016 period has been adjusted for outstanding preference capital. All preference shares were redeemed at the close of 2017. 4) Attributable to owners of the parent. 5) All Class C shares were redeemed at the close of 2017. 126 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Additional information Reconciliations of alternative performance measures (APM) To facilitate a comparison between periods and enable follow-up of Cash flow from operations the ongoing earnings and performance of the companies, Ratos SEKm 2019 2018 presents certain financial information that is not defined in accordance with IFRS – APM, i.e. alternative performance measures. Cash flow from operations in portfolio, Ratos's holding 1,839 341 This information is intended to give the reader a better opportunity Cash flow from operations in subsidiaries, to evaluate Ratos’s development and should be regarded as a holding not owned by Ratos 235 180 ­complement to financial information for the Group. Cash flow from operations in subsidiaries, The following reconciliations and accounts pertain to compoholdings divested during current year –22 nents included in the alternative performance measures used in Investments recognised according to the the annual report. For definitions please see page 128. equity method –480 32 Acquisitions and disposals, intangible assets/ Net sales property, plant and equipment1) 670 510 SEKm 2019 2018 Income tax paid –230 –147 Net sales in the portfolio, Ratos's holding 24,475 21,531 Attributable to the parent company and Net sales in subsidiaries, holding not owned by central companies 43 –45 Ratos 4,631 4,228 Eliminations –167 –116 Subsidiaries divested during current year 70 Cash flow from operating activities 1,909 732 Investments recognised according to the equity 1) Cash flow from sale of the Lejonet 4 property, a total of SEK 550m, not included in this method –4,019 –2,703 item. Eliminations –26 Consolidated net sales 25,061 23,125 Interest-bearing net debt SEKm 2019-12-31 2018-12-31 EBITDA and EBITA Total interest-bearing net debt in the portfolio, SEKm 2019 2018 Ratos's holding excluding IFRS 161) 5,128 5,650 EBITDA in the portfolio, excluding IFRS 16, Interest-bearing net debt in subsidiaries, Ratos's holding1) 1,474 1,300 holding not owned by Ratos 538 487 Depreciation and impairment, excluding IFRS 16 –401 –466 Investments recognised according to the equity method –544 –863 EBITA in the portfolio, excluding IFRS 16, Ratos's holding1) 1,073 835 Attributable to the parent company and central companies –1,521 –1,725 Change in holding –1 1 Other 22 EBITA from subsidiaries divested during the year 10 Consolidated interest-bearing net debt, EBITA/Earnings in the company portfolio 1,073 846 excluding IFRS 161) 3,623 3,549 IFRS 16 effect on EBITA, Ratos's holding 123 Increase in liability due to implementation EBITA in subsidiaries, holding not owned of IFRS 16 4,203 by Ratos 219 243 Consolidated interest-bearing net debt 7,826 3,549 Exit gain from portfolio companies 31 62 Investments recognised according to the Consolidated Interest-bearing net debt, equity method –102 –86 SEKm 2019-12-31 2018-12-31 Income and expenses in the parent company Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 8,399 4,938 and central companies 359 –114 Current interest-bearing liabilities 2,051 1,591 Consolidated EBITA 1,703 952 Provisions for pensions 642 524 1) Excluding IFRS 16 means that leases are reported according to the IFRS standards Interest-bearing assets –47 –100 applicable up to and including 2018. Cash and cash equivalents –3,219 –3,404 Consolidated interest-bearing net debt, IFRS 7,826 3,549 1) Excluding IFRS 16 means that leases are reported according to the IFRS standards applicable up to and including 2018. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 127 Additional information Definitions Return on equity Interest-bearing net debt Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent divided by Interest-bearing liabilities and pension provisions minus fixedaverage equity attributable to owners of the parent. income assets and cash and cash equivalents. Dividend yield Equity ratio Dividend on ordinary shares expressed as a percentage of the Class Reported equity expressed as a percentage of total assets. B share’s market price. ­Non-controlling interests are included in equity. EBITDA Total return (Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation). Price development of Class B shares including reinvested dividends EBITA with depreciation, amortisation and impairment reversed. on ordinary shares. EBITDA margin Company performance measures EBITDA expressed as a percentage of net sales. The following performance measures are presented for Ratos’s business areas – both for the companies in their entirety (100% of EBITA the holdings in the companies) regardless of Ratos’s holding and Operating profit before impairment of goodwill as well as amortisaadjusted for the size of Ratos’s holding in each company: tion and impairment of other intangible assets that arose in conjunction with company acquisitions and similar transactions. • Net sales in the companies – Net sales for the entire current ­(Earnings Before Interest, Tax and Amortisation). period and comparative periods in the companies owned at the end of the reporting period. EBITA margin • EBITDA in the companies – Operating profit before depreciation EBITA expressed as a percentage of net sales. and amortisation in the companies owned at the end of the reporting period. Equity per share • EBITA in the companies – Operating profit for the entire current Equity attributable to owners of the parent divided by the number of period and comparative periods in the companies owned at the outstanding ordinary shares at the end of the period. end of the reporting period before impairment of goodwill as well as amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets arising Consolidated value in conjunction with company acquisitions and equivalent trans­ The Group’s share of the company’s equity, any residual con­ actions. solidated surplus and deficit values minus any intra-Group profits. • Earnings in the company portfolio – Reported EBITA excluding In addition, shareholder loans and capitalised interest on such loans IFRS 16 for the current company and period. are included. • Profit/loss before tax in the companies – Profit or loss before tax in the companies owned at the end of the reporting period. Organic growth • Interest-bearing net debt in the companies – Interest-bearing Net sales growth in comparable units, including currency fluctua­liabilities and pension provisions minus fixed-income assets and tions. The effects of acquisitions and divestments are excluded. cash and cash equivalents in companies owned at the end of the reporting period. P/E ratio • Cash flow from operations – Cash flow from operating activities, Market share price for Class B share in relation to earnings per excluding paid tax, but including investments and divestments share. of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, ­respectively. Basic earnings per share Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent company divided by the average number of outstanding ordinary shares. Diluted earnings per share The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on consolidated profit for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company and on the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. When calculating diluted earnings per share, earnings and the average number of shares are adjusted to take into account the effects of potential ordinary shares, which, for the reported periods, pertain to convertible debt instruments and warrants issued to employees. Dilution resulting from convertible debt instruments is calculated by increasing the number of shares by the total number of shares to which the convertibles correspond and increasing earnings by the recognised interest expense after tax. Potential ordinary shares are considered to have a dilutive effect only during periods when they result in lower earnings or a higher loss per share. 128 RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Additional information Shareholder information Annual General Meeting 1 April 2020 The Annual General Meeting of Ratos AB (publ) will be held Calendar at 2:00 p.m. CET on Wednesday, 1 April 2020 at Skandiascenen at Cirkus, Djurgårdsslätten 43–45, Stockholm. 1 April 2020 Annual General Meeting 28 April Interim Report, January–March 2020 Participation 17 July Interim Report, January–June 2020 To be entitled to participate in the business of the Meeting, 22 October Interim Report, January–September 2020 ­shareholders must • be recorded in the register of shareholders maintained by Reports can be accessed on Ratos’s website directly after ­Euroclear Sweden AB on Thursday, 26 March 2020, publication and are issued in Swedish and English. The • notify the company of their intention to attend no later than Annual Report is sent by post to shareholders who have so Thursday, 26 March 2020. requested. Notification Publications can be ordered at www.ratos.se or by Out of consideration for the environment and to become more effipost: Ratos AB cient through the use of digital services, Ratos has this year chosen Box 1661 to not issue invitations to the Annual General Meeting by mail. SE-111 96 Stockholm Notification of participation may be made • via www.ratos.se e-mail: info@ratos.se • via phone +46 8 518 015 50 weekdays between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. • in writing to the following address: Computershare AB, “Ratos årsstämma 2020”, Box 5267, SE-102 46 Stockholm. Shareholder contact When notifying participation please state name, personal/­ Helene Gustafsson corporate registration number, postal address, daytime telephone Head of IR and Press number and the number of assistants, if relevant. Tel: +46 8 700 17 00 e-mail: info@ratos.se Nominee registered shares In order to be entitled to participate in the Meeting and exercise their voting rights, shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of a nominee must temporarily re-register their shares in their own Contact details names. Such registration must be effected at Euroclear Sweden AB Board and Nomination Committee no later than Thursday, 26 March 2020. Shareholders are requested to inform their nominees in good time prior to this date. Ratos AB Box 1661 Dividend and record date SE-111 96 Stockholm The Board proposes an ordinary dividend for the 2019 financial year e-mail: info@ratos.se of SEK 0.65 (0.50) per Class A and Class B share. The record date for the right to receive dividends is proposed as 3 April 2020 and ­dividends are expected to be paid from Euroclear Sweden on 8 April 2020. Production: Ratos in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson Photographs CEO, Board of Directors and organisation: Karl Nordlund Translation: The Bugli Company Printing: Larsson Offsettryck AB, Linköping 2020 Paper: Munken Polar Ratos AB (publ) corp. reg. no. 556008-3585 This annual report is also available in Swedish. RATOS ANNUAL REPORT 2019 129 Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 www.ratos.se Reg. no. 556008-3585
