Carbon neutral to stop global warming at 1.5°C Sustainability report 2019 2 Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 3 Contents We cannot tell our 6 8 Let’s act now to stay within 1.5°C Global carbon emissions must be halved by 2030 grandchildren that 10 It is necessary and possible to create a world that runs entirely on green energy 12 Decarbonising our total carbon footprint we failed to protect 14 Our targets to align with 1.5°C 16 Building more renewable energy capacity 18 Phasing out fossil fuels in energy generation the planet because 19 Carbon neutral offshore logistics operations 20 The next frontier is our supply chain and energy trading 22 Reducing emissions from our administration we were too focused 24 26 Striking the balances of the green transformation Finding the space for green energy at scale on protecting our 28 How we maximise the climate benefits of biomass 30 Socio-economic impacts of the green transformation 32 Green energy in a sustainable way own well-being. 34 36 40 Working systematically with sustainability and the SDGs Programmes to align our business with climate science Programmes to address potential impacts of the green energy transition We must act now. 42 Programmes to ensure responsible business practices 48 Sustainability programme overview 50 Sustainability governance 51 Sustainability ratings and memberships Henrik Poulsen CEO, Ørsted Speech at the United Nations Climate Action Summit UN General Assembly Hall, New York City, 23 September 2019 Factual statements in this report are mainly based on the following sources: BNEF Bloomberg New Energy Finance IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change IEA International Energy Agency IRENA International Renewable Energy Agency This report constitutes Ørsted’s compliance with the We have systematically assessed our impact on the Sustainable statutory disclosure on corporate social responsibility, Development Goals (SDGs). Our main contributions are on see the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a. ‘Clean and affordable energy’ and ‘Climate action’ (SDGs 7 and 13). For the gender distribution of management and comWe report on our contribution to the SDGs on pages 32-47. pliance with section 99b, see our ESG performance report 2019. 4 Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 5 We are in the business of Ørsted’s vision is a world that runs entirely on green energy. We develop, construct and operate offshore and onshore wind global leader in renewable energy. We have reduced our carbon emissions by 86% compared to 2006, and in halting climate change farms, solar farms and energy storage January 2020, we were ranked the most facilities, bioenergy plants, and provide sustainable company in the world. energy products to our customers. We have decided that by 2025, we will Over the past decade, we have been be carbon neutral in scope 1-2, and by Our transformation from fossil fuels to green energy has not been on a major decarbonisation journey to 2040, we aim to become carbon neueasy, but it has been necessary to leave behind a dying business transform from one of Europe’s most tral across our entire carbon footprint model based on fossil fuels. Instead, we have created a leading carbon-intensive energy companies to a (scope 1-3)¹. global green energy business. 2009 2013 2016-17 2019 2025 2030-32 2040 In 2009, we formulatIn 2013, we reinforced Already by 2016, the cost of By the end of 2019, we had By 2025, we will be carbon neutral (scope 1-2). Our ambition is to have built Science requires the world to ed a vision of transour energy generation offshore wind was reduced by 60% realised an 86% carbon remore than 30GW of green energy achieve net-zero carbon emisforming our business carbon-reduction tarand our carbon emissions from duction since 2006, and This target covers all Ørsted’s direct greenhouse gas across technologies by 2030, sions by 2050 at the latest to from fossil fuels to get for 2020 from 320g energy generation were reduced 86% of the energy we generemissions from our energy generation, operations powering more than 55 million stop global warming at 1.5°C. green energy. Our CO2/kWh (31%) to 260g to 224g CO2/kWh (52% reduction ated came from renewable and administration (scope 1) and indirect emissions people with green energy. vision was for 85% of CO2/kWh (44%) comfrom 2006). Our carbon reductions sources. In just ten years, we from our energy consumption (scope 2). We will We want to reach carbon our energy generation pared to 2006. We also were primarily driven by a 73% met the transformation tarachieve this by reducing our carbon emissions by at By 2032, we target to reduce neutrality in our total carbon to come from renewfocused our portfolio of reduction in our coal consumption get we defined for 2040. least 98% since 2006. For the remaining emissions, indirect carbon emissions from footprint (scope 1-3) already able sources by 2040 green energy techfrom 2006 due to closing three we will continue to investigate solutions, which could our supply chain and energy by 2040. compared to 15% in nologies on our core coal-fired combined heat and We had installed 9.9GW include investing in certified carbon removal projects. trading (scope 3) by 50%. 2006. That vision was competency, offshore power plants as well as converrenewable capacity, enough radical at the time. wind, increased our sions of plants to run on sustainto power more than 15 million In meeting this reduction target, the Science Based As a consequence, we align the investments in green able biomass. Late 2016, we set people. We had reduced our Targets initiative (SBTi) has preliminarily concluded carbon reductions across our energy, and set a target the target to only source certified coal consumption by 91%, that we deliver on the reduction requirements for entire carbon footprint (scope 1-3) for reducing the cost sustainable wooden biomass for and 96% of the wooden energy generation more than two decades faster with the 1.5ºC pathway. of offshore wind by 35our CHP plants by 2020. biomass we sourced was certhan climate science has defined as necessary to 40% in 2020 compared tified sustainable biomass. halt global warming at 1.5ºC². to 2012. In 2017, we decided to completely phase out our use of coal by 2023. In 2019, we adopted three By 2025, we aim to have installed at least 20GW We also divested our oil and gas new climate targets to guide of renewable energy, 15GW from offshore wind and business and renamed the compaour continued decarbonisa5GW from onshore renewables, enough to power ny from DONG Energy to Ørsted. tion journey. 35 million people. By 2025, we also target 100% The vision for Ørsted is a world that electric vehicles in our company fleet. runs entirely on green energy, and we focused our entire investment ¹ For a detailed overview and elaboration of our carbon emissions sources and scopes, please go to pages 12-13. programme on green energy. ² To learn more about SBTi’s assessment of our carbon-reduction targets, please go to pages 14-15. 6 Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 7 Let’s act now ernments need to set ambitious and binding targets, and businesses must take responsibility for decarbonising their ually phase out trading of natural gas and work with our strategic suppliers to decarbonise our supply chain. to stay within 1.5°C carbon footprints in line with science and to deploy sustainable solutions at scale. We target net-zero emissions in our total carbon footprint by 2040, a decade Our carbon neutral strategy faster than science demands. It is an amAt Ørsted, our vision is a world that runs bitious target that we believe will help entirely on green energy. We want to foster innovation across the renewable help speed up green action globally and energy supply chain and deliver the transform the world’s energy systems. scalable carbon neutral solutions that are urgently needed to halt the climate During the last decade, we have transemergency. formed our business from fossil fuels to green energy. We have reduced our Our commitment to sustainability The world is facing a climate emergency. carbon emissions decades faster than The UN Sustainable Development Goals Scientists have clearly demonstrated the climate science has defined as necessary set a global ambition for the sustainable need to limit global warming to 1.5°C to to halt global warming at 1.5ºC. By the development of the world towards 2030. protect life on Earth, our shared home. end of 2019, we had reduced emissions by Ørsted is deeply committed to advancing Going above that threshold is likely to 86% compared to 2006. the SDGs. Our biggest contribution is our trigger irreversible consequences for actions to help fight climate change. In nature and humans. To stay within 1.5ºC We are determined to continue to reduce addition, it is imperative for us to do our global warming by 2100, the world needs our emissions, and we have therefore part in ensuring that the global green to halve global carbon emissions by decided that by 2025, we want to be energy transformation takes place sus2030 and reduce emissions to net-zero by carbon neutral. We will achieve this tainably to advance the benefits for all 2050 at the latest. through at least 98% emissions reduction life on our planet. As an active member in the carbon intensity of our energy genof the UN Global Compact, we are Yet global emissions continue to rise, and eration, operations and administration committed to ensure that we advance currently, they show no sign of peaking (scope 1) and energy consumption (scope our positive contributions to society and within the next decade. Based on the 2) compared to 2006. We already have nature and mitigate potential adverse policies currently set by governments, a number of actions defined to reduce impacts. We want to conduct our busithe UN expects the global average emissions. In 2020, we will inaugurate ness in a responsible way that adheres temperature to increase by 1.5ºC above the world’s biggest offshore wind farm, to the principles on human rights and a the pre-industrial level as soon as 2030 Hornsea 1, in the UK, capable of powering socially just transition. and by 3-4ºC by 2100. Climate change well over 1 million households. In 2021, is moving much faster than global deour combined solar and storage project In January 2020, Ørsted was ranked the cisions to decarbonise, and the world is Permian Energy Center will deliver its world’s most sustainable company by short on time. We must act now to avoid first power. By 2023, we will have phased Corporate Knights. We are proud and catastrophic climate change. out coal completely. And by 2025, our humbled to receive this recognition, and fleet of vehicles will be 100% electric. it strengthens our determination to do A world that runs entirely on green what we can to help speed up green energy is both necessary and possible The remaining emissions beyond 98% action globally. We need to act now to 73% of global emissions come from come from a variety of sources, where halt the climate emergency. It will not be energy due to the burning of fossil fuels Our CEO, Henrik Poulsen, on his way to give his emissions are hard to abate. Still, we will easy, but it is necessary. I urge everyone for power, heat, cooling, transport, and speech in the UN General Assembly Hall during the strive to push the reduction beyond 98% to take decisive action now and to do industrial processes. To reduce emissions, Climate Action Summit 2019 in New York City. and look for solutions to the remaining their part to maintain a habitable planet the most important action is to rapidly emissions, which could include offset for current and future generations. transform the production and use of through certified carbon removal projects. energy from fossil fuels to renewable energy. And it can be done. We need unprecedented action To get on the right track, the world needs all levels of society, from politicians, busiWe also embark on the next phase in At COP26 in November 2020, world to double the build-out rate of green nesses, investors, and down to every one our decarbonisation journey to address The green energy technologies which we leaders will take stock of progress for the energy, triple the retirement rate of coalof us to preserve our home, planet Earth, the carbon emissions across our entire need to transform our production and first time since the Paris Agreement and fired power plants and intensify green for current and future generations. carbon footprint and align these emisuse of energy away from fossil fuels are announce their plans to cut emissions electrification of transport, buildings, and sions with the 1.5ºC pathway. We have already at our disposal, and in two thirds further. According to the latest Emissions industry. We also need to increase energy To limit climate change and transform therefore set a target to reduce emisof the world, new-built renewable energy Gap report from the UN Environment efficiency to avoid driving up energy dethe global energy system from fossil sions from our supply chain and energy from wind and solar is now cheaper than Programme, the 1.5°C limit is close to mand more than needed. We need bold fuels to green energy, governments and trading activities (scope 3) by 50% in Henrik Poulsen new coal, gas, and nuclear plants. slipping out of reach. decisions and unprecedented action at businesses must work together. Gov2032. To meet this target, we will gradCEO, Ørsted 8 Let’s act now to stay within 1.5°C Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 9 a l c a r b o n G l o b b e i o n s m u s t emiss 0 3 0 y 2 Worldwide, pe b ople demand ac d tion e to halt the clim l v ate emergency. ha The world is facing a man-made climate emergency with severe consequences for nature and humans. Global carbon emissions continue to rise despite clear scientific evidence that global emissions must be halved already by 2030. We need to act now to sustain life on Earth as we know it. Scientific reports continue to reaffirm the up. In some areas, droughts and wildfires Overshooting the importance of keeping the average globwill result in the irreparable loss of habial temperature increase at a maximum tats and species, in others increased pre1.5ºC limit will imply of 1.5ºC. To succeed, emissions need to be cipitation will flood homes, infrastructure, that climate impacts cut in half by 2030 and reach net-zero by and land. Sea levels will rise and make an 2050 at the latest. Yet global emissions estimated 40 million people that today go from destructive continue to rise and show no signs of are safe exposed to coastal flooding. to catastrophic. peaking. In 2019, annual global greenhouse gas emissions reached an estimatThe world needs to urgently speed up Sebastian Mernild ed 56 gigatonnes, the highest level ever green action to sustain life on Earth as IPCC Lead Author recorded and up by 43% since 2000. we know it. 6th Assessment Report (due in 2022) Going past the threshold of 1.5ºC is likely Impacts on ecosystems due to higher to lead to a cascade of catastrophic global average temperatures events that will accelerate the release of carbon and other greenhouse gases ºC Low Moderate High Very high into the atmosphere and therefore also 3.5 global warming. This includes the melting 3.2ºC Current policies of permafrost, fires that turn forests from 3.0 scenario carbon sinks into carbon sources, and 2.5 ocean acidification that inhibits the abili2.0 ty of oceans to sequester carbon. Limit set 1.5 1.5ºC by the IPCC If the world does not take action to halt 1.0 1.1ºC Today global warming, the regional effects of 0.5 climate change that we already experience will disperse and become global 0.0 challenges towards 2100. According to Biodiversity Rising sea levels Extreme heat loss and flooding and drought the IPCC, the frequency, duration, and intensity of severe weather events will go Source: IPCC (2018) 1.5 Special Report, Global Warming of 1.5°C 10 Let’s act now to stay within 1.5°C Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 11 It is necessary and possible Our green energy solutions displace carbon emissions to create a world that runs entirely on green energy Ørsted has three decades of experience in building renewable energy and is today among the world’s leading renewable All three technologies are at the core of the green solutions that we provide to help countries transition to green energy. energy companies with a broad range of solutions to help decarbonise the world’s Our green energy solutions help avoid The energy system needs to Newly built green energy has become energy systems. carbon emissions by displacing fossil fuels from the energy mix. In 2019, we have change at an unprecedented cheaper than energy from fossil fuels Avoided Offshore wind, onshore wind, and solar helped avoid 11.3 million tonnes of carbon 11.3 scale and pace. The world must urgently speed up the Levelised cost of electricity for different energy sources (EUR/MWh) 2018 prices, North-western Europe PV are expected to be cornerstone technologies in the global green energy emissions, compared to 8.1 million tonnes in 20181. This is equal to removing more than million transformation from fossil transformation, according to IEA. 5.7 million cars from the street for a year. tonnes 180€ of emissions fuels to green energy, and 167€ 2019 the technologies needed to 2012 do so are already available. 101€ -66% 2019 72€ The key to halting global warming is to 59€ 56€ transform global energy systems from 2019 46€ That is equal to removing 5.7 2019 million 2019 fossil fuels to renewable energy. Emissions 2019 from fossil fuel-based energy constitute 73% of global carbon emissions, accordNuclear Coal Natural gas Solar PV Onshore Offshore cars ing to the Climate Analysis Indicator Tool. wind wind The emissions come from the energy used in power and heat generation, cooling systems, transport, and industrial processes. Levers to transform to green energy Our green energy solutions The challenge is that the build-out of renewable energy is not happening nearly To decarbonise the global energy system and align with the 1.5ºC pathway, Offshore wind Onshore wind Storage Sustainable biomass fast enough. Today, green energy makes the world will need urgent action in four major areas: A fundamental technology Currently the most price-competBatteries add short-term Useful for convertup approx 14% of the global energy supin the future energy system itive renewable energy source. storage capacity and flexibiling coal-fired power ply and is projected to reach around 18% 1. Intensify green electrification 3. Scale up green power deployment due to its stable production While wind conditions are less faity to the grid, which is a key plants to green capacAs green power has reached cost competTo meet the world’s energy demand by 2030. However, according to the IPCC, patterns. The technology takes vourable on land than at sea, the tool to help balance short ity. Mainly relevant for itive levels, it is projected that green power while cutting emissions in half by 2030, 28% of global energy supply must come advantage of the powerful maturity of this technology makes term fluctuations in the powcombined heat and will be the main energy carrier in transformthe build-out of green power generation from renewables by 2030. ing the global energy systems from fossil capacity must be accelerated drastically. and abundant wind at sea. It is it deployable globally, ideally in er supply from wind and solar power (CHP) plants fuels to green. It requires intensified electriIn 2018, 1,275GW of green power capacity deployable at large scale and regions with large uninhabited with power demand. where electrified cost The world has the solutions to transfication of sectors like transport and buildwas installed globally, including solar and is especially useful for powerareas of land. competitive alternaform to green energy ings. Today, power only accounts for 20% wind. Still, the world will need to double ing areas with high population Hydrogen tives are not availTransforming to green energy is no longer of all energy use, but this could increase to the planned build-out of green power by density. It has the potential to Solar PV Through electrolysis of waable, and only if the 50% in 2050 through intensified electrifica2030 compared to current plans, accorda question of technical feasibility or finanbe the backbone of the global One of the most mature and ter, excess electricity can be biomass is certified tion, according to IRENA and IPCC. ing to IRENA estimates. cial viability. The technologies needed to green energy transformation, fastest-growing renewable energy converted into green hydrosustainable. transition to a green and reliable energy 2. Phase out fossil fuels 4. Increase energy efficiency according to the IEA and the Eutechnologies. It is particularly gen and derived fuels. This system are already being implemented Fossil fuels currently constitute approx Global population is expected to increase ropean Commission's estimate useful in countries with strong solar has the potential to replace It is not part of our today at scale and at a global level. Wind 80% of the global energy mix. The most by two billion people by 2050 with more that in Europe alone, it is feasible energy resources, and it can be the fossil fuels used in heavy strategy to build new and solar energy have been through a carbon-intensive fuel is coal. In the global people being lifted into the global middle to scale up the deployment of deployed on both large and small industries and transport, biomass-fired CHP rapid evolution and are now cheaper than power sector, it accounts for 72% of emisclass, causing energy demand to grow a offshore wind from 20GW today scale, which is key to provide powwhich are hard to convert to plants. Read more on sions. Projections for 2030 show that the projected 24% when instead it needs be new-built coal or gas capacity in two to 450GW by 2050. er in many areas across the globe. green power. page 18. global coal-fired power generation capackept more or less at the same level as tothirds of the world, according to BNEF. An ity will remain roughly the same as today. day. Substantial improvements in energy example of the rapid cost reductions in The world needs to triple the retirement efficiency, particularly in buildings, is a key renewable energy is offshore wind with a of coal-fired power plants to align with lever to limit the global increase in energy 1 In  our ESG performance report 2019, page 19, we elaborate on the methodology for calculating avoided emissions. 66% drop in costs since 2012. the 1.5ºC scenario. demand. Please read more in the section ‘Accounting policies’. 12 Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 13 Decarbonising our A world that runs entirely on green energy starts with ourselves. This chapter tells you total carbon footprint how we work to decarbonise our total carbon footprint to align it with the 1.5°C pathway. 2019 data¹ (1kt = 1,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents) Ørsted’s activities Scope 3 Scope 1-2 Scope 3 Supply chain Construction Energy generation Operations Administration Energy trading (1,122kt in total) (101kt in total) (1,784kt in total) (44kt in total) (67kt in total) (33,110kt in total) Emissions primarily² come from production and transThe main emission Emissions mainly come from Fuel used for the vessels Some emissions, e.g. from company cars, result directly from Emissions primarily port of offshore wind farm components and secondly source is the fuel for burning coal at heat and we charter during operaour daily business administration (scope 1). The majority is income from the end from mining and transport of coal which we will have the vessels used by power plants. In 2023, we will tion and maintenance of directly linked to our activities, such as the emissions from the use of the natural gas phased out entirely by 2023. our contractors to have phased out coal entireoffshore wind farms is the production of the energy we buy for our own consumption that we trade in the install offshore wind ly, bringing the emissions from main source of emissions. (scope 2) and the goods and services we buy (scope 3). energy markets. farms. generation close to zero. Renewable energy assets (639kt) Service helicopters Work-related travel < 1kt 13kt Gas trading 30,377kt Buildings Goods and services 4kt 40kt Resource Refinement Transport Offshore Offshore wind Crew transport and extraction vessels wind farm farms service vessels Heating Power Work equipment Food and Power trading construction 42kt drinks 2,733kt Steel Cement Production Company cars Employee commute of goods Onshore wind 1kt 9kt farms Solar farms Service vehicles 2kt Transport Waste vehicles < 1kt Combined heat and power plants (484kt) Sustainable biomass-fired Carbon neutral by 2025 50% carbon reduction in 2032 Carbon neutral by 2040 Sustainable Processing Wood Wood plants Scope 1 and 2: Direct emissions from  Scope 3: Indirect emissions from our Scope 1-3: All direct and indirect biomass pellets chips our energy generation, operations and supply chain, construction contracemissions from our business. administration (scope 1), and indirect tors, energy trading activities, and emissions from our energy consumpadministration. tion (scope 2). ¹ Our carbon emissions accounting follows the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This illustration shows the main sources of emissions per category. Emission sources not illustrated make up 226kt of our total carbon footprint. For our detailed emissions accounting, please see our ESG performance report 2019, pages 17-18. Resource Refinement Gas Coal Oil Fossil-fuelled power plants extraction (coal phased (coal phased out 2023) ² Supply chain emissions from our energy trading activities are accounted for under the 'Energy trading' category. out 2023) 1,784kt 14 Decarbonising our total carbon footprint Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 15 Our targets to 50% carbon reduction in 2032 towards carbon neutrality in 2040 Supply chain and energy trading (scope 3) align with 1.5°C Per cent 100 By 2032, we target to halve all emissions in our supply chain and related to our energy trading 80 (scope 3) compared to 2018. We are decarbonising our energy generation decades faster than what science requires from the energy sector. We now expand the scope and ambition of our Our ambition is that by 2040, our entire carbon footprint decarbonisation strategy. By 2025, we want to be carbon neutral. In addition, we 60 (scope 1-3) should be carbon 2032 will halve emissions from our supply chain and energy trading activities to align neutral. our total carbon footprint with science. This chapter tells you how. 40 A decade ago, Ørsted emitted 12 million Carbon neutral energy generation carbon neutral by 2025, we will continue 20 tonnes of CO2e, primarily coming from and operations our efforts to reduce our direct emisthe use of coal at our combined heat and By 2025, we will be carbon neutral. Our sions. We want to achieve at least 98% 0 power plants. Through a combination of planet needs actual reductions in the reduction in the carbon intensity of 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 coal-to-biomass conversions and offshore carbon emitted to the atmosphere. We our energy generation, operations and wind build-out, we have significantly rehave already reduced our emissions administration (scope 1) and energy IPCC 1.5°C-aligned pathways for global carbon emissions Ørsted scope 3 emissions duced the emissions from our energy genfrom 18 to 2 million tonnes between consumption (scope 2). This emissions eration. We are determined to continue to 2006 and 2019. Relative to the amount reduction trajectory is more than two drive out emissions, and we have therefore of energy we generate, also referred to decades ahead of what science dedecided to strengthen the ambition and as the carbon intensity of our business, mands from energy companies to keep scope of our decarbonisation strategy. it is a reduction of 86%¹. To become global warming below 1.5°C. The main actions to reach a 98% reducto be central to realise a carbon neutral production and end use of the natural gas tion are, firstly, to continue to expand our world by 2050 at the latest, as the world we sell to wholesale markets. To reduce renewable generation capacity – buildwill not be able to realise enough carbon these emissions, we will gradually reduce ing more green energy reduces the carreductions in time. Should offsetting beour natural gas trading activities. Carbon neutral by 2025 bon intensity of each kWh we generate. come necessary, we will ensure that we Energy generation and operations (scope 1-2) Secondly, to complete our phase-out of only engage with projects that are veriThe second-largest source of indirect coal as an energy source at our Danish fied, measurable and additional, meaning emissions come from our offshore wind g CO2e/kWh combined heat and power plants, and by that the carbon-removal would not have business supply chain. To reduce these, ceasing to use coal in 2023. happened without our engagement. we have launched a programme to 500 By 2025, we want to be engage with suppliers to decarbonise carbon neutral. This target 450 From 98% reduction to carbon neutral Reducing emissions in our supply chain the manufacturing and installation of covers all direct emissions from our activities and indirect The remaining emissions beyond 98% reand related to our energy trading offshore wind farm components and 400 duction come from a variety of sources in Being on track to carbon neutral energy vessel services. emissions from our energy consumption (scope 1-2). our energy generation and company opgeneration and operations, we also turn 350 erations, where it is particularly challengour attention to the indirect emissions The science-based approval 300 We will eliminate the ing to drive out emissions. The majority outside of our immediate control that We have defined our carbon-reduction remaining emissions beyond a comes from the natural gas we still use mainly come from our supply chain and targets to align our full carbon footprint 250 98% reduction (g CO2e/kWh) at our combined heat and power plants energy trading (scope 3). In 2019, these with what science requires from the which could include offset by 200 investing in certified carbonand from fossil fuel used for our offshore emissions accounted for 34,604kt CO2e. energy sector to limit global warming to removal projects. operation vessels. Still, we will strive to 1.5°C. The Science Based Targets initiative 150 push our reduction beyond 98% towards We have set a target to reduce all (SBTi) has preliminarily concluded that 100 2025. Already in 2019, we launched a indirect emissions from our supply chain our new targets align with what the 1.5°C number of actions to do so, including carand energy trading by 50% between pathway requires from energy compa50 bon neutral offshore operation logistics 2018 and 2032. This is an important step nies. The SBTi will officially announce this and 100% electric vehicles by 2025. towards realising that our entire carbon target classification during 2020, once it 0 2006 2010 2013 2016 2019 2025 footprint is carbon neutral by 2040, a has released the 1.5°C-reduction pathway For the remaining emissions, we will decade faster than required by science to for energy companies. Ørsted scope 1 and 2 emissions continue to investigate solutions, which stop global warming at 1.5°C. could include investing in certified carbon In the rest of this chapter, we elaborate 1 O  ur absolute carbon emissions reduction is 89% which is slightly larger than the reduction per kWh energy generated, removal projects. According to the IPCC, Most of our indirect emissions are related on all the actions we take to meet our as our annual generation of heat and power has decreased since 2006. nature-based offset solutions are going to energy trading and come from the climate targets. 16 Decarbonising our total carbon footprint Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 17 Building more Bringing renewable energy to new markets renewable energy It is a key priority for us to continue the globalisation of Ørsted and for the offshore wind technology to meet the increasing demand for green energy across continents. capacity Our build-out of green energy is a key driver in our Taiwan decarbonisation journey, as it makes our energy In 2019, we began constructing our generation less carbon-intensive. first large-scale Taiwanese offshore wind project, Changhua 1 & 2a. The wind farm will have a capacity of 900MW, enough to supply green power for around 600,000 Taiwanese households. We deploy green energy at scale. In 2019, our energy generation from renewable sources accounted for 86% of our total energy generation. Increasing our green energy share makes our energy generUS European markets ation less carbon-intensive as it reduces the carbon emissions per unit of energy In 2019, we won the rights to We also decided to build a combined solar We are the leading offshore wind provider across produced. build two large-scale offshore farm and storage facility, Permian Energy Europe. In 2019, we commissioned the world’s wind projects on the US East Center, in Texas. Once operational in 2021, largest offshore wind farm, Hornsea 1, in the By 2025, we target to have installed Coast. Our US offshore wind the facility will be able to deliver power to UK. We are also bringing green energy to new 20GW renewable capacity offshore and portfolio now has a total 175,000 people with its generation capacity markets, including the Netherlands where we onshore, enough to power 35 million capacity of 3.0GW. of 420MW and its 40MW storage facility. are constructing Borssele 1 & 2. people. By 2030, we aim to reach more than 30GW of installed capacity across renewable technologies, enough to power more than 55 million people. People powered by renewable energy capacity built by Ørsted offshore capacity. Our target is 15GW ca5GW installed onshore capacity by 2025, us to unite financial and environmental Offshore wind (million) pacity installed offshore by 2025, enough enough to power more than three million sustainability. Ørsted is the global leader in offshore >55 to power more than 30 million people. people. wind with a 30% market share. The In the past decade, we have mainly investments we have made have been Onshore wind, solar PV, and storage A rapidly expanding global invested in European projects. In 2019, instrumental in making offshore wind a In our onshore business, we are building a renewables market we significantly increased our investscalable technology that can compete 35 growing regional US leadership position We are bringing green energy to new ments outside Europe, in our onshore and on cost. This has meant that offshore comprising onshore wind, solar PV, and countries and continents. By 2030, global offshore projects in the US and Taiwan. wind has gone from a niche to a global storage. Our activities will soon span installed renewable energy capacity Towards 2025, we expect to maintain and rapidly growing industry. seven US states. is expected to be four times what it our investment level in Europe, while is today. Our strategic aspiration is to significantly increasing our investments in Today, we have an industry-leading >15 Our onshore business has a portfolio of maintain our position as a global green renewable energy in North America and portfolio and pipeline of offshore wind 2.1GW in operation or under construcenergy company in the rapidly expanding Asia Pacific. projects. By the end of 2019, we had tion of which 1.7GW is onshore wind international renewable energy market. installed 6.8GW of offshore wind and we 2 and 430MW solar PV. In addition to the have 3.0GW under construction. In addigeneration capacity, we have 40MW We will continue to invest all of our caption, we have a further 5.0GW of awarded 2010 2019 2025 2030 storage capacity. We have a target of ital in green energy projects that allow 18 Decarbonising our total carbon footprint Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 19 Phasing out fossil fuels Carbon neutral offshore in our energy generation logistics operations Our combined heat and power plants used to run on fossil Our vessels at sea run sail at reduced speed to save fuel when a supplement to diesel on our hybrid crew operationally possible and aim to fill up transport vessel at the offshore wind farm fuels, primarily coal. Our decision to fully phase out coal in mainly on fossil fuels. as many seats as possible on board. It is Borssele in the Netherlands. Also, we are 2023 and convert to certified sustainable biomass has been To reach carbon neutrality still too early to report on the effects of exploring the potential of charging hybrid instrumental in our green transformation. by 2025, we decarbonise the initiatives, but we are implementing vessels directly at our offshore wind farms. tools to track the progress day by day for our offshore logistics all vessels. When we construct offshore wind farms, operations. vessels are needed to install wind farm Secondly, we investigate solutions to components offshore. These vessels are decarbonise our offshore logistics operaoperated by our contractors. Here, we To operate and maintain our energy astions through research and development. have set up a programme to work with sets, we need to access them on land and Technological advances are necessary construction suppliers to bring down at sea. In 2019, emissions from operations to decarbonise the shipping industry emissions. Read more about our efforts Over the years, we have taken steps to Our consumption of coal and maintenance accounted for 44kt with breakthrough innovation needing to on pages 20-21. decarbonise our combined heat and million tonnes CO2e of our total carbon footprint. This take place in the 2020s to meet the 1.5ºC power (CHP) plants. In 2009, we decided share is set to increase as our installed pathway. Technologies based on adnot to build new coal-fired power plants, 6.2 renewable energy capacity grows. vanced biofuels and hydrogen-based fuels and in 2017, we decided to fully phase out need maturation before they can replace coal in 2023. The vessels that we use to operate and today’s fuels. We are testing batteries as maintain our offshore wind farms, and Our phase-out of coal has been fundawhich run on bunker fuel, are the main mental to our green transformation. We source of emissions. have reduced our coal consumption by 91% in comparison with our basis year of We currently do not have all the solutions 2006, and in 2019, coal only accounted to make the operation of our offshore for 9% of our energy generation. We have wind farms carbon neutral by 2025, but Insights from Ørsted’s achieved 26% of the reduction by closing 1.2 we will use it to guide the development Environmental Hero 2019 What are the three of the coal-fired power plants we 0.6 of our offshore logistics towards 2025 and benefits of having a carbon neutral had in 2006. The rest has been achieved beyond. Our approach is to reduce emisMorten Perdomo Rostrøm is Lead 2025 target? 0 Operations Specialist in our offshore by converting our CHP plants to run on sions as far as possible and to decouple Every step in a greener direction certified sustainable biomass, primarily the growth in our offshore wind portfolio wind business. In 2019, he ran an innocounts, and every gramme of CO2 2006 2018 2019 2023 vation game on how to decarbonise wood chips and wood pellets. On pages from the carbon emissions that result from that we prevent from going to the our logistics and received Ørsted’s 28-29, you can read more on how we vessel operations. atmosphere buys time to mature the internal Environment Award for his ensure the sustainability of biomass Reducing emissions from back-up fuel when supply of sustainable personal contribution to making innovation that will take us all the through certification. natural gas and oil biomass is limited or in situations of high Emission-reduction initiatives Ørsted an even greener business. way to reaching carbon neutrality. In addition to coal, we still use natural energy demand. We are contractually reIn 2019, we launched a range of emisThe driver for us isn’t just to reduce With the completion of the biomass gas and oil at our CHP plants. In 2019, quired by our heat customers, the Danish sion-reduction initiatives focused on cost. It’s to reduce our emissions. conversion of the CHP plant at Asnæs in natural gas and oil accounted for 25% of municipalities, to maintain gas to ensure offshore logistics in close cooperation What motivates you in your work Denmark by the end of 2019, we had conour emissions from energy generation. the stability of heat supply. with our suppliers and partners. at Ørsted? What is the main obstacle verted six CHP plants. We now only have We are looking into green alternatives Our company vision gives me a lot to reaching the target? one coal-fired power plant left which will as, in 2023, when we have eliminated our Oil is primarily needed for start-up of Firstly, we optimise the operations of of energy. I believe that the world Money! Burning diesel is still much be closed in 2023, enabling us to meet use of coal, reducing the remaining use the CHP plants. It is technically possible our current vessels. We currently charter needs to listen to climate science and cheaper than using sustainable fuels. our zero-coal target. of fossil fuels at CHP plants will be the to replace oil with a bio-alternative, but three service operation vessels and more act accordingly. We need to protect And we need to stay competitive as main lever to decarbonise our company it is still difficult to find an alternative than 30 crew transfer vessels. All vessels planet Earth, because every day, a company, so we're dependent on We have rebuilt our CHP plants to emissions beyond 98%. that is both cost-competitive and lives have an expected 20-25-year lifetime, so we humans are causing irreversible finding cost-competitive alternatives sustainable biomass to phase out coal, up to high sustainability requirements there are large cost and climate benefits damage. Personally, I feel obliged to and rethink the way we manage and to help significantly reduce our We have natural gas-fired boilers at six in relation to sourcing, processing, and from efficiency initiatives. Our new initiado what I can to change things for our logistics in partnership with the carbon emissions over the past decade. CHP plants. We use gas where it has not alternative uses of the feedstock, such as tives include improved planning and optithe better, and my job allows me to shipping industry. We need to work It is not part of our strategy to build new been possible to convert to sustainable crops for food production. misation of sailing routes, transit speeds, do just that. So, I pedal hard to get to hard to reach our target, but we’re up biomass-fired CHP plants. biomass, and in some situations as a and docking patterns. For instance, we work every morning! for the challenge! 20 Decarbonising our total carbon footprint Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 21 The next frontier is The second-largest source of emissions in our offshore wind supply chain is the fuels burned by the construction vessels Levers to decarbonise Ørsted’s offshore wind supply chain our supply chain and that transport and install these compoWe will encourage top strategic suppliers to: nents offshore. energy trading Reducing emissions in our offshore wind supply chain is therefore linked to the decarbonisation of heavy industry and Disclose their own emisshipping sectors. Global emissions from sions and set science-based these sectors have grown continuously carbon-reduction targets With our energy generation and operations on track to become carbon over many decades, as innovation in neutral by 2025, the next frontier is to reduce emissions from our low-carbon technologies has been slow compared to the energy sector. supply chain and energy trading. We target a 50% reduction in 2032, and to reach net-zero by 2040. This will require collaboration with our Our new supply chain decarbonisation Use 100% renewable electricity suppliers and profound innovation across all levels of our supply chain. programme in the manufacturing of wind turIn 2020, we are launching a programme bines, foundations, cables, substato engage with our top strategic tions, and components suppliers involved in the manufacturing and installation of offshore wind farm components. We have more than 22,000 suppliers in total, but the strategic offshore wind suppliers account for approx Optimise their vessel 50% of our total procurement spend and fleet and develop roadmap are best placed to help reduce supply to power vessels with chain emissions. renewable energy For the world to reach global net-zero The second-largest source is our offshore Also, in late 2019, we entered into an emissions by 2050 at the latest, businesswind supply chain. As we accelerate our agreement to divest our liquefied natural The initial engagement will focus on es must collaborate across industries and global green energy build-out, all else gas (LNG) business. As this is a divestment three levers key to decarbonise our offsupply chains and take responsibility for being equal, we expect this footprint to that accounts for more than 10% of our shore wind supply chain. reducing emissions beyond their comincrease. The third source is the supply 2018 target baseline, we will not count it pany operations. For most companies, chain for our combined heat and power as an emission reduction, but will adjust emissions which are indirectly linked to plants. As we phase out coal, these emisour baseline accordingly. their operations make up the majority sions will significantly decrease. of their carbon footprint. This is typically Finally, we increase the green share of also the case for energy companies if We reduce our trading of the power we sell to our customers. In they trade fossil-based energy or have a fossil-fuel based energy 2019, this increased to 68% from 64% in large portfolio of construction projects. Natural gas is a fossil fuel that should 2018, mainly due to higher green power Insights from our Both are true for Ørsted. eventually be phased out of the energy sales in the UK. As we have signed an Chief Procurement system. However, during the transition agreement to divest our private cusSpecialist By 2040, we want our total carbon period towards an entirely green energy tomer business, we focus on supporting very mature in their decarbonisation solutions fast and in a cost-effective footprint to be carbon neutral. With this system, natural gas helps ensure reliabilour corporate customers in using more Ninna Ipsen is responsible for strategic journey, others are only starting out, way. As we depend on the market to target, we want to help foster innovation ity of supply. certified green power and reduce their procurement projects, including engageand we'll design our engagement to meet our objectives, collaboration will across the renewable energy supply carbon footprint. ment with suppliers on decarbonisation. be supplier-specific. be key to succeed. chain and deliver the scalable carbon Ørsted is bound by several long-standing neutral solutions that are urgently gas purchase agreements, some of which We focus on the offshore wind What are the main challenges? What’s in it for our suppliers? needed. were signed in the 1980s with the Danish supply chain How will Ørsted work with suppliers? Many of the low-carbon technologies We have highly capable suppliers in Underground Consortium (DUC). Under To start reducing emissions in the supply We'll engage in dialogue with our top needed to decarbonise our supply our industry. Many of them are very Already in 2032, our target is to have these agreements, we must buy the natchain, we have identified the most strategic suppliers to understand the chain are not yet cost-efficient or familiar with the innovation journey rereduced the indirect emissions from our ural gas produced by DUC. We also have carbon-intensive activities, which are the maturity of the technologies needed available at scale. We want to generquired, and they know that innovation supply chain and energy trading (scope a long-term supply contract with the gas manufacture of wind turbines, foundaand, based on our combined knowlate the demand for low-carbon solutowards still more sustainable solu3) by 50% compared to 2018. In 2019, our company Gazprom. tions, substations, cables, and compoedge, develop a roadmap that, over tions and work with our suppliers to tions will enable them to stay relevant indirect emissions totalled 34,604kt CO2e. nents. These are produced using steel, time, can deliver the carbon reductions drive scale and cost reduction in a way and competitive in the future. In 2019, we decided to gradually reduce aluminium and copper, among other needed. While some suppliers are that delivers the right decarbonisation The majority of emissions comes from our gas trading towards 2032. As a conmaterials, which are energy intensive to the production and end use of the sequence, we will not renew or enter into extract and manufacture. natural gas traded in wholesale markets. new long-term gas purchase agreements. 22 Decarbonising our total carbon footprint Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 23 Reducing emissions from our administration Our daily business operations cause a very small share of Air travel From 2019 onwards, we our total carbon emissions. Still, we have implemented offset all emissions related a broad range of initiatives to reduce these emissions as to our air travel. We part of our efforts to drive out emissions in all corners of purchase carbon credits verified according to our business. international standards for Work equipment carbon offsetting and plant We incorporate sustainability criteria in our procuremangrove trees. Over their ment tenders. In 2019, we renewed our contracts lifetime, the trees grow for furniture and PCs. All new furniture will have and sequester emissions At Ørsted, we have 6,500 employees Sometimes, our employees need to FSC©-certified wood, and we require our suppliers to equivalent to our annual at 68 locations around the world. They travel for work purposes. And every day, take back outdated furniture for donation or recyair travel emissions. We commute to and from work each day. we provide healthy food and drink in our cling. All new PCs have the energy-efficiency rating have launched a tool for For them to perform their daily tasks, canteens. Energy Star 6.1, and will be delivered in 100% recycled our employees so they can our buildings need power, heating, and packaging. We have not seen any additional costs also offset their private cooling. We also provide them with the To reduce emissions from our daily in relation to making strict sustainability criteria a carbon emissions through right work equipment. For many of our operations, we buy greener products and competition parameter in tenders. the same offsetting project. employees, this includes electronic devicprovide more sustainable choices to our es such as a computer and a phone, and employees. furniture such as a chair and a desk. For others, it includes workwear and safety equipment. Buildings All the power we purchase and use globally in our office buildings, facilities, and for operations is covered by green certificates, mainly from our own offshore wind farms. We continuously reduce heat and power consumption through our energy-efficiency initiatives, with the switch to LED lights currently contributing the most energy savings in office buildings. Food and drinks Waste We are reducing carbon-intensive In all office areas and canteens, waste sorting is common foods, such as meat and dairy practice, food waste is converted into biogas, and we have in our canteens. Vegetarian and banned single-use plastic bottles. On our service operavegan alternatives are available, tion vessel Wind of Change, we have fitted a custom-built resulting in a reduction in meat onboard system for desalinating and filtering seawater to Road transport consumption at our main office produce drinking water from North Sea water. This saves up In 2019, we set a target to electrify 100% of our vehicles by 2025, locations in Denmark and London. to 8,000 plastic bottles per four-week trip. including company cars and service vehicles. To support the transition, we will no longer buy or lease new fossil-fuelled cars from 2021, we will add more electric chargers at our parking facilities around the world, and electric car sharing and rentals are now more easily accessible to employees. We were the first Danish company to join The Climate Group’s EV100, a global initiative dedicated to accelerating the transition to electric vehicles. 24 Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 25 Striking the balances of the green transformation The green transformation will fundamentally change how we generate energy to power our lives. Building the green energy systems we need will require balancing different and sometimes contradictory needs. Offshore wind turbine foundations and underwater structures provide a home for many creatures and plants under water. The world's long reliance on fossil fuels resources above ground such as wind, to power modern life is interfering with sun, and biomass. To maximise the posiour planet’s natural ecosystem and its tive climate benefits of the transition, we There is a cost ability to sustain life and provide a good need to ensure that our use of renewhome for millions of species – including ables is sustainable. This is especially to everything. our own. important for the use of wooden biomass But the biggest for energy generation as not all biomass We need to transform the world’s energy is sustainable. It depends on the type of cost is doing supply from fossil fuels extracted below biomass and how it is produced. Strict nothing. the surface of the Earth to harvesting requirements must be met to ensure bioour energy from the natural forces of mass delivers significant carbon savings. António Guterres the wind and the sun. It is a fundamental Secretary-General of the UN change to how we generate energy, and Thirdly, the shift towards a net-zero Excerpt from his remarks at the 2019 Climate Action Summit it will require balancing different and emissions world is a tremendous growth sometimes contradictory needs. opportunity with net benefits for employment and the economy. While jobs will inFirstly, renewable energy requires space evitably be lost in some sectors, more jobs at land and at sea. Finding the space will be created in other sectors through for renewable energy must be balanced the innovation and massive investments with the interests of protecting nature driving the green transformation. For comand the interests of other industries. It panies whose business models are deeply will require trade-offs and new ways of embedded in fossil fuels, there is no doubt allocating space. that the shift will be challenging. As a society, we must support those whose Secondly, instead of digging out and jobs are at risk and ensure a just transition. burning coal, oil and gas, which store This will also minimise the risk that the carbon underground, we need to harvest green transformation is slowed down due to public resistance. 26 Striking the balances of the green transformation Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 27 Finding the space for Co-existence with nature is a must green energy at scale Phasing out fossil fuels and building enough green energy are two of the How we manage impacts on the natural environment of offshore wind supports biodiversity protection and restoration. most important actions to halt climate Over the past more than 25 years, we change and thereby limit biodiversity have developed our expertise in conBuilding renewable energy technologies at scale will help protect loss. The biodiversity benefits and imstructing and operating offshore wind natural ecosystems from the consequences of climate change and pacts of building and operating offshore farms while respecting important local A global build-out of wind are well-known, but there is a need environmental and social interests. Today, benefit local economies that invest in renewable energy. To succeed, the for improved scientific understanding to our global teams of more than 50 envioffshore wind can help halt build-out of renewable energy must be balanced with the interests of ensure that the build-out supports biodironmental experts make up the largest climate change. Today, it's versity protection and restoration. in-house capacity in the offshore wind not wind energy that puts other industries and the need to protect the natural environment. industry. This expertise guides our work marine biodiversity under Constructing and operating new technolto understand impacts at each of our ogy in nature come with environmental offshore wind farms and helps us identify pressure. If the oceans are concerns. For offshore wind farms, there the best ways to protect the natural healthy and biodiversity is are typically both positive and negative environment. protected when the wind effects on the local environment. When turbines are installed, there Fossil fuel-based power generation Agreement. Ørsted and Equinor respondlocal fishing industry, we have carried out installed, the underwater foundations Protecting biodiversity is an integral requires relatively little surface area. ed positively and created a new indusa long-term scientific study to examine and scour-protection material can part of the way we work, and we apply are no obstacles to building The fuels are extracted from under the try-led coalition to scale up ocean-based the impact on these shellfish stocks. This function as home for certain marine precautionary measures and take the much more offshore wind. ground, transported to power plants, and renewable energy. We also contributed was the first full-scale study of its kind species such as algae and mussels, which unique environment of each of our sites Jan Vande Putte incinerated. With renewable energy, it is to establishing the UN Global Compact worldwide, and the results to date concan grow on the structures and attract into account. Our offshore wind policy Energy & Nuclear Campaigner different. It is a resource which is harvestprinciples for sustainable oceans and firm that shellfish populations were not crabs and fish that are prey for marine for biodiversity protection lays out our Greenpeace ed in nature, and this requires more space. joined the UN Global Compact Action negatively affected by construction and mammals such as dolphins and seals. In principles for how we do this. Platform for Sustainable Ocean Business. illustrate that offshore wind and fisheries this way, offshore wind can provide local This is also true for offshore wind, The three initiatives support each other, can co-exist in the UK North Sea. increases in marine biodiversity that can Large-scale build-out of offshore wind In addition, environmental NGOs, marine although offshore wind farms do not as an accelerated implementation of positively affect some environments. and protection of nature industries, and authorities need to necessarily exclude other use of ocean ocean-based solutions and co-use of The impacts of offshore wind farms on the cooperate on how to best ensure that space. Wind turbines, cables, and other ocean space must take place in a sustainAt the same time, there are temporary natural environment are complex fields in local nature protection strategies and installations only cover a small proporable way. environmental impacts during conmarine science with limited long-term sciglobal climate goals work together tion of the total wind farm area. When struction. Among these, we count the entific data available on an international towards ensuring a habitable planet for activities can co-locate safely, this leaves Aligning co-use with local interests noise impact on sensitive species such level. To enable an accelerated build-out all species. As a step towards this, Ørsted plenty of room for other purposes, When a marine space is allocated for as marine mammals when installing of offshore wind and ensure nature prois taking a major part in the development whether it is ensuring that ecosystems developing an offshore wind farm, it is foundations and impacts on coastal tection, there is a need for improved use of regional multi-stakeholder groups in and biodiversity thrive or supporting important for all stakeholders to strike habitats when installing the transmission of relevant scientific data on biodiversity Europe. Through these, we will collaborate use by other marine industries. As wind the right balance on how to use the marOffshore wind requires space cables. When in operation, offshore wind benefits and impacts. Improved accumuwith stakeholders to enable the further turbines are getting larger and spaced itime space most effectively. At Ørsted, With less than 1km² of land, Ørsted’s farms can affect certain bird species that lated knowledge can inform the design of co-existence of offshore wind with marine Avedøre Power Station has nearly the same further apart, co-use may even become we collaborate with authorities, ocean migrate or feed in or near the area. wind farms to ensure that the build-out industries and nature in Europe. power generation capacity as our offshore increasingly possible. industry peers, local communities, and wind farm Borssele 1 & 2 will have when environmental NGOs to ensure we have completed in 2020. The wind farm will be Sustainable use of the oceans for the best available knowledge and to able to power 2.4 million people from 94 renewable energy address local needs and expectations. wind turbines across more than 100km². Finding the space for renewable energy is vital to the future health of our planet. To As an example, we have established succeed, the space needed for offshore an ongoing cooperation with the local wind needs to be carefully considered fishing industry around our UK offshore and balanced with other uses of the wind farm Westermost Rough, which was ocean to ensure a sustainable build-out. inaugurated in 2015. It is sited in highly productive fishing grounds for lobster In 2019, the High-Level Panel for a Susand crab. Our environmental impact tainable Ocean Economy, a group of govassessment prior to the construction of ernment leaders representing 30% of the the wind farm predicted some impacts world's national ocean space, launched on lobster and crab populations from the a call to action to accelerate oceanconstruction. Nevertheless, to understand 1km² 100km² based solutions that support the Paris these impacts better and safeguard the 28 Striking the balances of the green transformation Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 29 How we maximise the It is not a simple task to determine the sustainability of biomass, but it is possible. Today, our biomass is certified and climate benefits of biomass meets the requirements of the Danish industry agreement on sustainable Insights from our wooden biomass. It defines the difference between sustainable biomass and sustainable biomass experts non-sustainable biomass. Using wooden biomass for energy generation has allowed us to Peter Kofod Kristensen, Senior Lead What are you looking for? Two crucial requirements Sustainability Advisor, and Lisbeth Lyck Lisbeth: Each forest is unique, so we almost fully retire coal. To ensure significant carbon savings, the Sevel, Senior Sustainability Advisor, When biomass is burned, it emits the need to get on the ground to underbiomass must meet strict sustainability criteria. If not, it should not same or slightly more carbon than coal work in our Bioenergy business and are stand it. We need to understand our educated and trained forestry experts. be used in energy generation. Over time, electrified alternatives can per unit of energy produced. The imporPeter and Lisbeth help ensure that all suppliers, how the forests are mantant difference is that the carbon from aged and the products produced. Our replace and supplement sustainable biomass. the biomass used is sustainable and biomass is already a part of the planet’s delivers significant carbon savings. aim is to understand the local context carbon balance, whereas carbon from and any risks each supplier is working coal and other fossil fuels adds new under. This helps us to develop our In the late 1970s, the combined heat and time continue to provide flexible heat 2009 levels towards 2030, we would carbon to the atmosphere. Our biomass Why do you conduct cooperation with our suppliers. power (CHP) plants in Denmark were and power at a competitive price? have emitted an additional 90 million must meet two crucial requirements to site visits at our suppliers? converted from oil to coal to reduce oil tonnes of carbon in the coming decade, maximise the climate benefit of using Peter: We conduct site visits because Why do we need this import dependency. However, as the Biomass has allowed us to retire coal the same as the annual emissions from wooden biomass and deliver significant it's key for us to know who we're documentation? awareness of climate change and the Among politicians and our municipal 45 million cars. In 2019, using biomass for carbon savings compared to fossil fuels. dealing with. We use the forest certiLisbeth: To be trustworthy! We need demand for carbon reductions increased, district heating customers, there was our energy generation helped us avoid fication schemes like FSC© and SPB the numbers and pictures to docupoliticians and energy companies began widespread support for wooden biomass the emission of 1.4 million tonnes of Firstly, we only source wood chips and as the backbone of our sustainability ment that the biomass we source is to explore greener alternatives to coal. as the most climate-friendly alternative carbon. pellets produced from forestry and indusassurance, our visits are focused on sustainable and that we reach the to coal, whereas converting to gas would try residues, which are not merchantable motivating and guiding our suppliers carbon-reduction targets we have set The same was true for Ørsted. Only a make Denmark dependent on another Not all biomass is sustainable for use as saw-timber products. Tree to meet our requirements. and report on every year. decade ago, our coal-fired power plants fossil fuel-based solution for decades. On To make biomass a sustainable alternatrunks that can be sold to sawmills and were still a significant part of Danish this basis, we decided to convert all our tive to coal and gas, we have needed to used for e.g. buildings or furniture should carbon emissions. At the same time, we CHP plants to use wooden biomass. ensure that our biomass contributes to not be used in energy generation. Such had just launched our first strategy to significant carbon reductions. This is not high-quality purposes are the best use to rot on the forest floor. The carbon debt wooden biomass was certified. From transform our business from fossil fuels Sustainable biomass has allowed us to the case for all use of biomass for energy of wood from a climate perspective, is paid back through the emissions avoid2020, it will be 100%. to green energy, because we strongly almost fully retire coal over the past generation as not all biomass is sustainabecause it contributes to storing carbon ed from burning coal as well as when the believed the future of energy was green. decade, and it has turned out to be one ble – it depends on the type of wood and more long term, and because it substicarbon is absorbed again by trees. With We believe it should be required by law of the largest contributors to Denmark’s how it is produced. At Ørsted, we only tutes more carbon-intensive materials the need to reduce emissions quickly, that all biomass used for energy generation How could we decarbonise our heavy total carbon-emission reductions since want to use biomass that is sustainable. such as steel, plastic, and cement. we do not have time for a long payback should be certified sustainable in line with fleet of CHP plants while at the same 2006. Had we continued coal-firing at So, how do we ensure this? time on the carbon debt. the principles outlined in SBP, FSC©, and Secondly, we only source biomass from PEFC. Certification schemes are not an ironalready established sustainably manThat is why it is so important that we clad guarantee that the system is perfect. Wood residues from forestry and industries can be used for energy generation aged production forests with an ongoing only use biomass residues with a relativeAt present it is, however, the most forceful reforestation. This is to ensure that our ly short carbon-debt payback time. We way for the energy industry to ensure that To make room for producing sourcing has no negative effects on the therefore welcome an upcoming study the biomass is sustainable and contributes high-quality wood, forests require number of trees, the size of the forest or by the University of Copenhagen, which positively to speed up the green transforperiodic thinnings. Residues from early thinnings such as young its health. If the forest maintains its size will develop solid data on payback times mation and to retire fossil fuels. trees are predominantly used for or grows, it keeps its carbon stock and its for biomass used in Denmark's energy energy generation. ability to contribute to the global carbon generation. This can improve our tools to The future of biomass Early thinnings cycle. ensure that we only source the right kind With the increasing green electrification of Some wood from later thinnings of biomass. Denmark's energy system, the role of our has a quality suitable for sawtimber products. The residues can Residues give a short carboncentral heat and power plants is primarily be used for energy generation. payback time The value of a certification system to produce heating for the Danish district Because burning biomass emits carbon, To ensure that our suppliers comply heating system. Going forward, technolowe sometimes meet the concern that with our sustainability requirements, gies like large-scale heating pumps and geoPlanting of seedlings Later thinnings using biomass for energy generation is we have implemented the Sustainable thermal energy are increasingly expected The final harvest is predominantly used for saw-timber products. incompatible with scientific demands Biomass Program (SBP) certification to become cost-competitive alternatives The residues can be used for for reducing emissions quickly. This is a system. Under this system, independent to sustainable biomass. It means that over energy generation. This is primarvalid concern. Burning biomass creates third-party auditors monitor and certify time, they can replace and supplement ily tree tops, branches, sawdust or trees that have grown into a a 'carbon debt' as the carbon is released that the suppliers meet our sustainability sustainable biomass in Danish district heatFinal harvest crooked shape. sooner than the alternative of leaving it requirements. In 2019, 96% of our sourced ing as existing capacity needs renewal. 30 Striking the balances of the green transformation Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 31 Socio-economic impacts 9.9GW Ørsted has 9.9GW offshore wind capacity installed and under construction. of the green transformation The transition from fossil fuels to renewables entails tremendous economic opportunities for growth and job creation. While jobs inevitably will be lost The job creation has positive effects on local This creates 197,000 job years over in some sectors, more jobs will be created in other sectors. Ørsted’s green communities, such as more jobs, higher salaries, the lifetime of the wind farms. investments contribute to creating green jobs, and we work to maximise the 197,000 and local economic growth. local positive impacts of our green development projects. The shift from a fossil fuel-based econand expertise and require local supply Our estimate shows that the offshore omy to a net-zero emissions world is a chains to support the transition. wind farms we have installed and have tremendous growth opportunity with under construction create 197,000 job net benefits for employment and the At Ørsted, we have estimated the job years during their lifetime. This correeconomy. Accelerated climate action creation from our own and joint venture sponds to ensuring more than 5,400 could lead to a net employment gain of partner investments in offshore wind, average citizens life-long employment. up to 37 million jobs in 2030, according based on IRENA’s method. With our partto New Climate Economy. This is more ners, we invested approx DKK 193 billion The job effect of building green energy than the entire labour force of the United in green energy between 2010-2019 and capacity depends on local market condiKingdom. According to IRENA, transformalmost 90% were in offshore wind. From tions. Offshore wind is a well-established such as North America and Asia Pacific, we determine which initiatives are needed expertise and training of local workers. For ing the energy system could boost global 2019 to 2025, we expect to invest DKK industry in North-western Europe. As it will likely have local job effects similar to ensure that local communities benefit instance, in relation to our Ocean Wind GDP by as much as 2.5% by 2050. 200 billion in green energy. the technology spreads to new regions, to what has happened in regions like from the project development. Our preferproject in New Jersey, we have signed the Humber region in the UK, Norddeich ence is always to engage in initiatives that memoranda of agreements with Rutgers, This provides tremendous opportunities in Germany, and Esbjerg in Denmark. create opportunities for long-term ecoStockton, and Rowan universities in New for companies that are able to transform All three have experienced a revitalisanomic benefits such as supporting local Jersey to support academic research, engithemselves to serve the rapidly growing tion due to offshore wind projects with supply chains and developing local skills, neering programmes, and initiatives to global market for sustainable solutions. positive economic impacts in the form but we acknowledge that each project further advance undergraduate and gradAt the same time, there is no doubt Accelerating our investments of more jobs, higher salaries, and local and community needs to tailor efforts to uate students’ knowledge of the offshore that the industrial shift from fossil fuels in green energy economic growth. their unique circumstances. wind industry. In addition, we have joined to renewables will be challenging for forces with the New Jersey construction companies whose business models are Local supply chains and To support the development of local experts in JINGOLI to identify and train 2010-2019 2019-2025 reliant on fossil fuels. Jobs will inevitably skills development supply chains, we ensure that local supAtlantic City residents and students who be lost in some sectors and not everyone Our estimate of job creation only covers pliers are aware of and have access to are interested in working in offshore wind will be able to find a new job easily. This jobs directly associated with constructenders for the offshore wind project. In farm construction or in one of the permacan have severe consequences for local Offshore 88% 75-85% tion, operations and maintenance, and Taiwan, we supported the establishment nent positions that will become available communities and the individuals affectdecommissioning of our offshore wind of a local sub-supplier network with the when the project is completed. ed. As a society, we have a responsibility farms. The job-generating benefits from county government. It hosts workshops to ensure a just transition and to make our wind farms go beyond creating jobs and events and is operated by the county We have also set up an apprenticeship sure that no one is left behind as we shift from fossil fuels to green and sustainable Onshore 7% 15-20% in the wind industry. Every wind farm we build supports several thousands of jobs in government for the benefit of all offshore wind projects. This is a model we first deprogramme with DaYeh University in Taiwan to cultivate future offshore wind technologies. It is a joint responsibility local communities. The jobs are typically veloped and used with success when we operations and maintenance technicians. for policymakers, industry, workers, and in hotels, restaurants, and other services. constructed the Danish offshore wimd As a part of this, we provide the latest communities. Bioenergy 5% 0-5% When we develop a new energy infrafarm Anholt in 2012-2013, and which we have used since in our offshore wind industry experience to students through guest lecturers and practical internships. Green investments create jobs structure project, we engage in an early projects. Furthermore, we provide students the Many of the job losses will be offset by dialogue and cooperation with the local opportunities to take part in the opera193 200 good jobs in the renewable energy indusgovernment, workers, and communities To support the development of the skills tion and maintenance of wind turbines, try. As countries deploy green energy, it DKK DKK to understand their perspectives on the needed to build a local offshore wind as well as with drones and unmanned will create a local demand for green jobs billion billion project and its local impact. Based on this, industry, we engage in building local underwater vehicles on vessels. 32 Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 33 Green energy in a sustainable way The pursuit of our vision potential adverse impacts that building describe how our programmes help us and operating green energy infrastruccontribute positively to the SDGs and to create a world that ture may have on nature and people. minimise any potential adverse impacts runs entirely on green we may have. energy must take place We are a participant in the UN Global Compact and continuously implement On pages 36-47, we provide a full sustainably. We work the ten principles for good business conoverview of our 20 sustainability prosystematically to advance duct in our activities. grammes, including progress made this our positive contributions year. Four themes are described in more 20 programmes to drive sustainability detail, showing how our business adapts and minimise potential Our sustainability strategy addresses to changing challenges. Finally, on page adverse impacts through societal challenges relevant to our 48, we show how sustainability is govour sustainability strategy. business strategy. We conduct an annual erned in our organisation. assessment to determine the most material societal challenges, including Ørsted and the UN Sustainable new or emerging ones, and take action to Development Goals address the most relevant challenges our At Ørsted, our entire business is focused sustainability programmes. Through this on addressing the most pressing societal process, our sustainability strategy helps challenge of our time, the climate our business stay relevant, competitive, emergency. Addressing this is one of the and fit for the future. central themes to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which define This year, we have grouped our 20 the greatest social, environmental and sustainability programmes into three cateconomic challenges currently facing the egories. The first category aligns our busiworld. ness with climate science, the second one Third-party assurance of data helps us address the potential impacts The programme indicators and On land and at sea, our employees are dedicated to Our transformation from fossil fuels to of the green energy transition, while the targets shown in the bottom row help the world take the necessary steps in the transition renewables has aligned our core business third ensures we remain an accountable on pages 36-47 in this report are to a sustainable future. Ensuring that they are safe contribution with society’s most pressing and responsible business. part of our ESG performance report and thrive at work is a key priority for us. need. Our commitment to help create a 2019 and have been subject to world that runs entirely on green energy Reporting and governance third-party assurance by PwC. is our commitment to help limit climate On pages 34-35, we present our annual change. The global green energy tranassessment of material societal challengRead about the scope of the sition brings significant benefits to the es, including the steps taken, the results assurance in our ESG performance climate, the environment, and societies. in 2019, and how this process leads to our report, page 40. But while doing so, we must also limit the 20 sustainability programmes. We further 34 Green energy in a sustainable way Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 35 Working systematically with Sustainability programmes 2019 sustainability and the SDGs Our 20 sustainability programmes help us systematically meet expectations from stakeholders while addressing the challenges of Through our annual materiality assessment, we seek to our business. Through these programmes, we impact many SDGs, understand the challenges that currently face society and with our core contribution to SDGs 7 and 13. our business. We address the most material challenges through our sustainability programmes. To align our business with climate science Step 3 Societal challenge Programme Our impact on the SDGs Materiality process Address the challenges Climate action 1. Decarbonisation of energy generation We build green energy at Step 2 Energy efficiency systematically through and operations scale and reduce carbon Assess the relevant programmes emissions necessary to stop Step 1 Climate action 2. Decarbonisation of supply chain global warming at 1.5°C. challenges and energy trading This contributes positively Understand the The most important societal challenges to SDGs 7 and 13 and is our Green energy deployment 3. Deployment of offshore wind biggest contribution to the societal challenges Based on initial dialogue with staketo both our stakeholders and our business global goals. holders, we assess the importance strategy are considered material and are 4. Deployment of onshore renewable energy We engage in dialogue with stakeholdof the societal challenges to our addressed through sustainability pro5. Greener combined heat and power plants ers, including political stakeholders, business strategy. grammes. In addition to forward-looking Green and reliable energy systems 6. Green energy integration regulators, investors, NGOs, local commuactions, and performance metrics and Sustainable finance 7. Financing green nities, suppliers, and employees. Through targets, these programmes include a govthis dialogue, we seek to understand how ernance structure to ensure accountability societal challenges develop over time, and implementation. To address potential impacts of the green energy transformation their importance to each group of stakeholders, and the expectations on how we Biomass sustainability 8. Sourcing of certified sustainable biomass Through our investments as a company should work with them. in green energy, we drive Biodiversity impacts and changes 9. Protecting biodiversity economic growth in local to ecosystems communities and supply Use of the ocean and land for green chains, and positively energy contribute to SDGs 8 Societal challenges with importance to our stakeholders and business and 11. We prevent and Local socio-economic impacts 10. Local communities mitigate the potential negative impacts from the Material societal challenges addressed in Reuse and recycling of materials 11. Resource management High green energy transition • Biomass sustainability • Climate action 2019 sustainability programmes. in the communities and • Sustainable finance • Green energy deployment environments where we • Safety, health, and well-being operate in line with Societal challenges less material to our • Biodiversity impacts and change SDGs 12, 14, and 15. in ecosystems business strategy are not addressed • Local socio-economic impacts through sustainability programmes. For Importance to stakeholders our performance on these, please see: To ensure responsible business practices Air pollution (ESG performance report, section 2.13); Water management (ESG performance report, section 2.11); Climate Safety, health, and well-being 12. Workplace safety We conduct business • Business partner conduct • Employee development and retention 13. Employee health and well-being with responsibility • Energy efficiency • Diversity and equal opportunity adaptation (implementation of TCFD recand accountability, • Reuse and recycling of materials • Use of the ocean and land ommendations, page 39); Just transition Employee development and retention 14. Employee development ensuring respect for our for green energy (socio-economic impacts, pages 30-31). employees, business • Business ethics and transparency 15. Employee satisfaction partners, and suppliers. • Information security and cyberattacks Societal challenges currently non-maThrough our different • Responsible tax Diversity and equal opportunity 16. Employee diversity and inclusion terial to our business strategy: Access programmes, we • Green and reliable energy systems Business ethics and transparency 17. Good business conduct contribute positively to green energy in developing countries; to SDGs 3, 5, and 16, automation of work. Business partner conduct 18. Responsible business partners programme while also minimising any potential negative Information security and cyberattacks 19. Information and cyber security impacts. Importance to business strategy High Responsible tax 20. Responsible tax practices 36 Programmes to align our business with climate science Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 37 Programme 1 Decarbonisation of energy 2 Decarbonisation of supply chain Programme 3 Deployment of offshore wind 4 Deployment of onshore overview overview generation and operations and energy trading renewable energy Societal Climate action; energy efficiency Climate action Societal Green energy deployment challenge challenge As 73% of global carbon emissions come from the use of Collaboration and innovation across industries and supply The deployment of renewable energy technologies must be accelerated to help phase out coal and other fossil fuels from fossil fuel-based energy, decarbonising energy generation and chains are needed to speed up decarbonisation. energy systems at the pace and scale required by climate science. improving energy efficiency are the most significant actions to limit climate change. Our approach We increase our total share of green energy and work to We reduce emissions from our supply chain, and from natural Our approach We deploy offshore wind farms globally. We want to increase We deploy onshore renewable energy technologies, including achieve carbon neutrality in our energy generation and gas and fossil fuel-based power trading (scope 3) in line with the deployment of offshore wind across our regions the UK, onshore wind and solar PV. Our focus is on building a regional operations. This covers the carbon emissions from the scientific requirements and work to achieve carbon neutrality Continental Europe, North America, and Asia Pacific. Through leadership position in the US. generation of heat and power, and our operations and by 2040 (scope 1-3). We work with our suppliers to reduce scale and technological development, we drive down the maintenance activities, including the vessels servicing our emissions from the wind farm components and the services costs of green electricity in the markets where we operate. wind farms, the vehicles we drive, and our sites (scope 1-2). we purchase. Our progress • We set a target to become carbon neutral in our energy • We set a new target to reduce emissions from our supply Our progress • In the UK, we commissioned the world’s largest offshore • We expanded our US portfolio through acquisitions and generation and operations by 2025. This target covers all chain and energy trading. We will reduce emissions by 50% wind farm, Hornsea 1, and started the construction of investment decisions on onshore projects. scope 1 and 2 emissions, as defined by the GHG Protocol. by 2032. This target covers all scope 3 emissions, as defined Hornsea 2. • We commissioned the onshore wind farm Lockett in Texas. • We increased the green share of energy generation to by the GHG Protocol. • In Europe, we officially inaugurated the offshore wind farm • We acquired a 103MW construction-ready onshore wind 86%, primarily due to higher generation from wind farms, • We will become fully carbon neutral across our entire Borkum Riffgrund 2 in Germany. We started construction on farm in South Dakota. increased thermal generation on biomass and lower heat footprint by 2040, covering all scope 1-3 emissions. Borssele 1 & 2 in the Netherlands. • We made the decision to build a 420MW solar PV project and power generation based on coal and gas. • We have signed an agreement to divest our LNG business • We were awarded two large-scale projects in the US as part of our Permian Energy Center in Texas, consisting • We have decreased the carbon intensity of our energy and will amend the baseline data for our supply chain and (Ocean Wind in New Jersey and Sunrise Wind in New York). of 1.3 million solar panels. This farm can deliver power to generation by 86% since 2006 to 65g CO2e/kWh. We are on energy trading target. We now have 5.0GW of awarded capacity in the US, 100,000 people. track to reach our target of 98% reduction by 2025. • We will gradually reduce our gas trading towards 2032 and Germany, and Taiwan, cementing our global leadership • We set a target to reach 5GW installed onshore energy • We are investigating ways to reduce emissions from our will not renew or enter into new, long-term gas-purchase position. generation capacity by 2025. We are on track to meet this operations and maintenance (O&M) vessels, including by agreements. • In Taiwan, we inaugurated phase 2 of Formosa 1, Taiwan’s target. testing batteries as a supplement to diesel bunker fuel. • We launched a programme to work with suppliers to first-ever commercial-scale offshore wind farm, and began • We will no longer lease new fossil-fuelled cars as of 2021 reduce emissions in the offshore wind supply chain. building the offshore wind farm Changhua 1 & 2a. and we aim to reach 100% electric vehicles by 2025. As we • We offset our air travel emissions from 2019 and onwards • We are on track to meet our target of 15GW installed have signed an agreement to divest our businesses Radius, by planting mangrove trees and purchasing verified carbon offshore wind capacity by 2025. B2C, and City Light, this target does not apply to them. credits. For these offsetting activities, we have partnered • We launched an industry coalition with Equinor to scale up • We cover 100% of our own power consumption with green with Natural Capital Partners. ocean-based renewable energy. It is a response to the call certificates, mainly from our offshore wind farms. In 2019, • We have strengthened the sustainability criteria in our to action of the High-Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean we also included power sourced for electric boilers. procurement tenders to reduce the carbon impact of the Economy. • We have saved 8.8GWh through energy-efficiency goods and services we purchase. This year, we completed initiatives and aim for 15GWh by 2022 (baseline year tenders for furniture, PCs, taxi services, and car rentals. of 2017). Savings come from the installation of heating and cooling pumps, and optimisation of surplus heat and ventilation in our power plants and transformer stations. Actions to Achieve carbon neutrality in our energy generation and Achieve carbon neutrality across our total carbon footprint, Actions to Work with international organisations, national stakeholders, and sector initiatives to accelerate become future-fit operations (scope 1-2) by 2025. including energy generation and operations, supply chain, become future-fit the global green energy build-out. and energy trading (scope 1-3) by 2040. Our governance Accountability lies with Group Executive Management. Accountability lies with Group Executive Management. Our governance Accountability lies with the Executive Vice President (EVP) of Accountability lies with the EVP of our Onshore business unit. our Offshore business unit. Policy and link to • Ørsted Sustainability commitment • ESG performance report: Section 2.8 Policy and link to • ESG performance report: Section 2.1 • ESG Performance report: Section 2.1 more information • ESG performance report: Section 2.7 more information • Annual report pages 43-46 • Annual report pages 47-48 International • Paris Agreement • Paris Agreement International • Paris Agreement • Paris Agreement frameworks • Greenhouse Gas Protocol & Science Based Targets initiative • Greenhouse Gas Protocol & Science Based Targets initiative frameworks • IPCC Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5ºC • IPCC Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5ºC of reference • IPCC Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5ºC • IPCC Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5ºC of reference SDG contribution 13: We will become carbon neutral to help limit climate 13: We reduce our indirect carbon emissions across our entire SDG contribution 7.2: We increase the share of renewable energy in the global 7.2: We increase the share of renewable energy in the global change. carbon footprint to help limit climate change. energy mix. energy mix. Indicators Green energy share Carbon intensity Carbon emissions (scope 3) (MtCO2e) Indicators Installed offshore wind capacity (GW) Installed onshore wind and solar capacity (GW) and targets (%) (g CO2e/kWh) and targets -50% -4% 15 -98% -86% 36.2 34.6 462 99 86 75 18.1 6.8 5.6 5 131 17 65 0.8 1.0 10 2006 2018 2019 2025 2006 2018 2019 2025 2018 2019 2032 2018 2019 2025 2018 2019 2025 target target target target target 38 Programmes to align our business with climate science Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 39 Programme 5 Greener combined heat and 6 Green energy integration Programme 7 Financing green overview overview power plants Societal Green energy deployment Green and reliable energy system Societal Sustainable finance challenge challenge As coal is the most widely used source of power and the most New technologies that can help balance supply and demand According to the IPCC, the world must invest USD 2.4 trillion Implementing TCFD carbon-intensive fossil fuel, it must be phased out to limit of green energy and that use green power to decarbonise in clean energy every year towards 2035, representing about recommendations climate change. industry must be deployed to fully decarbonise the world’s 2.5% of global GDP, to stop global warming at 1.5ºC. energy use. Over the past two years, we have assessed the impact that climate change can have on the resilience Our approach We phase out coal from our combined heat and power (CHP) We deploy battery storage solutions with some of our Our approach We aim to only use green financing instruments starting in of our business by implementing the Task Force on plants in Denmark. We replace coal with certified sustainable green energy projects. We also explore solutions to produce 2019 and going forward to progress our green transformation biomass or close down coal-fired capacity. renewable hydrogen to displace fossil fuels in sectors that are and continue the global build-out of renewable energy. These Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recomdifficult to electrify, such as heavy industry and transport. instruments include green bonds or green loans. We are comendations. founders of the Corporate Forum on Sustainable Finance and members of the Green Bond Principles. A climate scenario analysis was the most important Our progress • We have converted six of our seven central CHP plants. • We took the decision to integrate a 40MW storage facility Our progress • We issued green senior bonds of GBP 900m and NTD 12bn action identified in the initial gap analysis of Ørsted’s • In 2019, we completed the conversion of Asnæs Power into the design of our Permian Energy Center. This enables as well as a green hybrid bond of EUR 600m, adding to our implementation of the recommendations. In 2019, Station to run on sustainable biomass. The new biomass us to store energy generated by the solar farm for up to one EUR 750m green senior bond and EUR 500m green hybrid we conducted this climate analysis focusing on risks unit generated first power in November. hour. bond, both issued in 2017. • The last remaining coal-fired CHP plant, located in Esbjerg, • In 2019, we have grown our renewable hydrogen business • We established a green revolving credit facility of NTD in our offshore wind business, which generated 87% will be closed by 1 April 2023 at the latest. This is later in the following ways: 25bn with 15 banks in Taiwan. This was the first time of our EBITDA. As we have transformed our business than originally anticipated due to a decision by the Danish – In the UK, we began a green hydrogen feasibility study to Taiwanese state-owned banks were involved in financing model from fossil fuel-based to green, it was most Energy Agency to allow the municipality of Esbjerg longer develop the delivery of low-cost, zero-carbon hydrogen offshore wind. time to build a replacement plant. Consequently, our target at scale. We have also created the first ever UK fuel• We launched a new 'Green finance framework' to support relevant to focus the analysis on physical climate to use zero coal by 2023 had to be amended. Instead, we trading contract for green hydrogen certificates. our aim to use only green financing instruments going risks than on transition risks. will fully stop using coal from 1 April 2023 at the latest. – In Denmark, we have entered an agreement with five forward. partners to build a 2MW electrolysis plant including • We continued implementing the TCFD recommendations, hydrogen storage, called H2RES. Green power will be including conducting a scenario analysis. Two scenarios were considered: 1.5-2°C and 3-4°C used to produce renewable hydrogen to power 20-30 temperature rises. In both scenarios, Ørsted is well buses, and it will also be tested in lorries and taxis. positioned to manage potential physical impacts, such as changes to wind patterns, sea conditions Actions to Successfully phase out coal in 2023 and substitute the use of Apply the right mix of renewable energy technologies for Actions to Continue to only use green financing instruments for all our or precipitation, and extreme temperatures. This is become future-fit natural gas and oil with sustainable alternatives. each project to maximise project effectiveness. become future-fit future financing. because we can gradually factor climate change resilience into the engineering design of each new Our governance The EVP of our Markets & Bioenergy business unit is Accountability for storage projects lies with the EVP of our Our governance Accountability for green financing lies with our CFO. Our project. accountable for the conversion of our heat and power plants. Onshore business unit. For hydrogen projects, it lies with the Sustainability Committee approves allocation of green bond EVP of our Offshore business unit. proceeds. To strengthen climate governance, we have introduced climate KPIs for the Executive Board (CEO and Policy and link to • ESG performance report: Sections 2.4 and 2.10 • ESG performance report: Section 2.1 Policy and link to • Ørsted Green finance framework more information more information • Green bonds investor letter 2019 CFO), tying their cash-based incentive scheme to • CICERO green finance framework second opinion 2019 Ørsted’s share of green energy and carbon-emission reductions. International • Paris Agreement • Paris Agreement International • Green Bond Principles (ICMA) frameworks • IPCC Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5ºC • IPCC Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5ºC frameworks • Green Loan Principles (ICMA) The TCFD recommendations are helping us to conof reference of reference • EU Action Plan on Sustainable Finance tinuously improve our understanding of climate-re• TCFD recommendations lated financial risks and opportunities and disclose SDG contribution 7.2: We increase the share of renewable energy in the global 9.4: We develop and adopt a greater range of clean and SDG contribution it in a useful way to our investors. As such, the recomenergy mix. environmentally sound technologies. mendations can guide companies towards running more climate-resilient businesses, while also helping Indicators Indicators Coal consumption (thousand tonnes) Installed storage capacity (MWac) Green financing Avoided emissions investors allocate capital in a manner that supports and targets and targets proceeds allocated to from allocated green the green transition. offshore wind projects bond proceeds (DKK billion) (million tonnes CO2e) 1.2 Read more about our work to align with TCFD recommendations in our annual report. 10.2 17.9 1.1 2.1 20 21 0.6 0.8 6.1 1.6 0.2 0 1 2018 2019 2023 target 2018 2019 Total 2017 2018 2019 Total 2017 2018 2019 Total 40 Programmes to address potential impacts of the green energy transiton Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 41 Programme 8 Sourcing of certified sustainable 9 Protecting biodiversity Programme 10 Local communities 11 Resource management overview overview biomass Societal Biomass sustainability Biodiversity impacts and changes to ecosystems; use of the Societal Local socio-economic impacts Reuse and recycling of materials challenge ocean and land for green energy challenge To ensure significant carbon savings compared to coal, the Communities expect renewable energy companies to support Reducing, reusing, and recycling waste materials are wooden biomass used for energy generation must meet strict The ocean is Earth's largest ecosystem and its overuse affects local job creation and socio-economic development. necessary to limit the impact on natural resources and lower sustainability criteria. biodiversity, coastal communities, and economic activities. carbon emissions. Our approach We document the sustainability of our wooden biomass We avoid and reduce impacts on ocean ecosystems Our approach We engage in an open and structured dialogue with We work to reduce waste and, where possible, eliminate through independent, third-party certification, in line with throughout the development, construction, and operation of stakeholders in the communities where we operate. Our hazardous waste by improving waste data monitoring and the Danish industry agreement on sustainable wooden all our offshore wind farms. To do so, we undertake detailed projects vary in nature from market to market and so do reporting, incorporating stricter requirements in contracts, biomass. We only source biomass from sustainably managed environmental investigations and impact assessments. We the expectations of regulators, NGOs, community groups, and integrating a circular design into site waste management production forests with ongoing reforestation. The wood engage in dialogue with relevant stakeholders and collaborate and suppliers. We therefore implement a range of initiatives, processes. pellets and chips we use are made from residues. Most often, to identify best-practice on how key species and natural including community benefit funds, apprenticeships and these residues are tree tops, branches, and sawdust from the habitats can be protected in the future build-out of offshore scholarships, and work with local supplier development. regular thinning of forests, or diseased or crooked trees. wind farms. Our progress • We are on track to reach our goal of 100% certified • We contributed to establishing the UN Global Compact Our progress • We engage with key stakeholder groups on an ongoing • We developed internal company-wide policies and sustainable biomass sourced by 2020, and we will maintain (UNGC) Principles for sustainable oceans and have become a basis. Examples of 2019 engagement: processes for waste and water management and are now this level going forward. signatory to them. We also joined the UNGC Action Platform 1. L ocal suppliers: We continue to support the working to define targets. • 96% of the wooden biomass we sourced this year has been for Sustainable Ocean Business. establishment of a US-based offshore wind industry, • We continued to improve waste data quality through more independently certified as sustainable in accordance with • We are taking a major part in the development of regional e.g. through an agreement to develop Maryland’s first frequent on-site visits and training, as well as requiring the Danish industry agreement on sustainable wooden multi-stakeholder groups in Europe to enable the further cooffshore wind staging centre for construction logistics monthly reporting from all sites. biomass. existance of offshore wind with marine industries and nature. and wind farm assembly. • We incorporated stricter requirements on hazardous waste • We report annually on the biomass feedstock types we • In the UK, three offshore wind cables pass through a special 2. F ishers: Together with other developers, we designed a in new tenders, including in offshore operations and in use, countries of harvest, and the carbon emissions from area of conservation, designated for the critically endangered wind turbine layout that safeguard corridors for fishing facility management. production and transport to ensure transparency of our European eel. We carry out detailed environmental boats across all New England lease areas. • We redesigned processes at Avedøre Power Station to approach. The report is available online. consenting processes and ongoing environmental monitoring 3. E ducation: We developed an apprenticeship programme reduce the waste for incineration from the use of biomass to ensure such species are carefully considered. with DaYeh University in Taiwan to train future for energy generation. As a result, the efficiency rate • Our wind farm Brock Island is located in an area where the operations and maintenance technicians. of biomass has increased and waste disposed of for endangered North Atlantic right whale and the vulnerable fin 4. N GOs: We started executing our action plan for the incineration has decreased significantly. whale are found. We therefore sail and operate in compliance North Atlantic cod, as part of our Borssele 1 & 2 offshore • All our fully operational sites work in accordance with ISO with the US Marine Mammal Protection Act. wind project. 14001. • We work closely with relevant stakeholders to understand 5. Local community and minority groups: We co-hosted the key species and to ensure we use best available evidence and cleaning of the wetland reserves in Changhua, Taiwan, knowledge to protect marine mammals and their habitats. and sponsored the Ørsted Great Grimsby, UK, 10km run. Actions to Based on an upcoming scientific study of biomass in the Improve knowledge of the potential cumulative biodiversity Actions to Enhance our approach for early-stage engagement with Collaborate with relevant industries to improve bladebecome future-fit Danish energy system, strengthen the tools used to ensure impacts of a fast, global build-out of offshore wind. become future-fit local communities on new projects. recycling technologies and establish circular-focused short carbon-payback time of the wooden biomass we use. decommissioning plans for our offshore wind farms. Our governance The EVP of our Markets & Bioenergy business unit is The heads of our four Offshore market regions are accountable Our governance The heads of our four Offshore market regions and our The EVP of quality, health, safety, and environment (QHSE) is accountable for our policy and programme. Implementation for our Biodiversity policy. Environmental specialists support Onshore EVP are accountable for progress regarding accountable for waste management. The QHSE Committee lies with our Fuels & Logistics department. implementation through the lifetime of our offshore wind farms. stakeholder and local community engagement. Public and oversees progress, while implementation is carried out by the regulatory affairs in the respective markets are responsible. business units with support from the QHSE department. Policy and link to • Ørsted Sustainable biomass policy • Ørsted Offshore wind biodiversity policy Policy and link to • Ørsted Stakeholder engagement policy • Ørsted Quality, health, safety, and environment policy more information • ESG performance report: Sections 2.4 and 2.10 • ESG performance report: Sections 2.13-2.15 more information • Ørsted Local community engagement policy • ESG performance report: Section 2.12 • Status report for sustainable biomass (only in Danish) International • EU Renewable Energy Directive • The EU Birds and Habitats Directive International • The EU Directive on waste 2008/98 frameworks • Convention on Biological Diversity • UN 2020 Aichi Biodiversity Targets frameworks of reference • Danish industry agreement on sustainable wooden biomass • UNGC Sustainable Ocean Principles of reference SDG contribution 15.2: We minimise our potential negative impacts on forests 14.2 and 15.5: We work to mitigate our impacts on marine SDG contribution 8.3, 8.5 and 11.A: We support decent job creation and 12.4 and 12.5: We work to minimise our waste levels, and promote sustainable forest management. and coastal ecosystems and take action to halt the loss of positive economic, social and environmental development of including hazardous waste, and ensure responsible biodiversity and natural habitats. local communities in the markets where we operate. management of waste that cannot be recycled or reused. Indicators Indicators Certified sustainable wooden biomass sourced (%) Red-List species recorded in areas with Ørsted offshore Local community engagement Total amount of recycled waste (excl. oiland targets and targets operations (number) containing wastewater) (%) 96 100 Local suppliers Education NGOs 83 84 77 1 1 6 8 2018 2019 2020 target Critically Endangered Vulnerable NearFishers Local community and 2018 2019 endangered threatened minority groups 42 Programmes to ensure responsible business practices Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 43 Programme 12 Workplace safety Programme 13 Employee health and well-being 14 Employee development overview overview Societal Safety, health and well-being Societal Safety, health, and well-being Employee development and retention challenge challenge Valuing and protecting personal safety can positively A tragic workplace accident Personal health and well-being are fundamental drivers As global competition for the best talents grows, businesses influence the welfare of communities where businesses in securing a balanced life and enabling good employee must improve in the development and retention of existing operate. In 2019, Ørsted experienced its first fatal workplace performance and engagement. talents and engage new talents from different backgrounds. accident in seven years. An employee of one of our Our approach We strive to create a safe workplace for employees, contractors died in a serious accident while cleaning Our approach We implement a holistic approach to physical, social and We have built a culture of continuous development, with contractors, and visiting suppliers, and work to achieve a silo at the Avedøre Power Station in Denmark. psychological health and mental well-being at work through individual development as a starting point. Development best-in-class safety. We are moving towards a proactive We have been – and still are – deeply affected by our framework Ørsted Life. We train and support managers opportunities are provided through on-the-job experience, approach where we actively search for improvement points in science-based stress prevention, and we use data and networks, and formal learning. We provide digital and and incorporate learnings in cooperation with contractors to his death, and have been in close contact with his research to develop health and well-being initiatives. We offer in-person learning opportunities for all employees through embed safety in our workplace culture. relatives, the contractor, and our own employees to our employees access to a range of services and activities the Ørsted Academy. Additionally, we have tailored highoffer support and assistance. that can be implemented during the working day. potential programmes for selected early-career talents, senior specialists, managers, and executives. Following the accident, an independent investigaOur progress • Unfortunately, in 2019, we experienced a contractor tion was conducted, and improvement measures Our progress • This year, more than 3,000 of our employees have made • We published our first Learn every day and High potential fatality. The last time we experienced a fatality was in use of readily available health and well-being services, development catalogues to inform employees on implemented. These measures include additional 2012. including fitness, vitality, and stress-prevention offerings. development opportunities. • We are rolling out the QHSE culture programme, Plan Care digital and manual inspection methods before enter• More than 2,000 of our office-based employees have • We launched eight talent pipelines with key talent and Communicate, in the areas of our business with the highest ing silos and improved safety procedures to ensure participated in initiatives promoting physical activity during capability-based forums sponsored by executive and senior risks of incidents. We are focusing on five dimensions: the working day. vice presidents. that plants, machines, and silos are safe before any – Taking decisions based on relevant and valid data • We introduced an initiative to have our employees learn • We increased our investment in the Ørsted Academy, both – Having and following adequate and clear processes work takes place. techniques to recharge their brain, and prevent stress and in-person and digitally. – Assessing risk and acting accordingly fatigue. • We gathered 400 senior managers from all Ørsted – Growing a culture of continuous improvement • We strengthened means of addressing bullying and locations for a day-long conference entitled Powered Safety has the highest priority at Ørsted. We have – Influencing our supply chain harassment with an updated whistleblower hotline for by talent, where we presented our talent development • All our fully operational sites operate in accordance with been working to continuously measure our safety employees, suppliers, and communities. ambition and explained their role in implementing it. ISO 45001 performance and act on both the actual and the potential severity of all registered injuries. As a result, we have significantly improved the safety perforActions to Continue to embed QHSE in our working culture through joint mance of employees, contractors, and suppliers Actions to Develop digital services for health and well-being and gather Continue the capability-building of managers and support become future-fit efforts with our contractors and suppliers. become future-fit health data across locations. employees to take ownership of their own development. working on our sites over the past decade. This is Our governance The EVP of QHSE is accountable for safety, while the reflected in our improved TRIR score, which has gone Our governance Accountability lies with our Chief Human Resources Officer. Accountability for our talent strategy lies with the Executive QHSE Committee oversees the progress. The Health & from 11.3 in 2010 to 4.9 in 2019. This means that we Committee, while the People & Development team Safety management team is responsible for the overall spearhead the implementation. have reduced the number of incidents entailing implementation of our safety management systems. medical treatment or which result in absence, per working hour, by more than half. Policy and link to • Ørsted Quality, health, safety, and environment policy Policy and link to • ESG performance report: Section 3.1 • ESG performance report: Section 3.1 more information • ESG performance report: Section 3.4 more information • Annual report, pages 10, 49-51 But even one accident is one too many. We need to stay vigilant to prevent accidents of any type occurring, to ensure that Ørsted is a safe workplace for our International • ISO 45001 International • WHO Healthy workplaces: A model for action employees, contractors and suppliers alike. frameworks frameworks • NIOSH Total Worker Health of reference of reference In late 2019, we unfortunately also experienced a SDG contribution 8.8: We contribute to safe working environments through our traffic accident involving an Ørsted employee in a SDG contribution 3.4: We work to promote mental health and mental wellsafety approach and targets. being. company van where a member of the public was tragically killed. We are deeply saddened by this Indicators accident. Indicators Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) Employees experiencing stress (%) Employee learning and development and targets and targets (per million hours worked) (index 0-100) 4.7 4.9 76 77 80 9.4 9.7 9.4 2.9 2018 2019 2025 traget 2017 2018 2019 2018 2019 2020 target 44 Programmes to ensure responsible business practices Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 45 Programme 15 Employee satisfaction 16 Employee diversity and inclusion Programme 17 Good business conduct overview overview Societal Employee development and retention Diversity and equal opportunity Engaging youth in the fight against Societal Business ethics and transparency challenge challenge Satisfied employees are more likely to thrive in the workplace, Respecting diversity and promoting an inclusive workplace climate change Corruption, bribery, and other fraudulent practices can leading to higher motivation. culture can help encourage and value personal differences. impact society by destabilising institutions and undermining fair business competition. As the future leaders, children and youth will Our approach We measure employee satisfaction and motivation through We promote, encourage, and advocate for a culture where play an important role in ensuring sustainable Our approach We prohibit all forms of bribery, corruption, and kickbacks, an annual employee engagement survey to ensure they different perspectives are valued and leveraged, and where it societies. When they hear about climate change given or received, whether direct or indirect. We promote can thrive in their working environment. We measure the is safe to speak up. To do so, we set clear expectations of all compliance internally and with our business partners through perception of Ørsted as a workplace, including daily tasks, managers and leaders in terms of their role. We also integrate and extreme weather events on the news today, due diligence, training, and reporting of misconduct, including workload, and relationships with managers. The responses diversity in the Ørsted recruitment process, including a it can create confusion, worry, and even fear. We through our whistleblower hotline. We conduct country risk are used to identify actions at manager, department, and requirement to select diverse candidates, and we engage must replace this with knowledge and optimism assessments and business partner due diligence through our company level. with relevant industry organisations. ‘Know your counterparty’ programme. When we engage with about how we can fight this global challenge and authorities and political stakeholders, we follow regulations the solutions we already have. It is critical that and our stakeholder engagement policy. children understand the impacts on our planet Our progress • We achieved our 2020 target a year early, as our overall • We increased the representation of women in the and feel empowered to take the action needed to Our progress • We updated our policy on ‘Good business conduct’ to satisfaction and motivation ticked up from 76 to 77. Leadership Conference, which comprises of our top-100 include best practice across all markets where we operate. • This result places us in the top 10% among peer managers. We maintained the proportion of women in preserve our planet. Awareness campaigns on the updated policy are ongoing. benchmarking companies. It is our target to remain among middle management. • We updated the ‘Know your counterparty’ screening the top 10%. • For our high-potential talent programmes, we set a 30% That is why, in addition to engaging girls in STEM programme to further strengthen our risk-based due • 94% of our employees have responded to the 2019 survey, target for female representation. diligence process for business partners in mergers and providing a strong foundation for the results. • In the UK, we played a central role in the UK Offshore Wind careers, Ørsted is engaging school children in acquisitions, joint ventures, and other partnerships. Sector deal, which commits the industry to move from climate literacy education. We have developed • We are conducting on-site compliance trainings across all 16% women in 2019 to a minimum of 33% by 2030. To a number of initiatives to educate children on Ørsted sites. enable this, Ørsted UK sponsors initiatives to build diversity • We ensure compliance with relevant regulations, including champions, promote learning and engagement, and climate change and the actions they can take to GDPR. establish employee networks for women, LGBT+, BAME, and help preserve it. disability groups. • In Denmark, our staff acts as Ørsted science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) troops to engage In 2019, we published a children’s book titled ‘Is this school girls with STEM careers. my home?’ This book was meant as a tool to help • For the second year in a row, we were official sponsors of parents start talking about climate change with Copenhagen Pride. their young children. It was published in Danish, Actions to Our Group Executive Management to continue to engage Continue the capability-building of managers. Partner with English, Taiwanese, and German. Through our partActions to Ensure our Good business conduct policy stays up to date become future-fit directly with our organisation, so all employees understand external organisations to progress the agenda in the industry. nership with WWF Denmark, we also developed become future-fit and covers the challenges in the new markets we enter. how their work contributes to our global company vision. a range of school teaching materials to support Our governance Accountability lies with the Chief Human Resources Officer. Accountability lies with our Chief Human Resources Officer. climate literacy in primary school. Over 3,000 Our governance Our Board of Directors has approved our good business Group Executive Management and the Cooperation CommitImplementation of diversity and inclusion and women in school classes across Denmark have requested the conduct policy. Accountability for the policy lies with tee, comprising of employee represantives, oversee the results management initiatives is led by our People & Development material for use in classes. our Chief Legal Officer, while our in-house legal team is of the satisfaction survey. Our People & Development functeam. responsible for day-to-day implementation, with support tion conducts the survey and oversees improvement actions. from compliance officers in our business units. Finally, we joined forces with astronauts from around the world to create a virtual reality Space Policy and link to • ESG performance report: Section 3.1 • Ørsted Global diversity and inclusion policy Policy and link to • Ørsted Good business conduct policy Safari. We believe that if more people experience more information • ESG performance report: Sections 3.2 and 3.3 more information • Ørsted Stakeholder engagement policy Earth like astronauts do, it will create a greater • ESG performance report: Section 4.4 sense of responsibility for our shared home and International • UN Convention on Discrimination Against Women help inspire climate action. International • Anti-corruption regulations in the countries where we frameworks • UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business frameworks operate, including the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign of reference of reference Corrupt Practices Act. SDG contribution 5.5: We work to ensure women’s full and effective SDG contribution 16.5: We strive to help tackle corruption and bribery through participation and equal opportunities for all in the workplace. due diligence, training, compliance, and misconduct reporting. Indicators Indicators Employee satisfaction (scale 0-100) Women in Leadership Women in middle Substantiated whistleblower cases (number) and targets and targets Conference (%) management (%) 2 3 We aim to remain in the top 10% in a benchmark of peer companies. 30 25 25 22 76 77 77 Substantiated cases transferred to the police (number) 13 1 0 10 2018 2019 2020 target 2018 2019 2023 2018 2019 2023 2018 2019 target target 46 Programmes to ensure responsible business practices Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 47 Programme 18 Responsible business partners programme Programme 19 Information and cyber security 20 Responsible tax practices overview overview Societal Business partner conduct Societal Information security and cyberattacks Responsible tax challenge challenge Labour and human rights, corruption, and environmental risks Respecting human rights in the With growing cyber-security threats, businesses must increase By paying tax and supporting international tax reform, in the supply chain must be managed to mitigate impacts on green energy transition efforts to protect critical infrastructure and information companies contribute to the development of the societies workers, communities, and the natural environment. assets. where they operate, the creation of well-functioning tax systems and stable institutions conducive of business. Human rights play an important role in societies, Our approach We have more than 22,000 suppliers, and we work to ensure ensuring that all human beings can live with dignity Our approach We work to ensure the security of corporate information and We are transparent in our tax reporting and voluntarily that they follow international standards for responsible and freedom. At Ørsted, we work to respect human critical infrastructure through a risk-based approach and in disclose country-specific information about our tax position in business as outlined in our Code of conduct (CoC) for business close collaboration with our business partners. We provide our annual report. We aim to comply not only with the letter partners. As part of our procurement, we follow four steps: rights and are committed to identifying, mitigating tailored compliance support and training and awareness of the law, but also the underlying intent to ensure that we • Suppliers commit to our Code. and reporting on any adverse impacts that our busito our partners, so they are able to incorporate and apply pay the right amount of tax, on time, in the countries where • We conduct risk screenings to identify suppliers for further ness may have, in line with the UN Guiding Principles security measures in their daily operations. we operate. We engage in dialogue with stakeholders and engagement based on spend, country, and category risks. cooperate with the authorities in the markets where we • We do on-site visits to assess conformity with our Code. for Business and Human Rights (UNGP). operate to support effective tax systems. • We agree on improvements plans with suppliers and follow up through dialogue and further assessments. We identify our most salient human rights through screenings and our whistleblower hotline available Our progress • We have conducted 439 supplier screenings and 38 Our progress • We carried out global campaigns to promote secure • We continued to publish country-by-country data on our assessments in 2019. to externals, too. We continuously adapt relevant behaviour in the workplace, ongoing phishing simulations tax positions in the annual report, page 120. • While most of our suppliers perform at a high level, we sustainability programmes to mitigate key and new and communications, and customised awareness events for • We participated in the Tax Dialogues, a roundtable of have identified some risks. They include temporary workers certain employee groups. businesses, investors, and NGOs on tax and corporate risks, and report on progress in our Sustainability with contracts that, in practice, prevent employment • We developed a new impact assessment method to responsibility, led by Oxfam-Ibis in Denmark. termination due to debt bondage, withholding of migrant report and our Modern Slavery Act statement. better measure the impact of cyber risks throughout the • We engaged in public consultation to support the worker passports, suppliers with insufficient working hour company. In 2019, we used this new method to assess all development of legislation on international tax affairs management systems, and excessive overtime. All have our information and operational technology applications. and transparency. This year, we provided feedback on In our operations, our potential human rights risks been addressed satisfactorily by our suppliers. • We implemented a new information security e-learning for the Danish proposal to introduce new CFC legislation • We rolled out an early engagement approach in new highare employee-related, specifically safe working conall employees and consultants. and updates on the TP legislation (L48), and on the OECD risk markets. We conduct site assessments prior to contract ditions, discrimination, and overtime and stress-relatproposals regarding Pillar I and Pillar II. signing to strengthen supplier commitment to performance • In the annual survey published by the Danish financial news ed burn out. We manage these risks through continuimprovements. media company Økonomisk Ugebrev, we were recognised • We implemented an anti-harassment approach for vessel ous improvements in the sustainability programmes as the most sustainable company on tax matters among suppliers with a focus on sexual harassment and bullying. Workplace safety, Employee diversity and inclusion, the top 100 Danish companies. and Employee health and well-being. Actions to Address social challenges in the mineral and metal supply Actions to Continue to monitor and assess current and emerging cyberTo meet increasing compliance and reporting requirements, become future-fit chains. become future-fit security threats and ways to adequately adapt and respond we are to maintain focus on transparency and accountability As we further expand our global business, we are to protect our assets. in tax payments and reporting. likely to encounter new challenges. In new marOur governance Accountability lies with the Head of Stakeholder Relations, Our governance Accountability lies with the Chief Information Security Officer. Accountability lies with our CFO. Our Board of Directors has kets and onshore activities, we will consult with who also chairs the Responsible Business Partner (RPP) Our Information Security Board oversees the progress of the approved the Responsible tax policy. Our global tax team Steering Committee. The Committee has approved our Code rights-holders we have not previously engaged with. information security project portfolio. manages the daily implementation of the policy. for business partners. Implementation is carried out by our We are therefore adapting our due diligence and RPP team in collaboration with procurement officers. stakeholder engagement approach. Policy and link to • Ørsted Code of conduct for business partners Policy and link to • Ørsted Global tax policy more information • UK Modern Slavery Act statement In our supply chain, the scale and severity of the more information • ESG performance report: Section 4.4 • ESG performance report: Section 4.5 human rights risks we face are greater than in our • Annual report pages 115-124 operations. Through our global expansion, we are esInternational • ILO Core Conventions tablishing supply chains in new, higher-risk countries, International • International standards, including ISF Framework, NIST, and • OECD BEPS frameworks • UN GP on Business and Human Rights and have mainly identified risks of forced labour. frameworks IEC 62443. • EU Directives, e.g. ATAD, DAC6 of reference • OECD Guidelines for MNEs We manage these risks through our Responsible of reference • Regulatory requirements in the countries where we operate, • Applicable local and international tax legislation • UK Modern Slavery Act and UK Bribery Act including EU NIS and NERC CIP. business partner programme (RPP). SDG contribution 8.7, 8.8, and 16.5: We seek to minimise potential negative SDG contribution 16.6: We seek to contribute to effective, accountable and impacts on labour rights, modern slavery, safety, corruption, We work closely with suppliers to ensure implementransparent tax institutions at all levels. and bribery in our supply chains. tation of improvement actions as we believe that a Indicators collaborative approach is imperative for sustained Indicators Business partner due diligence (numbers) Secure workplaces Global corporate income tax paid in 2019 and targets results. and targets (DKK billion) We carry out ongoing, global campaigns In 2019, we continued to align our RPP with the for secure behaviour in the workplace. 439 UNGPs and identified focus areas for the coming years. We did so with twentyfifty, a human rights consultancy company. Going forward, a key focus 4.8 area will be risks related to the use of minerals and 120 metals in our supply chain. We will mitigate these 38 risks through collaboration with suppliers, NGOs, as well as sector and multi-stakeholder initiatives. CoC CoC CoC improvesceenings assessments ment actions opened 48 Programmes to ensure responsible business practices Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 49 Sustainability programmes overview The table provides a summary overview of our sustainability programmes, including the impact on SDGs, the societal challenges addressed, indicators and targets where relevant, and our performance in 2019. In addition to our key contribution to SDGs 7 and 13, we impact more SDGs through our sustainability programmes. The programmes are grouped in three categories. Performance SDG SDG contribution Societal challenge Ørsted programme Indicator Target 2019 To align our 13 We will become carbon neutral to help limit climate change. Climate action Energy efficiency 1. Decarbonisation of energy generation and operations (scope 1-2) Green energy share (%) Carbon intensity (g CO2e/kWh) 2025: 99 2025: 10 86 65 business with Share of electric vehicles (%) Green power for own consumption (%) 2025: 100 2019: 100 21 100 climate science Energy savings (GWh) 2022: 15 Carbon neutral by 2025 8.8 13 We reduce our indirect carbon emissions across our entire carbon footprint to help Climate action 2. Decarbonisation of supply chain and energy trading Reduced carbon emissions (%) 2032: 50 4 limit climate change. (scope 3) Carbon neutral by 2040 7.2 We increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Green energy deployment 3.  Deployment of offshore wind Installed offshore wind capacity (GW) 2025: 15 6.8 7.2 We increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Green energy deployment 4. Deployment of onshore renewable energy Installed onshore wind and solar capacity (GW) 2025: 5 1.0 7.2 We increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Green energy deployment 5. Greener combined heat and power plants Coal consumption (thousand tonnes) 2023: Stop use of coal 0.6 9.4 We develop and adopt a greater range of clean and environmentally sound Green and reliable energy systems 6.  Green energy integration Installed storage capacity (MWac) 21 technologies. Sustainable finance 7. Financing green Green financing proceeds allocated to offshore wind We aim to use green 17.9 projects, total (DKK billion) financing instruments Avoided emissions from allocated green bond in all future financing, 2.1 proceeds, total (million tonnes CO2e) starting in 2019. To address 15.2 We minimise our potential negative impacts on forests and promote sustainable forest management. Biomass sustainability 8. Sourcing of certified sustainable biomass Certified sustainable wooden biomass sourced (%) 2020: 100 96 potential 14.2 We work to mitigate our impacts on marine and costal ecosystems and take action Biodiversity impacts and changes to ecosystems 9. Protecting biodiversity Red-List species recorded in areas with Ørsted impacts of the 15.5 to halt the loss of biodiversity and natural habitats. Use of the ocean and land for green energy offshore operations (number): • Critically endangered 1 green energy • Endangered 1 • Vulnerable 6 transformation • Near-threatened 8 8.3 We support decent job creation and positive economic, social and environmental Local socio-economic impacts 10. Local communities We engage in dialogue with stakeholders and 8.5 development of local communities in the markets where we operate. invest in community development funds, skill-based 11.A initiatives, and local supplier development. 12.4 We work to minimise our waste levels, including hazardous waste, and ensure Reuse and recycling of materials 11. Resource management Total amount of recycled waste (excl. oil-containing 84 12.5 responsible management of waste that cannot be recycled or reused. wastewater) (%) To ensure 8.8 We contribute to safe working environments through our safety approach and targets. Safety, health, and well-being 12. Workplace safety TRIR per million hours worked (number) Fatal accidents (number) 2025: 2.9 4.9 1 responsible 3.4 We work to promote mental health and mental well-being. Safety, health, and well-being 13. Employee health and well-being Employees experiencing stress (%) 9.4 business practices Employee development and retention 14. Employee development Employee learning and development (index 0-100) 2020: 80 77 Employee development and retention 15. Employee satisfaction Employee satisfaction (index 0-100) 2020: 77 77 5.5 We work to ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities Diversity and equal opportunity 16. Employee diversity and inclusion Women in leadership positions (%) for everyone in the workplace. • Leadership Conference 2023: 22 13 • Middle management 2023: 30 25 16.6 We strive to help tackling corruption and bribery through due diligence, training, Business ethics and transparency 17. Good business conduct Substantiated whistleblower cases (number) 3 compliance, and misconduct reporting. Substantiated cases transferred to the police 0 (number) 8.7 We seek to minimise potential negative impacts on labour rights, modern slavery, Business partner conduct 18. Responsible business partners programme CoC screenings (number) 439 8.8 safety, corruption, and bribery in our supply chains. CoC assessments (number) 38 16.5 CoC improvement actions opened (number) 120 Information security and cyberattacks 19. Information and cyber security We carry out ongoing, global campaigns for secure behaviour in the workplace. 16.6 We seek to contribute to effective, accountable and transparent tax institutions at Responsible tax 20. Responsible tax practices Global corporate income tax paid (billion DKK) 4.8 all levels. 50 Ørsted Sustainability report 2019 51 Sustainability governance Sustainability ratings and memberships UN Global Compact participant Board of Directors Provides strategic guidance on sustainability in Ørsted. Member of the action platform Member of the action platform 'Pathways to Low-Carbon and 'Sustainable Ocean Business'. Through Approves the sustainability targets in our corporate strategy and monitors that they are achieved. Resilient Development'. Through this, we aim to contribute to ensuring this, we aim to serve as a catalyst that an accelerated use of oceanApproves our Sustainability commitment, top societal challenges, and our annual sustainability report. for enhancing action to meet the based solutions takes place sustainably ambitions of the Paris Agreement to meet the ambitions of the Paris Chair and the UN SDGs. Agreement and the UN SDGs. Thomas Thune Andersen, Chairman of the Board Memberships and alliances Audit & Risk Committee A board committee appointed by the Board of Directors. Internal Audit Supervises the integrity of the sustainability reporting, the presentation hereof in the annual Verifies the effectiveness of our report, and the internal control system for non-financial data. Approves the ESG performance sustainability programmes with particular report. focus on compliance and validity of data. Chair Dieter Wemmer, member of the Board Group Executive Management Rating agencies Elaboration and benchmark Score Accountable for our sustainability programmes. Ørsted ranked the most sustainable company in the 1st place Approves annual sustainability materiality assessment and portfolio of sustainability programmes. world in Corporate Knights’ 2020 Global 100 index. Assigns accountability for programmes at executive level. Proposes the sustainability programme targets that are part of our corporate strategy to the Board and monitors that they are achieved. Chair Ørsted awarded the highest possible rating and is recognised as a A Henrik Poulsen, CEO global leader on climate action. Compliance Committee Sustainability Committee QHSE Committee MSCI Ørsted awarded the highest possible rating by MSCI for AAA three consecutive years. Appointed by the Group Executive Appointed by the Group Executive Appointed by the Group Executive Management. Management. Management. Ørsted awarded highest possible ‘Leader’ status being in top 7 83 of 100 among 188 utilities and no. 1 among direct market cap peers. Monitors our compliance with laws, rules, Oversees that we live up to our Oversees that we live up to our quality, standards, and internal codes of conduct Sustainability Commitment, reviews our health, safety, and environment (QHSE) that apply to our business areas, including sustainability strategy and monitors strategic priorities, reviews our QHSE within sustainability. performance of sustainability programmes, strategy, and monitors performance of and approves the ESG data set. QHSE programmes. Ørsted placed as no. 1 among all utilities and B+ awarded ‘Prime’ status. Chair Chair Chair Henrik Poulsen, CEO Marianne Wiinholt, CFO Anders Lindberg, EVP Ørsted in top 2% of companies in the industry and awarded a gold 78 of 100 Business units and shared functions label for being among the top performers assessed by EcoVadis. Conduct annual sustainability materiality assessment, establish our sustainability programmes, and ensure progress by: • developing policies and procedures • setting targets Ørsted awarded the highest possible rating in the A • defining and measuring performance indicators GRESB Infrastructure Public Disclosure Assessment. • managing and reporting on performance.
