SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 02 03 OPENING STAT TAT TA EMENTS VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 Contents OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON Message from our Chairman 04 Corporate governance 27 Managing our risks 30 CORPORAT A E AT Message from our co-Chief Executive 06 Ethics, transparency and governance 32 GOVERNANCE O Fostering digital entrepreneurship 33 FOSTERING DIGITA TA T L 2019 overview 08 Case studies 36 Environmental impact 10 ENTREPRENEURSHIP Social and economic impact 11 Bridging the skills and literacy gap 39 Governance update 12 Case studies 42 BRIDGING THE SKILLS About VEON 13 Our commitment to sustainable 47 VEON at a glance 14 business AND LITERACY GAP Our three strategic pillars 15 Data privacy and cyber security 49 VEON and the Sustainable 16 Service quality 51 Development Goals Digital innovation 53 VEON’s value creation approach 18 Digital inclusion 56 OUR COMMITMENT TO Empowerment through technology 20 Ta T lent management and skills development 59 abilitt y stra Sustaina ateg y 21 Enviro onme ental management 64 SUSTA T INABLE BUSINESS TA Sustainability programme framework 22 Our progrress on the Sustainable 65 Developm ment Goals OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTA TA T INABLE About this report 71 Our sustaiinability standards 75 Independeent assurance statement 76 DEVELOPMENT GOALS ABOUT THIS 36 37 38 42 ALGERIA REPORT BANGLADESH PA K I S TA N RUSSIA A guiding light Nurturing innovation, Addressing for tech leadership income inequality and teamwork DEFINITIONS OF start-ups 43 44 45 46 AT A ERIAL TOPICS MAT UKR AINE PA K I S TA N ARMENIA BANGLADESH Digital skills Promoting ‘active’ Transforming Harnessing unleash creative and ‘creative’ digital skills social media for REPORT thinking learning learning social good DISCLAIMER 04 05 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 Message from our OVERVIEW Chairman ABOUT VEON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE VEON’s 2019 Sustainability Report is released during one of On behalf of VEON’s Board of Directors, let me express my gratitude to our employees the most tumultuous periods in recent history. The COVID-19 who have responded so quickly and pandemic is a health, financial and societal crisis on a scale compassionately to help those customers FOSTERING DIGITAL affected by the pandemic. They have once that few of us could have imagined until recently. again demonstrated the positive impact ENTREPRENEURSHIP of telecommunications by keeping friends, families and work colleagues connected while they are physically apart. The primary task of the Board is to grasp BRIDGING THE SKILLS the opportunities available to the company while balancing these against strategic, AND LITERACY GAP operational, financial and legal risks in accordance with our corporate governance. Pleasingly, the Board includes a mix of people with various consumer-centric, digital and finance backgrounds which is a OUR COMMITMENT TO great advantage in today’s rapidly changing business environment. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS I am proud of VEON’s ongoing commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In 2019, through our digital OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE entrepreneurship and digital skills and literacy programmes along with responsible business practices, we made strong DEVELOPMENT GOALS progress in realising the Goals most relevant to our business Integrity is at the centre of VEON’s corporate governance structure. I am pleased that VEON’s focus on ethics, compliance and internal controls – along with improvements ABOUT THIS REPORT in recent years – enabled the company to conclude, in 2019, the Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the US Department of Justice, ending its compliance monitorship. DEFINITIONS OF I would like, on behalf of the Board, to thank MATERIAL TOPICS all of our employees for their tremendous work that ultimately empowers our customers’ ambitions. REPORT Ursula Burns DISCLAIMER Chairman 06 07 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 Message from our co-Chief OVERVIEW Executive Officers* ABOUT VEON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2019 was a remarkable year for VEON, where we Additionally, our operating companies are running mass awareness campaigns delivered solid growth and successfully passed important to sensitise the public about the relevant compliance, governance and sustainability milestones. symptoms to be aware of, and measures to FOSTERING DIGITAL VEON is now better placed to help all our stakeholders prevent the virus from spreading. prosper in the digital age. We saw for ourselves the positive impact of ENTREPRENEURSHIP our sustainability programme in 2019. From the National Incubator Centre for future The positive impact of VEON on the Sustainability is ingrained entrepreneurs in Pakistan to GoCamp for communities where we operate has never children in Ukraine, not to mention the host in VEON’s global business BRIDGING THE SKILLS been clearer. The COVID-19 pandemic, which of other programmes we support, it is clear began in early 2020, has reinforced the strategy and goes beyond we are a force for good in the communities fundamental role that our operating companies corporate philanthropy. It is where we operate. AND LITERACY GAP play in connecting people and providing vital centred around the notion of VEON remains fully supportive of the UN digital services. Since the pandemic struck, our first priority as co-CEOs has been the health using technology to empower Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As a responsible company operating in ten and safety of our employees and everyone in communities. Our sustainability developing countries, we view the SDGs OUR COMMITMENT TO our operating countries. strategy focuses on fostering as an opportunity to drive socio-economic We have been proud to see our employees digital entrepreneurs, development in our host countries. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS stepping up to help. Through free data and addressing digital literacy Over the past two years, the SDGs have minutes for customers stranded abroad, free gaps and encouraging greater helped shape VEON’s social investments access to vital health sites and hotlines, special sustainability in those countries and we are pleased that this year’s report rates for doctors and nurses and waived late includes our progress against the four SDGs fees, our employees have responded with care where we operate where we can have the most impact: Quality OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE and kindness. Education; Decent Work and Economic Growth; Gender Equality; and Industry, Innovation and VEON is also helping local communities Infrastructure. through humanitarian assistance, including the *In February 2020 VEON Ltd. (the “Company” or “VEON”) donation of testing kits, respiratory monitors announced the appointment of Sergi Herrero and Kaan As we look to the future as co-CEOs, DEVELOPMENT GOALS and ventilators to hospitals along with other Terzioglu as co-Chief Executive Officers, effective from sustainability will continue to be a core part of essential medical equipment. For those with March 1st, 2020. The Company also announced that VEON’s approach to responsible business. limited financial means, we are providing food Ursula Burns, who was appointed as Executive Chairman in March 2018 and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and other provisions where needed. Sergi Herrero and Kaan Terzioglu in December 2018, would remain as the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors (the ”Board”). Co-Chief Executive Officers ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF $8.9 billion 46,492 $4.2 billion MATERIAL TOPICS Total revenue** Total employees EBITDA + 9.6% organic YoY REPORT + 3.4% organic YoY (number of employees working 2.5% reported YoY across the Group) + 28.8% reported YoY DISCLAIMER ** All financial information in this report is provided in US dollars OPENING 2019 ABOUT CORPORATE FOSTERING DIGITAL BRIDGING THE SKILLS OUR COMMITMENT TO OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE ABOUT THIS DEFINITIONS OF REPORT 09 STATEMENTS OVERVIEW VEON GOVERNANCE ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND LITERACY GAP SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT GOALS REPORT MATERIAL TOPICS DISCLAIMER 2019 10 11 12 VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OVERVIEW Environmental impact Social and economic impact Governance update 08 10 11 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 OVERVIEW 2019 OVERVIEW 2019 Environmental Social and OVERVIEW impact economic impact ABOUT VEON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At VEON, we are working to reduce the We are committed to making reductions VEON’s network is our most significant environmental impact of our business footprint. year-on-year and are proud to share our contribution to the communities we We prioritise sustainability in all our operations, progress so far. We have achieved reductions serve, as it carries voice and transmits working to ensure we can conduct our business in these emissions largely through beginning data to our 212 million customers. FOSTERING DIGITAL without harming the world around us. our transition from coal-based energy to VEON’s investment in its network and renewable sources such as solar and wind. infrastructure has made significant ENTREPRENEURSHIP In this era of climate change, we recognise the positive social, economic and behavioural urgency of reducing our carbon emissions. These environmental management contributions in our ten operating One of the largest shares of our greenhouse programmes also generate value for our countries. Our services have changed gas emissions is related to energy company by reducing our operating costs. the manner in which our customers consumption in our network. communicate, socialise, interact, shop BRIDGING THE SKILLS and consume. AND LITERACY GAP In addition, VEON’s social investments Total CO2 emissions per unit of traffic are helping to provide education to those (tonnes/terabyte) who previously did not have access to Compliance and transparency Free float of VEON’s shares increased conventional schools. Similarly, we are to 43.8% supporting hundreds of start-ups across Deferred Prosecution Agreement VEON OUR COMMITMENT TO our ten operating countries to help them entered with the U.S. Department of Balance sheet management achieve commercial sustainability and Justice (DOJ) in 2016 and monitorship grow their businesses. required thereunder were concluded Refinanced short-term borrowings SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS and the criminal information was through issuance of USD 700 million in 0.64 A new strategy framework dismissed senior unsecured notes VEON ranked among the top 10% of At 1.7x, balance sheet gearing remained 0.60 0.28 most transparent companies in the Designed to boost VEON’s longcomfortably below 2x tolerance level term growth beyond our fundamental Netherlands by the Dutch government’s (pre-IFRS 16 accounting basis) 2019 Transparency Index OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE connectivity services by driving value for all stakeholders across three Shareholder returns business pillars: Connectivity, New Corporate governance strengthened 0.24 Annual dividend of USD 0.28 Services and Future Assets Sets out VEON’s long-term vision of Enhancement of local Boards with declared for FY 2019 after a year of solid DEVELOPMENT GOALS being a communications and digital independent advisors to increase local operational delivery partner that empowers customer expertise and ensure good governance Generated a return on equity (ROE) of ambitions by acting as a digital concierge Co-CEO leadership structure adopted 27% in FY 2019 – among the highest in to guide their choices and connect to support success of our operating the telecommunications industry resources that match their needs companies across a broader set of goals and deliverables 2016 2017 2018 2019 ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF 472 86,287 14% $8.1billion $0.87 billion $0.58 billion MATERIAL TOPICS BTS powered by Reduction in CO2 Economic value Payments to Payments to BTS powered by energyemployees renewable technology efficient technology emissions/unit of distributed governments traffic (taxes and license payments) REPORT (solar or wind energy solutions) (power-saving, hybrid-diesel, free-cooling or outdoor units) (tonnes/terabyte) DISCLAIMER 12 13 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 OVERVIEW 2019 Governance VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OVERVIEW update ABOUT VEON ABOUT CORPORATE VEON GOVERNANCE VEON is committed to delivering the highest standards of corporate governance. Our corporate governance structure is designed to promote integrity in everything we do, and FOSTERING DIGITAL we are committed to responsible and effective governance as a core element of our culture. ENTREPRENEURSHIP VEON will maintain and continuously improve VEON at a glance 14 its governance framework to achieve bestOur business strategy 15 practice standards and optimise informed, VEON and the Sustainable Development Goals 16 efficient and effective decision-making. VEON’s value creation approach 18 Sustainability strategy 21 BRIDGING THE SKILLS We ensure appropriate oversight through: Sustainability programme framework 22 Stakeholder engagement 23 AND LITERACY GAP Active Board supervision of the co-CEOs Materiality assessment 26 Effective oversight of senior management and the operating companies of VEON Ltd. (collectively, the “Group”) through the Group Authority matrix OUR COMMITMENT TO Our commitment to the alignment of management compensation with the longterm interests of company shareholders SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS In order to ensure our Board is as effective as possible, we have brought together a diverse group of uniquely qualified individuals. The effectiveness of our Board’s oversight is OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE enhanced by the following: A majority of the members of our Board are independent as defined in the NASDAQ rules, encouraging independent decisionDEVELOPMENT GOALS making Our female Board chair and the diverse backgrounds of our Board members reflect the Group’s commitment to diversity All of our Board members have relevant industry experience An annual director self-evaluation process ensures the continued effectiveness of ABOUT THIS REPORT the Board in the future DEFINITIONS OF MATERIAL TOPICS REPORT DISCLAIMER 14 15 OPENING STATEMENTS ABOUT VEON ABOUT VEON 2019 VEON at a glance Our strategy OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON VEON provides essential communications and digital Unlocking new sources of long-term incremental value CORPORATE services to 212 million customers in 10 countries. GOVERNANCE VEON is headquartered in the Netherlands and operates FOSTERING DIGITAL in Algeria, Armenia, Bangladesh, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. ENTREPRENEURSHIP VEON logo and Opco logos vertical lockup t en , ics em Eth ag CONNECTIVITY ity bil an BRIDGING THE SKILLS BUSINESS ina m sta isk AND LITERACY GAP su dr e, nc an lia al mp pit Russia Ca co OUR COMMITMENT TO VEON logo and single OpCo logo lockup. Note they must be the same size. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS X X HQ The Netherlands Ukraine Georgia Kazakhstan NEW FUTURE ASSETS X X SERVICES OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Uzbekistan Armenia Kyrgyzstan Leadership, culture, values DEVELOPMENT GOALS Pakistan Algeria Bangladesh 20 OUR CONNECTIVITY BUSINESS OUR NEW SERVICES OUR FUTURE ASSETS ABOUT THIS 22.8 million 19.6 million 3.2 million REPORT financial services users self-care users TV users Mobilising a Transforming customer Imagining tomorrow’s DEFINITIONS OF MATERIAL TOPICS connected world experiences possibilities 10% 212 million VEON is strengthening its networks to bring market-leading Our goal is to be a digital concierge for our customers through VEON is investing in future assets that have the potential REPORT World population Total active subscribers connectivity to our markets providing a range of new services, to define the products and everywhere through the best built around digital technologies services of tomorrow. covered by VEON value voice and data services. wherever people need them. DISCLAIMER 16 17 OPENING STAT TA EMENTS TAT ABOUT VEON 2019 UN Sustainable As a responsible company operating in ten developing countries, we view the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) OVERVIEW Development Goals ABOU UT as an opportunity to drive socio-economic VEON N development in these regions. CORPORAT AT A E GOVERNANCE Quality education Decent work and economic growth FOSTERING DIGITA T L TA Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, promote lifelong learning opportunities for all full and productive employment and decent work for all ENTREPRENEURSHIP BRIDGING THE SKILLS 100 3,500 16,000 200 5,000 20,000 AND LITERACY GAP Children Rural students Students People with Jobs Young people in Armenia learned in Ukraine received in Kyrgyzstan were disabilities have been created by in Pakistan’s Khyber digital skills as a result entrepreneurial skills trained in digital skills have received training start-ups supported by Pakhtunkhwa region OUR COMMITMENT TO of Beeline Armenia’s DO training as part of and literacy, smartphone to boost their digital Jazz Pakistan’s National have taken part in Project. This project was the Kyivstar-backed use and critical Incubation Centre (NIC). digital skills training as a successful pilot for GoCamp programme. thinking, as a result of employability through So far, the NIC has part of Jazz’s Pakistan adding digital skills and a partnership between assisted 140 start-ups. Youth Employment SUSTA T INABLE BUSINESS TA Beeline Russia’s literacy to the national Beeline Kyrgyzstan and Everland programme. Programme in curriculum. partnership with KPITB and the World Bank. OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTA TA T INABLE Gender equality Industry, innovation and infrastructure DEVELOPMENT GOALS Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and foster innovation 100 16,000 37,000 1,300 1m 30,000 ABOUT THIS REPORT Technology Female textile Female students students industry workers and 950 female teachers Residents People Small business DEFINITIONS OF took part in an were empowered with have been trained on of rural villages in in Shymkent were owners International Women’s digital and social media digital skills and literacy Georgia can enjoy able to access 5G MAT A ERIAL TOPICS AT Day-themed hackathon skills as part of through Jazz Smart internet access for the internet during Kyrgyzstan’s AYA Master run by Djezzy in Banglalink’s Learn More, Schools’ interactive, Beeline Kazakhstan’s CRM app. Many don’t collaboration with GDG, Be More programme technology-based a rural expansion 2019 trial. have computers, so this working on innovative in collaboration with programme. scheme by Beeline helps them run their projects that promote Facebook. Georgia. REPORT business from their diversity and inclusion. smartphone. DISCLAIMER 18 19 OPENING STATEMENTS ABOUT VEON 2019 VEON’s value OVERVIEW Financial capital Digital and technological capital Human and intellectual capital We invest the Group’s financial capital Our digital and technological capital includes network infrastructure, customer We create human capital by providing training creation approach to equip and strengthen our operating data management systems and online retail channels. We have introduced selfand development opportunities for our ABOUT businesses, enabling each to offer products care applications allowing customers in many of our operating countries to manage employees, planned with the business’ future VEON and services that benefit our customers their mobile accounts from their smartphones in real time. A large proportion of needs in mind as well as their own personal and the wider communities we serve. people in several of our operating countries remain unbanked. Realising this as progression. As VEON grows, we also seek Financial capital is allocated in order to an opportunity, we develop digital financial services that offer a variety of modern to recruit new talent. These activities are CORPORATE GOVERNANCE generate the long-term returns we require financial tools. These include online and mobile money transfers, bill payments, conducted in accordance with our talent and VEON recognises the importance of the guiding principles of from our investments. We are exposed e-commerce, insurances, debit cards and international remittances. At the same performance management strategy, which is the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Framework. to foreign currency volatility, particularly time, we understand that our business prospects may be harmed in the event based around our goal of creating the VEON Our value chain takes key socio-economic issues into account to the movement of the US dollar against our of cyberattacks or severe systems and network failures. We strive to protect the of the future together, today. FOSTERING DIGITAL operating currencies, which may impact our privacy and security of our customers’ data while simultaneously ensuring that we ensure that we create sustainable, long-term value for our key reported financial performance. deliver good quality and reliable digital services. This includes an ongoing security VEON generates intellectual capital by stakeholders against each of the capitals we draw upon. ENTREPRENEURSHIP risk management programme, prioritising the protection of strategic assets and investing in both employee and product We strive for continuous improvement to identification of any high-risk vendors. development. We recognise that if we are help ensure we operate as efficiently as we unable to hire, retain and motivate key can, through a business structure that best Short-term focus: personnel, we risk not maintaining our Our approach to value creation is driven by We openly recognise the environmental matches our needs and those of both our 1 Building and offering self-care applications to digitise the customer experience. competitive market position. sector-relevant IIRC capitals, which form the impact of our extensive network and its BRIDGING THE SKILLS customers and our investors. We reward our 2 Continuing to develop our strong internal policies and practices to safeguard basis of our value creation model. These carbon footprint. As part of our focus shareholders for their long-term support of the data privacy and security of our customers. We invest in knowledge systems to support capitals illustrate VEON’s interaction with our on environmental sustainability, we have our business through a dividend. 3 Improving the quality and variety of our services through technology-enabled our effectiveness and productivity. This, in AND LITERACY GAP external environment and the resulting social committed to reductions in carbon usage analysis of customer usage patterns in order to reduce churn and encourage turn, allows us to enhance the quality of our and economic value we create over time. year-on-year. We have made strong progress Short-term focus: new customer acquisitions. products and services. in this respect, which we detail in the In our value creation model, we provide environmental management section on page 1 Expanding new digital services to enrich Long-term focus: insights into how VEON’s different capitals 64, although we have not completely removed the experience of our customers and Across our operating countries, we also 1 Building community support to safeguard technology and business OUR COMMITMENT TO create opportunities for us and our key our need for conventional energy. forge long-term relationships with support a variety of digital literacy and infrastructure in remote rural locations within our operating countries. them, based on an understanding of education programmes. These initiatives stakeholders. For example, VEON’s flagship 2 Priming new market segments by offering digital services such as content, their needs. help to drive digital inclusion and empower digital literacy programme helps people Our base stations, for example, are partially mobile health, mobile education and mobile agriculture. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2 Delivering solid operational results by members of our communities to embark shape their own future and, at the same powered through fossil fuels, which have an providing best-in-class services matched on fulfilling careers through which they time, creates a demand for more advanced, adverse environmental impact. To decrease to the demands of our customers. Social and relationship capital can support their families and wider data-driven services including digital payment our emissions, we apply energy-efficiency economic growth. platforms and cloud computing. and management measures across our Long-term focus: We create social and relationship capital by working closely and collaboratively network infrastructure. We continually add OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE 1 Investing in connectivity infrastructure with key stakeholders with the aim to build trust. Our engagements with Short-term focus: In 2019, technological capital gained new more energy-efficient, hybrid and renewable by working with governments and other governments, business partners and our communities are proactive and 1 Seeking new talent to help develop the strategic importance. As a customer-focused energy-powered equipment, both as part of relevant authorities. transparent, and help us to work together in a mutually beneficial manner. In products and services of tomorrow. business, VEON analyses large data sets our network infrastructure expansion and as a 2 Investing in digital financial services to many of the countries in which we operate, the application and interpretation 2 Developing the talent of our existing to better understand usage patterns and replacement for outdated, fossil-fuel-powered help the economically disenfranchised. of laws and regulations is often unclear and may result in unpredictable employees and supporting employee trends. This offers us the opportunity to systems. DEVELOPMENT GOALS 3 Empowering customer ambitions through outcomes. We recognise that non-transparent business relationships can result retention through training schemes. improve our portfolio of products and the development of predictive data-driven in operational risk for the company. This is one of the many reasons why VEON 3 Supporting the development of our services by anticipating our customers’ We operate in competitive markets and services tailored to the individual needs holds its employees and business partners to high ethical and compliance tech hubs and smart schools. needs. At the same time, we carefully the telecommunications industry is highly of each customer. standards. Our global workforce shares five core corporate values: customer safeguard personal information to ensure the capital-intensive. The quality of our services, obsessed, entrepreneurial, innovative, collaborative and truthful. These values Long-term focus: confidentiality, authenticity and integrity of and therefore our overall commercial success, Further information on our dividend policy are deeply ingrained in VEON’s identity, guiding the way we do business and 1 Future-proofing our existing workforce customer data. depends on our ability to keep pace with new and financial performance can be found interact with colleagues, business partners and customers. to meet predicted business demands by developments in technology. This requires ABOUT THIS in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the providing relevant training schemes and developing and innovating products, services Short-term focus: year ended 31st December 2019, filed with identifying development opportunities. REPORT and processes, all of which will require 1 Engaging with business partners for commercially viable strategic partnerships. the Securities and Exchange Commission on 2 Creating compensation plans to attract additional capital in the future. 2 Conducting risk-based evaluations of prospective and existing business partners. 13th March 2020 (“Form 20-F”). high-calibre prospective employees and 3 Partnering with credible NGOs to create impactful corporate responsibility initiatives. retain our existing staff. For each of the IIRC capitals, we define the DEFINITIONS OF 3 Continuing to invest in mobile-based factors that are crucial for us, both in the Long-term focus: literacy initiatives. short and long term. 1 Pursuing proactive industry dialogue to ensure VEON is positioned as a credible MATERIAL TOPICS corporate entity. 2 Working with governments and regulators to develop more conducive business conditions. 3 Promoting a culture of ethics and integrity, and requiring our partners to REPORT do the same. 4 Continuing to invest in literacy and skills development programmes in the countries in which we operate, creating future demand for data-driven and DISCLAIMER advanced products and services. 20 21 OPENING STAT TAT TA EMENTS HOW VEON CREATES VALUE ABOUT VEON 2019 Empowerment Sustainability strategy OVERVIEW through technology ABOUT VEON Our approach to sustainability goes VEON’s Digital Entrepreneurship and In parallel, our approach to earning and beyond corporate philanthropy. It is Digital Skills and Literacy programmes preserving our licence to operate is centred around the notion of using emphasise our licence to grow and help us CORPORAT A E AT GOVERNANCE technology to empower communities. to contribute long-term socio-economic and sustaining our global operations. It value to the communities we serve. emphasises good corporate citizenship, VISION S T R AT EG Y The approach consists of two important ethical behaviours and operational elements – our licence to grow and our Through promoting digital inclusion performance. VEON is committed to FOSTERING DIGITA T L TA Our vision is to empower customer ambitions Our strategy is to serve our customers as their digital through technology. concierge, connecting them with resources that and creating new opportunities for our creating social and business value by satisfy their day-to-day needs and help them realise making impactful investments that ENTREPRENEURSHIP their long-term goals. all our stakeholders. contribute to the demand for digital help create new services, partnerships products and services, which in turn and forums, which in turn enable and creates new opportunities for our business. empower the people we serve. INPUT OUTPUT BRIDGING THE SKILLS LICENCE TO GROW Human and 295,000+ intellectual capital AND LITERACY GAP Total e-learning hours Fostering Bridging Social and 212 million digital the skills and Total active subscribers relationship capital entrepreneurship literacy gap 5.3 billion OUR COMMITMENT TO VEON supports technology-centric Digital and programme supports digital educational initiatives that help people SUSTA T INABLE BUSINESS TA entrepreneurs in our operating countries who lack access to basic education, technological capital with the goal of fostering start-up vocational training and digital skills $8.9 billion ecosystems. We stimulate the local digital due to limited socio-economic economy by investing in tech incubators, opportunities. Through our initiatives Financial capital Total revenue cohort-based mentorship programmes, we digitise curriculums, strengthen bootcamps and our hackathons. Our educational institutions and OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTA T INABLE TA increase their reach through IMPAC T connectivity and create the demand for a Empowerment connectivity. Digital Digital Corporate broad range of services including through DEVELOPMENT GOALS inclusion empowerment sustainability digital payments, cloud services technology and M2M connectivity. 120,010 192 19.6m 7 3m 7. 12 16.4% ABOUT THIS Participants Start-ups Monthly active users Digital Cyber security Improvement REPORT in mLiteracy incubated at f care apps and of selffwallets incidents managed in voice call Corporate programmes tech hubs web-services preventatively drop rate sustainability DEFINITIONS OF VEON’S approach to corporate sustainability focuses on our business ethics, good governance and operational reliability, as well as the ecological impact of our MAT AT A ERIAL TOPICS business operations. By identifying and responding to key operational and corporate governance issues, including potential bribery and corruption, carbon emissions, privacy, and health and safety, we contribute to building enduring, world-class businesses which Ensure inclusive and Achieve gender Promote inclusive and Build resilient contribute positively to the societies we equitable quality equality and sustainable economic infrastructure, promote operate in. REPORT empower all women DISCLAIMER education and promote growth, full and inclusive and sustainable lifelong learning and girls productive employment, industrialisation, and opportunities for all and decent work for all foster innovation L I C E N C E T O O P E R AT E 22 23 OPENING STATEMENTS ABOUT VEON ABOUT VEON 2019 Sustainability programme Stakeholder engagement OVERVIEW framework ABOUT VEON At VEON, transparency and effective dialogue are potential interest in, or impact on, VEON. Rather than having one-off consultations, CORPORATE the two key tenets of our approach to stakeholder we prefer to take an integrated approach VEON’s Sustainability team sets annual goals to track the progress of various Group initiatives engagement. This approach helps to support our GOVERNANCE and maintain regular dialogue both at the operating company and Group level. against the three elements of our Sustainability Strategy, aligning each with our material topics. objective of forging relationships based on mutual trust. Working groups, meetings, conferences, FOSTERING DIGITAL workshops, surveys and town hall meetings We define stakeholders as the parties We have identified stakeholder groups that are just a few examples of how we interact MATERIAL & BUSINESS SIGNIFICANCE MATERIAL TOPICS CUMUL ATIVE PROGRESS AND GOALS or individuals we influence through our ENTREPRENEURSHIP are material to the sustainable success of with our stakeholders. operations, products and services, and who our business and consider their opinions By fostering digital entrepreneurship in Impact on society/social in turn affect our ability to achieve our goals. in our decision-making. Here, customers, These engagements are transparent and DIGITAL our operating countries, VEON contributes involvement our communities, employees, host help ensure that we are closely connected to the sustainable development of their Digital inclusion Our relationships allow us to identify which governments, regulators and investors are to the socio-economic and environmental BRIDGING THE SKILLS communities and economies. Our Make Digital innovation aspects of our businesses are considered amongst our most important stakeholders. issues that are crucial to optimising our 7 most relevant and current in the realm contribution to society. This report is one of 2,243 Your Mark programme supports early stage ENTREPRENEURSHIP of sustainability and plan our activities Stakeholder engagement includes the the methods we use to seek engagement, AND LITERACY GAP start-ups to grow and thrive, which not only improves employment opportunities within accordingly. formal and informal ways we stay connected and we welcome feedback. Total tech hubs Total start-ups the countries but also unlocks potential new operational with our stakeholders that have an actual or supported* revenue streams for our business. *In 2019, only directly supported startups at the tech hubs Goal 2020: 10 Goal 2020: 5,000 LINK TO INNOVATIVE are included to improve the OUR COMMITMENT TO VALUES ENTREPRENEURIAL robustness of reporting Strategic alignment Align, review and SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Low levels of literacy and education are Impact on society/social DIGITAL SKILLS challenges across all the developing countries involvement Share the set goals for Understanding feedback the future where we operate. By supporting literacy Digital inclusion our operating and digital skills uplift initiatives, we open Maintain a continuous environments AND LITERACY 56,026 192,990 two-way dialogue beneficiaries up to new opportunities so Investigate internal to reinforce they can make the most of the digital world. and external OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE co-creation influences Consequently, we also broaden our potential Beneficiaries Participants **In 2019, the number of market of customers. beneficiaries with free internet of donated ICT in literacy connections was combined with equipment** programmes LINK TO CUSTOMER OBSESSED those of ICT equipment to reduce VALUES the risk of double-counting Goal 2020: 50,000 Goal 2020: 50,000 Responsive DEVELOPMENT GOALS Identify our action stakeholders We are driven to improve our operational Talent management Identify opportunities CORPORATE Define criteria, reliability without compromising on our and create SMART and employee prioritise and select goals for the ethical standards. The majority of the Group’s education future engagements employees have received Code of Conduct 14% Ethics and integrity ~2,000 SUSTAINABILITY training and commit to adhering to our Code Environmental whilst delivering the highest quality products ABOUT THIS performance Potentially Reduction in CO2 and services to our global customer base. Our Data privacy and cyber Tailor our adverse events emissions per unit REPORT initiatives and commercial offerings, including Engage with security of traffic methods analysed purpose digital wallets, mobile health and smart literacy Quality of services Engineering solutions, are helping to uplift communities, Supply chain Ensure equitable engagement contributions while while also diversifying our customer services DEFINITIONS OF transparency Plan our mechanisms for each maintaining portfolio. We take data privacy and cyber stakeholder Financial performance focus engagement group security very seriously as it is critical to our Digital innovation MATERIAL TOPICS Focus on long-term goals service quality and reputation. We measure our 19.6 m 0.51% to drive forward and impact on the environment and aim to reduce develop our our carbon footprint through a combination of approach Monthly active Average voice resource optimisation, behavioural changes call drop rate REPORT users (MAU) of and technological innovation. self-care apps and DISCLAIMER LINK TO TRUTHFUL web-services Mate rialit y VALUES CUSTOMER OBSESSED COLLABORATIVE 24 25 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON Government and regulators Engaging through global and local Local-focused memberships This includes the National Chamber of memberships Entrepreneurs in Kazakhstan and the We have a responsibility to contribute On the local scale, our operating Chamber of Commerce and Industry in CORPORATE GOVERNANCE to the public debate on a wide range of Each year, leadership teams at each of companies host unique memberships Kyrgyzstan. Furthermore, when possible, issues relevant to our industry, as well as our ten operating companies engage focused on various topics, including our operating companies strive to assume broader sustainable development issues. in frequent discussions with each our industry management, policy and IT. leadership roles in their markets. For Our knowledge and understanding of Group-wide identified stakeholder groups: instance, Djezzy, our subsidiary in Algeria, FOSTERING DIGITAL the industry and the markets in which we government and regulators, employees, Examples include the Union of Information participates in a forum of business operate enable us to inform and advise investors, communities and customers. Technology Enterprises of Armenia leaders. ENTREPRENEURSHIP government and regulatory authorities on Engagement with stakeholders occurs via (UITE) and the Association of Mobile high-priority issues. a variety of methods including face-toTelecommunication of Bangladesh (AMTOB). Dutch Transparency Index face meetings, surveys, working group UITE is a non-governmental, non-for-profit These include spectrum policy, digital and workshop sessions, conference calls, entity of IT and high-tech companies, In 2019, VEON was recognised as among transformation, innovation in the mobile regional town hall meetings, trainings and multinational corporations, organizations, the most transparent companies in the BRIDGING THE SKILLS and fixed telecommunications sector joint written communication. and institutions operating in Armenia. Netherlands by the Dutch Transparency and delivery of public services through Benchmark. This list is compiled by a AND LITERACY GAP technology. Our engagement with Using these communication mediums, The AMTOB works as an industry voice panel of experts who assess how well government and regulatory authorities is Investors Customers our operating companies take part in regarding the complex regulatory key indicators such as sustainability, proactive and transparent. We communicate engaging in stakeholder memberships on issues impacting the Bangladeshi governance and ethical practices are our aims, prioritise international best Our shareholders appoint the directors who Our company values firmly embed a both a global and local operating company telecommunications industry as a integrated into a company’s core business. practices and provide empirical evidence constitute our Board of Directors. In addition customer focus across the organisation. scale. For each operating company, the whole, and aims to reduce the negative OUR COMMITMENT TO when developing public policy positions. to periodic meetings and conference We employ an adaptive learning style categorisation of memberships can be split business impact of changes to licenses Between 2011 and 2019, VEON has calls on quarterly and annual results and including Net Promoter Score (NPS) to up into two different types: memberships and regulations. In addition to these, improved its ranking from 449 to 32 out of Employees announcements, we engage with analysts better understand customer needs and with a global focus related to the wider other local memberships include the more than 480 of the largest companies SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS and institutional investors on a regular basis. gather feedback. Customer experience telecommunications and digital industry, National Telecom Association (NTA) of based in the Netherlands. Among Our values help unite the VEON community management is a particular focus in our and those with a local focus. Kazakhstan, the Association of Telecom technology-focused companies based in with a common purpose. We engage These are elements of our ongoing operational companies where we develop Operators in Kyrgyzstan, and the Regional the Netherlands, VEON is ranked 4th for with our employees in a number of ways engagement with the broader financial customers’ journeys on an ongoing basis. Ultimately, these memberships allow us Communication Alliance (RCA) in Russia. transparency. such as town hall meetings. Led by our community. As appropriate, we also meet to establish meaningful partnerships OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Chairman and CEO in 2019, these are a with market participants to discuss financial Our operating companies’ customers engage that help us operate more effectively. In addition, a number of the Group’s forum for engagement where we announce results, market trends and business strategy, with us in a number of ways. One of our main operating companies hold partnerships with our financial results, strategy and other and to address other topics of interest goals is to provide them with a fully digital Global-focused memberships their respective chambers of commerce that important business developments, and and areas of attention. These activities are online experience via self-care applications allow them to have active roles in shaping allow time for questions. coordinated and carried out by our Investor and social media. We also offer a strong A number of our operating companies are local business development. DEVELOPMENT GOALS Relations department, which is responsible retail presence, specifically through monomembers of leading telecommunications We use a variety of digital tools including for engaging with existing and potential brand stores, which enables us to provide industry groups. One example is the social media (such as Facebook at Work), equity and credit investors, and both buya more dedicated experience. Our call Centre on Regulation in Europe (CERRE). Microsoft Sharepoint, newsletters and side and sell-side analysts. centres provide an increasingly personalised targeted surveys to communicate with approach for customers due to our growing CERRE is a Brussels-based think tank our workforce. Our values help to further Communities use of digital data analytics. that promotes robust and consistent unite the VEON community with a common regulation in Europe’s network and digital purpose. We engage, coordinate and collaborate with Finally, we provide a range of point-ofindustries. Our operating companies ABOUT THIS REPORT prominent local and international nonsale options to our customers to facilitate have participated in a number of CERRE A Joint Works Council exists at the Group governmental organisations (NGOs). Our in-person engagement with our operating workshops, including those that focus on HQ and a separate Works Council for operating companies partner with a wide companies. We conduct customer and telecommunications regulations, platform VEON’s Wholesale Services (VWS) has variety of NGOs and community-based market research to provide appropriatepolicies and net neutrality. DEFINITIONS OF also been established. These employee organisations. sized offerings for individual users, families representative bodies are regularly informed and households. It is our intention to make As a company, we take a keen interest MATERIAL TOPICS of issues affecting HQ employees and These organisations are typically focused our offerings easy to understand and fit in these topics. Our other memberships where legally required, consulted on on development issues such as education, for purpose, supporting a wide range of include the GSMA (Global System for intended business decisions concerning livelihood support, economic alleviation, needs for all customers. We seek to innovate Mobile Communications Association), personnel at our HQ. We also work with disaster risk reduction and rehabilitation. with our digital services by providing our the World Radiocommunication REPORT trade unions in Armenia, Ukraine, Our commitment to these partnerships customers with new experiences on an Conference and the ITU (International Kyrgyzstan and Georgia on employee helps us to effectively contribute to ongoing basis. Telecommunications Union). remuneration and welfare issues. the socio-economic prosperity of our DISCLAIMER communities. 26 27 OPENING STATEMENTS ABOUT VEON 2019 Materiality assessment OVERVIEW VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT VEON CORPORATE In 2019, VEON conducted a detailed companies and a thorough scan of local economic, environmental and social impact. materiality assessment to determine the and global news sources. Subsequently, The list also reflects each topic’s respective CORPORATE topics and issues considered most material ten of the highest-graded topics were influence on business decisions and to the success of our business. The first shared with selected internal and external outcomes. GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE stage of the assessment included a survey respondents, including members of of more than 500 respondents, including VEON’s Group Executive Committee and The materiality assessment is the basis of a employees, investors, regulators, trade management teams of each of our operating revised VEON Materiality Matrix: a graphical FOSTERING DIGITAL bodies and B2B customers. It also involved companies. The final response helped to demonstration which sets forth key areas an extensive review of key sustainability generate a ranked list of topics, based on of importance to VEON, our stakeholders, topics reported by comparable their respective contribution to VEON’s and our communities. ENTREPRENEURSHIP Coprorate governance 28 Managing our risks 30 Based on the outcome of the assessment, the following five topics are considered most material to our company: Ethics, transparency and governance 32 BRIDGING THE SKILLS AND LITERACY GAP DATA PRIVACY AND DIGITAL ETHICS AND QUALITY OF CORPORATE CYBER SECURITY INNOVATION INTEGRITY SERVICES GOVERNANCE OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Result of the assessment INF LUENCE ON S TA K EHOL DER A SSE SSMEN T S A ND DECISIONS ● 1 Impact on society/social involvement OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE 6 ● 2 Talent management and 10 skills development 3 ●3 Ethics and integrity 8 DEVELOPMENT GOALS ●4 Diversity and integrity ●5 Digital inclusion ●6 Data privacy and cyber security ●7 Quality of services ●8 Corporate governance 7 ABOUT THIS ●9 Financial performance 4 REPORT 5 ● 10 Digital innovation 1 This assessment is key to determining DEFINITIONS OF 2 our business and social value creation approach and helps to integrate our MATERIAL TOPICS 9 business and sustainability priorities with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). REPORT SIGNIFIC ANCE OF ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPAC TS DISCLAIMER 28 29 OPENING STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2019 Corporate governance OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON VEON is committed to delivering high standards of corporate Moreover, under Bermuda law, the Board Group management has the right to require that any matter governance, both now and in the future. Our governance come to the Board for approval and any To ensure appropriate oversight, the Board CORPORATE structure is designed to promote integrity in everything Board member may bring forward an item GOVERNANCE delegates to the Company’s Chief Executive we do, and we are committed to responsible and effective for the Board agenda, ensuring that the Officers the power to manage the Company’s Board provides appropriate oversight over business, except in certain important matters governance as a core element of our culture. Group matters. that are reserved for Board approval. These FOSTERING DIGITAL include, among others, the Company’s annual In addition to the Nominating and Corporate budget and audited accounts, organisational Our governance structure reinforces integrity VEON’s Board of Directors ENTREPRENEURSHIP Governance Committee, the Board has or reporting changes to the management by providing appropriate oversight over the established an Audit and Risk Committee, structure and significant transactions, decisions we make and the actions we take. The Board consists of 11 members, a a Compensation Committee and a Finance as well as changes to share capital or Our governance emanates from requirements majority of whom are independent as Committee, each of which is profiled other significant actions. Prior to their appointment as Group coThese members also work to create imposed on the Company, a Bermuda defined in the NASDAQ rules*. All Board individually in the rest of this section. Chief Executive Officers in March 2020, the greater clarity on expectations for the BRIDGING THE SKILLS corporation listed on NASDAQ and Euronext members are elected by our shareholders To further reinforce integrity and Company’s Chief Operating Officers served Chief Executive Officer of each operating Amsterdam. All Group activities must comply through a cumulative voting process. The Board takes great efforts to ensure accountability and provide appropriate on the Group Executive Committee. company and tighten information between with applicable corporate governance statutes its effectiveness and alignment with the the operating company and the Group. AND LITERACY GAP oversight, the Board has adopted a Group and listing rules. Nominations to the Board are managed long-term interests of the Company’s Authority Matrix which identifies matters Group operating company In doing so, these members work to by its Nominating and Corporate shareholders. The Nominating and Corporate requiring the approval of the Board, matters governance promote a culture of collaboration and Accordingly, the Company has adopted byeGovernance Committee, which is led by an Governance Committee periodically conducts requiring the approval of the Group Chief entrepreneurship between the Group laws which establish clear rules of governance, independent member of the Board. The an evaluation of the Board to determine Executive Officers, and matters which are The Group’s commitment to delivering and our operating companies. ranging from matters requiring approval of Committee looks to ensure that Board OUR COMMITMENT TO whether it is functioning effectively and within the authority of certain members of high standards of corporate governance the Company’s shareholders and members of membership consists of individuals with meeting its objectives and goals. In doing the Group Executive Committee. In doing extends to our operating companies. The Sustainability team the Board, conflict of interest requirements, sufficiently diverse and independent so, the Committee solicits comments so, the Board ensures that the Group as a Group Authority Matrix empowers the Chief and Director and management duties and backgrounds. All members of the Board SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS from all Directors, the Company’s senior whole operates in an efficient, effective and Executive Officer of each of its operating As part of the Corporate Communications obligations. possess relevant industry experience, executives and everyone else it deems compliant matter while ensuring that all subsidiaries to manage the business and department, the Sustainability team including all seven independent members. appropriate, and reports its conclusions and activities and transactions across the Group affairs of his or her respective operating reports to the Group Head of Investor The main governance bodies of the Group recommendations for maximising the Board’s are analysed and executed with proper company within certain parameters, which Relations, who in turn reports to the include the Company’s Board and the Board’s The Company’s bye-laws empower the effectiveness to the Board. authorities and accountability within a clear are set out in the matrix. Each operating Group Chief Strategy Officer. During 2019 committees, the Company’s Chief Executive Board to direct the management of the OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE framework of compliance and controls. company and its Chief Executive Officer the team reported to the Chief People Officers and its Group Executive Committee, business and affairs of the Group. Our Likewise, in order to ensure alignment with are fully accountable for all business and Officer, who in turn reports directly to the the Chief Executive Officers of the operating bye-laws require that the Board approves the long-term interests of the Company’s Group Executive Committee affairs of the operating company, including Group Chief Executive Officer. companies of the ten countries in which the important matters including, among others, shareholders, the Compensation Committee operational performance and ensuring Group operates, and the Board of Directors (or the Group’s annual budget and audited periodically evaluates the compensation of The co-Chief Executive Officers in turn proper compliance and controls. The The team regularly carries out employee DEVELOPMENT GOALS equivalent) of these operating companies. accounts, organisational or reporting Company directors taking into account the delegate certain matters to members Chief Executive Officer of each operating communication around the Group’s changes to the management structure, and competitive landscape, the compensation of of the Company’s Group Executive company is also responsible for ensuring approach to sustainability, reinforcing significant transactions as well as changes to directors at other comparable companies, Committee. This operates as an advisory that all matters are properly approved in our commitment to doing business with share capital or other significant actions. and recommendations regarding best committee focused on the management accordance with the Group Authority Matrix, integrity and transparency. We also share practices. Following review by the of the business affairs of the Company Group policies and the Company’s bye-laws. best practices, ongoing challenges and Nominating and Corporate Governance and its subsidiaries as a whole, including emerging issues across the businesses Committee, both the Compensation execution of the Group’s strategy, driving Each operating company, as required by through monthly update calls. Operating Committee and the Nominating and financial performance, and overseeing and local law, maintains a board of directors company sustainability teams regularly ABOUT THIS share programmatic updates with their REPORT Corporate Governance Committee make coordinating Group-wide initiatives. or equivalent governing body. These recommendations to the Board on Board operating company boards have specific respective senior management. These compensation. The Group Executive Committee is currently duties and responsibilities under the include major developments as well comprised of the Group Co-Chief Executive operating company’s organisational as any challenges encountered in the DEFINITIONS OF Officers, their direct reports, including documents. The composition of the implementation of projects. the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, operating company boards includes MATERIAL TOPICS Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Group in part certain members of the Group We publish our Sustainability Strategy, Chief Strategy Officer, the Chief Technology Executive Committee, who ensure full performance and programmes in our annual Officer, the Group General Counsel, compliance with the requirements of Sustainability Report which also contains the Group Chief People Officer, and the the operating company’s governing information on our environmental, social REPORT Group Chief Compliance Officer, as well documents and local law. and governance-related performance. as the Chief Executive Officers of certain Information on our sustainability of the Company’s significant operating programmes and commitments is also DISCLAIMER *As determined by the Board in 2019. subsidiaries. available on our website. 30 31 OPENING STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2019 Managing our risks OVERVIEW 1 2 ABOUT VEON Risk management As a next step, this training will be added The Group Internal Audit team comprises the Clarify objectives to the onboarding materials of any new third line of defence and is responsible for and identify Assess and CORPORATE VEON has adopted the relevant criteria employee. providing independent assurance to senior risks prioritise GOVERNANCE from the Committee of Sponsoring management on the effectiveness of the first risks Organisations of the Treadway Commission The second line of defence monitors and and second lines of defence. The function (COSO) and Enterprise Risk Management facilitates the implementation of effective conducts ad hoc financial, information (ERM) – Integrated Framework (2017) risk management practices and internal technology, strategic and operational audits, FOSTERING DIGITAL as the foundation of our enterprise risk controls by the first line. The second line and special investigations. Throughout, Risk management approach. comprises Group Internal Control, Group Internal Audit conducts its activities in a management ENTREPRENEURSHIP Enterprise Risk Management, Group Ethics manner based on a continuous evaluation of Through VEON’s ERM framework, our and Compliance, Group Legal, Group perceived business risks. 5 in execution 3 management aims to identify, assess, Revenue Assurance and Fraud Management, adequately manage, monitor and report and Group Cybersecurity. The second To ensure strong oversight of and alignment risks that could jeopardise the achievement line supports the business functions between the three lines of defence, we Assure BRIDGING THE SKILLS of our strategic objectives. A unified in identifying what could go wrong and established our Risk, Ethics and Assurance Respond and consistent ERM framework is used provides the methods, tools and guidance Committee (REAC), which is co-chaired to risk AND LITERACY GAP throughout the organisation. necessary to support the first line in by the Group Chief Financial Officer and managing their risks. Group General Counsel and includes the 4 Strengthening our risk culture: Group Directors of each of the assurance three lines of defence As a publicly traded company on a U.S. stock departments. exchange registered with the U.S. Securities Effective risk management OUR COMMITMENT TO The ‘three lines of defence’ approach and Exchange Commission, we must comply REAC oversees and aligns the activities requires a continuous and Monitor, report provides a simple and effective way to with the Sarbanes Oxley Act (“SOX”). SOX of the Group’s various risk and assurance iterative process and involves and escalate enhance communications around risk Section 404 requires that management functions to coordinate and manage actions the following five steps: SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS management and control by clarifying roles perform an assessment of the Internal efficiently across the Group, which includes and responsibilities. VEON has adopted this Controls over Financial Reporting (“ICFR”) (i) advising senior management on matters model to provide reasonable assurance that to confirm both the design and operational concerning the risk, ethics and compliance, risks to achieving important objectives are 1. Clarify objectives and identify risks: 4. Monitor, report, and escalate: (ii) Overseeing activities to develop effectiveness of the controls. including an overall risk and assurance vision identified and mitigated. and maintain a fit-for-purpose risk and and strategy, (ii) overseeing activities to OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE VEON’s strategy is developed with a VEON’s Group Executive Committee reviews assurance program. Our internal control system is designed to develop and maintain a fit-for-purpose risk VEON recognises that the first line comprehensive understanding of the significant risks assessed and prioritised (iii) Engaging with VEON’s senior provide reasonable assurance regarding and assurance program, (iii) engaging with of defence consists of the business strategic and inherent risks involved based on the Group’s ERM framework. management on important the reliability of financial reporting and the VEON’s senior management on important functions who own and are responsible in doing business. We consider the Members of the Group Executive developments in the context of risk, preparation and fair presentation of VEON developments in the context of risk, ethics and accountable for directly assessing, potential effects of the business context Committee also regularly speak with VEON’s ethics, and compliance. DEVELOPMENT GOALS Ltd.’s published consolidated financial and compliance, and (iv) acting as an controlling, and mitigating risks. Since 2016, on risk profile as well as possible ways of Board of Directors, in particular with the (iv) Acting as an escalation body to resolve statements under generally accepted escalation body to resolve issues around targeted communication campaigns have mitigating the risks we are exposed to. Audit and Risk Committee, to evaluate issues around the management of accounting principles. The VEON ICFR the management of Group risks. been launched globally to foster risk and material Group risks. Group risks. Framework incorporates risk assessment as control awareness across the Group. part of our scoping process, an assessment Defining our risk appetite 2. Assess and prioritise risks: VEON’s management also monitors and The Board of Directors maintains a of the design effectiveness of the During 2019, an awareness campaign using Risks identified as relevant for VEON evaluates risk through our Risk Ethics and number of committees, including the required controls, testing of the operating In line with the COSO Framework, the sport, games and the idea of teamwork to are assessed in order to understand Assurance Committee (REAC), which is Audit and Risk Committee, which expressly effectiveness of the key control activities, VEON ERM Framework categorises risk into highlight the importance of every individual’s and monitoring of our financial reporting at four risk categories: strategic, operational, the severity of each risk to the ability to co-chaired by the Group Chief Financial refers to its role in overseeing VEON’s ERM ABOUT THIS REPORT contribution to effective risk management execute on VEON’s strategy and business Officer and Group General Counsel and framework in its charter. entity-wide and functional levels. financial and legal, and compliance and and a strong control environment was regulatory. Our risk appetite is defined objectives. The severity of risk is assessed includes the Group Directors of each of the launched to reinforce accountability and at multiple levels of the business as it assurance departments. 5. Assure: Our Group Internal Control department for each of the four risk categories by ownership for risk management and the has established and maintains uniform considering our business objectives, as well may not be the same across divisions, DEFINITIONS OF internal control environment. functions and operating companies. REAC oversees and aligns the activities On a quarterly basis, through the governance, policies and control standards as potential threats to achieving these. of the Group’s various risk and assurance management certification process, local that apply to controlled subsidiaries. Our MATERIAL TOPICS As part of this initiative, over 3,000 3. Respond to risk: functions to coordinate and manage actions CEOs and CFOs certify that significant ICFR testing results are reported into our On an annual basis, for each category of employees were invited to take part in an efficiently across the Group, which include: risks have been considered and Board of Management, Risk, Ethics, and risk the Group Executive Committee, Audit e-learning campaign, including all local The assessed severity of the risk is appropriate measures have been taken to Assurance Committee (REAC), and our Audit Committee, and Board of Directors define control and risk owners, all assurance utilised by management to determine an (i) Advising senior management on manage the identified risks, in accordance and Risk Committee on a quarterly basis the risk appetite statements, which are then REPORT functions and senior business leaders. appropriate risk response (take, treat, matters concerning the risk, ethics and with the Group’s ERM Policies and as part of our assurance model. integrated into the business through our As of 31st December 2019, 69% of these transfer or terminate) which may include compliance, including an overall risk procedures. DISCLAIMER global policies and procedures. employees (2,164 out of the 3,137 invited) implementing mitigations, taking into and assurance vision and strategy. have completed the training. account the risk appetite. 32 33 OPENING STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2019 Ethics, transparency OVERVIEW and governance VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT VEON We firmly believe that better business performance and Employees across the Group have access FOSTERING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIGITAL to a confidential and anonymous, if desired, our success are earned through transparency, honesty and externally supported reporting system keeping our promises. Therefore, VEON holds employees for raising compliance concerns, which is ENTREPRENEURSHIP FOSTERING DIGITAL accessible by email as well as an internet and business partners to high governance, ethical and portal. Reports to this ‘SpeakUp’ system are compliance standards. A strong culture of integrity drives ENTREPRENEURSHIP assessed and, if appropriate, investigated better business results and is essential to our success. by internal or external teams. We maintain a strict anti-retaliation policy and Anti-bribery and anti-corruption In addition, VEON’s Group Compliance do not tolerate retribution against anyone BRIDGING THE SKILLS Charter mandates an adequately resourced who reports concerns in good faith. Introducing Make Your Mark 34 VEON does not tolerate bribery or corruption compliance function that provides leadership Case studies 36 AND LITERACY GAP in its operations or on its behalf and is and oversight for effective implementation of We also expect our business partners to committed to maintaining an effective VEON’s compliance programme. meet standards of good business conduct, compliance programme to manage bribery including complying with applicable antiand corruption risks. We continuously reinforce our commitment bribery and anti-corruption laws and to compliance through annual training and regulations and our Business Partner Code OUR COMMITMENT TO While compliance is everyone’s responsibility awareness campaigns, leadership messages, of Conduct. In addition, our business partners within VEON, the ethics and compliance internal media posts, videos, screensavers, are subject to risk-based due diligence, programme is managed by dedicated micro-learning sessions and refreshers. which is refreshed periodically. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS compliance professionals in its headquarters and in each of its operating companies. With In 2019, 6,279 employees completed antiUS Deferred Prosecution Agreement oversight and governance from headquarters, corruption and bribery training. This training and monitorship operating company compliance personnel is mandatory for employees identified as tailor their programmes to suit local regulatory mediumand high-risk. In October 2019, VEON successfully OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE requirements and operational needs. completed its three-year Deferred VEON’s Code of Conduct Prosecution Agreement (DPA) arising VEON’s ethics and compliance staff report from 2016 settlements with US and Dutch to the Interim Chief Ethics & Compliance VEON’s Code of Conduct provides Groupauthorities relating to VEON’s business in Officer, who has access to the Audit and Risk wide standards designed to promote honest Uzbekistan. In concluding the DPA, VEON’s DEVELOPMENT GOALS Committee of the Board of Directors and and ethical business conduct, full, fair and independent compliance monitor (“the reports to the Group General Counsel. accurate reporting, compliance with applicable Monitor”) certified the effectiveness of VEON’s laws, prompt reporting of violations and compliance programme and internal controls, accountability. We conduct annual, online following implementation of the Monitor’s Code of Conduct training for all VEON staff. recommendations across the Group. ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF 31,372 6,279 80% MATERIAL TOPICS Employees completed Employees completed Employees trust their annual Code of Conduct annual anti-bribery and managers training corruption training REPORT (employees who trust their managers and consider E&C* effective) DISCLAIMER (selected functions were invited) *Ethics and compliance programmes 34 35 OPENING STATEMENTS FOSTERING DIGITAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP 2019 Introducing Make OVERVIEW Your Mark ABOUT VEON CORPORATE VEON launched the Make Your Mark initiative to foster digital GOVERNANCE Participants are offered guidance on everything entrepreneurship in the countries where we operate. The from technology and leadership skills through to growth hacking and fundraising. programme focuses on supporting people to start their own For example, the Sevan Start-Up Summit FOSTERING DIGITAL businesses, which in turn helps to create fulfilling jobs for others. in Armenia provides successful seed-stage innovators with the vital marketing knowENTREPRENEURSHIP how they need to take their ideas to market. VEON operates in developing economies that Make Your Mark supports our contribution typically have young, growing populations. to two of the UN’s Sustainable Development Successful start-ups are showcased globally, These conditions can create a significant Goals in particular: SDG 8 (Decent Work including at the acclaimed annual Mobile demographic dividend for these countries if and Economic Growth) and SDG 9 (Industry, World Congress in Barcelona. We also support BRIDGING THE SKILLS there are sufficient employment opportunities Innovation and Infrastructure). local hackathons such as the diversity-themed and prospects of earning a decent livelihood Djezzy Incubator hackathon in Algeria, AND LITERACY GAP for the upcoming generation as they Our operating companies invest in start-up application development competitions, reach adulthood. incubators and accelerators, supporting and other non-resident programmes to industry, innovation and the development encourage the development of broader In 2015, we launched the Make Your Mark of a solid, sustainable local infrastructure. digital ecosystems in our operating countries. initiative to foster digital entrepreneurship This offers budding entrepreneurs support Supporting these start-ups and entrepreneurs OUR COMMITMENT TO across our operating countries, equipping to launch and scale business ideas that solve has helped us foster an internal culture of these populations with the technological unmet socio-economic needs and create innovation and entrepreneurship. skills and tools they need to enter the fulfilling work for others in their country. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS competitive global marketplace. The growth of their businesses drives the Additionally, our provision of personal and local economy. These start-up programmes professional development masterclasses helps typically operate under public/private to lay the foundations of entrepreneurship We firmly believe that among even the youngest participants. In partnerships, such as the Jazz National the development of IT Incubation Centre in Pakistan which is run in Kyrgyzstan, for example, schoolchildren can OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE entrepreneurs can play a collaboration with the Ministry of Information gain access to knowledge and resources in Technology and Telecommunication. an inspiring co-working space. By creating vital role in materialising economic opportunity for thousands of the vision of a truly Digital Our incubation tech hubs not only provide people, we are building a more sustainable Bangladesh shared working facilities; they also offer business environment. Additionally, by DEVELOPMENT GOALS intensive mentorship and a range of other boosting the local digital economy, we Zunaid Ahmed Palak support services tailored to each market’s create more demand for digital services. MP and Honourable State Minister particular needs. Our initiatives typically Therefore, the Make Your Mark programme for Information and Communication offer fourto six-month programmes for simultaneously adds value for society and Technology groups of early-stage businesses. for our shareholders. ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF 44,249 11,080 12 MATERIAL TOPICS Entrants in Attendants of Hackathons entrepreneurship entrepreneurship events (hackathons organised competitions across the Group) REPORT (events organised at educational (hackathons, coding competitions) centres) DISCLAIMER 36 37 OPENING STATEMENTS FOSTERING DIGITAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP He notes that this includes over 50% of FOSTERING DIGITAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP 2019 with the operator also providing data for the 2019 cohort, who have successfully the 36-hour event. launched to market. OVERVIEW Bangladesh: a guiding Zunaid Ahmed Palak, MP and Honourable State Minister for Information and Algeria: nurturing “The attractive space and logistics that we provide inspires people to innovate,” explains Assia Driouche, Djezzy’s Manager ABOUT light for tech start-ups innovation, leadership VEON Communication Technology, adds: “We of Corporate Social Responsibility. Most firmly believe that the development of of all, she adds, participants also gain key IT entrepreneurs can play a vital role in CORPORATE business skills such as leadership and and teamwork materialising the vision of a truly Digital teamwork. GOVERNANCE Bangladesh.” With grants from the Queen’s Commonwealth exceptional problem-solving skills and And while the hackathon offered 100 Trust and Bangladeshi government under have a business idea that is highly Thanks to their experience at Banglalink IT young innovators the chance to tap into their belt, plus accolades from the UN innovative and of clear social value. Incubator, Tahmid and the Teach It team are expert guidance, it also made sound FOSTERING DIGITAL Development Programme, the founders of already part of that vision. “The Banglalink innovation and entrepreneurship. That business sense, enabling Djezzy to Teach It barely recognise their once cashThe incubator makes a vital contribution to IT Incubator enabled us to gain traction said, the newly elected government is promote its ENP Incubator and talentENTREPRENEURSHIP strapped start-up. the UN Sustainable Development Goals 8 and capture the attention of the ecosystem. now introducing dedicated initiatives spot a new generation of potential (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and We are eternally grateful to Banglalink IT aimed at enabling aspiring young employees. “Starting from scratch wasn’t easy. We 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure) Incubator for being our guiding light.” entrepreneurs to play their part in realised that when our savings came close to by promoting sustainable economic diversifying Algeria’s traditionally fossilHighlighting the event’s contribution nil,” says Co-founder and CEO Muhammad development and fostering innovation. to UN Sustainable Development Goals BRIDGING THE SKILLS fuel-dependent economy. Tahmid Hussain Sumit. “Then, just like a 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) guardian angel, the Banglalink IT Incubator “As one of the leading digital Events like DevFest Hackathon and 9 (Industry, Innovation and AND LITERACY GAP came into our lives.” communications service providers in support this development. Organised Infrastructure), Driouche adds: “As a Bangladesh, Banglalink has always tried in partnership with GDG (Google corporate citizen it is our duty to provide A community-driven e-learning platform to play an essential role in laying the Developers Group) Algiers and Women spaces where people can innovate and that aims to fill learning and teaching gaps foundation of a robust digital ecosystem “Our university courses are theoretical Techmakers Algiers, the 2019 Hackathon to help produce future employers by in Bangladesh’s tertiary education system, in the country,” says Banglalink CEO and practical, but the practical classes get was hosted in Djezzy’s ENP Incubator, encouraging start-ups.” OUR COMMITMENT TO Teach It started life in what Tahmid describes Erik Aas. “Banglalink IT Incubator has oversubscribed, so we need to find other as a “cubicle”. So, when the start-up was already succeeded in helping many digital opportunities outside of university,” says accepted by the incubator, the change was entrepreneurs pursue their dreams.” 21-year-old Ilham Sellami, a third-year SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS transformational. computer science student at ESI Alger, the Higher National School of Computer “Web development, design, research and Science in Algiers. 100+ 4 15 strategy were so much easier as we had a space to brainstorm. Moreover, the Which is why Ilham embraced the OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE programme’s mentors played a pivotal role chance to take part in the diversityand in giving shape to our ideas and making inclusion-themed Devfest Hackathon Hackathon Partner Projects 100+ 7 200 us market-ready.” at ENP Incubator by Djezzy, in which participants universities submitted her team won first prize for its Accesso Because while the Bangladeshi government app, a notification service for users with DEVELOPMENT GOALS hopes to boost already rapid annual GDP Bootcamp Start-ups Aspiring disabilities. growth of 7.3% through the creation participants incubated entrepreneurs of a dynamic digital entrepreneurship Ilham explains that this was her first ecosystem, provision of vital infrastructure supported opportunity to work with mobile such as workspaces and business support technology. “Mobile apps are becoming remains patchy. Which is why, in partnership such an important part of our lives, so my I’ve always wanted to be with the ICT Division of the Bangladesh Hiexperience at the Hackathon was a big ABOUT THIS Tech Park Authorities, VEON’s Bangladeshi development for me,” she says. an entrepreneur, but I’d never thought about a diversity REPORT operating company Banglalink runs the Banglalink IT Incubator. Moreover, thanks to their success at the focus until I took part in the hackathon, Ilham and her team have Banglalink IT Incubator hackathon. It made me pay Following a highly competitive selection been offered a place on the ENP (Ecole DEFINITIONS OF process, the incubator, which launched in enabled us to gain initial Nationale Polytechnique) Incubator run attention to the issues that 2016, offers successful candidates dedicated traction and capture the by Djezzy, VEON’s operating company in people encounter in everyday MATERIAL TOPICS office space in a free co-working hub, Algeria, where they can receive support to attention of the ecosystem. We life and understand how online resources, mentorship, networking take their product to market. opportunities and access to customers are eternally grateful to it for technology can help through partnerships. being our guiding light Opportunities like these count for a Ilham Sellami REPORT lot in Algeria, which has 30% youth Those accepted onto the programme Muhammad Tahmid Hussain Sumit, unemployment and, to date, has made Hackathon winner and co-creator must, among other criteria, demonstrate Co-founder and CEO, Teach It limited progress in nurturing a culture of of Accesso DISCLAIMER 38 39 OPENING STATEMENTS FOSTERING DIGITAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP In fact, inclusivity underpins the facility, 2019 which was built to be accessible for users with disabilities. This helps it support UN OVERVIEW Pakistan: helping Sustainable Development Goal 8, which advocates for: “sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT fledgling businesses fly VEON productive employment, and decent work BRIDGING for all.” There is a commercial upside too, in that CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE SKILLS AND products and services incubated at the This pioneering public-private partnership, NIC frequently dovetail with Jazz’s own the first of its kind in Pakistan, brings business, providing it with privileged access together VEON’s Pakistani operating to new technology. LITERACY GAP FOSTERING DIGITAL company Jazz, Teamup, and Pakistan’s Ministry of Information Technology “An indication of our success has been that ENTREPRENEURSHIP & Telecommunication, with the latter the government has supported the creation providing a USD 5.4m grant for the fiveof four more NICs on the model of the first year programme. launched with Jazz in Islamabad. Running since 2016, this year the NIC took We believe that the next big idea will BRIDGING THE SKILLS come from one of these start-ups and Developing digital skills and literacy 40 on over 50 start-ups in domains as diverse hope that we can partner with them to Case studies 42 as artificial intelligence, fin-tech and agriAND LITERACY GAP tech. And with more female entrepreneurs introduce innovative tech-enabled “Jazz xlr8 has been instrumental in helping now enrolled, a new day-care centre has ideas,” says Aamir Ejaz, Chief Digital and us scale our business,” says Ali Moeen, the been a lifeline for those with children. Strategy Officer, Jazz. proud co-founder of car rental app start-up Roamer. “We are now looking to raise a OUR COMMITMENT TO series A round. And, with the support of Jazz through Jazz xlr8 and NIC, we are getting good traction from local and international SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS VC funds.” Indeed, since joining the Jazz National Incubation Center (NIC) and its accelerator 162 $4m 5,000 55 programme Jazz xlr8, Roamer has Start-ups Investment Jobs Women OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE blossomed, securing investments totalling (start-ups (total USD raised (created by the (female USD 2,500 and enabling it to create 1,200 assisted by the by the graduates’ participating participants in jobs. As Ali reflects, it is a far cry from programme) start-ups) businesses) the programme) earlier struggles to balance new customer acquisition with protection of limited funds DEVELOPMENT GOALS – challenges that the centre helped his team navigate through marketing mentorships, bulk SMS support, and access to data, analytics and technology credits. Ali is one of a growing number of digital It is a unique experience entrepreneurs emerging from Pakistan’s to visit the National Incubation so-called “youth bulge”. Representing 64% ABOUT THIS Center and witness the great REPORT of the population according to the United Nations Development Programme, these work being done by young under-30s are tech-savvy and instinctively founders. I believe, if provided entrepreneurial. But they face barriers DEFINITIONS OF to success, namely accessing funds and with the same opportunities industry expertise. and platforms, they will play MATERIAL TOPICS an important role in building a A torchbearer for Pakistan’s burgeoning start-up scene, the NIC paves the way by prosperous digital Pakistan connecting entrepreneurs, innovators, Syed Zulfiqar Abbas Bukhari REPORT mentors and investors in a state-of-the-art incubation facility offering technical training Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on and networking opportunities. Ministry Overseas Pakistanis & HRD DISCLAIMER 40 41 OPENING STATEMENTS BRIDGING THE DIGITAL SKILLS AND LITERACY GAP 2019 Developing digital OVERVIEW skills and literacy ABOUT VEON CORPORATE As a company operating in developing economies with young, GOVERNANCE One such example is Bangalink’s Learn More, growing populations, VEON supports education programmes Be More programme. Learning at home helps to break down some of the gender that focus on building digital inclusion and closing gaps in and economic barriers to digital inclusion, FOSTERING DIGITAL digital skills and literacy. These programmes equip young particularly in societies which restrict women’s outdoor movement. people for fulfilling careers and entrepreneurship, in turn ENTREPRENEURSHIP driving economic growth in their local market. Through building knowledge and understanding of digital applications and mobile internet, we empower communities. VEON’s Digital Skills and Literacy initiative VEON’s digital skills and literacy programmes At the same time, we help to develop future BRIDGING THE SKILLS uses education to drive lasting change in the support under-resourced educational markets for our products and services by countries where we operate. Recognising institutions with digitised curriculums, expanding our potential customer base. education as one of the key engines of IT equipment and subsidised internet AND LITERACY GAP socio-economic development, we use our connectivity. An enormously successful knowledge of technology and connectivity to example is Jazz Pakistan’s Smart School The Ministry of Education support tech-centric educational initiatives. programme, which has received various is in the process of reviewing international awards and financial aid. standards, and based on the OUR COMMITMENT TO Our support is delivered through a mixture Similarly, in Kazakhstan, an injection of partnerships, training carried out by our of much-needed telecommunication success we will be changing own employees, direct investments and equipment is enabling university students programmes and learning tools, SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS donations. These initiatives are helping to gain the practical experience they need. so that initiatives like DO Project to support the local UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In particular, Our programmes also offer customised can be included and children these are relevant to SDG4: Quality training and mentorship that prepare can learn with pleasure Education and SDG5: Gender Equality. young people to enter the workforce, such Anahit Muradyan OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Several of our programmes focus on as Big Data Schools in both Ukraine and developing the digital skills of girls and Kazakhstan. Senior Expert at Secondary Education women to ensure they have access to the Division of Ministry of Education, same opportunities as their male peers. The focus, however, is not just on traditional Science, Culture and Sport literacy. With the help of our partners, we DEVELOPMENT GOALS have also developed and deployed mobilebased skills development solutions that allow adults to gain digital skills from the comfort of their own homes. ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF 184 120,010 56,026 MATERIAL TOPICS Institutions connected mLiteracy beneficiaries Individuals benefitting from donated ICT REPORT (institutions provided (individuals benefitting from mobile subsidised or free internet literacy and skills development equipment connections) programmes) DISCLAIMER 42 43 OPENING STATEMENTS In partnership with social enterprise 2019 BRIDGING THE DIGITAL SKILLS AND LITERACY GAP Educational development is a priority for Everland, Beeline Russia completed our company. It is our investment in the the pilot phase in 2019, training 224 future of Ukraine.” Building on last year’s OVERVIEW participants, of which 38 had graduated at time of writing. Beeline Russia is also providing pro-bono support including Ukraine: digital skills success, the 2019 programme reached more than 3,500 children (compared to 2,000 in 2018) from 96 schools across ABOUT unleash creative VEON advisors, mentors, SEO specialists and 24 regions, with 600 teachers receiving web designers, in addition to training webinar training. materials and marketing. CORPORATE thinking Crucially, by providing normally GOVERNANCE “The project’s global mission is to inaccessible digital and entrepreneurial eliminate inequality regarding disability. training to Ukraine’s rural communities, The platform will enable distance GoCamp’s impact dovetails with UN working both independently and as Sustainable Development Goal 4 aimed FOSTERING DIGITAL part of an expert team and contribute “When you start working on a challenging GoCamp also offers nationwide training at ensuring “inclusive and equitable to serious progress in solving this task, you don’t believe you can do it,” webinars for teachers and would-be quality education and lifelong learning ENTREPRENEURSHIP important issue nationwide,” says reflects 14-year-old Andriy Dyachuk. support staff. In fact, in 2019 more than opportunities for all”. Evgenia Chistova, Head of Sustainable “But when you realise that you can, you 50 Kyivstar employees (compared to Development, VimpelCom PJSC (Beeline). experience such feelings of confidence, 25 in 2018), including CEO Oleksandr As Oksana Nechiporenko, Director of She adds that the programme will help pride and achievement.” Komarov, signed up as mentors. A more project partner Global Office, points out: BRIDGING THE DIGITAL SKILLS AND LITERACY GAP support UN Sustainable Development “Imagine over 3,500 kids realising what BRIDGING THE SKILLS personal service introduced this year Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic A graduate of GoCamp 2019, the saw volunteers engage with students entrepreneurship is for the first time Russia: addressing Growth) by facilitating inclusive eighth-grader says the programme also face-to-face, in addition to conducting in their lives! We hope this programme AND LITERACY GAP employment. taught him essential life skills such as online sessions. Komarov says: “It is will scale and together we can prepare collaboration and problem-solving: “I important for us to give students the Ukrainians for a progressive new path of employment inequality Meanwhile, Svetlana sees her confidence really enjoyed learning how to generate opportunity to learn 21st-century economic development.” For Andriy, that soaring thanks to Everland’s rigorous ideas in teams and to think creatively.” skills, creative thinking, the basics of means pursuing his dream of becombut supportive environment. “Many Andriy is one of over 3,000 school leadership and use of digital tools. ing a maths professor. “To be good at OUR COMMITMENT TO of the Everland employees are people students in Ukraine’s rural regions Kyivstar has the resources – both maths you need to think logically and with disabilities, so they have first-hand enjoying educational opportunities technological and expert – which is why find solutions. The challenging tasks experience of the obstacles we face. ordinarily restricted to their urban it has supported the GoCamp project we were set at GoCamp covered both SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS “We’ll get back to you” is a phrase To address this need, the Everland Importantly, while understanding and peers thanks to GoCamp, an initiative for three years. those skills and more.” Everland student Svetlana Pavlikova platform, supported by VEON operating accepting a person’s disabilities, they supported by Kyivstar, VEON’s operating hopes to hear less of in future. A company Beeline Russia, enables are also highly focused on efficient work company in Ukraine. graduate in Information Security from graduates with disabilities to boost their and results.” Moscow’s National Research Nuclear digital skills, with a focus on media and Taught by foreign volunteers and OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE University MEPhl, Svetlana, who has communications. based on a Kyivstar-created multimedia 3,500 96 170 600 cerebral palsy, describes the casual curriculum, the programme encourages brush-off, “then silence”, as depressingly Through the online platform, and schoolchildren to use modern techniques familiar during past job searches. “I supported by personal mentors – many and creative thinking to unleash their 200 38 can’t say refusals came because of my themselves disabled – participants in entrepreneurial skills and develop ideas DEVELOPMENT GOALS disability – employers have no right to Russia and in some other CIS countries, for mobile applications. In Andriy’s case, Children Schools App ideas Teachers say so – but I think people were afraid can take courses in web design and a navigational app for blind people. participated joined generated trained of potential problems.” development, video production, internet marketing and content creation. Participating Graduates Now, with a qualification in Multimedia students Content, achieved on the Everland programme, Svetlana feels positive about the future and “the opportunity to find ABOUT THIS REPORT a steady job, earn decent money, gain experience and make progress.” This is the second year I have mentored schoolchildren The 29-year-old counts herself as DEFINITIONS OF fortunate in having a fulfilling career We hope that this at GoCamp. When these in her sights. Of the approximately 12 programme will bring people children develop their ideas MATERIAL TOPICS million people living with disabilities in with disabilities into the for mobile applications, they Russia, only a third of those of working age have jobs, with many of the country’s economy, transforming their inspire me with their disabled college graduates lacking the employment situation creativity and originality REPORT professional skills needed to improve their employability. Igor Novikov Pavel Daniman Co-founder, Everland Chief Marketing Officer, Kyivstar DISCLAIMER 44 45 OPENING STATEMENTS In total, since 2017, more than 38,000 2019 BRIDGING THE DIGITAL SKILLS AND LITERACY GAP BRIDGING THE DIGITAL SKILLS AND LITERACY GAP These will be distributed to schools female students, along with 1,046 female nationwide, serving as a vital resource for teachers, including school principals, teachers and students. In this way, says OVERVIEW Pakistan: promoting across 75 public-sector schools in Islamabad have benefitted from the Jazz Smart Schools programme. Evaluation Armenia: transforming Beeline Armenia, DO Project contributes to UN Sustainable Development Goal 4, aimed at ensuring “inclusive and equitable ABOUT ‘active’ and ‘creative’ digital skills learning VEON has shown significant improvements quality education and promoting lifelong in learning outcomes, teaching quality, learning opportunities for all”. student engagement, technology users, CORPORATE learning accountability and results monitoring. Moreover, from a commercial standpoint, GOVERNANCE it enables Beeline Armenia to reach Meanwhile, with its focus on educating Since taking part in the DO (Digital IT experts, funded by Beeline Armenia, a wider audience for its services, girls, Jazz Smart Schools makes a Opportunities for Children) Project, visited ten schools in four remote in a country where only 60% of the notable contribution to UN Sustainable population are mobile internet users. FOSTERING DIGITAL 16-year-old Gayane Sargsyan can see provinces to give workshops on Development Goals 4 and 5, which exciting pathways opening up ahead of educational software and cyber safety, Since participating in the Jazz Smart with project partner Knowledge Platform promote Quality Education and Gender her. “We learned so many things that I with Beeline Armenia providing access “Digital technology is of paramount ENTREPRENEURSHIP Schools programme, Faria Iqbal has (KP), with Jazz’s provision of tablets and Equality respectively. never thought I’d have the opportunity to to apps. importance for achieving success in gained a whole new perspective on connectivity to other schools likely to learn. This knowledge will really help me career or business. We are confident that learning. What was once a “passive” unleash new business opportunities. With her renewed enthusiasm for learning at university and in my career,” says the The 100 participants later demonstrated the knowledge gained by our programme experience has been transformed into Moreover, integration by KP of the and improved grades, Faria is testament teenager. Like many teenagers, Gayane, their new skills in a competition that participants will be the biggest something “active and creative”. JazzCash payment facility into the learning to the programme’s success. “My contribution to their future life,” says BRIDGING THE SKILLS a high school student in Nor Kharberd, challenged them to show how digital platform’s online iteration is already heartiest gratitude goes to Jazz for this Armenia, is eagerly planning her future. technology can solve real-world Beeline Armenia CEO Andrey Pyatakhin. “Jazz Smart Schools has gifted us a new delivering commercial benefits. creative idea,” says the schoolgirl. After secondary school, explains the problems. Finally, in the most farAND LITERACY GAP way to engage with our curriculum that bright 11th-grader, her dream is to train reaching stage, DO Project tutors, in Reflecting on her own experience, Gayane contrasts with the typical textbook-based as an air traffic controller. collaboration with Armenia’s Ministry agrees: “Participating in DO Project has approach,” says the 10th grader. “It has of Education, are preparing digital been crucial to my life. created a great sense of interest and But living outside of Armenia’s capital, skills and literacy guidelines based on motivation among my classmates and I. Gayane and her classmates have more limlearnings from the project. “And now, thanks to this project, we 38k 1,000 75 60% OUR COMMITMENT TO And the videos, games, and assessments ited access to the digital tuition they need can help our schoolmates to learn the have really helped us improve our to prosper. A nation of just 2.9 million insame things.” [English] vocabulary and pronunciation.” habitants, Armenia’s secondary education SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Female Trained Partner Improved system struggles to attract highly qualified Of a population of around 220 million IT teachers to its more far-flung provinces. people, approximately 43% under-15students* teachers* schools outcome Bridging the gap is DO (Digital Opportuniyear-olds are not as fortunate as Faria. ties for Children) Project, a digital literacy (public schools (overall learning According to Pakistan’s 2018 Education 10 4 100 participating in performance programme launched by VEON’s Armenian OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Statistics Report, almost 23 million operating company, Beeline Armenia, in the programme) improvement) school-age children – including 12 million partnership with Armenian NGO the Child girls – are not in any form of education. * Total since programme launch Development Foundation. For those who are being educated, basic Schools participated Regions covered Children trained numeracy and literacy skills often lag DEVELOPMENT GOALS behind international benchmarks. To help improve digital skills and literacy among female students, Jazz – VEON’s The programme has operating company in Pakistan, and positively impacted learning the country’s largest mobile operator – outcomes of thousands The Digital launched the Jazz Smart Programme Opportunities for School ABOUT THIS in 2017. of female students in our Children programme REPORT schools. Initiatives such Using laptops supplied by Jazz and as the Jazz Smart Schools is a great example of a loaded with its learning management software, the programme deploys mobile Programme, and an increasing successful partnership DEFINITIONS OF technology to improve teaching quality future emphasis on publicbetween civil society and and accountability with techniques such private partnerships will business. In this digital era, MATERIAL TOPICS as app-based performance dashboards and web-portals to track results. surely propel us toward a IT literacy and knowledge brighter future for Pakistan of practical application is While providing a vital service to society, of vital importance REPORT the initiative is also helping Jazz meet Syed Umair Javed commercial and strategic goals. The Director General, Federal Directorate Lusine Simonyan operator is exploring expansion options of Education, Islamabad, Pakistan Child Development Foundation Director DISCLAIMER 46 47 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 BRIDGING THE DIGITAL SKILLS AND LITERACY GAP “We are empowering them with the practical skills they need to explore the OVERVIEW world of the internet and embrace a Bangladesh: digital way of life.” As such, the programme supports VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT harnessing social VEON UN Sustainable Development Goals 5 OUR (Gender Equality) and 8 (Decent Work CORPORATE and Economic Growth) by empowering media for social good women with the digital skills they need to GOVERNANCE COMMITMENT play a productive role in the economy. Indeed, for Afroza, being able to better TO SUSTAINABLE manage household finances is the start FOSTERING DIGITAL Additionally, participants were on-boarded of something much bigger. “I always to a community-based knowledge-sharing wanted to open a tailoring shop. Now I ENTREPRENEURSHIP Facebook group called Amader Sathi. can promote it through Facebook and BUSINESS Here, more than 27,000 members are it will help me improve the quality of my actively engaged on topics such as health, and my family’s life.” safety and nutrition. In 2020, 1,500 of BRIDGING THE SKILLS these women are expected to be trained as independent Banglalink retailers, specialising in sales and digital literacy AND LITERACY GAP training for female garment industry Data privacy and cyber security 49 workers. In this way, Banglalink reaps Service quality 51 commercial rewards by attracting a new Digital innovation 53 For Afroza, the power of social media has segment of data users. Digital inclusion 56 been a revelation. “I didn’t know anything OUR COMMITMENT TO Talent management and skills development 59 about Facebook,” says the Learn More, “We believe that one of the most effective Occupational health and safety 63 Be More graduate. “But this programme ways of eradicating the digital divide is Environmental management 64 made me realise that you can learn so to ensure women’s participation in the SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS much through the platform, whether it’s digital movement,” says Saurabh Prakash about health, self-defence or how to save Khare, Marketing Director of Banglalink. money. Now, even with less income, I manage to put aside funds for my family.” OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Afroza, who lives in Gazipur, central Bangladesh, is one of more than four million workers employed in the country’s ready-made 16,000 30,000 90% garments industry. Like her, the majority are women. Many migrate to the city from DEVELOPMENT GOALS under-served rural regions and can lack basic life skills, including digital literacy. Female New data Growth in data participants users usage This has important social and economic ramifications, according to a report by the Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies; it finds a positive correlation between mobile phone ownership and ABOUT THIS REPORT women’s employment, access to markets and purchasing power. Now, thanks to Learn More, Be More, a I always wanted to open DEFINITIONS OF joint programme from VEON operating a tailoring shop. Now I can company Banglalink and Facebook, at least promote it through Facebook MATERIAL TOPICS 16,000 female workers have received free and it will help me improve training on using Facebook and navigating the digital landscape in a safe and responthe quality of my and my sible way. They also participated in workfamily’s life REPORT shops on health, safety, nutrition, child education and household finances, with Afroza certified training supplied by Banglalink. Learn More, Be More graduate DISCLAIMER 48 49 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2019 Our commitment to Data privacy and OVERVIEW corporate sustainability cyber security ABOUT VEON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate sustainability represents the ‘licence to operate’ Corporate sustainability reinforces the Data protection covers the way VEON and our operating Data privacy importance of operational reliability and component of VEON’s sustainability strategy. This important resilience, while helping to build synergistic companies secure and use personal data. VEON takes Data privacy laws and regulations are the pillar focuses on business ethics, good governance, relationships with our customers, the utmost care with the treatment of personal data and legal rules that govern our use of personal FOSTERING DIGITAL data. They set out the purposes for which environmental management and operational reliability. employees, wider society and the we consider proper data protection management as environment. personal data may be collected, stored and key to maintaining customer trust. ENTREPRENEURSHIP used. These rules also help to determine Corporate sustainability also helps to the conditions under which personal data 2019 SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS identify and respond to key operational and may be disclosed to third parties, the corporate governance issues and risks, legal rights individuals have in relation to including bribery and corruption, privacy, their personal data, the level of security BRIDGING THE SKILLS labour practices, and health and safety. for personal data and the time period for Every element of this pillar relates directly to which personal data may be retained. AND LITERACY GAP one of VEON’s material topics, which include data privacy and cyber security, service VEON takes the utmost care to comply Global Good The International CSR BN Intelligence quality, digital innovation, digital inclusion, with data privacy rules as we consider Awards 2019 Excellence Awards Sustainability Awards diversity and inclusion, talent management, these as key to maintaining customer health and safety, and environmental trust. OUR COMMITMENT TO BEST EDUCATION AWARD VEON and Jazz Smart SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVE management. Schools (Gold) OF THE YEAR PROJECT Alongside data privacy laws, we also VEON and Jazz Smart VEON and Jazz Pakistan have our own VEON Group Privacy Policy Schools Programme SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS that sets the minimum data privacy (Finalist) standard across the VEON Group. This standard includes privacy principles such as lawfulness, transparency, data minimisation, retention and security, as OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE well as privacy processes such as privacy BN Intelligence Corporate assessments, vendor assessments and Sustainability Awards Engagement Awards individual rights processes. Our operating companies ensure that this standard is SUSTAINABILITY BEST CSR ACTIVITY OR integrated in their business practices DEVELOPMENT GOALS LEADERSHIP AWARD PROGRAMME TO SUPPORT across our Group. OR DEVELOP A VEON and Kyivstar CORPORATE REPUTATION The VEON Group Privacy Policy is also Jazz Pakistan and helping us to anticipate future changes VEON (Gold) in data privacy legislation. ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF 4.6% $498 million 137 million 12 ~2,000 91% MATERIAL TOPICS Faster downloads Data subscribers Critical incidents Events analysed Average security Tax paid (managed and solved preventively (potentially adverse events score REPORT (improvement in 4G (total income tax paid) download speed) without negative impact) analysed) (VEON Security Programme minimum target by 2020 is 95%) DISCLAIMER 50 51 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2019 Service quality OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON In 2019, several countries in which we Service quality covers the reliability of our network, our service This investment is recorded via our Group CORPORATE operate started introducing their first Quality Dashboard, which tracks customer data privacy laws (for example Uzbekistan, delivery capacity and the perceived quality of our service satisfaction, quality of service, network GOVERNANCE Pakistan and Bangladesh) or started offerings. Customer interaction and retail experience play an performance and network assets at discussing the replacement of their existing both Group and country levels. VEON’s important role in how our customers see us, meaning VEON’s data privacy laws with more comprehensive investment in new technologies has data protection frameworks (for example business success relies on the quality of service we provide. resulted in a significant enhancement of FOSTERING DIGITAL Ukraine). the mobile data speed available to our customers. In 2019, Ookla recognised us as ENTREPRENEURSHIP Where data protection laws are changing, we Enhancing network coverage This is an increase of 25% from 2018. In the speed leader in Ukraine and Pakistan. maintain an open dialogue with lawmakers and security addition, 3G services now reach 185 million In parallel, we also continue to increase to discuss lessons we can learn from the people and 2G reaches more than 218 our use of environmentally sustainable best practices in countries with more We continue to deploy state-of-the-art commillion people. We continue to invest in practices, some of which are explained in established data protection frameworks. munication infrastructure across our global modernising and enhancing our network BRIDGING THE SKILLS the Environmental Management section. By sharing experiences from more mature footprint. 4G/LTE service is now available in to improve coverage, network availability, Our aim is to operate in a manner that data privacy environments, we hope to all our operating countries, reaching more capacity, user experience, capability and is sustainable for the environment and AND LITERACY GAP encourage the creation of more advanced than 260 million potential customers. sustainability. beneficial for our business. and harmonised data privacy regimes to safeguard the privacy and trust of our Improving our customer service customers. At VEON, we place customers at the centre OUR COMMITMENT TO Cyber security of our business. We believe in developing products that enable them to lead richer Our Cyber Security team sets the technical lives. Our target is to deliver a customer SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS and organisational measures that protect experience that exceeds the standards company information and personal data To tackle these threats, VEON has In the course of analysing the many set by our peers and provide an easyagainst unauthorised access. The cyber implemented a Group-wide holistic thousands of events identified by VEON’s to-use, intuitive digital experience that is security threat landscape is continuously cyber security strategy, named the VEON G-SOC, we have investigated 12 major consistent across our channels. evolving, requiring organisations to minimise Security Programme (VSP), that is based on incidents that were managed in a timely OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE their attack surface by continuously international security standards and best manner and led to no serious consequences. In all of our operating companies, we monitoring their assets, and identifying and practices. This strategy encompasses all regularly upgrade our services to ensure that mitigating vulnerabilities before threat actors domains of cyber security practice. We did, however, experience an incident in customer needs and feedback are addressed take advantage of them. which a subsidiary’s collection of fixed-line proactively. Ongoing engagement with our It is an iterative, continuous improvement DEVELOPMENT GOALS customer information containing historical users is key to this process. Cyber security is a global threat without process that expands its perimeter and personal data was publicly leaked. As a boundaries. Organisations that are elevates its minimum baselines at every consequence of this, new enforcement geographically distributed can leverage iteration, with the objective of progressively processes and technical data loss prevention their advantage of identifying threats in the increasing the overall cyber security maturity capabilities were introduced. preliminary stages of the kill chain. By sharing across our footprint. common indicators of compromise and mitigation actions, it is possible to reduce In accordance with its operational model, the impacts of attacks and minimise the time VEON’s cyber security strategy prioritises ABOUT THIS REPORT of response. the elevation of security capabilities and operations in all of its business units. As this The telecommunications industry is targeted is a progressive evolution which requires by a variety of threats and has an even the implementation of more sophisticated DEFINITIONS OF broader attack surface than many other technical capabilities, the acquisition of local industries. This reflects the direct exposure of its infrastructure to the public internet, to third parties and to subscribers using its specialised personnel and the integration with the existing technological processes, our HQ Cyber Security team has implemented 16.3% 18.4% 16.4% MATERIAL TOPICS connectivity services. Telecommunications a 24/7 global Security Operations Centre Improvement in voice Improvement in data Improvement in voice businesses may also become unintentional (G-SOC). The G-SOC provides our operating accessibility accessibility call drop rate REPORT vectors of compromised user devices companies with immediate incident detect that could generate attacks on their own and response capabilities, giving them time infrastructures and on other entities via to progressively mature their own immediate DISCLAIMER the internet. incident detect and response capabilities. 52 53 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2019 Digital innovation OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON Enriching the customer experience Restructuring our distribution To support this, all our operating companies Digital innovation is at the heart of our business. Through The trial covered thirteen square kilometres, CORPORATE experience have defined a mid-term distribution allowing a number of fixed, wireless The importance of providing exceptional strategy to transform their operating models constant innovation, we are able to provide best-in-class and mobile use cases to be tested in GOVERNANCE customer experience has become a At VEON, we focus on providing a worldtowards a fully digital customer experience. service to our customers across all of our operating real-life conditions, including robotics key point of differentiation between class omni-channel customer experience It involves identifying key initiatives, laying countries. One of the most exciting technological for industry applications and virtual telecommunication providers. It goes handacross all of our touch points including out the implementation roadmap and reality experiences such as gaming and in-hand with customer satisfaction and digital self-care applications, mono-brand describing the digital distribution business achievements of 2019 was the successful trial of 5G across 360-degree TV streaming. FOSTERING DIGITAL therefore results in increased customer and franchise stores and personalised callarchitecture required. some of our operating countries, including Kazakhstan, loyalty and commercial success. centre engagement. Beeline Russia conducted successful Russia and Pakistan. ENTREPRENEURSHIP We believe that a fully digital customer 5G trials throughout 2019. One of the With this in mind, we work hard to ensure Digitising our distribution model brings experience accelerates customer trials was a public demonstration at the that the VEON customer experience meets significant operational benefits. It enables empowerment and removes human Formula 1 Grand Prix in Sochi using real-life and exceeds our customers’ needs and intuitive self service via apps and online, dependencies wherever possible. Digital innovation helps us to push what is 5G and the future of our business scenarios of its application, including smart expectations. Across all of our operating possible and create greater opportunities BRIDGING THE SKILLS as well as a consistent customer logic and This helps us to deliver an improved manufacturing and multi-player augmented companies, Customer Experience teams digital interfaces, an improved personalised customer experience, increase customer for all. Ranging from the everyday, such as 5G is about to transform the world reality gaming. In Moscow, Beeline’s continue to identify new customer journeys experience and a full omni-channel capability retention, lower costs and improve self-care apps that allow our customers of telecommunications and digital network is being upgraded to prepare AND LITERACY GAP using ‘disruptive’ thinking, ensuring that our to service different customer journeys. financial returns. to manage their accounts, to the those connectivity. However, it won’t stop there. for a 5G rollout, representing the largest users enjoy an optimal digital experience which promise extraordinary social impact, The next-generation network is primed to reconstruction of the network infrastructure unlike anything else provided by our such as pioneering surgical procedures change entire industries, from healthcare in the company’s history. competitors. conducted via remote conference, VEON to agriculture. It offers mobile network continued its legacy of innovation in 2019. operators a chance to develop advanced In Pakistan, Jazz trialled 5G by successfully OUR COMMITMENT TO Simplified value proposition portfolios are digital and connectivity services that deploying and integrating a state-of-thean important element of improving the From offering a Big-Data-enabled mobile require extremely fast mobile broadband art 5G site to its network. The trials, in the customer experience. Over the last number health solution to optimising farming speeds and very low latencies. 5G also presence of media personnel, tested HD SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS of years we have significantly reduced our with Internet of Things (IoT) solutions, enables the full potential of the Internet voice and video calls. Jazz users within the legacy product portfolio; simplifying the our expertise has changed lives in the of Things, including autonomous vehicles, vicinity of the 5G site who owned a 5G-ready choices for our customers and offering countries where we operate. VEON and its virtual healthcare, immersive education device were given the chance to use the 5G a transparent, easy-to-understand, and technology partners are geared to use our and smart cities. network. Jazz is preparing for a commercial personalised set of services that help our connectivity infrastructure and outreach launch later in the year. OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE customers connect to the digital world. in socially transformative ways. In many of the developing countries where VEON operates, the potential of For VEON, 5G is not just a technological In addition, we have continued to invest the technology to accelerate sustainable upgrade, but one of the necessary in our Customer Value Management socio-economic development is limitless. conditions to support a thriving digital Seeing this as an opportunity, our DEVELOPMENT GOALS capabilities. Based on data from our active economy in the countries where we operate. customer base, our AI and algorithms are operating companies across multiple Khalid Shahzad, Chief Technology Officer at able to generate a personalised customer countries conducted large-scale, endJazz Pakistan sums it up well: “5G is not just approach across all touchpoints and further to-end 5G trials during 2019. Beeline about speed, it’s the whole ecosystem that improve the customer experience. It goes Kazakhstan trialled 5G in Shymkent – a comes along with 5G – it will revolutionise without saying that any data collected city of a million people. the way we do things in our daily lives.” is consented personal data, meeting all regulatory requirements applicable. ABOUT THIS REPORT To measure our progress in improving the TV customer experience, all our operating companies use a state-of-the-art customer feedback measurement platform. These DEFINITIONS OF 22.8 million platforms forms part of our company-wide ‘Voice of the Customer’ programme, enabling us to gather customer feedback at the most critical touch points. By gathering feedback 19.6 million 3.2 million MATERIAL TOPICS Self-care users Financial services users Content consumers for an increased number of touch points, we aim to further improve our Net Promoter (total monthly active users of (total monthly active users of (total monthly active users of Score (NPS) and customer experience. self-care apps and web-services) mobile financial services) our content services) REPORT DISCLAIMER 54 55 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON VEON’s self-care apps Using data analysis to improve our Saving lives with artificial intelligence Beeline also helped develop an AI-based, customer services technology 5G-powered image recognition system, In 2019, VEON launched self-care apps in a which is able to process thousands of drone CORPORATE number of our operating countries. SelfEach year, more than 120,000 people images in real time, searching for the missing GOVERNANCE In Pakistan, Jazz partnered with IBM care apps allow our customers to purchase Cloud and Analytics Solutions to offer get lost in Russia. Often, the authorities person as well as their belongings. The additional products, manage their accounts, improved customer services and customer don’t have the resources, manpower image processing system can identify people upgrade their plans and much more, all experience to its 59 million subscribers or the necessary tools to run rescue or and their possessions even when partially FOSTERING DIGITAL without visiting a store or speaking with a call through the creation of a private cloud recovery operations. The search is made obscured, for example by trees or snow. centre customer service representative. environment at Jazz’s data centre. more challenging by the vastness of the country and the harshness of the weather The technology processes 2,500 ENTREPRENEURSHIP Powered by IBM analytics, the collaboration With over 3.7 million monthly active users allows Jazz to store and analyse customer conditions. Beeline’s technical expertise photographs in less than two minutes, and 1.2 million daily active users, the Jazz data in real-time from a variety of sources, and vast outreach powers Liza Alert, a whereas previously it took a team of highly World app offered by Jazz Pakistan has been including their data and mobile phone non-profit organisation dedicated to finding trained volunteers up to six hours to cover a great success. This is in part due to the usage history. These insights allow the the missing individuals. With a network the same area. Once identified, it provides BRIDGING THE SKILLS rich variety of content it offers to its users business to understand customers better of 50,000 volunteers spread across the the coordinates of the missing person to including large number of games and retail Just as our JazzCash app in Pakistan is Harnessing IoT technology for and anticipate their needs, providing entire country, it is the largest volunteer the network of volunteers involved in the discounts. Jazz World also improves customer movement in Russia. on-the-ground search. The technology uses AND LITERACY GAP providing millions of our customers access smart farming personalised service and experiences experience through an AI-enabled Chatbot to financial services for the first time, we see tailored around each customer. deep learning based on a neural network, and customised offers. opportunities to connect customers with Algeria has huge agricultural potential To successfully manage search operations meaning it will become even faster and medical services, vocational opportunities because of the richness of its soil. However, Jazz’s CEO, Aamir Ibrahim, says “Digital and under such challenging conditions, Liza Alert more efficient over time. Beeline Russia’s MyBeeline app has around and educational resources using our various factors including low rainfall and lack data transformation is happening across harnesses cutting-edge technology. Beeline OUR COMMITMENT TO 10 million users. It incorporates gamification self-care apps. of investment have meant that this potential industries, and it’s vital to recognise the helped to develop and deploy a crossIn the future, Beeline hopes to share this to promote a healthy lifestyle. Customers is not being tapped, despite government invaluable benefits moving to a unified carrier SMS-based portal and hotline, as well technology with the government and other receive daily bonuses for activities such as Exploring medical applications of 5G efforts. The situation has been worsened data management and analytics platform as a mobile app, to manage and coordinate stakeholders, as it believes there are many SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS walking 10,000 steps and getting eight hours by the threat of drought and the resulting can bring.” the volunteer network. other valuable applications for it. sleep. The app also provides partner offers In 2019, Beeline Russia’s 5G service was water restrictions. As a result, Algeria remains based on Big Data insights, including music used to carry out the country’s first remote dependent on imports for almost 75% of and infotainment. medical surgery. Working in collaboration its food needs. with Huawei and the Russian Surgeons OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Banglalink also introduced a self-care app Society, Beeline’s 5G network transmitted live In response, Djezzy launched a pilot which includes interactive features to boost high-resolution 4K video footage and enabled programme in partnership with Nokia to engagement such as ‘Shake to Reveal’. surgeons to remove cancerous tissue measure soil quality using smart metering. Customers shake their devices to receive through a tiny keyhole incision. This agri-tech project aims to provide farmers a special data or voice offer. The Beeline with reliable data to enhance productivity, DEVELOPMENT GOALS Armenia self-care app also includes smart Another procedure involved surgeons reduce resource wastage, and optimise crop features including an integrated tool to check remotely supervising the implantation yield. Solar-powered soil probes equipped internet connection speed. and removal of a RFID chip in the hand of with Djezzy SIM cards collect and transmit key Beeline’s Vice-President of Digital and New irrigation data including precipitation level, In 2019, our Ukrainian operating company Business Development. ambient temperature, humidity and salinity. Kyivstar redesigned its self-care app. The The collected data is analysed to allow new version includes convenient features Beeline’s 5G network was instrumental in farmers to effectively manage their irrigation such as credit top-up using Google or Apple the success of these surgical trials as the cycles and soil nutrition. This improved ABOUT THIS REPORT Pay. A variety of add-on digital products and enhanced broadband speed and low latency understanding ensures farmers are more services are being developed for Kyivstar’s helped surgeons to monitor the progress informed and better equipped to manage customers. of the procedure in real-time. weather conditions that can threaten their crops. DEFINITIONS OF Self-care apps are also the medium through This landmark experiment showcases the which we plan to offer our customers enormous potential of 5G broadband, as well Djezzy believes that the efficient and MATERIAL TOPICS a variety of applications and resources as the vast breadth of its applications. productive farming practices it introduced matched to their individual needs. This will support Algeria’s economy by reducing will include services which aim to provide food imports and ultimately increasing vocational, professional and socio-economic exports. Additionally, this successful use case REPORT opportunities. of IoT technology paves the way for Djezzy to collaborate with other industries. This all contributes to Djezzy’s ambition of leading DISCLAIMER the digital transformation of Algeria. 56 57 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2019 Digital inclusion OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON Reconnecting senior citizens For VEON, digital inclusion means empowering people through In particular, there is a severe shortage of Georgian-language resources in IT and CORPORATE information and communication technology. We bridge the computer sciences. This further exacerbates In Ukraine, Kyivstar promotes digital digital divide by providing a variety of connectivity and digital inclusion with its ‘Smartphones for Seniors’ GOVERNANCE the problem of unemployment for the population, both within and outside Georgia. campaign. This multi-stage mobile literacy services to those disconnected due to their age, gender, As a consequence, many locals have limited campaign is aimed at retirees, with the language, physical ability or income. means of livelihood and continue to live goal of increasing smartphone use and FOSTERING DIGITAL near the poverty line. increasing their confidence with new technology. Retiring from work is known Our work to improve inclusion encompasses, Here, in rural Pshavi, we now have wi-fi for the to sever a major connection to society, ENTREPRENEURSHIP To open up new opportunities for promising among other things, harnessing technology first time. You are in the mountains, but you Georgians, Beeline Georgia partnered with and many retirees find themselves feeling to support those facing physical challenges, can reach out to the world. We can access Educare, an educational foundation, to lonelier. Using a smartphone can reconnect providing digital financial services to empower education, report problems to the local translate 164 of Khan Academy’s computer them, making it easier to contact friends the unbanked, and connecting those in rural municipality or other authorities, and develop programming lessons into Georgian. The and family and keep up with current affairs. BRIDGING THE SKILLS areas to the world around them. Additional tourism. In the 21st century, internet is lessons are available online and free to highlights include providing digital healthcare everything,” says resident Nodar Tokhosashvili. access. Since the launch in April 2019, more The programme involves both online and services to those who would otherwise be offline components. There are ten video AND LITERACY GAP than 34,000 users have benefitted from the unable to access healthcare and empowering Beeline Georgia’s role in the project involves programme. The project lessens Georgia’s lectures that teach basic smartphone use, the older generation through connectivity. providing free-of-charge co-location in its cell digital exclusion and equips many of its young from making calls and sending messages towers. This allows the equipment to be set people with the digital skills necessary to to searching for information online. These Connecting the unconnected through up without the enormous time or investment drive the country’s economy. are accompanied by an educational OUR COMMITMENT TO rural expansion necessary to set up new towers, thus removing brochure that explains how to access the barriers from the process. Thousands of Closing the digital divide in the job market video lectures. Over 45,000 people have In many of the countries where we operate, residents of remote villages now enjoy all benefitted from the lectures so far. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS there is a significant rural/urban divide. For the benefits and increased opportunities Unemployment and underemployment are example, some of the remote, mountainous of connection to the outside world. two of the socio-economic challenges that Offline elements include in-person areas of Georgia are without internet adversely affect millions of Bangladeshis. workshops run by Kyivstar’s own training connection, or have out-dated slow speeds Removing access barriers from education Increasingly, finding employment Furthermore, selected Banglalink Termed BIMA Sehat, it is an affordable and development specialists. These will that make communication difficult. This adds opportunities requires digital literacy. Jobs offices provide in-person support and health insurance that offers customers continue into 2020 and serve to continue OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE to the isolation of their residents, and is a 56% of the information on the Internet is are often only advertised online and require personalised career development tips from unlimited 24/7 access to doctors via increasing smartphone penetration in the major factor in young residents migrating to in English, which means a large proportion the application to be completed online too, dedicated Kormo representatives. These video conference or phone call, home senior age range, increasing Kyivstar’s pool cities en masse. Thanks to Beeline Georgia, of the global population isn’t able to access along with a digital CV. To combat these representatives support the job seeker to delivery of their prescriptions and of potential customers as well as narrowing 12 isolated villages received high-speed wi-fi online content. issues, Banglalink partnered with start-up create and optimise their digital CV. discounts on medicines and lab tests. the digital inclusion gap in Ukraine. connections in 2019, which has transformed Kormo, which offers an app that supports job Furthermore, patients also receive DEVELOPMENT GOALS the day-to-day lives of their residents. “This For Georgia, a country of four million people, seekers. The Kormo app allows candidates to Within the app, job seekers can also find coverage for hospital stays. Spearheading financial inclusion was a long-term dream and it came true. We the problem is much worse. Most school search through opportunities and apply for career development content including have been waiting for this for almost four students don’t learn English as a foreign jobs through the platform with one click, interview tips and instructional videos. BIMA Sehat focuses both on preventive Many of our operating companies have years, to have internet, and a means language and hence face difficulty in accessing with roles recommended based on their Through this partnership, Banglalink lessens as well as curative care, with tailored launched Mobile Financial Services of communication. online learning materials. skills and location. the digital divide in the job market and health coaching programmes available (MFS). In the developing countries where ensures that a lack of digital skills doesn’t through customers’ Jazz accounts aimed we operate, MFS solutions are a vital hold users back from building their career. at improving the general health and health way of reducing digital exclusion. For education of the population. By enrolling some people, MFS represents their only ABOUT THIS REPORT Making healthcare accessible through their Jazz account, customers are chance of holding a bank account and the exempted from lengthy paperwork and preopportunities it opens up. Pakistan’s population is growing rapidly, screening requirements. Since its launch in with an increase of more than 60% since 2018, BIMA Sehat has already reached one Kyrgyzstan is a country with low penetration DEFINITIONS OF 1998 to take it well over 200 million people. million active customers and continues to of banking products and many unbanked ~34% ~11% 7.3 million This surge puts a serious strain on the on-board around 10,000 new customers people. Due to its complex geography, MATERIAL TOPICS country’s infrastructure; it is a medically per day. So far, doctors have provided there are a lot of remote villages where underserved population where millions of 236,583 tele-health consultations to BIMA the residents are isolated from traditional 4G smartphone penetration people struggle to access affordable, quality Sehat subscribers. banking services. In response to this socioMFS subscriber penetration Digital wallets healthcare, partly due to the fact there is economic challenge, Beeline Kyrgyzstan REPORT (Group-wide smartphone (percentage of subscribers using less than one doctor per 1,000 people. The service has been priced in view of the launched an app-based banking service penetration calculated as mobile financial services in In response, Jazz Pakistan partnered with economic situation of the country, with through a subsidiary. customer weighted average) total subscriber base) BIMA, a global micro-insurance company, premiums starting as low as PKR 1.28/day DISCLAIMER to offer a holistic digital health solution. (USD 0.008). 58 59 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2019 Talent management and OVERVIEW skills development ABOUT VEON CORPORATE Providing banking and financial services VEON’s People Strategy is to create the VEON of the GOVERNANCE To support VEON’s transformation remotely through Beeline products allows needs, a strategic workforce planning residents of these remote villages to receive future together, today. To achieve this, we rely on our approach has been initiated. VEON’s many of the same services as residents of employees, and especially our leaders, to promote strategic workforce planning efforts are FOSTERING DIGITAL major cities. aimed at shaping and structuring our the VEON Values through their behaviour. workforce in critical capability areas. Additionally, Beeline users can use their ENTREPRENEURSHIP This approach ensures sufficient and Beeline mobile wallet to apply for loans, sustainable capability and capacity offered in partnership with four banks and Our People and Organisation (P&O) 2. Enable people to shape and share within the workforce to deliver on VEON’s microcredit companies. If successful, they departments ensure that we have VEON’s success organisational objectives. will receive the funds in their Beeline mobile the right talent in place for each role, BRIDGING THE SKILLS wallet (known as Balance.kg), through which and that each employee’s talents are Our values-based leadership programme This approach is delivered in part through they can make payments. Balance.kg is the nurtured through a range of innovative continued in 2019. The programme our global Learning Management System number one mobile wallet in Kyrgyzstan. development schemes to enable VEON to focuses on aligning our leadership AND LITERACY GAP (LMS) and the VEON Academy, a selfachieve its organisational and business development framework with VEON’s service platform that caters to employees’ Banking the unbanked goals. With this in mind, VEON’s approach purpose, values, and business strategy. individual learning needs. It also provides to talent management focuses on the It supports our senior leaders to bring Mobile banking via JazzCash sidesteps these Wamiq Hasan, Chief Technology Officer of guidelines on developing skills on the There are seven million monthly active users of following priorities: our values to life and lead cultural barriers, providing a quick and easy way to DeafTawk, was born with a severe hearing job, as well as through consulting with transformation within the business. OUR COMMITMENT TO JazzCash, a digital financial services application conduct various transactions like paying utility impairment. He left Pakistan, his home peers and senior leaders. The LMS is offered by Jazz, our operating company in country, at a young age due to insufficient 1. Having the right skills for the future bills with the click of a button. It also enables offered through partnerships with leading Pakistan, which allows its customers to access To cascade these messages throughout all-important money transfers between educational opportunities. Eager to help e-learning content providers and customour business, we also offer a tailored SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS a range of banking services from their phones. those with similar disabilities, Wamig set up There is a significant relationship between individuals, which for many households in built learning interventions. Launched three years ago, JazzCash has grown talent management and organisational version of the programme to middle Pakistan comprise a vital financial lifeline. DeafTawk upon his return as a graduate. quickly into Pakistan’s market leader for these performance. VEON’s senior management management employees designated 4. Working as one team services, putting basic banking into the team is actively involved in the selection, as ‘high potential’. This marks part of Technology has also been a key ingredient The start-up provides an online language hands of many for the first time. development and deployment of strong our efforts to deliver a great employee of JazzCash’s success. Its unique platform interpretation service that minimises the The P&O community across VEON works leaders throughout the business. This experience that drives engagement and OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE combines an easy-to-use smartphone app cost associated with hiring an interpreter. By as one team by sharing best practices and World Bank data ranks Pakistan as the world’s robust process has enabled the placement performance. with the QuickPay method of QR Code scans making interpreter services digitally accessible, expertise, and delivering results collectively. most unbanked nation, with over 80% of the DeafTawk ensures that people with hearing of internal talent in key leadership roles. and integrates seamlessly with all of the adult population with no account at a financial 3. Building a future-ready nation’s main billing systems. Signing up difficulties can access a wealth of opportunities To ensure that the perspective of all institution. That percentage is nearer 95% for From mid-2018 through 2019, 42 appointorganisation the service is also easy, with many payment that were previously out of reach. stakeholders is taken into consideration, DEVELOPMENT GOALS women, reflecting a gender disparity in an ments were made in leadership roles inoptions already integrated into the app, all global initiatives are designed and economy where access to financial services cluding 60% sourced from internal talent. To Transformation is one of the biggest reducing the barrier to entry for first-time DeafTawk is one of the start-ups supported by implemented collectively. Similarly, locally is a significant impediment to sustainable prepare the succession pipeline, employees challenges for leaders in today’s business Jazz users. Jazz Pakistan’s Xlr8 incubator. Jazz Xlr8 works led initiatives and priorities are discussed development. attend talent reviews at least once per year environment. Organisations must keep with start-ups and entrepreneurs to develop regularly so team members can learn where they discuss their development up with rapidly evolving customer needs The ability of JazzCash to help realise the innovative solutions to real-life socio-economic from each other’s experiences. JazzCash breaks down this barrier, and set goals for the year ahead. and shifting industry dynamics. ambitions of its customers is clear, particularly problems. Through their relationship with Jazz, empowering its users with the ability to pay in markets where lack of access to basic the DeafTawk founders got the opportunity bills, transfer money and take out microfinancial services is a significant impediment to to pitch to investors at the renowned Mobile ABOUT THIS loans, and therefore promoting financial VEON VALUES REPORT individual empowerment and socio-economic World Congress in Barcelona in 2019. inclusion. JazzCash aims to provide every development. Pakistani – regardless of their gender, Deaf Tawk’s digital platform provides sign location or socio-economic status – with Bridging the social divide with technology language interpretation services, audio-video DEFINITIONS OF its services so they can participate fully translation and sign language training carried in the financial economy and enjoy the According to the World Health Organisation, out by 280+ experienced sign language MATERIAL TOPICS opportunities this brings. five percent of the world’s population has interpreters, 224 of whom are female. Since some form of hearing impairment. In Pakistan, its launch, the platform has helped over 8,000 JazzCash’s success in Pakistan is no it is estimated there are around nine deaf people and provided more than 42,000 accident. The nation’s banking sector, due million people with partial or total inability hours of interpreting services. CUSTOMER ENTREPRENEURIAL TRUTHFUL COLLABORATIVE INNOVATIVE REPORT to inefficiencies and high interest rates, can to hear. The communication gap created discourage borrowing, making it difficult for by their impairment can restrict them from OBSESSED Pakistanis to meet immediate cash needs. participating in society, obtaining a proper DISCLAIMER education or having a fulfilling career. 60 61 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON How VEON develops talent VEON’s strong learning culture is As a child, I always wanted Diversity and inclusion at VEON demonstrated through the results of to become a programmer. At every level in the organisation, we are our Coursera partnership. In 2019, we VEON is committed to diversity and CORPORATE I’ve always been good with GOVERNANCE exploring ways to develop employee talent. had 20,076 course enrolments, leading inclusion. To reinforce this commitment, The VEON Academy provides digital learning to 273,500+ learning hours. The average technology. So recently, I decided employees’ feedback related to the opportunities to VEON’s employees through learning hours per participant was 13.6, well workplace and management practices to combine my knowledge in partnerships with world-renowned digital above the telecommunications industry is captured through focused surveys. FOSTERING DIGITAL learning providers, as well as through average of eight. marketing with programming. I All employees are invited to complete the development of custom content in started to study Python and fell these surveys and to contribute to turning ENTREPRENEURSHIP collaboration with industry experts. Similarly, for LinkedIn Learning, 5,809 active in love with it. I am very thankful the findings into action. In 2019, the learners accessed 377,026 videos and participation rate increased by This digital learning portfolio also covers spent over 21,000 learning hours on the to VEON and Coursera for these three percent. programmes focused on unconscious bias platform. These statistics are above the 50th courses. The way you provide and anti-harassment, as well as building percentile of LinkedIn benchmarks for the the information, the interactivity, Djezzy Academy VEON Global Digithon 2019 VEON strictly prohibits any form of BRIDGING THE SKILLS awareness of VEON’s Code of Conduct. technology industry. discrimination or harassment. Employees Similarly, to enhance female inclusion in our the simplicity... Everything is who believe they have been discriminated In Algeria, Djezzy runs Djezzy Academy, a 2019 marked the fourth year of VEON’s awesome! It’s very motivating AND LITERACY GAP leadership team, talented female leaders From marketing to programming digital platform designed to strengthen Global Digithon corporate hackathon. The against or harassed are encouraged to are developed through a custom-designed with Coursera communication with employees. It includes event invites employees from each of our report any incidents that violate VEON’s development program. Hakob Code of Conduct, and may do so via personalised coaching and intensive operating companies and our headquarters VEON Academy operates in each of our Beeline Armenia available SpeakUp channels. All contacts development courses that help employees to develop innovative solutions to a VEON has been recognised at the Brandon ten operating countries. It provides all our reach their professional goals and prepare real-life business problem. The Digithon and investigations are treated confidentially. OUR COMMITMENT TO Hall Awards for Best Learning Technology employees with the opportunity to expand Learning to lead at Banglalink for promotion. had a strong business focus; participants Implementation. The award is recognition their abilities in any way they choose, University VEON’s policy also strictly prohibits were given a business use case on the of VEON’s Group-wide efforts in rolling whether it is to take themselves to the next A key part of the platform is internal commercial application of 5G. The event retaliation against any employee who SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS out the VEON Academy. level in their current role or branch out in As part of our commitment to sustainable has submitted a concern in good faith knowledge-sharing, where one employee brought together 53 participants from another direction. leadership development, Banglalink has or participated in an investigation. with specialist knowledge is chosen to all ten operating companies, who formed Our collaboration with Coursera and formed an initiative termed Banglalink champion their subject and provides ten cross-market teams and battled to be LinkedIn Learning Hakob Baghdasaryan, a member of the University and Virtual University. These Building a diverse workforce training to employees of a different crowned VEON’s 2019 Digithon champions. marketing team at Beeline Armenia, chose programmes deliver classroom and e-learning department, according to the needs OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE The VEON Academy supported by to study Python Data Structures, Data for different business units, including VEON’s workforce is comprised of more of the business. The VEON Global Digithon has proven to CrossKnowledge integrates e-learning Structure, Tuple and Python Programming leadership, sales and retail and technology than 45 nationalities, which provides be an excellent learning and development content from Coursera and LinkedIn through a University of Michigan course. academies. One of the University’s most richness of perspectives and opportunities So far, 304 employees have been trained opportunity, as well as a chance for Learning. It provides VEON employees with successful programmes is ‘The Great for cross-cultural growth. and many others have been coached to employees to network with colleagues the opportunity to develop their skill-set and Managers Programme’. This focuses on DEVELOPMENT GOALS lead future training sessions. from other functions and countries. It also further their education by managing their honing leadership skills including people Additionally, 44% of our employees provides exposure to senior management learning journey at their own pace. skills, financial acumen and Banglalink-specific globally are female. In the developing I had the opportunity and inspiring mentors. competencies. It is designed to turn good economies where VEON operates, women managers into great managers, preparing to participate in an internal are less present in office environments. them for the next step in their careers. knowledge-sharing training I can describe it in one We are making strides in providing more programme. Doing the sentence: an event with women with the opportunity to join our business by providing benefits such as boundless learning possibilities. ABOUT THIS training in such a supportive daycare allowances and transportation. environment helped me It felt like we were pitching for REPORT Hiring on merit is critical; creating an to better understand our own real start-ups. With inclusive environment and providing equal opportunities to women is equally critical. the content a presentation skills coach on DEFINITIONS OF board to train us and assistance VEON also benefits from the representation 13.6 295,000+ 43% Walid Zoubir with the complex financial of diverse age groups at different MATERIAL TOPICS Contract Manager, Djezzy management levels within the organisation. calculations, VEON supported Young, high-potential employees are given Digithoners to think big and Average training hours Total e-learning hours Employee turnover rate a chance to perform in key leadership roles. per employee achieve more Through global workforce mobility, we build REPORT (on Coursera and LinkedIn diverse teams and promote cross-market Learning) Ana Charkviani experiences. Digital Product Manager at Beeline DISCLAIMER Georgia, Global Digithon 2019 participant 62 63 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2019 Occupational health OVERVIEW Realising the importance of being flexible Championing diversity from Human rights about how, when and where work gets the top down done, VEON also offers programmes that VEON operates across numerous emerging and safety help employees balance their work and life. In recognition of our focus on diversity and market countries and is committed to human ABOUT VEON These programmes include flexible working inclusion, our then Group Chief People Officer rights as a core value that is intrinsic to how arrangements and the option to work from Jacky Simmonds was Highly Commended we conduct our business activities. Customer home. These benefits contribute to employee as Diversity Ally of the Year (2019) at the privacy, appropriate labour practices, health satisfaction and retention, whilst increasing European Diversity Awards. and safety, equal employment opportunities, CORPORATE GOVERNANCE productivity across VEON’s footprint. diversity, anti-bribery and anti-corruption The key main risk areas that VEON VEON is committed to providing a safe and healthy working VEON is an equal are considered every day during the course identities within our operations include VEON’s commitment to continuous of our operations. In countries where environment. We believe this is a responsibility shared by transportation, working at height, working opportunity employer and improvement unions are established legitimately and duly everyone, from our employees to the third parties that we with electricity, installing and maintaining FOSTERING DIGITAL diversity is critical to the way represent members of our workforce, we radio base station equipment and fire work with. In accordance with our Group Health and Safety To ensure that VEON continues to become we do business. We firmly work together on matters including employee prevention. Policy, our objective is that there should be no fatalities ENTREPRENEURSHIP a more diverse and inclusive workplace remuneration and welfare. We respect the where all employees can reach their full believe that gender equality and inclusion is imperative various regulatory and cultural approaches or injuries as a consequence of VEON’s activities. Regarding our performance and results, potential, we are focused on development to employees’ freedom of association and there were zero reported work-related and progression paths and continuous for the growth of our business collective bargaining paired together within the fatalities during 2019. Additionally, the listening. In 2020 and beyond, we will framework of national laws and regulations of number of work-related serious injuries has BRIDGING THE SKILLS as well as our communities. Our Group Policy is leadership-endorsed In terms of the management approach continue to focus on building internal the countries in which we operate. decreased since the prior year. This results capability and infrastructure across the Across our operations, we and aims to improve the consistency of our for this policy, our operating markets are also in a lower work-related serious injury approach to health and safety. It covers encouraged to adhere to international AND LITERACY GAP company to support a diverse culture and actively recruit and promote We do not impose restrictions or limitations on rate of 1.31 (compared to 1.57 in 2018). everyone to whom we have a duty of care. standards such as OHSAS 18001, which workplace. Our business leaders at all levels employees’ freedom to associate, unionise, or to women, and ensure our female Specifically, the Policy sets out ‘absolute provides a best practice model and sets are committed to this goal, and own the request collective bargaining. In markets where One fatality is one too many, and we collective progress of advancing diversity employees feel empowered unions are established and represent members rules’ that apply in all VEON’s operational out an implementation approach across continue to focus on enhancing our jurisdictions and make it everyone’s duty to markets. In addition, occupational health and inclusion across the organisation. We to succeed at work of our workforce, including Algeria, Armenia, personnel safety protocols in order OUR COMMITMENT TO report major incidents (fatalities and near and safety is governed by the different local are also focused on increasing the level Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine and the Netherlands, we to reduce the number of work-related misses) to management at our headquarters, labour protection laws and regulations of of transparency around these efforts. Jacky Simmonds work together on matters including employee incidents and injuries, and to maintain as well the operating company and the the countries in which we operate. Each Former Group Chief People Officer remuneration and welfare. We estimate that zero work-related fatalities. Individuals SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS specific business unit level. of our operating companies has its own approximately 10% of our employees are (both internally and externally) can report health and safety procedures covering covered by collective bargaining agreements. incidents to Local Compliance Officers or For example, the absolute rules include a specific activities. Group Compliance at compliance@veon. requirement to always wear protective gear VEON’s broader continued commitment to com or can submit a question or concern at when working on electrical equipment. It is important to note that the majority of human rights is demonstrated throughout www.veon.com/speakup. OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE our employees work in office environments our Group’s business principles and policies. Our Policy covers all fulland part-time and face a relatively low risk of occupational Human rights issues are integral aspects employees, contractors, business partners, health and safety hazards, although of both the Group Code of Conduct and customers, and members of the general unfortunately this is not the case for Business Partner Code of Conduct, which public. It is applicable to those visiting or everyone. We make every effort to carefully all suppliers are required to comply with in DEVELOPMENT GOALS in close vicinity to our premises, including manage the personal security of our order to work with our companies. In parallel, retail outlets, network locations (e.g., radio employees, especially those assigned to the Group Health and Safety Policy provides base stations), warehouse facilities and network maintenance during challenging guidelines to maintain a safe and effective vehicles. conditions (such as replenishing the fuel working environment for all VEON employees in generator-powered base stations). and third parties. ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF 56% 44% 54% 46% 22% 116 1.38 0 MATERIAL TOPICS Male Female Women in senior Injuries resulting in lost Work-related serious Work-related fatalities Male Female management work days injuries/million hour REPORT (current employees) (new hires) DISCLAIMER 64 65 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 2019 Environmental OVERVIEW management VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT VEON OUR PROGRESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ON THE UN A large share of our total business greenhouse gas (GHG) We are also increasing tower sharing with other operators, which has had a direct emissions is related to the energy consumption necessary positive impact on our energy consumption to run our network. The introduction and rollout of network and environmental footprint. SUSTAINABLE FOSTERING DIGITAL energy-efficiency measures remains our primary focus, as Moving towards renewable energy these not only contribute to a low-carbon economy but ENTREPRENEURSHIP in Armenia DEVELOPMENT also significantly reduce our operating costs. In 2019, Beeline Armenia launched a pilot project to power three of its telephone GOALS exchange stations on solar energy. State-ofBRIDGING THE SKILLS These measures include an extensive Where practical, we are also increasing the programme of equipment ‘swaps’, whereby number of Base Transceiver Stations (BTS) the-art on-grid photovoltaic systems were existing dieseland petrol-powered units situated outside to reduce the energy use installed, each producing 26,000–27,000 AND LITERACY GAP are upgraded with more energy-efficient, involved in keeping them cool. We follow local kWh per year. The energy-efficiency of the hybrid and renewable-energy-powered environmental legislation and strive to reduce systems will be monitored, with a view to network equipment. the environmental impact of our operations install them at all sites should they prove a through responsible use of natural resources success. Beeline Armenia employees have and by reducing waste and emissions. also been trained on renewable energy VEON and the Sustainable Development Goals 66 OUR COMMITMENT TO solutions and are aware of its carbonand SDG 4: Quality Education 67 VEON’s carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions have cost-saving benefits. SDG 5: Gender Equality 68 decreased from 0.28 tonnes per terabyte SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth 69 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS in 2018 to 0.24 tonnes in 2019. This 14% Reducing the footprint of our offices SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 70 decrease is the result of our continued investment in energy-efficient BTS and freeAcross all VEON’s operating companies, cooling technology, which have helped to action is being taken to reduce our carbon reduce our energy consumption. As well as footprint within our offices as well as OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE reducing our carbon footprint, this enables our operations. For example, Banglalink us to expand into remote areas, where achieved a 7.2% reduction in energy there is no access to the electricity grid, and consumption at its headquarters during to supply power to base stations, thereby 2019. Many operating companies, including Beeline Kazakhstan, have switched to LED DEVELOPMENT GOALS supporting our work to drive digital inclusion in the countries where we operate. lighting. Additionally, Beeline Kyrgyzstan has launched a digitally enabled tree-planting campaign as part of a wider project to improve air quality in Bishkek. ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF 2,597 mln 0.16 mln 1.10 mln MATERIAL TOPICS MWh tonnes tonnes Total energy use Scope 1 CO2 emissions Scope 2 CO2 emissions REPORT DISCLAIMER 66 67 OPENING STAT TA EMENTS TAT OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2019 VEON and the UN Sustainable SDG 4: Quality OVERVIEW Development Goals Education ABOUT VEON CORPORAT AT A E The provision of quality education is vital for improving living standards As a responsible company operating in ten developing GOVERNANCE Each of the United Nations’ 193 member states have committed to using the SDGs to and achieving sustainable development in our operating countries. countries, we view the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as an opportunity to drive FOSTERING DIGITA T L TA socio-economic development. ENTREPRENEURSHIP and has chosen four SDGs to focus on where According to UNICEF,F more than 617 million F, young people still lack basic literacy and emergency’, this is a consequence of BRIDGING THE SKILLS severe lack of investment in education, which has led to an acute shortage of adequately trained teachers and few AND LITERACY GAP education opportunities outside big cities. 15 million 34,000 16,000 Technology continues to play an integral role in propagating good quality education, people students students enabling interactivity that drives engageOUR COMMITMENT TO have been reached by in Kyrgyzstan were ment and remote learning. TechnoloKyivstar Ukraine’s online Khan Academy lessons in trained in digital skills and Smartphones for Seniors computer programming, literacy, smartphone use cheaper and often more practical alternaSUSTA TA T INABLE BUSINESS campaign, which aims to thanks to a translation and how to apply critical increase digital literacy project carried out by thinking to information school system, particularly in rural areas. in older people. Closing Beeline Georgia and In several of VEON’s operating countries, the digital age gap will educational foundation result of a partnership the percentage of public schools with help older Ukrainians Educare Georgia. Few between Beeline access to computers and the internet for OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTA T INABLE TA participate in society Georgians speak English, so Kyrgyzstan and nonteaching purposes is less than 40%. With after retirement. providing content in their the aim of equipping young people with took place in more than the skills to navigate the digital world, our people an exciting new 80 schools across the operating companies have established career option. country. DEVELOPMENT GOALS many well-equipped ICT labs at partner schools. These facilities provide hundreds brought together programmers, designers, of young students with basic ICT skills. Our initiatives also improve the quality of Academy, Beeline Georgia has provided ABOUT THIS schools. In Armenia, we ran a diverse programme of expert-led workshops introducc c180 3,500 rural 100 children REPORT ing teenagers to the digital skills necessary educational students in remote Armenian for careers in architecture, mechanical institutions provinces learned digital DEFINITIONS OF engineering and software engineering, in Ukraine received skills as a result of Beeline entrepreneurial skills Armenia’s DO Project. MAT AT A ERIAL TOPICS international agenda but are also essential fo f r including schools, training as part of the This project was Our programme do not focus solely on colleges and universities Kyivstar-backed GoCamp a successful pilot for children’s education. We also run learning have been provided programme. In 2019, adding digital skills programmes in countries including Russia, free or subsidised more than 50 Kyivstar and literacy to the REPORT Bangladesh and Ukraine that focus on internet connections. employees, including national curriculum, with upskilling adults – everyone has a right to The connections allow the CEO, signed up to guidelines developed high-quality education, and a role to play students to access online mentor through the based on the project DISCLAIMER in sustainable development. learning. programme. distributed nationwide. 68 69 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2019 SDG 5: Gender SDG 8: Decent Work OVERVIEW Equality and Economic Growth ABOUT VEON CORPORATE SDG 5 aims to provide women and girls with equal access to education, The aim of SDG 8 is to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable GOVERNANCE healthcare, decent work, and representation in key decision-making. economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all. FOSTERING DIGITAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP Balanced gender representation fuels sustainSDG 8 aims to increase labour productivity, able economies and benefits societies and lower unemployment and improve access humanity at large. In many of VEON’s operating to financial services. All three are essential countries, women are underrepresented in to achieving inclusive and sustainable ecoBRIDGING THE SKILLS most social and professional roles. Out-dated nomic growth. The global unemployment local cultural norms inhibit their participation rate is currently 4.9%, but it is significantly in society and the economy. Gender inequality higher in many of the countries where we AND LITERACY GAP operate. For example, in Algeria, it is 12.6%. is further exacerbated by women, particularly those in rural areas, being less likely to receive 37,000+ 16,000+ 200 women 200 people 20,000 43,000 higher education than their male counterparts. female female work and earn through VEON is dedicated to providing fulfilling employment opportunities in the with young people people This further reduces their chances of securing students the Deaf Tawk platform countries where we operate. Our Make disabilities OUR COMMITMENT TO good jobs and being economically empowered. textile industry workers by providing sign Your Mark initiative supports and creates in Pakistan’s Khyber applied for jobs on the At VEON, we recognise that technology and were empowered language interpretation co-working spaces, business accelerators Pakhtunkhwa region Kormo platform through connectivity can play a vital role in bridging the have received training to and 950+ female with digital and social have taken part in digital Banglalink’s channels. services. Deaf Tawk is a and digital incubators. This enables us boost their digital skills, SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS gender divide. Hence, for the first time, VEON teachers have been media skills as part of start-up supported by to help launch new businesses, create confidence and employability skills training as part of The Kormo app allows has decided to track and report on SDG 5 in trained on digital skills Banglalink’s Learn More, the National Incubation hundreds of jobs and attract sizeable through Beeline Russia’s Jazz’s Pakistan Youth candidates to apply 2019, together with our existing priority SDGs. and literacy through Be More programme Centre in Pakistan, which investments for start-ups. Everland programme. Employment Programme, for jobs and provides Jazz Smart Schools’ in collaboration with in partnership with KPITB e-learning courses on how our operating company Only a third of people with VEON is well-positioned to invest in and interactive, technologyFacebook. They also Jazz helps to fund and In most of our operating countries, VEON disabilities in Russia are and the World Bank. This to strengthen their CVs promote women’s empowerment, not only OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE based programme using participated in workshops training enables them to and applications, helping run. Women make up 80 organises hackathons and entrepreneuremployed; this programme through running events and programmes, laptops provided by Jazz on health, safety, percent of Deaf Tawk’s ial skills development sessions. These empowers more of them to find freelance work online them to compete in the but also by advocating for the importance of loaded with its learning nutrition, child education interpreters. initiative empower young people with the find fulfilling work. to support themselves. challenging job market. gender equality across all spheres of society. management software. and household finances. Our workforce confirms that women’s particskills to start their own businesses. As DEVELOPMENT GOALS ipation in business results in more creativity, well as providing fulfilling, occupational innovation and ultimately, greater profitability. opportunities for others, many start-ups To ensure continued representation of women offer scalable digital solutions to complex in leadership roles at VEON, our top female socio-economic problems. For instance, employees are invited to join a specialised Sehat Kahani, a Jazz-incubated start-up, development programme. makes healthcare available to women in rural Pakistan through its mobile platform. ABOUT THIS Access to payment instruments and finan100 30,000 small 25 social 50 female 100 14 teams cial services is crucial factor for economic REPORT growth. However, millions of people in participants business institutions entrepreneurs students competed in the Women’s our operating countries are currently unbanked, and more people possess a in Beeline Georgia’s NASA owners benefit from that support children and DEFINITIONS OF SDG Challenge Cup in I wasn’t an entrepreneur have been supported by from technology universities Jazz Pakistan as part of a mobile phone than a bank account. VEON Space Apps Challenge Beeline Kyrgyzstan’s AYA adults with disabilities Jazz Pakistan’s National took part in an International considers this a business opportunity, and pitted their data science Master CRM app. Most receive free high-speed before, and I was even a bit hackathon event. Alongside MATERIAL TOPICS Incubation Centre (NIC). Women’s Day-themed a panel discussion has made the growth of our Digital Finanskills against each other in people in Kyrgyzstan don’t internet from Beeline afraid of using Facebook before In 2019, the NIC supported hackathon in Algeria, run by debating how more women cial Services (DFS) portfolio a priority. We a hackathon, using NASAhave computers, so this Kazakhstan. There is attending the programme. But over 50 diverse start-ups. Djezzy in collaboration with can be encouraged to have already established DFS businesses provided data. There are application that helps limited state support for The addition of a new Google Developers Group. work in tech, the all-female in Pakistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan. currently few opportunities them run their business people with disabilities, now I don’t have any fear REPORT day-care centre has made Their task was to create teams pitched their ideas By offering a wide array of reliable and to pursue data science in from their smartphone so these charity-funded Sonia running a business easier innovative web or mobile for tackling SDG-themed ready available financial services, we play Georgia so this competition is an important tool for libraries, special schools Learn More, Be More graduate for those with children. apps to promote diversity socio-economic an important role in building digital presents young people with a success. and employment training DISCLAIMER and inclusion. challenges. financial ecosystems. valuable chance to explore it. centres are a vital service. 70 71 OPENING STATEMENTS OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 2019 SDG 9: Industry, Innovation OVERVIEW and Infrastructure VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT VEON The aim of SDG 9 is to build resilient infrastructure, promote ABOUT THIS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT inclusive and sustainable industrialisation, and foster innovation. FOSTERING DIGITAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP Our contribution to SDG 9 covers a variety of Our sustainability standards 75 initiatives aimed at enhancing productivity, Independent assurance statement 76 promoting innovation and combatting digital exclusion. These efforts help to break down BRIDGING THE SKILLS the ‘digital divide’ and support the developing countries in which we operate to grow sustainably. The development and maintenance of our AND LITERACY GAP digital services and network infrastructure in our host countries is our fundamental contribu1,300 1 million 100,000 tion to SDG 9. We are committed to improving residents people monthly digital access, coverage and connection speeds users OUR COMMITMENT TO through continual investment. of rural villages in Georgia in Shymkent were able to can enjoy internet access trial 5G internet during One example of VEON’s commitment to advancfor the first time, thanks Beeline Kazakhstan’s manage their finances and SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS ing infrastructure is the 5G trials run in many of to a rural expansion 2019 pilot. It was a public online payments through our operating countries in 2019. Similarly, our scheme by Beeline demonstration of the Beeline Kyrgyzstan’s Balnetwork’s rural expansion in countries such Georgia that expanded potential and power of ance.kg platform, allowing as Georgia and Kyrgyzstan has been helpful in network coverage into 5G to representatives of rural residents to receive uplifting smalland medium-sized enterprises remote mountain areas. business, government the same banking services (SMEs). VEON has also made significant social OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE This scheme has already agencies and citizens. as those of major cities. investments to foster local digital entrepreboosted much-needed Over 700,000 people have neurial ecosystems, as part of our commitment tourism in the region. installed the application. to developing our business and infrastructure responsibly. We are attentive to the environDEVELOPMENT GOALS mental sustainability of our operations and the resilience of our infrastructure. Our technology teams continue to explore renewable energy options to power our services. 16 million 1 million 17,500 missing ABOUT THIS subscribers active people found REPORT My minimal salary manage their finances customers alive by Liza Alert, a non-profit organisation DEFINITIONS OF through nine different makes it impossible for me to receive affordable health in Russia powered by mobile financial services manage the household and (MFS) operators in insurance and healthcare Beeline Russia’s AIand MATERIAL TOPICS pay for medical emergencies, Bangladesh, all of which are services through Jazz 5G-powered image powered by the Banglalink Pakistan’s BIMA Sehat recognition platform. The so I am eternally grateful platform. There is less platform can process network. Subscribers can for this service access their MFS services than one doctor per 1,000 2,500 drone images in REPORT simply by dialling the people in Pakistan, and less than two minutes to Muhammad Safdar many people struggle to spot missing people, then DISCLAIMER USSD short-code. Road accident victim afford care, so BIMA Sehat guide rescuers to their is much needed. location. 72 73 OPENING STATEMENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 2019 About this report OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON Each year we perform a comprehensive This is VEON’s eighth annual Sustainability Report. The internal check on our KPIs and update our CORPORATE report focuses on our policies and business operations with reporting procedures to ensure that our regard to sustainability during 2019, along with information GOVERNANCE indicators are most relevant to our business. These changes in processes are updated about related events and achievements. This report is in our Sustainability Reporting Manual. The intended for various stakeholders including our employees, manual is an important internal document FOSTERING DIGITAL for key points of contact at both our customers, suppliers, business partners, governments operating companies and headquarters. and regulators, and investors. ENTREPRENEURSHIP It includes definitions, as well instructions on how to source the data. This year we have Our approach to sustainability and reporting The prioritised issues are discussed with the added new KPIs for material topics such is guided by the principles of stakeholder relevant members of the management and the as data privacy and cyber security, digital BRIDGING THE SKILLS engagement and materiality of the Global Global Executive Committee. The materiality inclusion and digital innovation. The latter Reporting Initiative (GRI). Our value creation assessment and its outcomes are applicable two topics are directly tied to our impact AND LITERACY GAP model is inspired by the framework of the to all entities explained in the Reporting Scope. sections Make Your Mark, Digital Skills and International Integrated Reporting Council We explain our approach and the results on Literacy, and the Sustainability Programme (IIRC) and attempts to demonstrate the page 26. Definitions for the material topics are Framework. impact of our business operations and social included on page 80. initiatives clearly and holistically. Within the Sustainability Programme OUR COMMITMENT TO Reporting guidelines Framework, we continue to report on the goals Reporting scope identified in the prior year’s report and report This report has been prepared in accordance on KPIs such as the number of start-ups SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS VEON’s Sustainability Report covers the 2019 with GRI Standards: Core option. Moreover, supported on a cumulative basis. calendar year. The report applies only to the we include specific elements of the IIRC geographical markets where we had active Framework, for example a value creation This year we have placed the focus on the operations until 31 December 2019. model. Our full Integrated Report 2019 can number of direct start-ups supported through be found on our website. We have described commercial or sustainability partnerships. OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Our scope of reporting does not include markets the reporting scope and boundaries for each We have combined the indicator reporting on where businesses were sold during the financial material topics in the GRI Content Index the number of individuals benefitting from year, businesses where we control less than which can also be found on our website. subsidised internet connections versus the 50% of the equity, businesses where we do not number benefitting from ICT equipment in have management control, or businesses that Data quality order to reduce double-counting and allow for DEVELOPMENT GOALS represent less than 0.15% of our service revenue. more robust reporting. During 2019, we did not acquire businesses in The sustainability reporting system is any new geographical markets. integrated into our broader financial Independent assurance reporting system, including internal controls. A list of significant subsidiaries can be found in We have implemented several control VEON’s senior stakeholders need to be able our Form 20-F (filed with the US Securities and measures to secure the quality of our data to rely on sustainability information as a basis Security incidents managed preventively Relevant data assumptions In several operating companies, we have Exchange Commission) or on our website. consolidation and reporting, including: for their decisions. Trustworthy information and solved without major negative and estimates outsourcing agreements relating to the strengthens confidence in our company, impact building, management and maintenance ABOUT THIS REPORT Stakeholders and materiality Controls within the reporting software markets, and long-term value. Number of employees that completed Within our sustainability reporting process, of our network assets. We have attempted to ‘lock’ data once it has been approved anti-corruption and anti-bribery training there are relevant data assumptions and to record the key impacts such as energy A range of stakeholders have legitimate at different levels to prevent In order to ensure we have reliable Number of one-month-active accounts/ estimates to indicate. Below, you will find consumption and relevant health and expectations for how our company operates unauthorised changes and map an information, with regard to non-financial digital wallets an explanation on several of our most safety performance of contractors when DEFINITIONS OF and creates value. By engaging with them internal audit trail information, we have requested an Number of active users of self-care important assumptions. on VEON premises. on a regular basis we can understand and Clear division of responsibilities between independent third party to provide assurance applications (MAU) MATERIAL TOPICS evaluate issues and revisit our strategy, data custodians (responsible for providing for the following set of KPIs: Corporate governance section on Environmental footprinting We have made certain assumptions and plans, and actions. We explain our approach initial data), finance teams (responsible for pages 28 and 29 Regarding the data we collect for capturing estimations in relation to our energy use to stakeholder engagement on page 23. We the data entry and reporting process), and Economic value generated and our environmental footprint, we are and carbon footprint. The bulk of our determine our priorities by assessing the corporate responsibility teams at operating distributed in USD focused on improving the measurement energy consumption comes from our base REPORT materiality of individual topics to our strategy, company level (responsible for checking Mobile data traffic (GB) of our Scope 1 (network) and Scope 2 stations, some of which are not connected and their importance to our stakeholders in a data quality and content) (non-network) carbon emissions, and have to national power grids. context broader than captured by traditional An external auditor providing assurance on The assurance statement can be found not yet started to quantify our Scope 3 DISCLAIMER measures of financial materiality. a selection of material KPIs. on page 76. emissions. 74 75 OPENING STATEMENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 2019 Our sustainability OVERVIEW standards ABOUT VEON CORPORATE This means that we must estimate GOVERNANCE GRI Sustainability Reporting The Dutch Transparency Benchmark The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) consumption based on a mixture of invoice Standards information and knowledge of technical The Dutch Transparency Benchmark The Dow Jones Sustainability Index is the capabilities of different types of equipment. The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards assesses transparency in corporate first global sustainability benchmark of FOSTERING DIGITAL (GRI Standards) are the most widely social reporting. It is a study of the indices. The focus of the Dow Jones Indices For several of our businesses, we estimate adopted global standards for sustainability qualitative and quantitative development is to evaluate the sustainability of various energy consumption for the final period of the ENTREPRENEURSHIP reporting. The GRI Standards are designed of corporate social reporting among the publicly traded companies. year as invoices are not yet available. We have to be used by organisations to understand largest companies in the Netherlands. done this through reference to other invoices and communicate their impact on critical VEON participated in the DJSI for the first received during the year and for the same sustainability issues such as climate The government of the Netherlands, where time in 2019. The goal of participating period in the previous year. change, human rights, governance and VEON is headquartered, requires companies was to generate long-term shareholder BRIDGING THE SKILLS social well-being. to be transparent about their corporate value and to reflect VEON’s sustainability We have calculated carbon dioxide equivalent social responsibility (CSR) policies and commitment and performance, as well as to emissions arising from energy purchased AND LITERACY GAP Aligning our reporting with the GRI activities. The Ministry of Economic Affairs gain insights into our positioning relative to from national electricity grids with reference Standards provides a holistic picture of and Climate Policy uses the Transparency our industry peers and determine the most to conversion factors provided by the both our sustainability programmes and Benchmark to provide an insight into effective levers for improvement. International Energy Agency. Sustainability our wider business. The GRI Standards the manner in which the largest Dutch reporting-related information as well as nonhelp us to showcase how VEON empowers companies report their CSR activities. The UN Sustainable Development Goals OUR COMMITMENT TO financial data is retrieved from each of the local communities and helps to safeguard operating companies during the process of the environment, while at the same time VEON participates in the Dutch Reporting on our impact on and progress data collection. thriving economically through improving Transparency Benchmark assessment regarding the UN Sustainable Development SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS governance and stakeholder relations, each year, and every year so far has shown Goals helps us to showcase how our The importance of uniformity of data was enhancing reputations and building trust. improvement in its score. individual sustainability programmes and emphasised, however local systems and The GRI Standards also help us to contribute initiatives contribute to wider global goals different measuring methods and calculation to a sustainable global economy by driving around inclusive, environmentally and approaches may result in some uncertainties. greater transparency in corporate reporting ethically sound advancement. Additionally, OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE and communications. it also brings our reporting in line with Third party data industry best practices. Across our reporting process for the Group sustainability report, we do not intend to One example of this is that a ‘leaver’ is Digital wallets and self-care apps report on the broader impacts of outsourcing classified differently in various regions; in In 2019, our sustainability reporting team has DEVELOPMENT GOALS partners or suppliers as these issues should some this entails a person who has left the worked closely with the Investor Relations be included in their own sustainability company permanently whereas in other team to determine new indicators for our reporting. regions a ‘leaver’ can also refer to a person material topics digital inclusion and digital who is on maternity leave for an extended innovation. This statement is applicable for all key period of time. Thus, it is important to performance indicators that we collect and disclose and be aware of such differences in To determine these indicators, they include in each year’s report. definitions between regions. used collected Group data (available at headquarters level) on the number of active ABOUT THIS Variances in individual operating REPORT Net Promoter Score (NPS) digital wallets and self-care apps across our company methods NPS is a widely used alternative to traditional operating companies. Each year we update and streamline the customer-satisfaction surveys. Respondents KPI reporting definitions in our Group are asked how likely they would be to DEFINITIONS OF Sustainability Reporting Manual. recommend the company on a scale of one to 10. If they give a score of nine or more, MATERIAL TOPICS However, we acknowledge that KPI reporting they are considered a promoter. They are a in some instances cannot be completely detractor if they give a score of six or less. NPS aligned, as the definitions of certain indicators is the difference between the percentage of inevitably vary per country and across some promoters and detractors. REPORT operating companies. DISCLAIMER 76 77 OPENING STATEMENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 2019 Independent assurance OVERVIEW statement ABOUT VEON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scope of engagement The scope and boundary of our work is To assess the Subject Matter, which includes We have not performed any work, and do AA1000 Principles Responsibilities of Challenge restricted to the following areas: an assessment of the risk of material not express any conclusions, on any other Sustainability Challenge Sustainability Limited (“Challenge misstatement in the Report, we have used information outside of the Subject Matter Inclusiveness Sustainability”, “us” or “we”) were 1. Subject matter VEON’s Sustainability Reporting Manual (the that may be published in the Report or on VEON’s business operations demonstrate Our responsibility is to plan and perform FOSTERING DIGITAL commissioned by VEON Amsterdam B.V. “Reporting Criteria”). VEON’s website for the current reporting engagement with a wide range of our work to obtain assurance over whether (“VEON”) with the objective to provide Security incidents managed preventively period or for previous periods. stakeholders. The Report allows the Subject Matter has been prepared in ENTREPRENEURSHIP assurance of VEON’s 2019 Sustainability and solved without major negative The Management of VEON are responsible stakeholders to form an understanding accordance with the Reporting Criteria Report (the “Report”) in relation to the impact for preparing the Sustainability Report in of VEON’s response to the current most and to report to VEON in the form of an A A1000 Accountability Principles and Number of employees that completed accordance with the Reporting Criteria, Our conclusions material issues at a corporate level. VEON independent assurance conclusion, based assurance over the Subject Matter anti-corruption and anti-bribery training which are based on the GRI Sustainability have sought the views of both internal and on the work performed and the evidence Reporting Standards of the Global Subject matter external stakeholders in relation to key obtained. presented in the Report, for the reporting Number of 1 month-active accounts/ BRIDGING THE SKILLS year ended 31st December 2019. digital wallets Reporting Initiative. areas of sustainability management, and Based on the procedures we have there is evidence of an increasing focus on We must also express a conclusion over Number of active users of self-care performed and the evidence we have AND LITERACY GAP Our agreed objective was to obtain a apps (MAU) 2. AA1000 Principles the expectations of investors and other whether the Report adheres to the AA1000 obtained, in our opinion, the Subject external opinion formers. Principles, as described in the Principles ‘reasonable’ level of assurance for the Corporate governance section on We assessed the nature and extent of Matter is fairly stated and has been Criteria, and comment on the nature and Subject Matter, to meet the requirements pages 28 and 29 adherence of the Report to the A A1000 prepared, in all material respects, in Materiality extent of each Principle individually. of the International Standard on Assurance Economic value generated and Principles of inclusivity, materiality and accordance with the Reporting Criteria. VEON have updated its materiality matrix Engagements (ISAE) 3000 revised. For distributed (USD) OUR COMMITMENT TO the AA1000 Principles, our assurance Mobile data traffic (GB) responsiveness (the “AA1000 Principles”). To in 2019 based on inclusion (for the first The intended users of this assurance assess the AA1000 Principles we have used This conclusion relates only to the Subject time) of external stakeholder opinion in statement are VEON and its stakeholders. engagement was planned and performed to the publicly available AA1000 AccountAbility Matter and is to be read in the context of the materiality determination process. We do not accept, or assume responsibility meet the requirements of a Type 1 “moderate SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Principles Standard (AA1000APS) 2008 (the this Statement. Input was gathered through a wide to anyone else, except to VEON for our level” of assurance as defined by AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS) 2008. “Principles Criteria”). ranging survey involving more than 500 work, for the conclusions that we have AA1000 Principles respondents. reached. We have not been responsible for the preparation of the Report. Based on the work we have undertaken, Responsiveness nothing has come to our attention that OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE VEON has included appropriate Standards and level of assurance leads us to conclude that the Report is not information in the Report on its in adherence with the AA1000 Principles responses to stakeholder issues. We For the Subject Matter, we performed as described in the Principles Criteria. are not aware of any matters that would our assurance engagement in accordance We comment on the nature and extent of lead us to conclude that VEON has not with the International Standard on DEVELOPMENT GOALS each individually below. reported information on its responses Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 to stakeholder concerns of material revised – ‘Assurance Engagements other significance at a corporate level. than Audits and Reviews of Historical Our observations Financial Information’ (revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance We provide our observations and areas Responsibilities of the Management Standards Board. for improvement in a separate report to of VEON VEON’s Management team. Only selected observations are provided below. These This standard requires that we comply with ABOUT THIS REPORT The Management of VEON has sole ethical requirements and plan and perform observations do not affect our conclusions responsibility for preparing and presenting the assurance engagement to obtain a set out above. the Subject Matter in accordance with specified level of assurance. VEON’s Sustainability Reporting Manual DEFINITIONS OF Subject matter and preparing the Report in adherence A reasonable level of assurance means to the A A1000 Principles. that we aimed to reduce the assurance The indicators within the scope of our MATERIAL TOPICS engagement risk (the risk that an assurance are aligned with the highest VEON’s responsibilities also include inappropriate conclusion is expressed when materiality issues as determined by maintaining effective internal controls over the information on the subject matter is VEON’s materiality process. the information and data, resulting in the materially misstated) to an acceptably low REPORT preparation of the Subject Matter in a way level, but not reduced to nil. that is free from material misstatements. DISCLAIMER 78 79 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 A reasonable assurance engagement OVERVIEW includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the Subject Matter in the Report. VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT We have evaluated the processes for collecting VEON DEFINITIONS and consolidating the Subject Matter and performed testing on a sample basis to The basis of our conclusion evaluate whether the Subject Matter is CORPORATE Subject matter GOVERNANCE OF MATERIAL reported according to the Reporting Criteria. We are required to plan and perform our work in order to consider the risk of material For the AA1000 Principles, our assurance misstatement of the Subject Matter. Our work included, but was not restricted to: engagement was planned and performed to TOPICS FOSTERING DIGITAL meet the requirements of a Type 1 “moderate Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Subject Matter; level” of assurance as defined by AA1000 Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and the processes for collecting and ENTREPRENEURSHIP Assurance Standard (AA1000AS) 2008. consolidating relevant data and information; Conducting remote interviews with VEON’s Management to obtain an understanding Our competence, independence of the key processes, systems and controls in place to generate, aggregate and and quality control report relevant data and information; BRIDGING THE SKILLS Remote meetings with staff at VEON’s Head Office to review the processes for Definitions of material topics 80 Challenge Sustainability has established gathering and consolidating relevant data and information and checking its Definitions of stakeholder groups 81 policies and procedures that are designed consolidation; AND LITERACY GAP to ensure that our team maintain Examining, on a sample basis, source evidence to support the reported Subject independence and integrity. All assurance Matter, specifically to establish the relationship between data and information engagements are subject to inherent aggregated at Head Office level, with the data and information gathered at limitations as selective testing (sampling) Operating Company level, with samples of data from Operating Companies chosen may not detect errors, fraud or other on the base of market size and geographical location; OUR COMMITMENT TO irregularities. Non-financial data may be Reviewing the evidence, measurements and their scope provided to us by VEON subject to greater inherent uncertainty for the Subject Matter to assess whether it was prepared in line with the Reporting than financial data, given the nature and Criteria; and SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS methods used for calculating, estimating Reviewing the Report and narrative accompanying the Subject Matter in the Report and determining such data. The selection with regards to the Reporting Criteria. of different, but acceptable, measurement techniques may result in different AA1000 Principles quantifications between different entities. OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE We are required to plan and perform our work in order to form an opinion over the Our assurance relies on the premise that Report’s adherence to the A1000 Principles. Our work included, but was not the data and information provided to us restricted to: by VEON have been provided in good faith. Challenge Sustainability expressly disclaims DEVELOPMENT GOALS Reviewing the current sustainability issues that could affect VEON and would any liability or co-responsibility for any be of interest to stakeholders; decision a person or an entity may make Reviewing VEON’s approach to stakeholder engagement; based on this Independent Assurance Reviewing information provided to us by VEON on its reporting and management Statement. Challenge Sustainability had no processes relating to the AA10000 Principles; and additional engagement with VEON during Interviewing senior management with responsibility for management of sustainability the reporting year that would constitute a issues and reviewing selected evidence to support the issues discussed. conflict of interest or otherwise compromise our independence. This engagement was ABOUT THIS For and on behalf of: REPORT carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. Challenge Sustainability Limited Further information on our competencies DEFINITIONS OF and experience can be found at www.challengesustainability.com. In relation MATERIAL TOPICS to use of the AA1000 Assurance Standard, Jon Woodhead, Director Rob Pearson, Director Challenge Sustainability is bounded by rules of conduct and professional practice relating United Kingdom, April 2020 to independence and quality overseen by REPORT AccountAbility (www.accountability.org). The Statement has been reviewed for quality by AccountAbility in relation to the use of the DISCLAIMER 000-277 AA1000 Assurance Standard. 80 81 OPENING STATEMENTS DEFINITIONS OF MATERIAL TOPICS DEFINITIONS OF MATERIAL TOPICS 2019 Definitions of Definitions of OVERVIEW material topics stakeholder groups ABOUT VEON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Data, privacy and cyber security* Diversity and inclusion Impact on society/social involvement Communities Investors The topic pertains to the policies and efforts The topic refers to policies adopted The topic refers to the effect a business has This group consists of NGOs, communityThis group consists of analysts and of a business that keep customer data safe and actions taken to promote a working on society, including that of its corporate based organisations and civil society institutional investors, as well as the broader FOSTERING DIGITAL and ensure the privacy of its customer environment that is free of discrimination responsibility initiatives. For example, it groups who we partner with for corporate financial community VEON frequently base is respected. It includes adopting and offers equal opportunities to all, covers the socio-economic outcome of responsibility-related initiatives. engages with. ENTREPRENEURSHIP comprehensive policy, framework and regardless of race, religion, age, gender, initiatives including smart schools, tech hubs control measures, as well as transparent national origin, marital status, sexual and charities. The livelihoods supported Customers Other reporting of instances of loss of customer orientation or disabilities. Moreover, it by direct and indirect employment and the data and breaches of customer privacy. relates to efforts made to foster a safe business opportunities offered to suppliers This group consists of individuals and This group consists of respondents that do and professional working environment in are also considered. businesses that use VEON service offerings. not fit within the traditional stakeholder BRIDGING THE SKILLS Digital inclusion which no forms of abuse or harassment are groups as defined by VEON. Examples are tolerated. Talent management and skills Employees suppliers and industry representatives The topic refers to the activities necessary to development like the International Telecommunication AND LITERACY GAP ensure that all individuals and communities, Ethics and integrity This group consists of dedicated individuals Union and the Global System for Mobile including the most disadvantaged, have This topic describes a company’s commitment working for VEON across our geographies. Communications (GSMA). access to Information and Communication The topic refers to policies, approaches and to hiring, managing, developing and retaining Technologies (ICTs) and possess the initiatives deployed to ensure zero corruption, talented employees. It also refers to a Governments and regulators OUR COMMITMENT TO skills to make use of it. This ensures that bribery or illegal sales practices, such as price company’s employee engagement and everyone participates in and benefits from fixing or abuse of monopoly, in any setting, recruitment processes. This group consists of local governments, the exponential growth of knowledge and whether direct or indirect. This also includes regulators and state sector organisations SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS information. dealings with suppliers, distributors, Quality of services* which support us in delivering products and customers and governments, as well as the services across our markets. Mobile services, including mobile financial presence of ethics hotlines and This topic is very relevant for the services, mEducation and mHealth, are grievance-reporting mechanisms. telecommunications sector. It comprises helping communities participate actively and the following; OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE productively in the society. Financial performance The service quality of products and Digital innovation* The topic relates to the company’s financial services provided. These entail uptime/ performance. Associated topics include downtime, network modernistion The topic refers to a business’s commitment generated revenue, cost structure, dividend deployed, data transmitted, network DEVELOPMENT GOALS to transforming and upgrading its processes, policy, wages, taxes paid and other key coverage and network availability networks and services. It refers to the financial indicators. Customer perception of the quality of company’s ability to act in a way that helps the provided products and services; this to improve their customer experience and Corporate governance includes Net Promoter Scores (NPS) business models by making use of disruptive and customer engagement surveys. digital technologies. The framework of rules and practices by which a Board of Directors ensures accountability, * Industry-/VEON-specific definition ABOUT THIS fairness and transparency in a Company’s relationship with its stakeholders (shareholders, management, employees, customers, REPORT government and the community). DEFINITIONS OF MATERIAL TOPICS REPORT DISCLAIMER 82 83 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 Key data and information OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON TABLE 1 TABLE 4 CORPORATE Corporate governance Ethics and integrity 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 GOVERNANCE Percentage of operating companies’ senior management hired from the local communities* 62% n/a n/a Trainings* Percentage of GEC members and GEC minus 1 who completed annual anti-bribery and corruption training 73% n/a n/a Total value of political contributions (USD)** 0 0 0 Percentage of OpCo CEOs and CEO minus 1 who completed annual anti-bribery and corruption training 78% n/a n/a FOSTERING DIGITAL Number of employees who completed annual anti-bribery and corruption training** 6,279 n/a n/a *This is a new reporting KPI. Percentage of employees who completed annual anti-bribery and corruption training** 21% n/a n/a ENTREPRENEURSHIP **As per VEON’S Code of Conduct, the company does not make donations or contributions of any type, either in cash or in kind, to political parties, Incidents of breaches of Code of Conduct and actions taken* organisations, factions, or movements of public or private nature, whose activity is clearly linked with political or religious activities. Total number of SpeakUp reports 1,166 n/a n/a Percentage of substantiated SpeakUp reports 44.8% n/a n/a Total number of internal disciplinary actions related to SpeakUp reports 456 n/a n/a BRIDGING THE SKILLS TABLE 2 Data privacy and cyber security Marketing compliance AND LITERACY GAP 2019 2018 2017 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty 78 2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning 45*** 36 Progress of additional security measures implemented (%) 91% 89% 79% Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes 1*** 3 Potentially adverse events analysed ~2,000 120 50 *This is a new reporting KPI. OUR COMMITMENT TO ** Selected employees from mediumand high-risk functions were invited to complete this training. Critical incidents managed preventively and solved 12 10 9 ***This KPI was restated from the prior year’s reporting. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Internally identified compromises that resulted in a breach and exfiltration of data 0 1 0 TABLE 5 Notifications from external cyber-intelligence services 15 5 2 Financial performance 2019 2018 2017 Reports from outside parties and substantiated by the organisation 1 0 0 OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Economic value generated and distributed (USD million) Complaints from regulatory bodies 2 2* 2 Economic value generated (operating revenue, interest and dividends received) 8,948.70 9,163.03 9,570.28 *This KPI was restated from the prior year’s reporting. Economic value distributed: DEVELOPMENT GOALS Payments to suppliers 5,386.78 6,421.87 6,635.81 Payments to employees 874.60 888.89 927.25 TABLE 3 Payments to suppliers of capital 1,221.67 1,336.44 1,554.35 Diversity, equality and discrimination Payments to governments (taxes and license payments) 585.43 854.18 803.53 2019 2018 2017 Community investment (including sponsorships) 0.83 0.97 1.87 (Average) Entry level wage versus minimum wage (%)* Male 189% n/a n/a Total 8,069.30 9,502.34 9,922.80 (Average) Entry level wage versus minimum wage (%)* Female 209% n/a n/a Economic value retained (USD million) 879.40 -339.30 -352.52 ABOUT THIS REPORT Percentage of females in senior management (%) 22% 24% 20% Percentage of employees who are male 56% 63% 56% TABLE 6 Percentage of employees who are female 44% 37% 44% Impact on society/social involvement DEFINITIONS OF Percentage of employees who are aged under 30* 43% n/a n/a 2019 2018 2017 Percentage of employees who are aged between 30 and 50* 52% n/a n/a MATERIAL TOPICS Percentage of employees who are aged over 50* 5% n/a n/a Total volunteer hours 11,312 7,736 9,330 Number of employees with self-identified disabilities* 90 n/a n/a *This is a new reporting KPI. *This is a new reporting KPI. REPORT DISCLAIMER 84 85 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 TABLE 7 TABLE 8 OVERVIEW Quality of services Occupational health and safety 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 ABOUT VEON Voice call drop rate (%) 0.51% 0.61% 0.69% Number of work-related fatal accidents 0 2 6 4G download speed 7.1 Mbps 6.787 Mbps 6.007 Mbps Voice inaccessibility (%) 0.77% 0.92% 1% Number of non-work-related fatal accidents* 5 n/a n/a Data inaccessibility (%) 0.40% 0.49% n/a CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Number of lost days due to injury* 2,676 n/a n/a Network unavailability (%) 2G 0.83% 0.76% NA Number of incidents resulting in lost days 116 127 231 3G 0.61% 0.56% NA FOSTERING DIGITAL 4G 0.41% 0.36% NA Number of other lost-time injuries* 38 n/a n/a ENTREPRENEURSHIP The number of markets ranked first or second in their market (leaders) 5 4 7 Number of work-related special security incidents 2 1 9 The number of markets improving relative NPS 2 5 7 Work-related injury rate per million hours 1.38 1.57 1.5 Total base stations (physical sites) 265,841 231,807 259,439 Total sites: 2G (physical sites) 105,710 102,078 116,239 *This is a new reporting KPI. BRIDGING THE SKILLS Total sites: 3G (physical sites) 84,183 79,107 101,497 Total sites: 4G (physical sites) 75,948 50,622 41,703 AND LITERACY GAP TABLE 9 Active mobile voice subscribers (3 months) (millions) 212.40 209.90 210.30 Environmental performance Active data subscribers (3 months) (millions of fixed-line customers) 4.20 3.80 3.50 2019 2018 2017 Toal mobile data traffic (including voice) (gigabyte) 5.30 3.10 2.30 Total CO2 emissions (million tonnes) 1.25 0.8 1.69 OUR COMMITMENT TO MBOU (megabyte of use) (per country) CO2 emissions scope 1 (million tonnes) 0.16 0.16 0.23 Total for Russia 5,497 3,630 2,809 CO2 emissions scope 2 (million tonnes) 1.1 0.65 1.45 Total for Algeria 3,198 1,743 534 Use of diesel in network operations (MWh) 105,035 105,695 152,875 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Total for Pakistan 2,083 1,129 562 Total for Bangladesh 1,314 789 450 Number of BTS with solar and/or wind energy technology 472 475 439 Total for Ukraine 3,667 2,142 827 Number of BTS with free-cooling technology 15,968 15,037 15,894 Total for Kazakhstan 5,951 4,120 2,436 Number of BTS with hybrid-diesel technology 13,451 11,354 12,057 Total for Uzbekistan 2,222 1,100 467 Number of BTS which are situated outdoors 35,267 28,884 39,053 OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE Total for Kyrgyzstan 6,021 3,575 2,146 Number of BTS which use power-saving technology 21,601 31,225 56,617 Total for Armenia 1,925 1,635 1,538 Total for Georgia 3,093 2,085 1,962 DEVELOPMENT GOALS LTE (4G) 3G 2G 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Network population coverage (%) 2G Total for Russia 86% 74% 63% 93% 95% 94% 94% 97% 97% Total for Algeria 38% 27% 25% 75% 77% 76% 96% 96% 96% Total for Bangladesh 29% 17% 0% 72% 72% 70% 95% 95% 98% ABOUT THIS REPORT Total for Pakistan 52% 34% 15% 60% 52% 51% 75% 75% 75% Total for Kazakhstan 68% 60% 50% 83% 76% 68% 92% 92% 92% Total for Uzbekistan 26% 25% 23% 75% 70% 70% 92% 91% 91% Total for Kyrgyzstan 89% 59% 53% 86% 62% 61% 98% 88% 88% DEFINITIONS OF Total for Georgia 90% 90% 90% 75% 75% 75% 89% 89% 89% Total for Armenia 58% 46% 28% 87% 85% 81% 99% 99% 99% MATERIAL TOPICS Total for Ukraine 74% 51% 0% 75% 75% 74% 98% 98% 98% REPORT DISCLAIMER 86 87 OPENING STATEMENTS 2019 TABLE 10 OVERVIEW Talent management and skills development 2019 2018 2017 VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 10% 12% 26% VEON Average number of training hours per employee Amount spent on employee training and development activities (USD million)* 13.6 6.7 n/a n/a n/a n/a REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DISCLAIMER Annual employee turnover rate (%) 43% 41% 47% New employee hires Russia 16,675 20,969 13,775 FOSTERING DIGITAL Pakistan 554 288 582 Algeria 39 92 499 ENTREPRENEURSHIP Bangladesh 78 160 231 Ukraine 1,232 722 390 Report disclaimer 88 Uzbekistan 269 492 363 Kazakhstan** 915 n/a n/a HQ 39 98 245 BRIDGING THE SKILLS Others 472 993 1,016 Total 20,273 23,814 17,101 AND LITERACY GAP Number of employees Russia 28,003 28,570 22,031 Pakistan 4,325 4,424 4,175 Algeria 2,781 2,866 3,193 OUR COMMITMENT TO Bangladesh 1,200 1,120 1,178 Ukraine 3,527 2,754 2,656 Uzbekistan 1,594 1,563 1,333 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Kazakhstan** 2,142 n/a n/a HQ 286 507 640 Others 2,634 4,328 4,732 Total 46,492 46,132 39,938 OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE *This is a new reporting KPI. **The number of employees in Kazakhstan for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were included in “Others.” For the year ended December 31, 2019, as Kazakhstan is a reportable segment, the total number of employees in Kazakhstan is reported separately as of December 31, 2019. DEVELOPMENT GOALS ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF MATERIAL TOPICS REPORT DISCLAIMER 88 89 OPENING STATEMENTS VEON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2019 Report disclaimer OVERVIEW ABOUT VEON This Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 (“Report”) Our plans to develop, provide and expand Risks associated with further Risks related to solvency and other cash Risks related to the ownership of our our products and services, including unanticipated developments related to flow issues, including our ability to raise American Depositary Receipts, including CORPORATE contains estimates and forward-looking statements within operational and network development, the COVID-19 pandemic that negatively the necessary additional capital and incur those associated with VEON Ltd.’s status the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as GOVERNANCE optimisation and investment, such as affect our operations and financial additional indebtedness, the ability of our as a Bermuda company and a foreign amended (the “Securities Act”) and Section 21E of the U.S. expectations regarding the expansion or condition; subsidiaries to make dividend payments, private issuer; and roll-out and benefits of 3G, 4G/LTE and In each of the countries in which we our ability to develop additional sources Other risks and uncertainties as set forth Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange 5G networks or other networks, broadband operate and where laws are applicable to of revenue and unforeseen disruptions in Item 3D.—Risk Factors contained in our FOSTERING DIGITAL Act”). These estimates and forward-looking statements are services and integrated products and us, risks relating to legislation, regulation, in our revenue streams; Annual Report on Form 20-F. mainly based on our current expectations and estimates services such as fixed-mobile convergence; taxation and currency, including costs Risks that the adjudications by the various ENTREPRENEURSHIP Our expectations as to pricing for our of compliance, currency and exchange regulatory agencies or other parties with These factors and the other risk factors of future events and trends, which affect or may affect products and services in the future, controls, currency fluctuations and whom we are involved in legal challenges, described in Item 3D.—Risk Factors our businesses and operations. improving our ARPU, and our future costs abrupt changes to laws, regulations, tax disputes or appeals may not result contained in our Annual Report on Form and operating results; decrees and decisions governing in a final resolution in our favour or that 20-F are not necessarily all of the factors Our ability to meet license requirements, to the telecommunications industry and we are unsuccessful in our defense of that could cause actual results to differ BRIDGING THE SKILLS Although we believe that these estimates and Our estimates and forward-looking obtain, maintain, renew or extend licenses, the taxation thereof, laws on foreign material litigation claims or are unable materially from those expressed in any of forward-looking statements are based upon statements may be influenced by various frequency allocations and frequency investment, anti-corruption and antito settle such claims; our forward-looking statements. Other AND LITERACY GAP reasonable assumptions, they are subject factors, including, without limitation: channels and to obtain related regulatory terror laws, economic sanctions and their Risks relating to our company and its unknown or unpredictable factors also to numerous risks and uncertainties and approvals; official interpretation by governmental operations in each of the countries in could harm our future results. New risk are made in light of information currently Our ability to implement and execute our Our plans regarding marketing and and other regulatory bodies and courts; which we operate and where laws are factors and uncertainties emerge from available to us. In addition to the factors strategic priorities successfully, and to distribution of our products and services, Risks related to the impact of export applicable to us, including demand for time to time and it is not possible for our discussed in the section of this Report achieve the expected benefits from, our including customer loyalty programs; controls on our and important thirdand market acceptance of our products management to predict all risk factors OUR COMMITMENT TO entitled “Managing our risks”, please refer existing and future transactions; Our expectations regarding our competitive party suppliers’ ability to procure goods, and services, regulatory uncertainty and uncertainties, nor can we assess the to Item 3D.—Risk Factors of our Form 20-F Our assessment of the impact of the strengths, customer demands, market software or technology necessary for regarding our licenses, frequency impact of all factors on our business or the for further discussion relating to factors that COVID-19 pandemic on our operations trends and future developments in the the services we provide to our customers, allocations and numbering capacity, extent to which any factor, or combination SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS may adversely affect our results as indicated and financial condition; industry and markets in which we operate; particularly on the production and constraints on our spectrum capacity, of factors, may cause actual results to differ in forward-looking statements. You should Our targets and strategic initiatives in the Our expectations regarding management delivery of supplies, support services, availability of line capacity, intellectual materially from those contained in any read this Report completely and with the various countries in which we operate; changes; and software and equipment that we source property rights protection, labour issues, forward-looking statements. understanding that our actual future results Our ability to develop new revenue Other statements regarding matters that from these suppliers — for example, interconnection agreements, equipment may be materially different and worse from streams and achieve portfolio and asset are not historical facts. in April 2018, the U.S. Department of failures and competitive product and Under no circumstances should the OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE what we expect. All statements other than optimisations, improve customer Commerce, Bureau of Industry and pricing pressures; inclusion of such forward-looking statements of historical fact are forwardexperience and optimise our capital These statements are management’s best Security (“BIS”) issued an Export Risks related to developments from statements in this Report be regarded looking statements. The words “may,” “might,” structure; assessment of our strategic and financial Administration Regulation (“EAR”) Denial competition, unforeseen or otherwise, as a representation or warranty by us “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow position and of future market conditions, Order to ZTE Corporation (“ZTE”) which in each of the countries in which we or any other person with respect to “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “seek,” “believe,” to meet our debt service obligations, our trends, and other potential developments. prohibited, among other things, exports, operate and where laws are applicable to the achievement of results set out in DEVELOPMENT GOALS “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” expectations regarding working capital and While they are based on sources believed re-exports and in-country transfers us, including our ability to keep pace such statements or that the underlying “contemplate,” “possible” and similar words the repayment of our debt and our to be reliable and on our management’s of goods, software and technology with technological change and evolving assumptions used will in fact be the are intended to identify estimates and projected capital requirements; current knowledge and best belief, they (collectively, “Items”), each of which industry standards; case. Therefore, you are cautioned not to forward-looking statements. Our plans regarding our dividend payments are merely estimates or predictions and could have led to service degradation Risks related to the activities of our place undue reliance on these forwardand policies, as well as our ability to receive cannot be relied upon. We cannot assure and disruptions in certain markets, and strategic shareholders, lenders, looking statements. The forward-looking dividends, distributions, loans, transfers you that future results will be achieved. The in May and August 2019, BIS added employees, joint venture partners, statements included in this Report are or other payments or guarantees from risks and uncertainties that may cause our Huawei Technologies Company Ltd. and representatives, agents, suppliers, made only as of the date of this Report. our subsidiaries; actual results to differ materially from the 114 of its affiliates (collectively, “Huawei”) customers and other third parties; We cannot assure you that any projected ABOUT THIS Our expectations regarding our capital and results indicated, expressed, or implied in to its “Entity List”, prohibiting companies Risks associated with our existing and results or events will be achieved. operational expenditures in and after 2020; the forward-looking statements used in this globally from directly or indirectly future transactions, including with REPORT Our goals regarding value, experience and Report include, without limitation: exporting, re-exporting or in-country respect to realising the expected Except to the extent required by law, we service for our customers, as well as our transferring all Items subject to the EAR to synergies of closed transactions, disclaim any obligation to update or revise DEFINITIONS OF ability to retain and attract customers and Risks relating to changes in political, Huawei and procuring Items from Huawei satisfying closing conditions for new any of these forward-looking statements, to maintain and expand our market share economic and social conditions in each when they have reason to know that the transactions, obtaining regulatory whether as a result of new information, MATERIAL TOPICS positions; of the countries in which we operate and Items were originally procured by Huawei approvals and implementing remedies; future events or otherwise, after the date on where laws are applicable to us (including as in violation of U.S. law; Risks associated with data protection, which the statements are made or to reflect a result of armed conflict) such as any harm, Risks relating to a failure to meet cyber-attacks or systems and network the occurrence of unanticipated events. reputational or otherwise, that may arise expectations regarding various strategic disruptions, or the perception of such REPORT due to changing social norms, our business initiatives, including, but not limited to, attacks or failures in each of the involvement in a particular jurisdiction or changes to our portfolio; countries in which we operate, including an otherwise unforeseen development in the costs associated with such events DISCLAIMER science or technology; and the reputational harm that could arise therefrom; 90 91 OPENING STATEMENTS VEON CONTACTS 2019 Keep up to date OVERVIEW with VEON ABOUT VEON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Follow us on Twitter https://twitter.com/VEONGroup Visit our LinkedIn company profile FOSTERING DIGITAL linkedin.com/company/VEON ENTREPRENEURSHIP Visit our website VEON.com Feedback and contact We are keen to improve the value of our reporting BRIDGING THE SKILLS and therefore welcome comments on this document, and our sustainability information on the website. AND LITERACY GAP Please contact sustainability@VEON.com Note: most images included in this year’s Sustainability Report were submitted by employees of VEON and OUR COMMITMENT TO its operating companies. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OUR PROGRESS ON THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ABOUT THIS REPORT DEFINITIONS OF MATERIAL TOPICS The VEON Sustainability Report 2019 is produced The IOC Annual Report is on a 100% recycled – and carbon balanced – paper stock, and printed at a carbon neutral printer. REPORT produced on a 100% recycled DISCLAIMER – and carbon balanced – paper stock, and printed at a carbon
