#The Art of Sustainability SUSTAINABILITYREPORT 2020 Fiscal Year: 1 April 2019 31 March 2020 A Dear Stakeholders, in the occasion of the 11th edition of our Sustainability Report, we wish to underline that this document and all the certifications we achieve each year represent evidence to the market of our commitment to transparency in opposition to the widespread of ‘greenwashing’ by unscrupulous companies, that take advantage of the lack of information on sustainability. Alcantara has been the first Italian company – and among the very first in the world – to be certified Carbon Neutral continuously for the past eleven years by TÜV SÜD, playing a pioneering role in sustainability since 2009. We wish to highlight that we take this important outcome as a new starting point and not as an arrival point. We, therefore, focused strongly on climate change well before everyone else, in what we identify as something that will cause very significant change to our lives and that requires urgent action. We are aware of having understood the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which is only strengthened by the continuing calls to action from the scientific community, and our pioneering sensitivity to this has been highlighted 11 years ago. At the beginning of 2020, we had to face another severe plague: Covid-19. Numerous precautionary and organisational measures aimed at fighting the spread of the Coronavirus, not interfering with the optimisation of agile work, have been adopted by Alcantara. To do so, substantial economic investments effectively and a “New Covid-19 employees” insurance policy came into force. Furthermore, numerous meetings with the RSU (Rappresentanze Sindacali Unitari Unitary Trade Union Representatives) and the Joint Committees set up at the headquarters and the production plant have encouraged the implementation of shared actions capable of complying with the protocols and guidelines of national, regional and health authorities, in accordance with the application of the National Protocol, signed by the Government and Social Partners. The key elements in Alcantara’s commitment to all stakeholders may be summed up as follows: • Carbon Neutrality. As a clear, self-determined and direct action to fight climate change and speed up the process of decarbonizing THE the economy, every metre of material produced and marketed by Alcantara has a net CO2 emissions balance of zero, with a cradle-to-grave approach. This means that Alcantara has no impact on global warming. Offsetting is done for emissions that cannot CHAIRMAN’S otherwise be eliminated. It is an option that is regulated at an international level and demanded by the Kyoto Protocol. It is based on removing a share of CO2 emissions from the atmosphere equal to what is produced, thereby neutralizing the effects; LETTER • 2021-2024 Sustainability plan. With the aim to renew and reconfirm the main sustainability goals of Alcantara, we have updated the previous plan developed in 2017. To be achieved in the medium term, the Company has formulated tangible commitments for sustainable development in four areas of action: Environmental, Social and Economic Sustainability, and Sustainability Governance; • Responsible Procurement. Alcantara has been monitoring its own supply chain since 2007 to increase awareness of and commitment to the principles of sustainability. Our Company asks its suppliers and partners to respect the universal principles of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and fight against corruption. Specifically, regarding the issue of climate change, most of supplies procured via our “core” and “supercore” suppliers have a zero CO2 emissions balance. We will continue to expand our responsible procurement policy, gradually increasing the number of partners involved; • Corporate Citizenship. Alcantara pursues development and profitability with a focus on respecting and ensuring social, economic and environmental balance. Our Sustainability Report includes a description of our participation in UN-patronized international offset projects, aimed at expanding the use of renewable energy resources and improving the health and social conditions of people in the poorest and most disadvantaged areas of the world while offsetting all CO2 emissions produced; • Continuous Improvement. Alcantara is committed to progressively maximizing the use of bio-based raw materials (that are not foodchain antagonists) in its production process. The Alcantara portfolio includes products applying an increasing amount of recycled raw materials. Lastly, we are engaged in promotion of end-of-lifecycle product recycling, as direct action to fight climate change; • Voluntary open involvement. Alcantara confirms its participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and in the Global Compact Network Italy Foundation (GCNI), underlining its long-term commitment to responsible management, respecting and promoting the ten UNGC principles and undertaking actions aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). The Company also confirms—among other initiatives—its participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Firmly believing sustainability is a necessary factor that is consistent with our long-term objective of increasing the economic and financial value of the Company, this 11th edition of our Sustainability Report underlines what we do and what our future plans are and highlights how much sustainability remains a core value in our corporate culture, an important growth driver and a spur to developing our business strategy. As goal for the future, in accordance with the EU climate and energy policy framework, Alcantara activated a long-term decarbonization plan which aims to reduce CO2 unitary emissions to more than 50% by 2030 and to over 90% by 2050, reducing therefore our offsetting shares. This decarbonization pathway will be possible through four lines of intervention: circular economy that will lead us to recycle and reuse end-of-lifecycle products-, increase of energy efficiency, use of renewable energy and renewable fuels, and sustainable transportation for our raw materials, our product and our employees. Now, more than ever, we are convinced that sustainability is a value beyond cost: a value for our Company, our brand, our people and our stakeholders. A value for the future. Andrea Boragno Photo: Giovanni Gastel Chairman and CEO of Alcantara S.p.A. B I Nanda Vigo, Arch/Archology, Alcantara-MAXXI Project, Rome, 2018 II III C Methodology SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Fiscal Year: 1 April 2019 31 March 2020 Sustainability Report REFERENCE GUIDELINES of Alcantara S.p.A. The Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). PERIOD Based on current coverage of the indicators linked to the material aspects OF REFERENCE summarized in the final correlation table, the level of conformity with the GRI 1 April 2019 standards is ‘In accordance comprehensive’. 31 March 2020 (annual report): INFORMATION COLLECTION Fiscal Year 2020. Social and environmental responsibility data are provided in dedicated flow diagrams and fact sheets. The information in these respects the precautionary approach required by the standards and is subsequently verified according to a reporting process that is integrated with Company management systems. Contents FRAME OF REFERENCE The reference period for the report corresponds to the financial reporting period of Alcantara S.p.A. This document refers to two Fiscal Years: • “FY 2019” or “Fiscal Year 2019” refers to the period from 1 April 2018 to 31 March 2019; • “FY 2020” or “Fiscal Year 2020” refers to the period from 1 April 2019 to 31 March 2020. SIGNIFICANT CHANGES The Sustainability Report constitutes a consolidated non-financial statement pursuant to Legislative Decree 254/2016 and contains information on environmental, social, employees, human rights and anti-corruption themes useful for understanding the Group’s activities, performance, results and impact. EXTERNAL AUDIT This document was revised externally by a third party based on the principles and instructions set out in the international standard for assurance on non-financial information ISAE 3000 (International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000) and by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB), a body directly supported by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). We would like to thank CONTACT DETAILS the entire internal work group and all staff involved in the development Alcantara S.p.A. Alcantara S.p.A.’s 2020 Sustainability and production of this 2020 Via Mecenate, 86 Report may be consulted in Sustainability Report. 20138 Milan, Italy interactive format on the dedicated Prepared and coordinated Telephone +39 02 580301 micro-site by Alcantara S.p.A. www.alcantara.com https://sustainabilityreport.alcantara.com For further information, contact: alcantarasustainability@alcantara.com IV All comments and suggestions are welcome. CONTENTS IDENTITY AND RESPONSIBILITY 01 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY CLIENTS 04 2 1.1 Mission, Values and Sustainability Strategy 57 4.1 Marketing and Innovation Policies 3 1.2 The History of Alcantara S.p.A. 60 Automotive 4 1.3 The Corporate Structure 64 Fashion and Accessories 4 1.4 The Sectors of Application of Alcantara® 66 Consumer Electronics 5 1.5 Governance Structure 68 Interiors, Contract, Marine & Aviation 7 1.6 Operating Structure 70 4.2 Sustainability and Safety of Product 8 1.7 2021-2024 Sustainability Plan 73 4.3 Communication, Dialogue and Satisfaction 10 1.8 Risk Management System 12 1.9 Dialogue with Stakeholders SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY 05 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 02 81 101 5.1 Community Relations Management 5.2 Universities, Research and Sustainability 21 2.1 Economic Indicators and Added Value 26 2.2 Suppliers and Partners 32 2.3 Institutions ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 06 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY HUMAN RESOURCES 03 105 106 6.1 Environmental Policy and Management System 6.2 Use of Raw Materials 37 3.1 Management Policies and Composition 109 6.3 Carbon Neutrality 42 3.2 Incentives and Remuneration 115 6.4 Energy Requirements and Savings 43 3.3 Industrial Relations 119 6.5 Water Requirements 44 3.4 Training and Professional Development 124 6.6 Waste Management 47 3.5 Diversity and Respect for Human Rights 49 3.6 Health and Safety 52 3.7 Internal Communication 127 GRI content index 134 External audit report Space Popular, The Wardian Case, “De Coding Alcantara® in the Tapestry Rooms”, Royal Palace, Milan, 2019 IDENTITY AND RESPONSIBILITY 1 1.1 Mission, Values 1.2 The History of Alcantara S.p.A. and Sustainability Strategy Mission Alcantara S.p.A. operates in the market For Alcantara S.p.A., sustainability The fascinating story of Alcantara® 1995 definitive transfer of 100% of the 2016 3rd International Sustainability of premium upholstering materials is a strategic orientation capable of begins with a revolutionary technological shares from ENI Group to Toray Symposium organised in Tokyo, with an internationally recognised directing development and investment breakthrough, an invention in 1970 that Group; immediately afterwards in partnership with Nikkei, VIU brand and a process of continuous choices. is still unparalleled, thanks to which Toray Group transferred 30% to (Venice International University) innovation supported by a business From this a plan is created that is the product maintains its avant-garde Mitsui Group; and Waseda University; model where technology creates consistent with the Company’s characteristics and uniqueness over solutions of high aesthetic value. corporate objectives and sustainability time. Below are the milestones on 1998 first intervention to double the 2017 announcement of the IACI Alcantara S.p.A.’s presence on a goals, which derive from the decisions Alcantara S.p.A.’s path of growth: production capacity in the plant; project (acronym for “Increase global scale and innovative business of Alcantara S.p.A.’s senior management Alcantara Capacity Installed”) model allow it to undertake a path and are a cornerstone of the Company’s 2000 initiation of the first stylistic with an expansion plan aimed of sustainability based on a longpositioning and its commitment to diversification activities, the at doubling the Company’s term vision, focused on the values the market and stakeholders. 1970 invention of Alcantara®: Japanese embryonic stage of the Design Office; production capacity within 5 of quality, research, service, fairness, scientist Miyoshi Okamoto filed years; consistency, human centrality and the patent for the material; 2002 completion of the second respect for the environment. intervention to double production 2018 4th International Sustainability 1972 agreement with the ANIC Group, capacity; Symposium organised in Venice later ENI, for the commercial in partnership with VIU (Venice use of the patent (i.e. Joint 2009 obtainment of Carbon Neutrality International University) on Venture between the ENI Group certification (from cradle to gate); the theme “Coping with and the Toray Group, the basic climate: Global Warming and technology provider); 2010 publication of Alcantara S.p.A.’s Decarbonization”; first Sustainability Report; Points of Engagement 1972 ANTOR S.p.A. (acronym for ANIC Toray) was established; 51% start of sales of a special version of Alcantara® material, with up 2019 5th International Sustainability Symposium organised in Venice The elements and pillars on which Alcantara S.p.A. bases its commitment are ANIC (then ENI) and 49% SOFID to 25% of its weight made up of with the support of the World the so-called “points of engagement”: (Group Finance Company); post-consumption recycled raw Bank Group’s Connect4Climate materials; global partnership programme; • made in Italy; 1972 the production plant was • global brand; created in Nera Montoro still 2011 installation of the phyto-treatment 2019 Alcantara S.p.A. celebrated its • art, design and creativity; today the one and only plant in plant, first collection of finished 10 t h anniversary of Carbon • tailor-made approach; the world where Alcantara® is products with the proprietary brand Neutrality and its tenth 10th edition • sustainability. produced and the Company’s “A’alcantara” and obtainment of of the Sustainability Report; headquarters were established the Carbon Neutrality of product in Milan; (from cradle to grave); 2020 Alcantara S.p.A. reconfirmed for the third consecutive year its Sustainability 1973 ANTOR S.p.A. changed its name 2012 operations initiated in the new membership of the United to IGANTO S.p.A. (acronym co-generation plant; Nations Global Compact and For Alcantara S.p.A., sustainability is a key factor of diversification and competitive for Italy Japan ANic TOray) to the Global Compact Network advantage, capable of creating shared value not only for the Company, but also seal the partnership between 2014 1st International Sustainability Italy Foundation, the two largest for the various stakeholders: clients, suppliers, employees, shareholders, civil the two countries and their Symposium organized with Venice strategic initiatives in the world society and so on. respective companies; International University (VIU) and of corporate citizenship. For Alcantara S.p.A., sustainability means ensuring a development that meets the dedicated to sustainability in needs of the present without compromising the potential for future generations, 1974 SOFID sold its 49% stake in the the global automotive industry in accordance with the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) defined by the capital to Toray Industries Inc. entitled “Sustainability and the United Nations. of the Toray Group; new Automotive Value Chain”; In addition, Alcantara S.p.A. adheres to the United Nations Global Compact, the Global Compact Network Italy Foundation and other sustainability practices 1981 IGANTO S.p.A. becameAlcantara S.p.A., 2015 completion of the first phase that confirm the commitment to achieving the objectives defined by the Paris with share capital still divided (tests on an industrial scale) Agreement of 2015 (COP 21) in terms of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. between ENI Group (51%) and of the project started in 2013 Toray Group (49%); aimed at further reducing the environmental impact and 1994 establishment of the CSA energy consumption; As a clear, self-determined and direct action to fight climate change and speed (Centro Sviluppo Applicazioni 2nd International Sustainability up the process of decarbonizing the economy, every metre of material produced Application Development Centre), Symposium on the theme and marketed by Alcantara S.p.A. has a net CO2 emissions balance of zero. dedicated to the in-house “The Automotive Ecosystem on Alcantara S.p.A. is Carbon Neutral since 2009. development of ad hoc technical the Global Road to Sustainability. 2 solutions and applications; The Asian Perspective”; 3 FASHION & ACCESSORIES 1.3 The Corporate Structure In fashion, those who choose Alcantara® are looking for contemporary elegance: a modern luxury, with attention to detail, highlighted by the exclusive textures of the material. Alcantara® is a material with infinite possibilities for customisation, able to cover any shape and surface, in compliance with the strictest industry standards, allowing to develop exclusive and tailor-made solutions, and meeting the technical and design requirements of the most demanding luxury brands. Milan Headquarters CONSUMER ELECTRONICS In the consumer electronics sector, Alcantara® is recognised as a valuable material with unique characteristics, able to enhance the appearance and functionality of the finished product, with high adaptability to the most particular applications. Nera Montoro (Terni), Production site Alcantara® has elements of uniqueness and peculiarity compared to materials and Research & Development Centre used up to now. The combination of high tech and craftsmanship typical of “Made in Italy”, is one of the strengths of Alcantara®’s competitive strategy, an additional value, especially in Asia and the United States of America. For clients in this sector, over the years Alcantara S.p.A. has developed highly customised skills and solutions: “turnkey” projects that start from product design, through the implementation of the supply chain, up to the creation of the finished product. INTERIORS, CONTRACT, MARINE & AVIATION Furnishing elements upholstered in Alcantara® (sofas, beds, accessories etc.) acquire bright, comfortable, soft and seductive tones. For the interiors and contract segment, Alcantara S.p.A. offers a dedicated collection of products, which includes tested and approved materials. The share capital is made up of ordinary shares of € 1 each; at 31 March 2020 the In the marine segment, the functional characteristics of Alcantara®, its resistance subscribed and paid-in share capital of Alcantara S.p.A. was € 10,800,000 and is to the agents of the marine environment, its permeability to air and its excellent divided as follows: breathability guarantee a pleasurable trip, even for the most demanding passengers. In the aviation sector, Alcantara® offers comfort, lightness, style and elegance COMPANY NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES FY 2020 % OWNERSHIP that make it the ideal travel companion both for the interiors of private jets and Toray Industries Inc. Tokyo (parent helicopters and for those of large commercial airlines. 7,560,000 70 company) Mitsui & Co. Ltd. Tokyo Tokyo 3,240,000 30 TOTAL SHARES 10,800,000 100 1.5 Governance Structure BOARD OF DIRECTORS The governing bodies of Alcantara S.p.A. are the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Andrea Boragno Board of Directors, the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 1.4 The Sectors of Application of Alcantara® Committee and the Chief Executive Officer. The main control bodies are Yasuo Suga Katsuhiko Ando the Board of Statutory Auditors and the Supervisory Body pursuant to Yasuhiro Takagi Legislative Decree No. 231/2001. Shunichiro Nakai AUTOMOTIVE With the exception of the Chairman Makoto Ito Alcantara®, thanks to its unique characteristics grip, breathability, durability, and Chief Executive Officer, the Masao Hayashi lightness, softness and resistance of colour under light is highly appreciated by members of the Board of Directors are Hiroshi Serisawa the automotive industry, as it provides drivers and passengers with maximum all independent, non-executive and comfort. An important aspect of Alcantara S.p.A.’s offer lies in its experience appointed on the basis of skills and BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS and ability to develop tailor-made, elegant or sporty solutions according to the qualifications in line with Alcantara S.p.A.’s stylistic declinations chosen. sustainability orientation. Giovanni Primo Quagliano Chairman Alcantara®’s Carbon Neutrality is another advantage, which makes it possible to avoid contributing to the carbon footprint of the cars in which it is used. Roberto Spada 4 Giuseppe Moretti 5 The Chairman informs the Board of Directors about decisions that have a significant impact on the sustainability of the business and the progress of 1.6 Operating Structure the most significant projects. Projects with a particular impact in terms of sustainability are consistent with the objectives of the Company’s strategic plan Alcantara S.p.A dedicates significant processes and is characterised by the and needle punching; SUSTAINABILITY focus to the development of adequate commercial divisions that manage the and are overseen by the “Sustainability Working Group”, composed of the main • high-precision mechanical processes: GOVERNANCE corporate heads of the various divisions and coordinated by the HR, Organisation production flexibility, which aims to business in the various application sectors. splitting and buffing; and IT Director in the role of Sustainability Officer. The objective of the dedicated meet the needs of different markets. The production process is very complex working group is to propose and implement, within the strategic guidelines The organisation is, in fact, based on as it is based on the integration of: • dyeing, finishing and ennobling defined by the Chairman and CEO, actions in the field of sustainability. the integrated management of business • textile processes: spinning, carding processes. BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Board of Directors reviews and approves annually the Annual Risk RISK Assessment, monitoring its implementation on a regular basis, to assess and CHAIRMAN & CEO manage strategic, operational, environmental, social and governance risks. ASSESSMENT MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVE CORPORATE FOR QUALITY HEALTH & SAFETY GENERAL INNOVATION & GLOBAL COMMUNICATION ENVIRONMENT (RSPP) MANAGER SUPPLY DIRECTOR SUPERVISOR & SAFETY SYSTEMS MARKETS, HUMAN RESOURCES, I.T., TECHNOLOGIES RESEARCH SUSTAINABILITY GLOBAL PURCHASING FINANCE & OPERATIONS DIRECTOR & PRODUCT AND SYSTEMS DIRECTOR & CONTROL DIRECTOR The approval of the Sustainability Report takes place on a voluntary basis by SUPPLY APPLICATION the Chairman of the Board of Directors, as it is not currently required by law or DEVELOPMENT CERTIFIED THE regulations. The Company’s management is therefore supported by a structured REPRESENTATIVE TECHNICAL SYSTEM system of reporting on the progress of the business and key projects. This also SALES DIRECTOR OFFICE CHINA DIRECTOR TECHNICAL HEAD SUSTAINABILITY allows for the correct application of incentive and remuneration systems with ASSISTANT MARKETING ACCOUNT REPORT a view to supporting and enhancing merit and allows for easy planning of the AUTOMOTIVE objectives set, with a capacity for achieving even those of an environmental and GROUP 1 SUPERVISOR PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES DEPUTY TREASURY social nature. PLANT PERSONNEL & MAINTENANCE DESIGN & CREDIT & ORGANIZATION AUTOMOTIVE OFFICE GROUP 2 TECHNOLOGIES, PLANNING SUPERVISOR QUALITY CONTROL Although there are no specific communication channels that allow stakeholders PERSONNEL SALES DIRECTOR & LABORATORY & INTERNAL to interact directly with the Board of Directors, current initiatives and future RELATION HQ AUTOMOTIVE AUDIT projects are evaluated by listening to the suggestions coming from the various CORE SAFETY department heads, the Supervisory Body, employees and representatives of FASHION & ENVIRONMENT LEGAL external stakeholders, including through the work of the representative bodies in INFORMATION & INTERIORS TECHNOLOGY SUPERVISOR which the Company participates and the recommendations of the numerous third TECHNICAL and independent parties that verify the management systems that Alcantara S.p.A. CONSUMER OFFICE ELECTRONICS utilises (see paragraph 1.8). SECURITY SUPERVISOR & FACILITY MANAGEMENT During Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. complied with the New European RESEARCH & Regulation for the Processing of Personal Data (GDPR). DEVELOPMENT FANS The Company therefore: • defined the organisation chart and privacy control body; • developed registers of processing data with corresponding retention periods; • carried out the risk analysis and DPIA (Data Protection Impact Analysis) for processing CROSS-FUNCTIONAL WORKING GROUPS data presenting a risk; • coordinated the sending of information to clients, suppliers, guests, employees, candidates; In order to meet the growing • Coordination and Control Committee: functional and hierarchical structure, • appointed the persons in charge and external representatives; complexity and globality of market composed of the Chief Executive generating important advantages: • revised policies for the use of information systems, data breaches, data retention; demand, as well as the need for Officer and senior management, its • implemented continuous training processes on GDPR and Security awareness. continuous updating of supply, a task is to guide the group by setting • greater focus on the Company’s horizontal organisational system has its objectives; strategic objectives; In addition, following the entry into force of Law No. 179 of 30 November been developed, structured around • team leader: is responsible for • an increase in involvement and 2017, containing provisions for the protection of the perpetrators of reports of the collaboration between “intercoordinating the working group; motivation, above all of middle crimes or irregularities of which they become aware in the context of a public functional teams”, as a distinctive • team members: express and contribute management; or private employment relationship, the Whistleblowing procedure was issued. feature of the Company. their skills and knowledge necessary • improvement of communication and This procedure regulates the process of receiving, analysing, evaluating and Alcantara S.p.A. has continued to achieve objectives. alignment processes; processing reports regarding illegal conduct from anyone, employees or third the process of consolidating team • development of the sense of belonging parties (persons in a relationship of interest with Alcantara S.p.A., partners, working, updating its objectives and Team working involved a large and sharing; clients, suppliers, consultants, collaborators and in general stakeholders), dedicating a working group to each of portion of management and middle • improvement in the “quality of the 6 sent or transmitted, even in confidential or anonymous form. these, structuring them as follows: management, integrating with the response” and the actions taken. 7 1.7 2021-2024 In line with the most advanced Sustainability Plan international practices in sustainability, Alcantara S.p.A. has developed a total of 24 specific objectives for the four areas, to be achieved in the medium term (2021-2024). These tangible commitments are represented as follows: PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Alcantara S.p.A. decided to develop a Sustainability Plan in fiscal year 2017 to ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY transform its commitments into practicable actions and quantitative objectives. SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE In Fiscal Year 2020, the sustainability plan has been updated with the aim to renew and reconfirm the main sustainability goals of the Company. For Alcantara S.p.A., in fact, sustainability is a distinctive, strategic factor in its business activity, with the ultimate goal of helping create value for all stakeholders. The plan was prepared starting with the Company strategy, a Reduction of Reduction of Occupational materiality analysis, the 17 Sustainable Development Objectives of the United Envirornmental Environmental Corporate Health Nations, and through the involvement of Company management. Alcantara S.p.A. Impact Impact Citizenship and Safety has therefore formulated its commitment for sustainable development in four of Product of Process Improved Increased Preparation areas of action: Sustainability Carbon of a Non-financial in the Neutrality Sustainability Reporting Promotion of Art Supply Chain of Suppliers Plan CARBON and Culture NEUTRALITY Training of suppliers STAKEHOLDER Reduction SUSTAINABLE Water of Energy ENGAGEMENT Footprint INNOVATION Consumption Alcantara® as Increase in & REPUTATION a Sustainable Sustainability Brand Training Investments Sustainability Sustainability Increase in Youth Employment Tax Circular Economic for Guidance Risk trasparency Development sustainability Committee assessment International Projects PLANET PROSPERITY with Social Impact Environmental Sustainability Economic Sustainability PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Social Sustainability Sustainability Governance 8 9 1.8 Risk Management Systems Alcantara S.p.A. confirms its support to the United Nations Global Compact Alcantara S.p.A. has obtained and maintains the following international certifications: for the third year in a row Alcantara S.p.A. has equipped itself SYSTEM CERTIFICATIONS In Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. reaffirmed its adherence as a Participant Member to the UN Global Compact, with an internal system for the the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. By supporting the UNGC, Alcantara S.p.A. confirms its long-lasting prevention of identified risks that Standard Title Body Date of 1st release commitment to sustainability and reinforces it by respecting and promoting the Ten Principles of the UNGC; along with allows it to identify, measure, manage the implementation of strategic actions, which actively contribute to the advancement of global goals, such as the and monitor the main critical issues, UNI EN ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management TÜV SÜD September 1993 UN Sustainable Development Goals. Alcantara S.p.A. is committed to providing an annual disclosure of its activities and in line with its strategy of sustainable practices regarding the 10 Principles through this document, which also represents its Communication on Progress (CoP). business development at economic, Environmental In November 2019, Alcantara S.p.A. has published its third Communication on Progress including a description of actions UNI EN ISO 14001:2015 TÜV SÜD May 2000 Management System social and environmental level. or relevant policies related to human rights, labour and environmental issues, as well as anticorruption practices. With regard to the mitigation of more Quality requirements typically financial risks, reference IATF 16949:2016 TÜV SÜD February 2004 of the automotive sector should be made to the Annual Report (risks associated with general SA8000® Social Accountability TÜV SÜD October 2008 economic conditions; business risk: The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact CMS Standard credit risk; exchange rate fluctuation risk). Compensation for GHG 41 of CARBON residual greenhouse gas TÜV SÜD June 2009 NEUTRALITY emissions Alcantara’s S.p.A. responsible management (PAS 2060) model is based on a set of certified Human rights Environment management systems and appropriate Health and Safety BS OHSAS 18001:2007 TÜV SÜD April 2013 Management System governance and control mechanisms PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 7 aimed at identifying and managing Energy management businesses should support and respect businesses should support a precautionary ISO 50001:2011 Bureau Veritas February 2017 risks and promoting business system continuity and success: the protection of internationally proclaimed approach to environmental challenges; • creating value in a sustainable way human rights; and shared with all stakeholders; Certified management systems require internal audits performed by qualified PRINCIPLE 8 • interpreting the needs of its clients internal personnel on all business processes and functions and periodic PRINCIPLE 2 undertake initiatives to promote greater by pursuing the best quality standards; maintenance or renewal audits performed by an accredited body. make sure that they are not environmental responsibility; • minimising the environmental impact; Moreover, Alcantara S.p.A. is equipped with authoritative certifications related • developing and controlling the to the product, also verified annually by accredited bodies. complicit in human rights abuses. supply chain; PRINCIPLE 9 • talking and listening to stakeholders. encourage the development and diffusion PRODUCT CERTIFICATIONS of environmentally friendly technologies. Certification Validity Labour Oeko-Tex Standard 100 (valid for individual brands/families) Obtained and maintained PRINCIPLE 3 Anti-corruption since 1995 businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective PRINCIPLE 10 Marine sector: IMO MED certification according to European Directives 2002/75/EC and 96/98/EC Obtained and maintained recognition of the right to collective businesses should work against corruption since 2000 (valid for individual brands/families) in all its forms, including extortion bargaining; Contract sector: certification for CPD construction products and bribery. Obtained and maintained according to European Directive 89/106/EC (valid for since 2011 individual brands/families) PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced Alcantara S.p.A., after verifying consistency with its principles, subscribes to and compulsory labour; the Codes of Ethics applied by the main companies and clients with regard to sustainability issues. PRINCIPLE 5 As a strong signal to continue to contribute to the advancement of the UN’s the effective abolition of child labour; sustainable development goals, even during the Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.P.A. has again subscribed to two important initiatives: PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC); • Global Compact Network Italy Foundation (GCNI). respect of employment and occupation. 10 11 STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDERS KEY TOPICS MAIN ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES 1.9 Dialogue with Stakeholders • Professional growth and continuous EXPECTATIONS • Equal opportunities. • Internal communication events learning. • Safety in the (safety day, meetings, etc.). Listening to and involving its stakeholders with the aim of creating main stakeholders were also launched: • Meritocracy and delegation. workplace. • Meetings for sharing objectives. stakeholders are ways in which shared value. a system that allows for constant • Workplace stability. • Professional • Strategic objectives working groups. Alcantara S.p.A. can encourage a constant During Fiscal Year 2020 a number of interaction and evolutionary monitoring • Internal climate: collaboration development for • Six-monthly “House organ” as an process of conciliation between dialogue, consultation and listening of all topics directly or indirectly HUMAN internal information and sharing tool. and sharing objectives and all categories its own interests and those of its initiatives aimed at the Company’s related to sustainability issues. RESOURCES • Reserved channel and email box knowledge. of employees. • Remuneration and benefits. • P a rt i c i p at i o n i n for reporting. • Reconciliation of life and work. corporate life and • Constant climate monitoring and • Health and well-being in the all related initiatives. occasional surveys every 3-4 years STAKEHOLDER workplace. • Work-life balance. to understand work-life balance STAKEHOLDERS KEY TOPICS MAIN ENGAGEMENT ACTIVITIES • Stability. or other needs. EXPECTATIONS • Team building. • Organisation of meetings with the • Meetings with trade union • Product uniqueness and • Maximisation senior management of major clients to representatives. brand value. of value for illustrate the details of Alcantara S.p.A.’s • Meetings and relationships with the • Design, customisation and the consumer. commitment to sustainability. local community at various levels. exclusivity. • Quality and • Initiatives to promote and raise public • Meetings with institutional bodies. • Innovation and research. continuity in the • Transparency and commercial s up p ly of the awareness on sustainability issues. fairness. product. • Client satisfaction and market analysis. • Atmospheric emissions. • Prevention and • AIA (Autorizzazione Integrata Ambientale • Satisfaction listening • Support for activities carried out by • Use of raw materials. re s p e c t fo r t h e Integrated Environmental Authorisation). complaint handling. clients (e.g. when clients communicate • Responsibility in the production environment. • Study at authoritative institutions CLIENTS or promote a green product/project). • Pre-post sale services. process. • Corporate strategy in environmental matters. AND CONSUMERS • Customer care. • Effective communication and ENVIRONMENT • Conservation and enhancement of aimed at reduction • Participation in innovative projects responsible promotional activity. • Pre and post sales assistance. environmental heritage-biodiversity. of the consumption with scientific institutions and their • Regulatory compliance and • Ad hoc visits to the Company and open • Investments in environmental of natural resources. correct communication. information product laws doors (school groups, journalists). protection. • Collaboration in controls by the bodies protecting the end consumer. • Direct and active interaction of the in charge of controls. • Packaging and recyclability. Research Centre team with the client • Participation in category tables. • Sustainability, corporate through meetings and/or information and product. activities to customise the range. • Carbon Neutrality CO2. • Direct contacts at industry events and trade fairs. • Activities-investments and value • Listening to requests. • Collaboration projects with universities • Production of information materials creation in the territory. • Contribution and and training schools in Italy and abroad. dedicated to sustainability. • Environmental and quality of life support to initiatives • Contests and scholarships for young • New materials to communicate Protection and Carbon Neutrality. in the territory and designers/artists. sustainability: dedicated multilingual • Respect for human rights. local communities. • Guided tours at the plant for Italian and micro-site, multilingual video-graphics, LOCAL • Transparency and completeness • Access to information. international press, artists and multilingual leaflets (for the 2020 COMMUNITY of communication to the media • Protection of designers as well as clients. Sustainability Report the leaflet is and the local community. heritage and the • Projects with cultural and artistic written in 6 different languages: Italian, • S u p p o rt f o r r e s e a r c h a n d environment. institutions. English, German, Japanese, Chinese development, education, art and • Health and safety. • Participation in conferences and and Korean). culture initiatives. co-organisation of events. • Direct emailing activities to selected • Invitations and meetings with local lists to disseminate initiatives and/or institutions. collect feedback and input. • Ad hoc communications on the tenth anniversary of Carbon Neutrality. • Continuity and quality of work. • Compliance with • Evaluation activities foreseen by the • International workshops • Reputation. all antitrust supplier qualification process or on sustainability. • Collaboration for research competition laws. certified systems. • Renewed annual membership in the SUPPLIERS and development activities. • In operational • Technical visits and periodic meetings. United Nations Global Compact as a • Safety and sustainability countries. • Systematic quality response (feedback). “Participant” member and in the Global as values. • Collaborations for improvement Compact Network Italy. or innovation. • Compliance with laws. • Collaboration, • Collaboration in visits or audits of the • Profitability and business value. • Value creation for • Shareholders’ Meeting and representation • Administrative and fiscal technical support Public Administration. • Reputational protection. the Shareholder. to the Board of Directors. regularity. and information • Participation in thematic institutional SHAREHOLDERS • Participation in internal and Group • Transparency. • Corporate PUBLIC • Activities investments and sharing. tables. • Correctness in management. Governance and events and international conferences. INSTITUTIONS value creation in the territory. • Participation in spatial • Participation in projects, calls for Risk Management. • Involvement for the formulation and • Reporting. planning of activities. proposals or institutional research. • Representation revision of the Code of Ethics and the • Compliance with • Monitoring of updates issued by the of minorities. Organisational Model. legislation in all Italian Accounting Body. • Transparency and • Periodic review of: J-SOX, ERM countries where • Periodic reporting to ISTAT, Bank of Italy, timeliness in (Enterprise Risk Management), Security Alcantara S.p.A. Mediobanca and Lombardy Region. economic and Trade Control, C-MOS operates. 12 financial information. (Control Monitoring Online System). 13 Through the Sustainability Report, Alcantara S.p.A. aims to identify the issues deemed of greatest interest by stakeholders Sustainability strategies and governance to provide them with adequate answers. Also in Fiscal Year 2020, the Company carried out a process of updating the Ethics, integrity and regulatory compliance “materiality matrix” which aims to intercept the information needs to be included in reporting. Sustainability strategy and governance The methodology used to update the matrix and the definition of potentially relevant issues provided for: • an internal analysis based on various public and non-public internal sources; • an activity of direct involvement of external stakeholders through the Involvement of the Community and the territory administration of a survey; Clients’ safety and satisfaction • an analysis of the sector and other external sources to identify other potential Development and training of human resources relevant issues. Working conditions, welfare and respect for human rights The analyses carried out identified 19 issues relevant to the sector in which Alcantara S.p.A. operates. Each of them, through Health and safety in the workplace the use of qualitative-quantitative scales, was assigned a score from 1 to 5, in terms of “Relevance for Alcantara S.p.A.” and “Relevance for stakeholders”. The two dimensions respond to the need to identify the degree of relevance perceived Product quality by stakeholders on the various issues and the degree of commitment that the Company has undertaken or will assume on those issues. In order to identify the priority material issues, the value 2.5 has been defined as the materiality threshold. Transport and logistics Energy efficiency and renewable energy sources ALCANTARA S.P.A. 2020 MATERIALITY MATRIX Water, waste and chemical management 4.00 Greenhouse gas emissions management (Carbon Footprint, Carbon Neutrality, LCA) Greenhouse gas emissions management (Carbon Footprint, Carbon Neutrality, LCA) Supplier evaluation programmes Supplier involvement in supply chain carbon neutrality Product quality Energy efficiency Water, and renewable waste and energy sources chemical Dialogue with stakeholders management 3.50 Clients’ safety RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS and satisfaction Sustainability Supplier evaluation strategy and programmes governance Transport and logistics Ethics, integrity and Working conditions, welfare regulatory compliance and respect for human rights Supplier involvement in supply chain carbon neutrality Health and safety in the workplace Involvement of the Community Development and the territory and training of human resources 3.00 Alcantara S.p.A. has reconfirmed and perception of external stakeholders continued its commitment to the on two topics, which were the most relevant issues for the Company transparent tax approach and the and the sector in which it operates. brand’s reputation. In particular, this year the Company decided to include a new theme In addition, an important focus for concerning Covid-19 in the online the Company is the quality control survey dedicated to stakeholders: of its supply chain, which allows the Company immediately equipped it to promote the improvement of itself with tools and practices to face environmental performance and social the emergency and respond to the responsibility of its suppliers. Respect for new needs expressed by the market the environment continues to be important: 2.50 and members (for more details see for 11 years Alcantara S.p.A. has Chapter 3.3). maintained the Carbon Neutrality 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 certification, obtained thanks to its RELEVANCE FOR ALCANTARA S.P.A. In addition, two further issues that numerous emission reduction and did not turn out to be material were compensation projects. 14 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY integrated in order to detect the 15 MATERIAL ISSUES TOPIC-SPECIFIC GRI EXTERNAL IMPACT STAKEHOLDERS IDENTIFIED BY REFERENCE STANDARDS RELATED RISKS REFERENCE SDGs TO ALCANTARA S.p.A. POLICIES PARAGRAPH ALCANTARA S.P.A. • Code of Ethics Ethics, integrity Anti-corruption (GRI 205) External collaborators, • Organisation and regulatory Anti-competitive • Risk of unethical partners, consultants, and management 1.8 compliance behaviour (GRI 206) and/or illegal agents, attorneys model 231 behaviour by employees. Sustainability General disclosures • Risks of corporate • Code of Ethics strategy and (GRI 102) offences. • Global compact 1.5; 1.7 Governance governance • Risks of (UNGC) non-compliance or violation of applicable legislation or regulations. • Risks of corruption • Code of Ethics Local Community, Dialogue with General disclosures offences. • SA8000 Employees, Clients, 1.9 stakeholders (GRI 102) • Reputation risk. Certification Suppliers Working Human Rights (GRI 412) • Health, Safety conditions, Diversity and equal and Environment welfare and opportunities (GRI 405) Employees 3 • Risk of increased Policy respect for Non-Discrimination turnover and loss • Code of Ethics human rights (GRI 406) of competent and relevant personnel. Development • Health, Safety • Risk of increased and training Training and education Local Community and Environment accidents. 3 of human (GRI 404) Employees Policy • Risk of increased resources • Code of Ethics Social work-related stress. Sustainability • Risk of incompetence • Health, Safety Health and Occupational Health and negligence. and Environment safety in Employees 3; 6.1 and Safety (GRI 403) Policy the workplace • Code of Ethics Indirect economic impacts Involvement (GRI 203) • Lack of attention of the Community Procurement practices to social and Local Community • Code of Ethics 5.1 and the territory (GRI 204) territorial issues. Local communities (GRI 413) The correlation between the 15 “material” issues for Alcantara S.p.A. and its • Possible late and/or • Code of Ethics Customer health stakeholders and the “GRI standards” requirements is shown on the next page. Clients’ safety and safety (GRI 416) inadequate response • ISO9001 The impact of the issues, the related risks, the reference SDGs and the existing policies and satisfaction Marketing and labelling to customer Clients Certification 4 feedback and • Oeko-Tex in Alcantara S.p.A. to cover them are also highlighted. The section of the Sustainability (GRI 417) Standard 100 Customer privacy (GRI 418) expected Report in which their management is described is indicated at the end of the table. satisfaction levels. certification • Non-compliance of • Code of Ethics product information. • ISO9001 Customer health Certification Product’s quality • Reputation risk. Clients 1.8; 4 and safety (GRI 416) • Oeko-Tex • Risk of loss of Standard 100 competitiveness. certification Water, waste Water (GRI 303) and chemical Effluents and waste 6.5 management (GRI 306) • Health, Safety and Environment Energy Policy ISO14001 efficiency • Energy policy Energy (GRI 302) • Failure to comply with Suppliers 6.4 and renewable ISO50001 Environmental energy sources environmental laws and regulations. • SA800 Sustainability • Growth in energy Certification Greenhouse supply costs. gas emissions • Changes in management legislation with • Carbon Neutrality 6.3 Emissions (GRI 305) penalty risks. Suppliers (Carbon Footprint, Certification Carbon Neutrality, LCA) • IMO MED Certification Transport • Oeko-Tex Materials (GRI 301) Suppliers and Clients Standard 100 6.2 and logistics • Certification for CPD products • Risk of increasing Economic Supplier cases of discrimination • Organisation Sustainability evaluation Supplier social and unequal Suppliers and management 2.2 assessment (GRI 414) programmes treatment along model 231 the supply chain. Supplier involvement • Failure to comply Supplier environmental with environmental • Carbon Neutrality 2.2 in supply chain Suppliers assessment (GRI 308) laws and Certification and carbon neutrality regulations. 16 17 Krijn de Koning, Room, “Nine Journeys Throught Time”, Yuz Museum, Shanghai, 2019 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY Highlights • Over €100 million in value created and distributed, 2.4% more than the previous • Almost €103 million invested. fiscal year. Of this € 2,700,000 dedicated to safeguarding health, safety • Company turnover exceeds and the environment. €200 million (+0.3% compared to fiscal year 2019). • 5 partner companies involved in the CSR assessment of Alcantara S.p.A.’s supply chain. NOTE: the numbers provided in this section are rounded to the nearest thousand euros. 19 2.1 Economic Indicators and Added Value Fiscal Year 2020 ended at almost unchanged levels compared to the previous year, despite a contraction in the reference markets due in part to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. MAIN BALANCE SHEET DATA (€/000) FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Fiscal Year 2020 Related Short-term assets 146,600 110,971 152,111 Main Focus SDGs Fixed assets TOTAL ASSETS IN THE BALANCE SHEET 197,558 344,158 294,706 405,677 380,365 532,476 Short-term liabilities 67,776 156,126 160,151 • SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Medium/long-term liabilities 73,928 20,038 101,808 monitoring of sustainability risks associated TOTAL LIABILITIES 141,704 176,164 261,959 with supply, verification of the level of achievement of improvement plans, Shareholders’ equity 202,454 229,513 270,517 training on sustainability and practical TOTAL LIABILITIES IN THE BALANCE SHEET 344,158 405,677 532,476 incentives through ratings; Net financial position (24,454) (90,476) (184,529) • SA8000® request to suppliers for adaptation The considerable investment plan aimed at increasing production capacity and to the principles referred technological change in the industrial process has seen the continuation of a significant change in the capital structure undertaken since 2018, confirming the to by the SA8000® standard; growth trend in activities, especially in fixed assets. The increase in short-term assets, compared to the previous year, is due to both the increase in working • CARBON NEUTRALITY capital and other assets as a result of tax credits relating to the patent box1. involvement of suppliers in offering This increase in assets absorbs resources both in relation to third parties with carbon neutral products and services; a natural increase in bank exposure and in shareholders’ equity, the result of the Alcantara S.p.A.’s policy of leaving resources within the Company. • ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT investments for the development of production capacity in coherence with sustainability. The two calculation tables and the effective manner for the benefit of distribution of Added Value reclassify, several of its main stakeholders: according to the methodology • personnel: remuneration proposed by the Study Group for the of employees; Social Report (Gruppo di studio per • public administration: remuneration il Bilancio Sociale GBS), the items in of public administration; ADDED VALUE the income statement to express in • lenders: remuneration of credit capital; monetary quantities the relationship • shareholders: remuneration between the Company and the of risk capital; socio-economic system with which it • corporate system: remuneration interacts. The determination of Added of the company; Value thus highlights Alcantara S.p.A.’s • local community: donations ability to generate wealth in a costand sponsorships. 1 The patent box is an optional taxation scheme for business income from the use of copyrighted software, industrial patents, trademarks, designs and models, processes, formulas and information relating to experience acquired in the industrial, commercial or scientific field that can be legally protected. 20 21 GROSS GLOBAL ADDED VALUE (€/000) FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 ∆% FY 2019/20 A) Production value 200,506 211,412 214,567 1.5% B) Intermediate production costs 105,465 112,172 113,356 1.1% GROSS ORDINARY ADDED VALUE 95,041 99,240 101,211 2% DISTRIBUTED ADDED VALUE C) Accessory and extraordinary components (318) 270 723 167.8% GROSS GLOBAL ADDED VALUE 94,723 99,510 101,934 2.4% The added value distributed increased by The Added Value distributed increased As far as Alcantara S.p.A.’s remuneration It should also be noted that in by 2.4% compared to the previous is concerned, it also shows a considerable the item dedicated to the Public fiscal year. increase due to two factors: on the Administration, there is a credit compared DISTRIBUTION OF GROSS GLOBAL one hand, the Company’s choice not benefit, due to the definition with to the previous FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 ∆% FY 2019/20 In the distribution of Added Value, we to proceed with the distribution of the Italian Revenue Agency of the tax CONSOLIDATED VALUE (€/000) note the maintenance of the values in dividends, in order to evaluate the ruling2 for the purposes of the Patent fiscal year the remuneration of personnel and a opportunity to access the financing Box, which in fact will make it possible A) PERSONNEL REMUNERATION 36,639 39,578 39,668 0.2% significant increase in the risk capital guaranteed by the Government, and to have no direct tax payments in the item, as a direct consequence of that on the other hand, the increase in 2021 tax year. Employees 33,757 37,148 37,880 2% stated in the previous paragraph, amortisation, which is the result of Details of the items relating to the regarding the increase in debt to the the significant industrial investments € 101,000 allocated to the local Wages and salaries 23,251 25,490 26,568 4.2% banking system. made. community are as follows: Social security charges 7,286 8,407 8,548 1.7% Amount disbursed (€/000) FY 2020 Employee severance indemnity 1,766 1,778 1,855 4.3% Environment 3 Other expenses 1,454 1,473 910 (38.2%) Culture 30 Non-employee staff 2,882 2,430 1,788 (26.4%) Social 8 B) REMUNERATION 13,624 13,590 (4,907) (136.1%) Membership fees 60 OF THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION Direct and indirect taxes 14,281 14,067 (4,246) (130.2%) (net of loans and tax credits) Financing received (657) (477) (661) 38.6% from the Public Administration 2 The tax ruling includes the prior information, confirmation or guarantee by the Tax Administration with regard to the taxation of a specific case presented by the taxpayer in the framework of the subsequent tax procedure, provided that this case is subsequently implemented as indicated. C) REMUNERATION OF LOAN CAPITAL 150 242 1,162 380.2% Short-term capital charges 31 16 7 (56.3%) Long-term capital charges 119 226 1,155 411% D) REMUNERATION OF RISK CAPITAL 8,802 8,964 100% Share of profit for the year distributed 8,802 8,964 100% E) COMPANY REMUNERATION 35,389 37,028 65,909 78% Share of profit allocated to reserves 26,399 26,898 49,968 85.8% Amortisation 8,990 10,130 15,941 57.4% F) COMMUNITY 119 108 101 (6.5%) (DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIPS) GROSS GLOBAL ADDED VALUE 94,723 99,510 101,934 2.4% 22 23 Investments are divided into six macro-areas. The difference between the amount for planned and actual investments is mainly due to the rationalization of the costs of the “new project to increase production capacity” requested by the parent company. Investments for the protection of health, safety and the environment amount to € 2,659,000 (about 3% of total investments) and are almost in line with ALCANTARA S.p.A. ALLOCATION expenditure forecasts, divided as follows: AND TORAY INDUSTRIES: OF INVESTMENTS • health and safety € 2,082,000 • environment € 577,000 (€ 162,000 for the prevention of water pollution and TOGETHER € 415,000 for the prevention of air pollution) FOR THE TERRITORY In Fiscal Year 2020 this project FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 continued. It was approved by the Final Forecast parent company Toray Industries Inc. ACQUISITIONS DURING THE YEAR (€/000) balance for its second and most significant phase in May 2018, which will Rationalisation and maintenance of plants 12,700 12,266 10,667 12,581 and quality standards take Alcantara S.p.A. to almost double its current size combined Health, Safety and Environment3 5,901 2,696 2,699 2,603 with a completely renewed and Research and development 401 1,130 1,820 1,461 environmentally friendly production process and which will involve a total IT system, commercial facilities and others 798 1,321 1,257 569 outlay of approximately € 278,300,000. New environmental improvement project 2,660 3,995 4,885 3,987 For this reason, the shareholders have consolidated their policy of New project to increase production capacity 28,111 86,139 81,201 96,854 reinvesting a considerable part of their TOTAL 50,571 107,547 102,539 118,055 profits in the Company, which had already begun in 2013, as evidence of the highly strategic importance of reinvestment in the territory and, from an environmental point of view, it represents part of the elevated economic and social return generated by the Company. The investment plan for Fiscal Year 2021 provides for the maintenance of commitments in terms of health, safety and the environment in order to continuously improve the standards achieved, with particular attention to both the impact on the territory and the safety of workers. Among the investments planned is the continuation of the project to increase INVESTMENT production capacity started in 2018 and targeted towards the continuous and growing market demand. High investment costs are anticipated for the PLAN FOR FISCAL continuation of Scale up II (see table below). YEAR 2021 INVESTMENT PLAN 01/04/2020-31/03/2021 AMOUNT (€/000) Construction and maintenance of plants and quality standards 1 1 ,1 87 Health, safety and environment 2,797 Investments Of this, € 2,383,000 relates to Research and development 1,014 in FY 2020 intangible assets and € 7,331,000 amount to almost to the capitalisation of internal IT system, commercial facilities and others 801 costs, relating to personnel costs New environmental improvement project 4,867 for maintenance departments, the technical design department, New project to increase production capacity 12,280 research and warehouse retrieval TOTAL 32,946 and utilities. 3 The item “Health, safety and environment” only includes costs relating to the management of health, safety and environmental protection; this is different from the Board of Directors Report of the Financial Statements where these costs are aggregated with those for Energy Saving and Development Projects (here instead included under “Rationalisation and maintenance of plants and quality standards”). 24 25 2.2 Suppliers and Partners Alcantara S.p.A. supplies the materials, TERRITORIALITY FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 products and services necessary for the manufacturing processes which take place in the production The out-sourcing technical area and maintenance services for the Nera Montoro SUPPLIERS Number % of total % of costs Number % of total % of costs Number % of total % of costs structure of the Nera Montoro plant plant are provided by local companies, i.e. with registered and operational to the headquarters in Milan and headquarters in Umbria, for over 80% of services, maintenance and contracts. Italy 1,608 85% 83% 1,606 87% 77% 1,456 87% 81% to the distribution processes, according The outsourced processing of the product is entrusted to specialised third party Other to the different product categories. companies, operating, for more than 99% of the services, in Italy. countries 275 15% 17% 243 13% 23% 227 13% 19% In more detail, Alcantara S.p.A. imports a number of special raw materials, TOTAL 1,883 100% 100% 1,849 100% 100% 1,683 100% 100% semi-finished products, machinery or equipment and, in specific cases, the manufacturer is Toray Industries, Inc. Alcantara S.p.A. only purchases raw materials authorised by Community legislation (REACH4), subjecting each new product to a rigorous assessment, from the point of view of environmental impact and consumer safety before it is introduced into the production process. PERCENTAGE OF COSTS BY PROVENANCE OF SUPPLIERS 100% With the aim of verifying and limiting the presence in its processing cycles of chemicals considered hazardous to humans and the environment, the 80% Company requires suppliers to: 49% 44% 46% 45% 60% ENVIRONMENTAL 1. verify and certify that all chemicals supplied comply with the limits indicated in the MRSL ZDHC5 as well as the list of additional requirements and undertake 40% RESPONSIBILITY to monitor and maintain them over time; 32% 27% 20% 21% 20% 2. ensure the management requirements set out in the self-assessment questionnaire prepared for this purpose. 19% 29% 34% 34% 0% FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Umbria Lombardy Other regions and countries NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS AND CLASS OF SUPPLY With specific reference to the territoriality parameter of the suppliers, Alcantara S.p.A. positively assesses their proximity to the Company’s headquarters (provincial or regional). Considering the two corporate sites in Milan and Nera Montoro, the number of local suppliers is 833, equal to 49% of the total. At a non-European level, the main suppliers come from Japan. 11 Textile raw material % 10 % Outsourced presenting a risk NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS BY PROVENANCE 8 Chemical +RM % 8 % Raw material 100% 80% 47% 50% 52% 51% 60% 40% 20% 39% 36% 35% 36% 63 Chemical % 14% 14% 13% 13% 0% FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Umbria Lombardy Other regions and countries 4 Regulation of the European Union, entered into force on 01.06.2007, adopted to improve the protection of human health and the environment from the risks of chemical substances. 5 Manufactured Restricted Substances List Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals programme. 26 27 NEW APPROACH TO SUPPLY CHAIN QUALIFICATION SUSTAINABILITY: OF SUPPLIERS CSR SELF-ASSESSMENT AND CO2 COMPENSATION Alcantara S.p.A. is committed to ensure that the supplier meets all the requirements During Fiscal Year 2020, this project was implemented with 4 additional contracting partner companies, set forth in the Company’s procedures for registration in the Supplier Register through a CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) assessment activity along Alcantara S.p.A.’s supply and to promote the improvement of environmental performance and social responsibility of its suppliers, through: chain. This tool, in the form of an on-site self-assessment, involves the compilation of a series of evaluation reports and allows Alcantara S.p.A.’s supplier companies to compose a reference framework regarding the level of risk management and sustainability opportunities, to identify possible actions to • audits conducted on site to verify • the signing-up by suppliers for contract • general services (reclamation and improve their performance and to create value in a sustainable way while minimising environmental impact. the ability to meet specific supply works and services, within the waste disposal); Through this initiative, the supplier companies will be able to respond to Alcantara S.p.A.’s requests for re quirem ent s an d complianc e contracts signed, who undertake to • raw materials. sustainability and to comply with its socially responsible business model. In addition, they will be able with the requirements of certified comply with the principles referred to equip themselves with better governance and control mechanisms, through: management systems (quality, safety, to in the SA8000® standard and to With regard to sustainability, 123 environment, social responsibility); observe, for the purposes of the suppliers were considered “priority”, • identification of ethical, social and environmental risks and opportunities; execution of the tasks conferred, since the goods or services they • understanding of the level of management of these aspects; • incentives for the adoption of the General Part of the Organisation provide have a mutually significant • verifying what is lacking to achieve a level judged satisfactory; programmes to optimise energy Model (pursuant to Legislative Decree economic impact and support • evaluation and measurement of progress over time; consumption, reduction of hazardous No. 231/2001) and the Code of Ethics activities whose effects may influence • involvement of collaborators, also stimulating an internal comparison; materials, reduction of emissions, of Alcantara S.p.A. stakeholder assessment. Of these, • comparisons with other companies and organisations. use of recycled materials and optimal 41 are the so-called “super core” waste management; adoption is •promotion, among its suppliers suppliers (as they operate continuously Given this assessment of Alcantara S.p.A.’s alignment with the model of socially responsible enterprise, the a s c e rtai ned t h ro ugh objec tiv e (and sub-suppliers), of transparent within the Alcantara S.p.A. offices or supplier will be accredited in line with the Sustainability Standards, by the Vendor Management system. documentary evidence and also and ethical conduct, responsible in production process and distribution through technical/organisational management paths in compliance partnerships) and 82 are the so-called audits at the suppliers’ premises; with the principles of environmental “core” suppliers (as they perform protection, human rights, labour services also not continuously within • updated supplier mapping based on, standards and the fight against the corporate offices or can become among other criteria, incident factors, corruption. production process partners). CSR ASSESSMENT SUPPLIERS the level of sustainability risk During Fiscal Year 2020, 1 priority associated with the supply, such as Alcantara S.p.A. considers the supply supplier entered the product processing FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 TOTAL AT the geographic area district in which of the following to be strategic: sector. The new supplier has been TYPE OF SUPPLY 31/03/2020 the supplier operates information • performance of work carried out on included in Alcantara S.p.A.’s evaluation in the public domain, adherence to the product; programme which includes, among Product processing 3 4 the code of ethics and participation • procurement and logistics services others, environmental and social Procurement and logistics services 6 5 5 5 4 23 in corporate social responsibility (technical and maintenance companies criteria relating to respect for the programs; operating within the plant and human rights of workers. Services/Performances/Waste 1 2 2 3 headquarters, warehouse management, Raw materials/packaging 2 1 4 transport); TOTAL AUDIT 10 7 7 7 5 34 During Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. continued to raise the supply chain’s awareness of its environmental sustainability model, achieving the expansion of the categories of suppliers involved in the calculation of CO2 emissions and related offsetting, through the consolidated practice of acquiring offsetting projects. The expansion was achieved through the involvement of a selected group of suppliers of raw materials (canvas and fireproofing) and sub-contracting (fireproofing process7), in addition to the consolidated number of partners belonging to the Transporters and Couriers category. Thanks to these numerous activities promoted by the Company, many suppliers have become Carbon Neutral. The amount of CO2 offset by these suppliers amounts to 25,630 tons. Chiharu Shiota, Reflection of Space and Time, “Nine Journeys Throught Time”, Yuz Museum, Shanghai, 2019 7 Treatment to which a material is subjected to reduce or delay combustion. 28 29 SA8000® Alcantara S.p.A., in the course of contract renewals for suppliers of processing services related to the product, has received a renewed commitment by them to: Product Geographical • comply with service delivery in line with the updated Alcantara S.p.A. certified sector areas and districts systems framework; • receive visits from audit; • comply with the ethical principles contained in the SA8000® standard and introduce an express commitment from the supplier; • evaluate and select its suppliers on the basis of their ability to respond to the above principles; • respond to Alcantara S.p.A.’s requests regarding sustainability and to comply with its socially responsible business model by respecting the general part of the organisation model (pursuant to Legislative Decree No. 231/2001) and the Alcantara S.p.A. Code of Ethics. Since 2007, suppliers of goods and services have collaborated with Alcantara Impact on Public domain S.p.A. to maintain the requirements of the SA8000® standard. The Company customer-relevant defined a programme of visits to “core” and “super-core” suppliers to verify, information through qualified experts and the SA8000® manager, a commitment to ensure requirements compliance with the standard on “social responsibility” and to identify any risk situations regarding freedom of association and bargaining, respect for human CRITERIA rights, forced or child labour. The findings were classifiable as “minor”. Suppliers were asked for corrective actions and evidence of their implementation. FOR MAPPING During the period under review, suppliers were found not to have breached applicable occupational health and safety, environmental protection and public SUPPLIERS health standards and the international principles referred to by the SA8000® standard, nor were there situations of social emergency (undeclared work, child “PRESENTING abuse, etc.) such as to require suspension or revocation of contract. There was no need to attach an “attention status” to any supplier. In addition, corrective Single A RISK” Corporate action plans have been formulated together with suppliers in relation to the Social areas identified as susceptible to improvement. or Multi Responsibility supplier As a result of the audits carried out in the last three fiscal years (a total of Programs 32 audits of which 19 CSR audits + 13 SA8000® audits), 30 action plans were launched 9 of which were implemented in the Fiscal Year 2020 involving as many suppliers (93% of the visits carried out were accompanied by an improvement plan), for a total of 98 findings and related corrective actions. In Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. reviewed the mapping of suppliers in order to update the multi-year audit programme to 2020, which includes those entities whose compliance with sustainability, social responsibility and quality management criteria requires direct verification. Replies Among the key factors adopted for the preparation of the mapping, as part received in the of a risk analysis, under examination were: the product sector to which they Behaviour Qualification belong and the geographical areas or industrial districts in which they operate, during supply any available information in the public domain, as well as conduct during Assessment qualification or during supply. phase 30 31 LEGISLATIVE LEGAL REFERENCEFRAMEWORK CHARACTERISTICS DETAILS Patent Box Tax relief on income generated by intangible assets, so-called “intangibles”, such as trademarks, (pursuant to Art.1, par. 37-45 of patents, models and the like. Law No. 190 of 23 December On 21 February 2019, the process of comparison and analysis with the Italian Revenue Agency 2.3 Institutions 2014 “Stability Law”, amended by Decree-Law No. 3 of 24 January 2015 and converted into Law No. on the methods of calculation and application of the benefit was initiated, which ended with a request for clarification provided by Alcantara S.p.A. in March. On 28 November, closure took place with the competent office of the Italian Revenue Agency, which allowed the Company 33 of 24 March 2015) to submit the supplementary declarations for the three-year period 01.04.2015-31.03.2018, as well as the tax declaration for the year ended 31.3.2019 with a total benefit for the four years of approximately € 13.3 million; to this should be added the estimated effect for the year ended Alcantara S.p.A. has established a FINANCIAL RELATIONS WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND THE STATE (€/000)* 31.3.2020 of approximately € 2.8 million. relationship characterised LOCAL AUTHORITIES FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Super-amortisations Bonus relating to the fiscal discipline of amortisation, in relation to which the possibility by transparency and collaboration (Art. 1 par. 91, 92, 93 and 94 of carrying out a maxi-amortisation on investments in tangible capital assets has been with institutions and public bodies. IRAP 2,238 2,253 (137) of Law No. 208 of 28 December provided for. The facility has been extended for the 2019 calendar year. By virtue of this It has also involved universities 2015 “Stability Law”) extension, the Company has carried out an analysis of eligible investments identifying a in several projects aimed Waste disposal fee 56 56 56 total IRES tax benefit of approximately € 180,000 which it will be able to benefit from over at developing the link between Taxes and surcharges on utilities 34 44 40 the next 11 years. The year just closed saw a benefit of approximately € 209,000, equal to public and private research. 24% of € 874,000 (the first financial year is affected by the halved rate). As regards to the transfer of value ICI/IMU (Municipal Share) 170 241 207 INDUSTRIA 4.0 Bonus relating to the fiscal discipline of amortisation, in relation to which the possibility to the Government and Advertising tax 9 9 9 Hyper-Amortisation of hyper-amortisation for tax purposes of +150% on investments in tangible capital assets Local Authorities through (Article 1, par. 9-14, Annex A and (40% on intangible assets) included in specific categories of law, with the requirements the payment of direct Sundry tax charges 17 4 17 Annex B of Law No. 232 of 11 of INDUSTRIA 4.0. The provision is aimed at encouraging investments in tangible assets and indirect taxes and other levies, it December 2016) with automation and interconnection requirements in compliance with the National Plan TOTAL 2,524 2,607 192 Industria 4.0. Following the cross-functional work for the implementation of new plant should be noted that the amount of STATE FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 purchases in compliance with the requirements of the law, Phase I of the project was €4,244,000 is much lower than successfully completed with the drafting of 4 appraisals for a benefit of € 9,916 thousand in previous years. IRES 11,129 10,846 (4,783) (in addition to the 6 appraisals and the benefit of € 5,105,000 already acquired last year). This figure is mainly due to TAX The total benefit of Phase I therefore amounts to approximately € 15 million distributed the definition with the Italian Revenue Customs charges 298 277 26 over 12 years; the financial year just closed saw a tax benefit of about €1 million (we recall Agency of the ruling for the purposes BENEFITS that the first Fiscal Year is affected by the halved rate). IMU (State Share) 174 178 177 of the Patent Box which led ACE Allowance Incentive in the form of a deduction from corporate income of the notional return on to the adjustment of taxes for the four VAT on gifts 118 104 85 for Corporate Equity equity, designed to make the treatment between equity and debt capital less unbalanced. previous years and which produced Registration tax and government concessions 7 6 9 (Art. 1 of Law No. 201 of 6 This facility provides for the deductibility from taxable income for IRES purposes of part a negative effective tax rate December 2011, also called of the increase in equity (calculated with respect to closing shareholders’ equity at 31 during the reference tax period. Sundry tax charges 31 47 50 “Manovra Monti” or “Salva Italia” December 2010) multiplied by a coefficient periodically established by the Government. and Art. 7 of Law No. 50 of 24 April The shareholders’ policy of leaving a considerable share of the profit made within the TOTAL 11,757 11,458 4,436 2017) company (50% from 2012, 75% in the last two financial years and 100% for the year just TOTAL PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 14,281 14,065 4,244 ended) has led to significant tax savings in the period under review, which in the year ended 31 March 2020 amounted to 24% of € 1,481,000, equal to € 355,000 of lower taxes. *The table also includes deferred tax liabilities in FY 2020 of € (587,000) (€715,000 for liabilities in R&D tax credit Aimed at stimulating private spending on research and development to innovate FY 2019), of which € (520,000) for liabilities for IRES (€ 588,000 for assets in FY 2019) and (€67,000) (Art. 3 of Law No. 145 of 23 processes and ensure the competitiveness of companies. for liabilities for IRAP (€127,000 for assets in FY 2019). December 2013 and subsequent All expenses related to fundamental research, industrial research and experimental amendments) development may be facilitated: costs for highly qualified and technical personnel, research contracts with universities, research bodies, companies, innovative start-ups and SMEs, depreciation of laboratory instruments and equipment, technical skills and industrial property. The current year recorded a benefit of € 660,000 (see table in the “Public Administration Funding” section) of higher revenues fully untaxed for both IRES and IRAP purposes. Development contracts Invitalia, on 21.01.2020, in accordance with Art. 9, para. 8 of Ministerial Decree of 9.12.2014, (Art. 9 of the Decree of the Minister approved the proposed development contract, submitted by Alcantara S.p.A., which of Economic Development of provides for an investment project for environmental protection, aimed at FANS redesign 09.12.2014) of the production process of the industrial site of Nera Montoro, and an experimental development project related to it, functional to the development of the process on a During Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. continued to monitor facilitation pre-industrial scale. The cost of the investment project is € 108,200,00, while that of the opportunities aimed at supporting companies that carry out investment, permitted development project is approximately € 7,200,000 research and trademark and patent protection projects. In view of the high volume of investments related to the project to increase Alcantara S.p.A. participates through its membership fee and direct presence in numerous associations production capacity, as well as the related development activities, Alcantara S.p.A. and institutions in order to support business representation and benefit from association services.8 has started the bureaucratic procedures for the request of contributions for both investment and development activities. LIST OF ASSOCIATIONS TO WHICH ALCANTARA S.P.A. IS REGISTERED AS AT 31 MARCH 2020 PUBLIC AIM TEXCLUBTEC ADMINISTRATION GRANTS AND CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 AUSED (Association of Information Technology & System Users) MITTELMODA FUNDING Energy-intensive enterprises contribution (215) (7) ASSOFIBRE NATIONAL CHAMBER OF FASHION Tax credit for Research and Development (442) (470) (660) PARTICIPATION ASSOLOMBARDA JAPANESE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE TOTAL (657) (477) (660) IN TRADE FEDERCHIMICA JAPANESE SCHOOL ASSOCIATIONS CONFINDUSTRIA UMBRIA ITALY-JAPAN FOUNDATION Further information in terms of grants or loans received during Fiscal Year 2020 is available in the statutory Financial Statements; these economic advantages, AICQ (Italian Association for Quality Culture) UN GLOBAL COMPACT although falling within the category of selective advantages and therefore FAI (The National Trust for Italy) GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK ITALY FOUNDATION Government aid, are received under an aid scheme and therefore accessible to all companies that meet certain conditions, on the basis of predetermined general criteria. 8 Alcantara S.p.A. has never made contributions for political purposes and there are no plans for future projects in this regard. 32 33 Alberto Biasi, La materia della visione 1959-2019, La Biennale di Venezia, 2019 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Human Resources Highlights • 83.4% of staff is employed on permanent contracts. • Measures to prevent • 5 years of relevant and cope with Covid-19. certification for the health and safety • Zero accidents at the management system Milan headquarters since 2011. in accordance with OHSAS 18001 (2015 2020). 34 35 3.1 Management Policies and Composition Alcantara S.p.A. PILLARS considers people a fundamental resource, Alcantara S.p.A. pursues the growth and motivation both for the achievement of all its human resources through: of strategic objectives and for the creation • communication and sharing of corporate, individual Fiscal Year 2020 of economic, social and environmental value. and team objectives; • monitoring and feedback on the results achieved; Main Focus A central element of the management approach is • teamwork and knowledge of business processes; • the development of training plans aimed accountability at all levels, at professional growth at all levels; NEW RECRUITMENT which takes the form of • the implementation of remuneration policies respect for roles, that ensure internal fairness, competitiveness • targeted and specific training; the relationship between with the market and recognition of achievements. manager and employee and the work ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE of inter-functional teams. • greater flexibility for the pursuit of corporate strategic objectives; TRAINING • design of an appropriate training plan Related in relation to the Company’s specific features; SDGs TRADE UNION AND STAKEHOLDER REPRESENTATION • involvement and sharing in understanding and supporting corporate strategies; AWARENESS AND INVOLVEMENT • sharing the health, safety and environment policy with employees and identifying and selecting channels to gather innovative ideas on sustainability. Strategies are pursued through the definition of annual operating plans whose development are monitored through the system of corporate meetings. As at 31 March 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. had 638 employees, of which 102 work at the Milan headquarters and 536 at the IMPLEMENTING production plant and R&D Centre in Nera Montoro (Terni). TOOLS The average number of employees during Fiscal Year 2020 was 657, an increase of 25 compared to the average number of employees in the previous fiscal year. In addition, there are 14 resources that operate through an employment agency, in order to ensure the necessary flexibility of the organisational structure. 36 37 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY: BY CATEGORY: MEN WOMEN 600 553 531 600 500 500 500 400 400 300 300 355 397 383 200 200 113 107 102 100 84 96 84 100 25 29 29 18 18 17 60 0 66 0 63 0 43 42 47 0 0 17 18 15 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Blue-collar workers Managers Blue-collar workers Managers and interns and interns White-collar workers Executives White-collar workers Executives EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT: MEN EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT: WOMEN 120 600 111 553 105 531 100 500 100 98 500 94 85 425 438 392 80 400 60 300 40 200 128 108 93 20 17 15 100 13 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Part-time Fixed term Part-time Fixed term Indefinite term Full-time Indefinite term Full-time 38 39 83.39% of the staff are hired on As far as the domicile of employees The details by grade show that 50% RECRUITMENTS indefinite term contracts. For the is concerned, the majority are of senior managers (executives) are remaining 16.61%, the Company resident in areas close to their resident in the province of Milan, FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 has responded to the need for workplace: 91.7% of the staff of the while 100% of senior managers of the flexibility through the use, in selected Nera Montoro production plant and production plant and R&D Centre of Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate cases, of fixed-term contracts and R&D Centre reside in the province of Nera Montoro (TR) are resident in the Men 56 11.2% 72 13.02% 16 3% employment contracts through Terni, while 69.3% of the employees at province of Terni. agencies, internships and external the headquarters are resident in the Women 18 17.6% 19 16.81% 4 3.7% collaborations. province of Milan. TOTAL 74 12.3% 91 13.66% 20 3.1% TERMINATIONS TURNOVER1 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Number Rate Number Rate Number Rate NUMBER OF WORKERS FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 BY AGE GROUP Men 12 2.4% 19 3.44% 36 6.8% <30 years old 80 97 76 Women 10 9.8% 8 7.08% 10 9.3% BREAKDOWN 30-50 years old 435 465 455 2 TOTAL 22 3.7% 27 4.05% 46 7.2% >50 years old 87 104 107 6 OF EMPLOYEES TOTAL 602 666 638 8 FY 2020 RECRUITMENTS TERMINATIONS BY AGE GROUP The average age at the Milan headquarters and at the Nera Montoro production Years of age Number Rate Number Rate plant and R&D Centre recorded a slight increase compared to the previous < 30 years old 7 1.1% 9 1.4% Fiscal Year, reaching 42.39 years for the headquarters (41.06 in FY 2019) and 40.33 for the plant (39.6 in FY 2019). 30-50 years old 10 1.6% 29 4.5% > 50 years old 3 0.5% 8 1.3% The terminations occurred during the last fiscal year are mainly due to voluntary resignations and have affected to a greater extent the site in Nera Montoro. 1 The figure does not refer to the number of employees terminated/recruited during the Fiscal Year but to the number of movements, which also takes into account cases where the same person has been recruited and terminated more than once during the Fiscal Year. 40 41 3.2 Incentives and Remuneration 3.3 Industrial Relations INCENTIVE Alcantara S.p.A. promotes the management and motivation of people through Alcantara S.p.A. believes that industrial strengthening participation. incentive and development policies and instruments. To this end, additional relations and a positive climate of All employees are covered by National MEASURES interventions are defined and planned annually with the aim of improving exchange are fundamental to support Collective Labour Agreements for organisational measures and contractual automatisms, in order to enhance the business process. To this end, workers in the chemical industry, individual professionalism. among its main objectives, the Company chemical-pharmaceutical, chemical has consolidated a constructive fibre and abrasives, lubricants and NUMBER OF PEOPLE AFFECTED BY INCENTIVE MEASURES system of industrial relations at all LPG sectors, which define the rules TYPE OF INCENTIVE FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 levels, consistent with the Alcantara and procedures for managing trade S.p.A.’s strategic, organisational and union relations at the various levels of M.B.O. (Management by Objective) 91 126 117 cultural developments, with the aim of representation (national, territorial and and one-off developing greater transparency and corporate). Salary increase 39 47 13 Job classification 129 84 97 Meetings with Representatives TOTAL 259 257 227 Meetings have been agreed with the workers’ representatives to communicate corporate decisions in advance and jointly define a number of proposals. During Fiscal Year 2020, the main issues addressed were the following: VARIABLE The variable remuneration system is linked to the achievement of economic and performance objectives defined at both individual and team level. Senior • working hours: the agreement for the definition of stopping periods in the production plant has been implemented; REMUNERATION management, all executives and key managers are included in an annual variable incentive plan linked to objectives, which takes into account the organisation’s • organisation of the production plant: new professional roles have been defined; economic, social and environmental performances. The managerial staff not included in the Company’s variable incentive plan are assessed on the basis of • video surveillance: an agreement has been reached to install a video surveillance system at the new site, known the responsibilities managed within the manager-employee relationship. One-off as Complex Manufacturing, to ensure greater security for employees; awards are paid to those who report contributions or results that significantly exceed the company’s expected business objectives. In addition, changes in job • proximity agreement: by way of derogation from the regulations in force, this act made it possible to extend the duration classifications are provided for, as a result of growth and development paths. of fixed-term contracts. The agreement signed resulted in 5 additional indefinite term contract recruitments; ASSESSMENT The coincidence in timing between the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in Italy • training: the cyber security training activity was shared and subsequently rolled out; and the period during which department heads and managers carry out the annual SYSTEM assessments of their staff, did not allow for the assessment of all resources, • satisfaction survey: a survey was shared and submitted to employees in relation to the most valued welfare tools contrary to previous years. In fact, in the last few months, department heads and satisfaction with the environment in which they work; and managers have been focused primarily on the development of important precautionary and organisational measures, such as the 3-week shutdown of • measures to prevent and cope with Covid-19: thanks to substantial economic investments, numerous precautionary and the production plant due to the pandemic. These measures have significantly organisational measures aimed at fighting the spread of the Coronavirus, whilst not interfering with the optimisation of increased difficulties when pursuing the Company’s objectives and have led agile work, have effectively come into force. The numerous meetings with the RSU (Rappresentanze Sindacali Unitari to an additional effort to achieve them. However, the small volume of missing Unitary Trade Union Representatives) and the Joint Committees set up at the headquarters and the production plant have assessments will be made up in the first months of the coming Fiscal Year. encouraged the implementation of shared actions capable of complying with the protocols and guidelines of national, regional and health authorities, in accordance with the application of the National Protocol, signed by the Government The ratio between the average gross annual salary (RAL) received by women COMPARISON workers and the average RAL of men is 0.69 for executives and managers, 0.98 and Social Partners (“Shared Protocol regulating measures to combat and contain the spread of the Covid-19 virus in the workplace” of 14 March 2020). Furthermore, additional measures to those prescribed for the production sector OF AVERAGE GROSS for white-collar workers and 1.01 for blue-collar workers. were shared: in the primary interest of protecting the health of all employees, the production plant was shut down The salary paid to new recruits shall correspond to the minimum required by the from 24/03/2020 to 13/04/2020, together with the implementation of the relative social safety nets provided for by the ANNUAL INCOME (GAI): national contract without distinction of gender. The ratio between the annual regulations. Finally, the “New Covid-19 employees” insurance policy was taken out, at the Company’s expense. GENDER RATIO salary of the employee with the highest salary and the average salary is 5.30 and the ratio of the respective increases is equal to 1%. Participation bonus The agreement on the participation bonus was shared with the trade union representatives: the bonus was paid in May 2020. The production and economic performancea of the Fiscal Year 2020, allowed for a 96% higher target than that established. The agreement stipulated provides for the possibility of using part of the bonus on the online welfare platform, which allows employees Alberto Biasi, La materia della visione 1959-2019, La Biennale di Venezia, 2019 to choose between the various initiatives available. 42 43 3.4 Training and Professional Development Training is part of Alcantara S.p.A.’s strategic plan as it is an indispensable tool for the creation, development and consolidation of professional skills and knowledge. Unfortunately, in the last quarter, the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic made it necessary to postpone several planned training interventions, and only a small portion of these were carried out through remote e-learning. TRAINING PLAN Each year Alcantara S.p.A. proceeds to collect the training needs for each division, with the identification of priority assigned to the individual courses requested. TRAINING HOURS 45 thousands 40 35 TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES 30 Staff, at all levels, are directly involved in actions and training plans, in order to mark: • induction into the Company; 25 • transfers to other positions; • organisational changes and technological innovations that significantly alter 20 professional content. 15 10 5 TRAINING QUALITY ASSESSMENT The effectiveness of the training provided is evaluated through a learning test 0 for external courses and ESS(Environmental Safety Services) to be carried out FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 at the end of the courses together with an assessment by the department head, who, within the annual assessment of the performance of their employees, must Technical and Quality IT also express an assessment of the effectiveness of the training carried out for professional development the resource. Courses for new recruits Safety and Environment CATEGORY GENDER EMPLOYEE EVALUATED % OF TOTAL Blue-collar worker Men 233 62.97 Blue-collar worker Women 12 66.67 White-collar workers Men 56 56.67 White-collar workers Women 49 77.78 Managers Men 25 53.19 Managers Women 5 33.33 Interns Men 14 107.69 Interns Women 9 81.82 Executives Men 16 94.12 It should be noted that some resources were not assessed during Fiscal Year 2020, as they either just joined the Company or were absent due to parental leave and unforeseeable 44 reasons related to the Covid-19 emergency. 45 3.5 Diversity and Respect for Human Rights No. of AVERAGE NERA MONTORO MILAN TOTAL TRAINING HOURS FY 2020 Men Women Men Women Blue-collar workers 72.3 107.7 74.0 Alcantara S.p.A. is attentive to equal opportunities issues, however, it operates in a production and industrial context Interns 165.3 77.9 90.5 64.5 116.8 EQUAL that, due to its history and culture, is characterised by a much lower presence of women than men. The distribution White-collar workers 26.1 68.8 17.9 12.1 29.4 OPPORTUNITIES of personnel by gender is characterised by the increase in the number of women from 63 in 2013 to 107 in Fiscal Year Managers 32.9 28.8 27.0 4.5 22.4 2020. External* 5.7 1.2 32.5 5.9 Executives 10 5.2 6.0 * The external category includes employment contracts through agencies or external companies. FOCUS: TRAINING ACTIVITIES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 Corporate Certified Systems scanning electron microscope; basic and advanced course; cyber security awareness; In Fiscal Year 2020, 84 (56 men and (Law No. 104) and leave for fathers chemical management system; 28 women) employees at the Milan (compulsory and optional). APP UP2GO company carpooling; headquarters and at the production Contrary to prior years, breastfeeding German language course; plant and research centre in Nera periods have also been taken into English language course; Montoro took parental leave, an account, in view of regulatory changes increase compared to the previous on this matter. At the end of the LEAVE Environmental Safety Services (SSA) SSA required by law relating to: • new machines; year when this number was 81. Such leave period, all employees, except • relocation of workers; leave consists mainly of maternity for maternity leave still in progress, • induction of new personnel; leave, leave to assist the disabled returned to work. • updates for RLS (Rappresentante dei Lavoratori per la Sicurezza Workers’ Safety Representative), RSPP (Responsabile del Servizio di Prevenzione e Protezione Prevention and Protection Officer), ASPP (Addetti al Servizio di Prevenzione e Protezione Prevention and Protection Services Personnel), workers and supervisors; electrical risk and switchboards management; emergency management; updating and induction of new personnel to the emergency team; ADR 2019, D.U.V.R.I 2020; For the Nera Montoro production plant, 2,396 hours of training dedicated to SSA were provided. This area was also dealt with, albeit not specifically, during other types of training activities for a further 1,083 hours of training. Other Specific training courses were provided in Milan headquarters, including: training for new recruits and interns; PROTECTED In support of this approach, Alcantara S.p.A. provides for the possibility of cyber security awareness; reporting any conduct contrary to the Code of Ethics or of potential risks in this Alcantara Road to Sustainability (vademecum on sustainability); CATEGORIES regard, to the appropriate Supervisory Body, with the possibility of recourse, if Toray EU Seminars; necessary, to the workers’ representative for the SA8000® system. travel risk management; training 81/08 new recruits; Alcantara S.p.A. has also PROTECTED CATEGORIES FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 training new member of firefighting team and first aid. adhered to current legislation with regard to the employment No. of employees belonging to protected categories 44 42 45 In Nera Montoro a number of training courses were dedicated to: and integration of personnel belonging to protected categories. % protected categories out of total employees 7.3% 6.3% 7.05% use and maintenance of new machines and systems, with focus on the technical, technological and safety aspects; In Fiscal Year 2020, the number of persons belonging No. of Board members belonging to protected categories Induction of new recruits (over 28,000 hours) and staff involved in professional growth and development (including operational flexibility); to protected categories was 7.05% % protected categories out of total Board members training following the installation of new production lines. of the total number of employees. 46 47 3.6 Health and Safety Alcantara S.p.A. invests in improving Certification according to the All Company personnel are informed the health and safety conditions of WORKERS INVOLVED IN THE HEALTH AND SAFETY PREVENTION SYSTEM NERA MONTORO MILAN international standard SA8000® (Social and periodically updated on the SOCIAL Accountability 8000), which Alcantara S.p.A. principles and values of the standard, all people, both its employees and Total employees 536 102 third parties, going well beyond the ACCOUNTABILITY has possessed since 2008 to maintain through training and meetings. For all mandatory provisions of the law. The Employees signing work permits 122 1 high standards of respect for human newly hired staff there are dedicated PROJECT rights in the Company and in the value training sessions, during which a aim is to achieve the “zero accidents” objective: this commitment has led Supervisors ex d.lgs. 81/2008 119 26 chain, represents a further sign of handout is provided illustrating the SA8000® responsible management. contents and principles of the SA8000®. to the certification of the health and On call 12 safety management system according SPP (Servizio di Prevenzione e Protezione Health and Safety Department) 3 2 to the OHSAS 18001 standard, renewed in June 2018 and valid Emergency team 78 8 from October 2018 until 2021 (the transition to ISO45001 certification RLS 4 1 is currently underway). The number Total positions held 338 38 of workers directly involved in the health and safety system is over 35% Total personnel involved 190 (35%) 35 (31%) of the workforce for the Nera Montoro production site and 32% for the Milan headquartes. TRAINING HOURS TRAINED WORKERS Alcantara S.p.A. prevents risks in this • working groups: establishment of 400 250 area through actions now consolidated specific working groups for functional in the health, safety and environment areas with the aim of developing 350 policy, which contribute to keep the a wider participation of the corporate +34% “health and safety system” live and community in the correct identification, 200 300 dynamic by involving personnel at all assessment and minimisation of risks levels. The most relevant activities in and impacts on health, safety and the the Fiscal Year 2020 were: environment; 250 ACTIVITIES 150 • 0 accidents project, for minimisation • emergency teams with equipment not of accidents; required by law (fire-fighting vehicle, 200 • safety summit and international audits ambulance, infirmary with daily medical of the TORAY Group, with direct participation service and on call for 24 hours); 150 100 of TORAY executives: in 2018-2019 • readiness to train personnel of these activities involved meetings and contractors (e.g. DPR177/11 work in 100 exchanges with Toray plants in the confined spaces, DUVRI, etc.). 50 USA, Czech Republic, UK and Italy; 50 0 0 Accidents are managed in accordance with the procedure “Accident FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 reporting and analysis near misses and accidents” (PSSA5.3A)2, entered into the OHSAS18001 certified SSA management system. Sustainability project and SA8000® Sustainability project and SA8000® ACCIDENT In Fiscal Year 2020, at the Nera Montoro production plant and R&D Legislative Decree 231/01 training Legislative Decree 231/01 training center, one accident with lost days was recorded in the accident register, MANAGEMENT which involved one man. The absenteeism rate for Nera Montoro, calculated as the ratio between absences from work (excluding holidays) and the total number of working days, is equal to 6.35 %. No accidents have been In support of Alcantara S.p.A.’s commitment to its staff and its focus on respect for human rights and recorded at the Milan headquarters. sustainability issues, training continued to be provided, albeit to a lesser extent than in previous fiscal years due to the reduction in new recruits. 2 Such procedure complies with Presidential Decree No 1124 of 30 June 1965. In addition to this, the total absence of incidents related to discriminatory practices and actions is reported, as well as compliance with human rights standards and practices for all areas of operations. NUMBER HOURS FREQUENCY GRAVITY RATE OF YEAR OF ACCIDENTS WORKED INDEX INDEX OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men FY 2020 1 94,262 796,673 1.25 0.046 48 49 FREQUENCY INDEX* The aim of the Zero Accidents Project safety patrol (office workers and is to identify possible actions for middle management) and safety 30 improving safety management and, shift leader (shift operators): internal specifically, those that tend towards verifications and inspections weekly 25 the “zero accidents” objective by or by shift. Taking part in the safety exceeding the requirements laid patrol team since 2014 are the down by the current standards. three operators who distinguished 20 In the past 10 years, starting from themselves the previous year by the 2006, the project underwent number of safety proposals they 15 considerable technical-operational presented; improvements, mostly due to the safety day (factory meeting open 9.7 implementation of the following to all) and safety dinner (dinner 10 ZERO tools and measures: with management): collective 4.48 3.39 safety policy: every year, the parent explanation of the main corporate 5 ACCIDENTS company uses different resources events during the quarter and 1.25 to raise awareness on the subject of sharing corporate lines and projects PROJECT health and safety and to emphasise with all factory employees; 0 the importance of the policy safety proposal: for the aim is to FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Textile Industry currently in place; improve safety, health and the *Source: 25th Responsible Care Report, Federchimica. Hyari-Hatto (accidents): the parent environment through suggestions The total frequency index takes into account medical treatment without loss of working capacity. The formulas company sends accident reports of from employees, who will be asked used to calculate the accident indices differ from those proposed by the GRI, in that they refer to one million each company to all the companies to find a suitable solution; hours worked instead of 200,000. in the Group. The main purpose injuries and near accidents: is to enable the assessment of reporting by employees of risk any similar situations and the situations that could cause an GRAVITY INDEX** proposal of specific preventive and accident; protection measures according to safety shift meeting: meetings on the circumstances of each company; safety for shift operators. 0.168 0.160 0.140 RESULTS OF ZERO ACCIDENTS PROJECT ACCIDENTS NEAR ACCIDENTS SAFETY PROPOSALS 0.140 FY 2018 6 115 307 0.120 FY 2019 13 103 329 0.100 FY 2020 19 101 335 0.080 as at 31 March 2020 Nera Montoro Plant 0.060 0.046 MEN WOMEN TOTAL 0.040 0.028 No. of deaths as a result of accidents at work 0.020 No. of accidents at work (excluding minor accidents) 1 1 0.000 On journey to/from work FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Resp. Care Members Please specify how many of the accidents on journey **Source: 24th Responsible Care Report, Federchimica. Days lost due to accident are calculated taking into account the day on which the accident occurred and shall to/from work occurred while the employee was carrying be understood as calendar days. The formulas used to calculate the accident indices differ from those proposed out work-related activities or during a relocation organised by the GRI, in that they refer to a thousand hours worked instead of 200,000. by the company Total number of days lost due to accident (calendar days, starting from the day after the accident) 37 37 No. of cases of occupational disease No. of days of absence (absences exclude holidays, study leave, maternity/paternity leave) 8,487 8,487 R FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Number of accidents at work (with absence) 4 3 1 No. of accidents at work with serious consequences (excluding deaths) Hours worked 893,953 910,603 890,935 Please describe the main types of accidents at work Eye contusion through compressed air tube 50 51 3.7 Internal Communication Alcantara S.p.A. pays particular attention to listening to and communicating with workers, in order to establish relationships of mutual collaboration between people, increasing the sense of belonging and promoting the spread of corporate values and culture. Alcantara S.p.A. recognises several additional benefits to the collective labour agreement, for all employees, such as: without barriers: continuation of the after-hours activities: an annual “without barriers” bonus established amount made available to the • New intranet and Company bulletin boards, with continuous in fiscal year 2016 for the children of Company for the organisation of updating and addition of employee communications in the employees with disabilities; cultural or sporting activities for new personnel management software; loyalty bonus: Alcantara S.p.A. employees and their families; recognises a bonus for the corporate health service: at the Nera • publishing activity on a six-monthly basis for the corporate achievement of 25 years of service, Montoro production plant there is a newsletter Inside, distributed in paper form to all the staff with bonuses assigned together 24-hour health service equipped with of the headquarters and the production plant; with scholarships and the “without an ambulance and a defibrillator; COMMUNICATION barriers” bonus; on-call allowances: granted to staff ACTIVITIES • participation of Alcantara S.p.A. personnel to the Toray Group’s intercompany crèche: for the sixth with emergency management roles annual European forum; consecutive year the crèche facility and maintenance staff; continues, in conjunction with improvement of common areas and • “Safety Day” and “Safety Dinner” for the Nera Montoro two other companies in the area working environments: ordinary and production plant. surrounding the plant. The facility extraordinary maintenance of green continues to be open to children who areas, restyling of several offices and are not children of employees but meeting rooms; residents of the territory; Alcantara S.p.A. welfare plan: for corporate cafeteria: cafeteria with the second year in a row, each fixed overheads entirely borne by the employee has the right to choose Company. Employees only contribute whether to convert a portion or a small percentage of the cost of the the entire participation bonus into • Scholarships for employees’ children; meal; welfare credits, to be used within professional and extra-professional the Company’s web platform, to take • “without barriers” bonus for children of disabled employees; insurance: in addition to the provisions advantage of goods and services in of INAIL and as an extension to extrathe field of health, sport and wellness, • loyalty bonus (seniority in Alcantara S.p.A.); professional activities, the Company education, culture and entertainment, takes out supplementary insurance also for the benefit of his or her • intercompany crèche; for all the personnel affected; family members, whilst gaining a tax Fida and Faschim: through a payment advantage at the same time; • corporate cafeteria; of a minimum monthly fee, there is Covid-19 insurance policy: adoption of the option to join a fund co-financed the insurance policy to cover Covid-19 WORKERS’ • professional and extra-professional insurance; largely by Alcantara S.p.A. that provides as an additional benefit to support all reimbursement for health services; employees. BENEFITS • Fida and Faschim co-financed fund for reimbursements for healthcare services; • after-hours activities; • corporate health service protection; • on-call allowance; FOCUS: • improvement of common areas and working environments; WORKERS’ • sharing events; BENEFITS • corporate welfare; • insurance policy for Covid-19 coverage. 52 53 “Alcantara. A Road to the Future”, Car Design Night, Shanghai, 2019 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Clients Highlights • Industrial application • Customer Innovation Centre, of partially bio-based polymers for tailor made solutions. for spinning process. • Total net turnover • Presentation of the of € 200,151,000. automotive concept book. 55 4.1 Marketing and Innovation Policies Fiscal Year 2020 Related Alcantara S.p.A. remains committed to its ambitious commercial growth In addition, relationship activities with clients in the portfolio and with prospects programme, focused both on the has been strengthened, supported by Main Focus SDGs development, growth and diversification of international markets and on inter-functional corporate teams. The mix of corporate skills made offering increasingly innovative, available to clients has been a VISIBILITY sustainable and competitive products. competitive advantage over other increasing the visibility companies in the sector and has of the product and brand globally In order to cope with the diversification made it possible not only to respond as a sustainability brand; of the business and the increasing to the needs of the market, but also to globalisation of markets, the Company propose innovative solutions in terms adherence to national has continued to strengthen the of technical functionality and product and international sales area, consolidating the skills customisation, special processing sustainability initiatives; and tools to support its commercial of materials, aesthetic finishes and organisation. creative choices. DEVELOPMENT commercial growth programme focused on diversifying international markets and offering increasingly sustainable products; COMMUNICATION presentation of sustainability results and targets for the coming years to key clients; PRODUCT SAFETY optimisation of product safety management system; Alcantara S.p.A.’s commercial action is guided by the following “points INNOVATION of engagement” which represent the Company’s commitment and approach and the essence of its positioning: experimentation with new technologies to add smart • made in Italy: a synthesis of Italian skills in making products using advanced functionality, making the material technologies and maintaining artisan creativity in their creation; increasingly technological POINTS OF • global brand: development of Alcantara® brand awareness worldwide and innovative. and strengthening of the global approach to the market; ENGAGEMENT • art, design and creativity: the Alcantara® brand interprets a contemporary lifestyle, with strong connections to the world of art and design; • tailor-made approach: the Company’s ability to offer its clients highly customised solutions, as a combination of style and technology; • sustainability: continuous research and constant improvement of the balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions. 56 57 CHANGE DESCRIPTION (€/000) FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 (∆ FY 2019-20) Finished product turnover 190,815 199,714 198,891 0.41% The main business sectors Turnover of by-products and other materials 1,040 1,068 1,260 17.97% in which Alcantara S.p.A. TOTAL NET TURNOVER 191,855 200,782 200,151 0.31% operates are: CHANGE • automotive (84.1%) DESCRIPTION (€/000) FY 2018 % FY 2019 % FY 2020 % (∆ FY 2019-20) • fashion and accessories (8.3%) Italy 13,101 6.8 10,925 5.4 9,504 4.7 (1,421) (13.00%) EU 108,532 56.6 118,078 58.8 131,021 65.5 12,943 10.96% • consumer electronics (3.4%) Extra-EU 70,222 36.6 71,779 35.7 59,626 29.8 (12,153) (16.93%) • interiors, contract, marine and aviation (4.2%) TOTAL NET TURNOVER 191,855 100 200,782 100 200,151 100 (631) (0.31%) The growing trend of turnover from to 4.7% of turnover. There was also a foreign countries continues, as a decrease in sales in the non-European result of the globalisation process and area mainly due to the Chinese diffusion of the Alcantara® brand as market where the automotive sector an expression of made in Italy, which contracted. has led to sales for the Company in 60 Compared to fiscal year 2019, in the countries worldwide beyond Italy. European area, there was an increase Fiscal Year 2020 shows a sharp of € 12,943,000, of which 72% was increase in the EU market, partly in represented by the German market. the face of a decline in Italy, which fell DESCRIPTION (€/000) FY 2019 FY 2020 CHANGE (∆ FY 2019-20) Germany 79,933 94,144 14,211 18% France 10,249 10,033 (216) (2%) Portugal 5,528 7,406 1,878 34% Spain 4,935 4,172 (763) (15%) In the non-EU area, the Chinese market share is 40% (47% in the previous fiscal year), while the US market is 13%. Below is a representation of sales in the BRICS area. BRICS AREA TURNOVER (€/000) CHANGE Country FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 (∆ FY 2019-20) Brazil 11 12 (12) China 32,044 33,643 24,028 (9,615) Russia 429 816 999 183 India 29 9 (9) South Africa 402 2 9 7 TOTAL 32,916 34,483 25,036 (9,447) 58 59 AUTOMOTIVE The automotive sector represents the main business area in which Alcantara S.p.A. operates. The global automotive industry is going through a period of great change and evolution: emerging markets are growing while market players are increasingly consolidating and globalising. The most significant growth is taking place in products and solutions that pay the greatest attention to the environment and sustainability, thanks to the MARKET importance of decarbonisation for car manufacturers. In fact, all automotive FEATURES manufacturers have proposed models that are increasingly lightweight, with low consumption and have offered “green” propulsion solutions (hybrid or fully electric), with a consequent forecast of growth in the electric car market. Alcantara S.p.A.’s approach to sustainability, and in particular Carbon Neutrality, is therefore a fundamental selling point of the Company’s commercial offer. • Elegance and sportiness, which allow Alcantara® to be associated with BMW i8 one-off Roadster LimeLight Edition, 2019 elegant cars-for example luxury saloons-or with sports equipment-in highperformance cars; • lightness, which helps automotive manufacturers to reduce the weight of cars and thus achieve their performance and sustainability goals; • made in Italy, which guarantees safety and reliability as Italian producers must apply strict rules; BENEFITS • versatility and ability to offer tailor-made and cutting-edge solutions which OF ALCANTARA® allow a high level of product customisation and, consequently, a precise presentation depending on the car model and the version for which Alcantara® is selected; • brand, a distinctive element, whose value is a common goal for Alcantara S.p.A. and the big car brands; • carbon neutrality, which means having a net balance of zero C02 emissions and therefore zero impact on global warming. Alcantara S.p.A. bases its success on the following elements: • uniqueness and versatility of the material, characteristics that are found both in the softness and resistance of the material and in the numerous production processes that allow it to be adapted to the client’s needs; MANAGEMENT • the brand as a synonym of extraordinariness and beauty; APPROACH • the Company’s Italian spirit is reflected in the product taste, creativity and design, and the combination of craftsmanship and technology that allows for a high degree of customisation of the product, ensuring that clients are always offered cutting-edge solutions with aesthetic, technical and sensory qualities; • proximity and support of the design community; • the sustainability of the material and the Company. 60 61 Also in Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. manufacturers already have only through the combination of Alcantara® continued to meet with its most companies with a strong and certified with innovative or unique materials. important customers and in sustainability programme among their particular OEMs (Original Equipment suppliers. A key element of the stylistic The 2019 collection created by Manufacturers) to communicate the proposition for the automotive market Alcantara S.p.A. for automotive values of the Brand and to transfer its is represented by the presentation applications has been presented approach to sustainability. In the near of the automotive concept book, a in three dossiers: elite, urban, future, further in-depth studies on the collection of complex proposals aimed performance, containing multiple subject are planned, considering that at diversifying products, orienting variants that show the extreme the Automotive market is increasingly different levels of positioning and versatility of the “made in Italy” oriented towards sustainability and developing the use of consolidated material, capable of transforming aims to involve and raise awareness in technologies, either through the use itself into different colours, textures the supply chain. Similarly, today many of new and avant-garde processes or and workmanship. ELITE URBAN DIVERSIFICATION OF THE PRODUCT PERFORMANCE Each dossier represents a world of high-end cars, sustainable vehicles design offices in Europe, Asia and reference, reflected in the nuances and super sports cars. the USA, stimulating multiple and surface treatments, and is In fiscal year 2019, the collection was development requests for concept designed for a specific application: presented to around 90 automotive cars and new production models. 62 63 FASHION Also in Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A clients in the fashion division are confirmed as the superior European luxury fashion brands for accessories, AND ACCESSORIES clothing and footwear. MARKET The main market is Europe, in particular France and Italy, where the major global FEATURES fashion houses operating in the luxury sector are concentrated. • Infinite possibilities of customisation, in addition to the ability to coat any shape and surface in compliance with the strictest industry standards, allow exclusive and tailored solutions to be developed, meeting the technical and design requirements of different clients; • ability to propose exclusive solutions, combinations of style and technology, to Y’s for Alcantara, Capsule Collection 2019 enhance the intrinsic characteristics of the material; • sustainability as a criterion of choice; sustainable practices are becoming BENEFITS increasingly important for fashion brands and end consumers. OF ALCANTARA® In particular, several large groups in the luxury sector have announced that they want to pursue the path of carbon neutrality, a path undertaken by Alcantara S.p.A. in 2009. • value of the Alcantara® brand, recognised and appreciated by the most established luxury brands as it provides additional value to the finished products. This approach makes Alcantara S.p.A. unique and highly appreciated by luxury companies around the world. The approach to this market is essentially through direct contact with the main MANAGEMENT fashion & accessories brands, and is sometimes supported by a network of APPROACH agents who ensure a constant control of the territory. FOCUS: ALCANTARA® FINISHED PRODUCT COLLECTION Alcantara S.p.A. continues on its path of aesthetic and sensorial research, creating capsule collections of finished products always at the forefront of innovation and sustainability, confirming itself as a privileged partner of the world of creativity. The collections are the result of collaboration with international brands and designers and celebrate the versatility of Alcantara® as the material of the future that has revolutionised the contours of modern style more than any other. 64 65 The clients of the consumer During Fiscal Year 2020, the Company CONSUMER ELECTRONICS electronics division are the world’s leading OEMs operating in the mobile, audio, video and photo equipment strengthened its partnerships with major OEMs and laid the foundation to start new projects with new and sector and the main manufacturers important players in the industry. of specific accessories in the sector. Technological products in Alcantara® are typically accessories characterised by a MARKET high design content or functional components, associated with a high aesthetic FEATURES impact. In addition to the main advantages of Alcantara®, defined by its interpretation of functionality and aesthetics, there is the high-tech component that, in this Amiron wireless copper by beyerdynamic moment of change, is increasingly recognisable and represents an added value. Moreover, thanks to its versatility, Alcantara® guarantees a high degree of BENEFITS customisation of the finished product according to the client’s needs and is able OF ALCANTARA® to adapt to the most varied production techniques. The investments made to strengthen the brand’s global reputation and Alcantara S.p.A.’s strong focus on sustainability complete the picture of the benefits perceived by the market. Direct contact: MANAGEMENT • with all major OEMs in the sector and manufacturers of specific accessories APPROACH (technical, purchase and marketing departments and design centre); • with system suppliers for the development of the project and as support in the use of Alcantara® in their production process. NEWS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020 Our clients and prospects are moving towards an increasingly sustainable policy, in line with developments in the market. Several of them have announced that they hope to develop plans to achieve carbon neutrality and have made increasing investments in environmental protection. Alcantara S.p.A. is therefore experimenting with new technologies to add smart functionality, making the material increasingly interactive, innovative and in line with client requirements. 66 67 INTERIORS, CONTRACT, Alcantara S.p.A.’s clients in the interiors, contract, marine and aviation sectors are on the one hand the most important manufacturing companies, and on the MARINE AND AVIATION other hand they are the distributors operating in countries with a high potential market. • The contract market (public spaces, hotels, shops, etc.) is controlled both through contacts with architecture and design studios and through specialised furniture manufacturers. MARKET • Clients in the marine sector are both shipyards for large vessels and the most FEATURES important brands for the production of pleasure boats. • On the other hand, with regard to the development of the aviation market, Alcantara S.p.A. deals with design studios, airlines and component and seat manufacturers. • Brand awareness and aesthetic, sensory and functional characteristics of the product; • the uniqueness of the tailor-made offer and the values associated with the brand, in particular made in Italy, represent selling points in non-European countries; • possibility to customise the surface of the material through specific surface diversification technologies, keeping its functional characteristics almost unchanged; this allows the development of collections that enrich the basic offer and stimulate the interest of designers for further BENEFITS experimentation; OF ALCANTARA® • breathability, colour resistance and resistance to marine and atmospheric agents are selling points in the marine sector; Alcantara® interiors • lightness and resistance are among the most appreciated advantages in the aviation sector, as they provide operators in the sector with savings in terms of weight, consumption and durability; • sustainability increasingly important for consumers and for many producers who are creating sustainable lines. The approach to the market is both indirect and direct through distributors or agents. MANAGEMENT As part of the direct approach, visits to key clients can also be carried APPROACH out with an inter-functional team consisting of account managers, design, research and communication. 68 69 4.2 Sustainability and Safety of Product PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY For Alcantara S.p.A., made in Italy standards in terms of environmental markets. In order to meet the growing is synonymous with quality, health impact, and production process. In demands in terms of ethical, social and AND SAFETY and safety, cutting-edge technology, addition, Alcantara® complies with environmental respect, Alcantara S.p.A. attention to style and design, respect client specifications and has the has implemented a voluntary path of for human rights and the strictest EU certifications required by the relevant responsible management. In light of the attention that Alcantara S.p.A. dedicates to the health and safety of consumers, information about its products is precise and prioritised: the Oeko-Tex label guarantees to the final consumer that there is no risk to human health1, even in cases where the use of the product involves direct contact with the skin; before the product is introduced on the market, in accordance with Since 2009, the Alcantara® product is carbon neutral, Alcantara® is available in variants that use up to 25% corporate procedures, the specific risks of each new product are so it has a net zero greenhouse gas emissions balance, (in weight) of post-consumer recycled raw materials. assessed in relation to the application envisaged by the client and including not only the production process, but also In fiscal year 2019, projects were launched to increase the country where it is sold; the use and disposal phases of the product itself. the use of recycled materials in different product Alcantara S.p.A. was already the first Italian company variants, favouring the use of materials from direct when defining the technical specifications for the supply, or in the and one of the first companies in Europe to reach this post-consumer recycling processes, capable of stipulation of the contract, Alcantara S.p.A. provides the client with goal in 2009, this Fiscal Year achieving the eleventh both diverting waste from landfills and substantially all the information relating to its products (composition, cleaning consecutive year of carbon neutrality. reducing the impact in terms of carbon footprint instructions, care and maintenance over time, characteristics, etc.) compared to similar virgin materials. and the related training necessary for its proper use; Since 2013, a significant share of the steam and electricity used by the production site are produced Research, development and pre-industrialisation where required by the client or by the regulations in force in the by an innovative and energy-efficient (eco-friendly) activities were completed for the creation of a product countries where it operates, Alcantara S.p.A. carries out compatibility cogeneration plant. In fiscal year 2019, work began on a made with fibre from partially bio-based raw material, checks on the characteristics of its products with the strictest new trigeneration plant and a second cogeneration which is expected to be introduced on the market international protocols on “product safety”; plant was built. during Fiscal Year 2020. to confirm the commitment to the elimination of potentially In 2013, Alcantara S.p.A. launched a project to further The Alcantara® product can technically be recycled hazardous substances from production processes, the Chemical reduce the environmental impacts and energy after its life cycle for the production of thermal and Management System (CMS) has been implemented following the consumption of the production process. acoustic insulation panels even if this application guidelines defined by the ZDHC-Zero Discharge of Hazardous The intense research activity, supported by a dedicated requires a centralisation of the separation and collection Chemicals programme and the 4Sustainability protocol, involving working group, led to the industrialisation of the new process, which is not yet sufficiently widespread. the supply chain in the reduction of potentially hazardous chemicals; product in 2015 and its introduction on the market In order to make recycling more efficient, also from 2016. allowing the recovery of heterogeneous materials, the Alcantara S.p.A. successfully applies industrial colouring technology In fiscal year 2019, product diversification continued company has launched a research and development on an industrial scale that reduces the use of dyes and the resulting through the start of the type approval process with plan with the aim of industrialising a new process impact on wastewater, while increasing product performance. new clients, even in applications with more stringent capable of recovering raw materials, starting from technical requirements. industrial waste and the product at the end of its life. 1 in accordance with the international Oeko-Tex Standard 100 protocol. 70 71 4.3 Communication, Alcantara S.p.A. invests annually Dialogue and Satisfaction between 3% and 5% of its turnover in research and has a unique R&D Centre in Europe, dedicated to the development and improvement of its products and processes. An integral part of this is the modern customer innovation centre, a set of structures, technologies and skills developed with the aim of altering Alcantara S.p.A. concentrates efforts platform of luxury living. the characteristics of the material and on providing a format of corporate Alcantara® is the material of the providing ad hoc application solutions, events aimed at presenting the future because it incorporates some thanks to an internal prototyping Company in its entirety and of the most known and competitive capability, able to ensure the client an highlighting the brand in its many mega-trends: immediate response to the needs of facets. Alcantara S.p.A. is a global ALCANTARA® special range design, ensuring a high lifestyle brand with different • intersection between technology, LIFESTYLE degree of customisation. application platforms (automotive, functionality, emotions; Where the usual supply chain is not able fashion and accessories, consumer electronics, interiors, contract, marine • customisation; to satisfy the production needs of special, highly complex ranges, the Company & aviation), all belonging to a unique • sustainability. takes control of the different phases, from stylistic development to technological development, up to the creation and delivery of the product to the client. R&D CENTRE To this end, the internal production capacity, known as “complex AND manufacturing”, has been expanded through the acquisition of new NEW PRODUCTS premises and new equipment. Product development and customisation activities are enhanced through the use of on demand logics, aimed at In Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. Korea). Through the public relations satisfying the specific needs of clients consolidated its collaboration through and media relations agencies, from 1 and reference markets, and on four press offices in Italy and eight April 2019 to 31 March 2020, numerous proposal logics, aimed at offering in the rest of the world (USA, France, goals were achieved, as evidenced by new exclusive solutions, capable of Germany, China, Japan, UK, Russia and the following figures: stimulating the creativity of the client through the development of ad hoc collections for the different reference markets. 152 press releases: • 37 in Italy; • 21 in Japan; • 13 in the United States (equal to fiscal year 2019); • 8 in the UK; • 8 in Germany; • 22 in France; • 14 in China; • 17 in Russia; • 12 in Korea; TRADITIONAL MEDIA 3 press conferences organised (Milan, Shanghai and Seoul), occasionally together with prestigious partners with whom the Company has been collaborating for some time; 7 press tips; 61,335 editorials all the reference publications worldwide, offline and online, which represented the entire media coverage generated by communication activities. 72 73 In its daily business relationships Alcantara S.p.A. educates its sales force and clients on proper communication in relation to materials, thanks to the use of specific tools, such as the Alcantara® vocabulary, coloured folders, technical sheets and dedicated leaflets, as in the case of sustainability. Alcantara S.p.A. has, moreover, implemented and continuously presented its Participation in events and trade fairs is one of the main indirect means of DIGITAL editorial calendar on all existing proprietary social media: Facebook, Twitter, communication used by Alcantara S.p.A.: the presence at these events is crucial INDIRECT YouTube (international channel and Japanese channel), Instagram, and LinkedIn; both from a commercial and communicative point of view as it allows the brand COMMUNICATION for China: Weibo, Tudou, Youku and WeChat. to highlight its values, positioning and products. From the stand design to its COMMUNICATION information materials, including ad hoc press materials, each tool is aimed at transmitting a clear and coherent image of the brand to the receiving party, of which sustainability is an integral part. Below are the main fairs Alcantara S.p.A. has taken part in: As at 31 March 2020, social media had the following audience: PARTICIPATION IN FAIRS AND EXHIBITIONS IN FISCAL YEAR 2020 Facebook LinkedIn All the major international fairs of the sector: 113,560 4,297 AUTOMOTIVE Auto Shanghai; fans followers IAA (Internationale Automobil-Ausstellung) Frankfurt; Los Angeles Auto Show; Tokyo Auto Salon. In all these cases, the Company does not participate as an exhibitor, but directly attends press and trade days through its own sale, marketing and communication staff. Twitter Weibo 4,543 followers 17,287 followers FASHION Milano Unica (Milan, July 2019); Première Vision (Paris, September 2019 and February 2020) presenting its new fashion collection F/W 2020 and S/S 2021. Instagram WeChat 13,311 18,929 followers followers Milan Design Week (Milan, April 2019) In such occasion, Alcantara S.p.A. had the opportunity to organise the exhibition INTERIOR, “De Coding” at the Milan Royal Palace, and also had the honour of supporting a series CONTRACT, of events: “Living in the fast Lane” with Lamborghini, “Crafting Italian Experiences” MARINE with Maserati, “Life in Vogue”, and a project in collaboration with ItalDesign; YouTube YouTube (Japan) AND AVIATION Aircraft Interiors (Hamburg, April 2019) the major fair dedicated to aviation interiors; 79,768 5,787 Stockholm Furniture Fair (Stockholm, February 2020) views views Alcantara S.p.A. attended one of the major fairs dedicated to furniture with ADEA, the Finnish high-quality design brand with 25 years’ experience in the Tudou and Youku: these channels have decided to not provide their followers figures since January 2019. home and contract markets. Photo: Giovanni Gastel 74 75 BRAND AWARENESS PROJECTS Important activities and initiatives were carried out in order to further consolidate brand awareness of Alcantara®, above all in China, Japan and Korea. CHINA JAPAN KOREA April 2019: During the premier auto show in May 2019: Alcantara S.p.A. presented a capsule November 2019: In Seoul, Alcantara S.p.A. organised the DIALOGUE Shanghai, for the third time, Alcantara S.p.A. organised the event “A Road to collection for Autumn/Winter 2019 in collaboration with Y’s, the leading third press event aimed at an audience of local journalists in the institutional, AND CLIENT the Future” in partnership with the Car Design Night to underscore its special relationship with the global automotive Japanese fashion brand known as the first label established by Yohji Yamamoto, on 25 May 2019 at Omotesando Hills lifestyle, fashion and auto sectors. It was an opportunity to highlight the brand’s values, the lifestyle attitude and SATISFACTION industry. in Tokyo. To celebrate this second its growing presence in the local market The guests were able to experience collaboration (after the first capsule as well as the commitment towards an enthralling journey in the world collection presented in 2014 at the sustainability. At the Arumjigi Cultural of Alcantara S.p.A. through a live Italian Embassy in Tokyo), the special Keepers in Jongno-gu, the Company performance showcasing the Alcantara capsule collection has been unveiled presented the latest and one of the most SS 2019 capsule collection and products through a runway show in partnership prestigious collaborations in the fashion from leading world brands such as with Y’s. industry, as well as for the accessories Microsoft, Sergio Rossi and others (for and hi-tech fields. Alberto Biasi is more details refer to Chapter 5.1.). October 2019: the artist and creator of the project The capsule collection 2019/2020 which had already been exhibited at presented by Y’s and Alcantara S.p.A. the University of Venice (Biennale) July 2019: was put on sale starting from October in May. It was also an opportunity to Client satisfaction, as a central theme for Alcantara S.p.A., has led the Company Alcantara S.p.A. gave rise to the through a dedicated limited Pop-Up in reaffirm Alcantara S.p.A. ‘s pioneering to develop a measurement method through listening and analysis activities exhibition “Nine Journeys Through the famous department store Isetan and continuous commitment to carried out mainly by area managers, project managers and product design Time” together with Yuz Museum, which Shinjuku. After the remarkable success sustainability. development staff. The two main activities in this area are as follows: has been previously presented in the of the launch in Shinjuku, the PopApartment of the Prince, at the Royal Up Store was also replicated by Isetan The activities carried on by the press • technical meetings with the aim of identifying product or application Palace in Milan (for more details refer to Sapporo (6-12 November) and by Isetan office in Korea generated 2,143 articles, requirements in order to develop tailor-made solutions; Chapter 5.1.). Kyoto (13-19 November). the equivalent of € 757,248. • stylistic meetings that start with the presentation of ideas and materials and The activities carried on by the press then, based on specific needs, develop tailor-made solutions. The activities carried on by the press office in Japan generated 3,952 articles, The dialogue results in a process of continuous improvement of procedures, office in China generated 21,764 articles, the equivalent of € 1,257,147. interfaces and response times. the equivalent of € 3,298,256. 76 77 Zeitguised, Beyond the Nuclear Garden, Nine Journeys through Time, Royal Palace, Milan, 2018 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Community Highlights • Approximately • Collaboration with Italian Universities € 101,000 for challenging R&D projects. dedicated to charitable and • 36 scholarships awarded community donations. in Fiscal Year 2020. • Production of PPE • Alternating work-school project (Personal Protective with 6 hosted internships. Equipment) during the Coronavirus emergency. 79 5.1 Community Relations Management Alcantara S.p.A. has always been attentive to responsible and continuous dialogue with the community and to being sensitive to the sustainable development of the business in the territory, seeking the collaboration of neighbouring communities. Fiscal Year 2020 Related Main Focus SDGs Nera Montoro production plant EXPERIMENTATION and R&D Centre: • optimisation in the market for products resulting from For Alcantara S.p.A., dialogue with the institutions and the support of the local community are synonymous with the new low environmental impact corporate and territorial growth. In fact, Alcantara S.p.A. production process; represents a valuable source of employment, income, training and professional skills and generates a socioNEW OPPORTUNITIES economic impact of great importance. • training on sustainability issues in partnership with national and international organisations; IMPACTED LOCAL ART AND CULTURE COMMUNITY • organisation and sponsorship of events; Milan headquarters: • trade associations, press and media in general, university CIRCULAR ECONOMY institutions (e.g. IED Istituto Europeo di Design and • launch of new collaborations Milan Polytechnic); on materials from renewable sources; • consumer world: “design lovers” who use the material to cover everyday objects; • professional world: designers, artists, stylists and all those SOCIAL IMPACT who use Alcantara® for their creations. • selection of international projects with high social impact and their communication. CONTRIBUTIONS GRANTED During Fiscal Year 2020 Alcantara S.p.A. granted approximately € 101,000 to the community in the form of donations and contributions. The amount has been distributed to the 4 main areas in which Alcantara S.p.A. aims to develop (see Chapter 2, par. 2.1) 80 81 Alcantara S.p.A. also plays an are aimed at generating energy from Consistent with previous years, important role in communities where renewable sources, spreading a Alcantara S.p.A. has financed three CO2 emissions offsetting projects are culture which is aware of sustainability projects which, under the aegis of located: these projects, sponsored and improving social conditions the UN, contribute to improving the by the UN and implemented in the (health, work, education, etc.) of the economic, social and environmental poorest, most disadvantaged and populations involved. conditions of the planet. underdeveloped areas of the world, HONDURAS NEW ZEALAND INDIA 2009 hydroelectric wind hydroelectric TURKEY TAIWAN INDONESIA 2010 wind hydroelectric geothermal FOCUS: CHINA THAILAND BRAZIL LOCAL COMMUNITY INITIATIVES 2011 hydroelectric biomass biomass Scholarships: in Fiscal Year 2020 activities on safety, the environment, and involvement of local guests. Alcantara S.p.A.’s commitment to quality, the product and the Alcantara® For example, at Easter, Holy Mass KENYA VIETNAM CHINA production process through the was celebrated at the Nera Montoro 2012 drinking water hydroelectric biomass education continued, with 36 production scholarships up for grabs, 15 of alternating work-school project with 6 production plant with the participation which were awarded to the most hosted internships. of the Bishop of the Diocese of deserving students residing in the Narni, Terni and Amelia and the top municipality of Narni and 21 awarded Collaborations with charity management of the neighbouring to the children of Alcantara S.p.A. associations: as in previous years, in companies; a lunch was organised at 2013 TAIWAN CHILE GHANA employees in accordance with the Fiscal Year 2020, collaboration with Christmas for all employees and senior wind hydroelectric cooking procedures defined by a special call non-profit associations in the area management, with the involvement for applications. continued through free donations of the trade unions. Institutions and of material for various types of trade unions also took part in the Training for schools: during the period laboratories. launch ceremony for the new fibre line, CHINA INDIA CHINA April 2019 March 2020, the Nera which was included in the investment 2014 hydroelectric wind photovoltaic Montoro production plant continued Sharing events: the aim is to create plan officially started last year. (2 systems) its activities with schools in the sharing moments with the local area, offering them specific training community, thanks to the presence FY 2016 THAILAND NEW CALEDONIA UGANDA CHINA biomass wind cooking hydroelectric THAILAND LAOS MEXICO INDIA CHINA TAIWAN FY 2017 biomass hydroelectric photovoltaic wind photovoltaic photovoltaic INDIA INDIA ARGENTINA ERITREA CHINA FY 2018 wind wind wind farm hydroelectric photovoltaic INDIA ARGENTINA ERITREA CHINA FY 2019 wind wind water saving solar PV BANGLADESH MAURITANIA KOREA FY 2020 cooking wind cogeneration 82 83 DE CODING Alcantara® in the Tapestry Rooms Milan, April 4-May 12, 2019 “De Coding Alcantara® in the Tapestry means of fruition. creatives operating in the fields of Rooms”, an exhibition promoted and The tapestries displayed in the rooms, design and the visual arts have drawn produced by the Municipality of Milan where the exhibition was staged, narrated inspiration from the specificities of a Culture Office, by Palazzo Reale and episodes from Ovid’s Metamorphoses single medium, studying Alcantara® Alcantara S.p.A., which was designed moments in which the eternal in great detail, in all its forms and especially for the Tapestry Rooms of development and mutation of gods, potential. the Royal Palace. men and things is highlighted. The exhibition, curated by Domitilla De Coding illustrated the deThe participants, Constance Guisset, Dardi and Angela Rui, confirmed codification process, meant as the Qu Lei Lei, Sabine Marcelis and Alcantara S.p.A.’s ongoing interest transformation of a given system of Space Popular, were called upon to in the most advanced forms of signs on the basis of the mutation of come up with site-specific works, ART, DESIGN contemporary creativity: it marked a new phase in a cycle of shows which the medium. The episodes depicted in the tapestries are re-narrated through communicating with the exhibition rooms and reinterpreting the central explored the qualities of Alcantara® as the material vector of Alcantara®, theme of the tapestries they house, AND CREATIVITY a material for art and design since 2015, transforming various spaces inside capable of enhancing the incisiveness of the message, allowing the scope of giving life to an organic display, which was designed as an experimental In Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. intensified Milan’s Royal Palace into gateways to research to expand through the use of itinery in which all four installations its work and initiatives in the field of art and new exhibition proposals, unchartered a range of expressive languages. become playful mechanisms that design, extending its collaboration to new in terms of both their content and In this exhibition, the four international encourage interaction. artists, designers, art institutions and/or museums around the world. In addition to the art and design exhibitions, Alcantara S.p.A. has been organising corporate and lifestyle events, all aimed at reinforcing its brand positioning in terms of global luxury lifestyle through the promotion of creative experimentation with new materials by reaching an increasingly international audience. 84 85 ILANEK 01 9 M WE “LIVING IN THE FAST LANE”, ITALDESIGN AT MDW 2 GN DE SI Alcantara & Lamborghini April 3, 2019 April 9-14, 2019 During the 2019 Design Week, Lamborghini organised an event named “Living in the Fast Lane”, which interpreted the meaning of the avant-garde technology and design. The Italian première Huracán EVO Spyder, with some interior parts ItalDesign exhibited at 2019 Milano time in Italy. It is about all-electric GT Leonardo’s brilliance: it features two in Alcantara®, was the protagonist of Lamborghini design. Design Week for the first time with a concept car, a sports thoroughbred large gullwing doors which allow display space dedicated to its most which is at the same time elegant simultaneous entry to front and rear recent industrial design projects. and luxurious. In honour of the passengers. The innovative interior Among those, ItalDesign Da Vinci, 500th anniversary of Leonardo Da was developed in partnership with unveiled at the 2019 Geneva Motor Vinci’s death, this ingenious and Alcantara S.p.A. Show, was displayed for the first contemporary work resembles “CRAFTING ITALIAN EXPERIENCES” Alcantara & Maserati LIFE IN VOGUE April 11, 2019 April 2019 Milan Design Week was the occasion for the launch of Maserati Crafting For the 2019 Milano Design Week, The designers were david/nicolas, dedicated to the director’s room, Experiences, which consisted of the international press visiting a number of eight designers have reinterpreted Massimiliano Locatelli, Pierre Marie, designed by the duo david/nicolas, Maserati’s Italian excellent partners, including the Concept Store of Alcantara S.p.A. the spaces of Vogue Italia editorial Ana Kraš, Rafael de Cárdenas/ who also worked with Alcantara staff. For the occasion of the 58th Architecture at Large, Jonathan S.p.A. on a plaid, designed by edition of the Salone del Mobile, for Anderson, storagemilano and Studio storagemilano, that was presented the second consecutive year, Vogue Proba. The Alcantara® material on one of the seats and inside the Italia presented “Life in Vogue”, an and furnishing elements further relaxing area, and on a steel day opportunity for dialogue, connection enhanced some of the rooms bed finished on which the only soft and exchange of ideas within the reinterpreted by the architects. support element was a pillow made fashion and design industry. The most special contribution was of Alcantara®. 86 87 A ROAD TO THE FUTURE ALBERTO BIASI. LA MATERIA CAR DESIGN NIGHT DELLA VISIONE 1959 2019 Shanghai, April 16, 2019 at the Venice Biennale Venice, May 7-June 2, 2019 On the occasion of the exhibition “ALBERTO BIASI. La Materia della Visione 1959 2019”, Alcantara S.p.A. showcased, once more, its special relationship with the world of art, by supporting this important retrospective of leading artist such as Alberto Biasi. The exhibition revolved around large works made of Alcantara®. On its third participation to the Car Design Night in Shanghai, Alcantara S.p.A., as partner, marked once again its special relationship with the global automotive industry during the première. The guests were able to experience an enthralling journey in the world of Alcantara® through a live performance showcasing the Alcantara S.p.A. SS 2019 capsule collection and products from leading world brands such as Microsoft, Sergio Rossi and others. 88 89 Y’S X ALCANTARA CHIHARU SHIOTA EXHIBITION CAPSULE COLLECTION 2019/2020 “The Soul Trembles” at Mori Museum Tokyo, June 20, 2019 Y’s event in Tokyo, May 25, 2019: Alcantara S.p.A. released an attractive capsule collection in collaboration with one of the leading Japanese fashion brand Y’s by Yohji Yamamoto, in Omotesando Alcantara S.p.A. confirmed the special relationship with the world of international Hills in Tokyo, Japan, on the 25 May. contemporary art by participating at the exhibition “Shiota Chiharu: The Soul Trembles” Alcantara S.p.A.’s next step towards the fashion world was proved to be at the Mori Art Museum in Tokyo (from June 20 to October 27). As part of the largest successful thanks to the outstanding runway show, which was attended by many retrospective ever dedicated to the famous Japanese artist living in Berlin, two of special guests. To celebrate this collaboration, the special capsule collection has the most important installations were made in Alcantara®: “Reflection of Space and been unveiled through an augmented-reality-runway show in partnership with Time”, in the version already exhibited in 2018 at the Royal Palace, and “In Silence”, in Y’s at the Alcantara Concept Store in Milan in June 2019. a new and unedited version in Alcantara®. Y’s X Alcantara limited Pop-Up Store in Tokyo, October, 2019: The capsule collection 2019/2020 presented by Y’s x Alcantara has been on sale in a dedicated limited Pop-Up in the famous department store Isetan Shinjuku. In this Pop-Up Store there were all the main items of the Y’s catwalk, such as the futuristic silver jacket and the puffy coats. After the remarkable success of the launch in Shinjuku, the Pop-Up Store was also replicated by Isetan Sapporo (6-12 November) and by Isetan Kyoto (13-19 November). 90 91 NINE JOURNEYS THROUGH TIME PRESS CONFERENCE at Yuz Museum IN KOREA Shanghai, July 3, 2019 Seoul, November 26, 2019 “Nine Journeys Through Time” was an exhibition organised by Yuz Museum and Alcantara S.p.A., which evolved from the eponymous show previously presented in the Apartment of the Princes (Royal Palace in Milan), into the work conceived and co-curated by Davide Quadrio and Massimo Torrigiani in 2018. “Nine Journeys Through Time” offered an exceptional combination of talents: nine artistic approaches were brought together, expressing different visions through nine projects in various artistic languages. From the transfiguration of painting into fashion, from digital design to music; they all drew inspiration from the specifics of Alcantara S.p.A.’s unique perception: analysing all its various declinations and potential, exploring its invention and production processes, working with technicians and experts, exploring independent paths or innovative collaboration projects. The nine artists were Aaajiao, Andrea Anastasio, Caterina Barbieri, Krijn de Koning, Li Shurui, Alex Schweder, Chiharu Shiota, Iris van Herpen, and Zeitguised. On November 26 in Seoul, Alcantara S.p.A. organised the third press event for local journalists in the corporate, lifestyle, fashion and automotive sectors. It was an opportunity to communicate the brand’s values, lifestyle, attitude and growing presence in the local market. At the Arumjigi Cultural Keepers in Jongno-gu, the Company presented the most recent and prestigious collaborations in the fashion, accessories and hi-tech fields thorough the amazing work of the artist Alberto Biasi, who already exhibited at the Venice Biennale in May. It was also an opportunity to reaffirm Alcantara S.p.A.’s pioneering and continuous commitment to sustainability. 92 93 DRIVING INTO THE LUXURY GOES SUSTAINABLE ALCANTARA LIFESTYLE WORLD Alcantara & BMW Milan, December 3, 2019 Milan, December 4, 2019 The last December, Alcantara S.p.A. organised a press trip for the international media to present the Company’s lifestyle world by exploring the different application platforms of the material at the Alcantara Concept Store. Thanks to the partnership with Lamborghini, Alcantara S.p.A. also gave the opportunity to the journalists to live a special driving experience: drive two Lamborghinis Urus and Aventador from of Milan’s Fashion District to the Winery Cà del Bosco in Franciacorta. Alcantara S.p.A. and BMW presented center in nuance with the external the BMW i8 Roadster LimeLight livery with laser perforations that create Edition, the one-off that doesn’t go a design inspired by the BMW logo, unnoticed for its futuristic design, harmoniously replicated and following original applications and exclusive and the sinuous lines of the interior. hypnotic colour during an event held Not only exclusivity, but also in the Alcantara Concept Store. sustainability. The BMW i8 Roadster is a On board, Alcantara® dresses the seats, hybrid car with advanced technological the dashboard, the door panels and features with reduced environmental the steering wheel, now in black with impact (in fact, it reaches a speed of contrasting stitching, now alternating 250 km/h, with only 46g of CO2 per black and LimeLight a colour specially km), as well as Alcantara®, Carbon developed by the Alcantara S.p.A. style Neutral material since 2009. 94 95 ALCANTARA MAXXI PROJECT 2020/STUDIO ALCANTARA & BMW ITALIA VISIT L’IMMAGINAZIONE AL POTERE COLLABORATION ON THE LIMITED SERIES KONSTANTIN GRCIC BMW X5 TIMELESS EDITION Rome, February 7-March 15, 2020 Milan, February 7, 2020 Alcantara S.p.A. and the National Museum of 21st Century Art (MAXXI) joined forces once again in a research project, as they have done each year since 2011, to explore the limitless potential and the multiple expressive capacities of this wonder material, especially in design and architecture. Konstantin Grcic is the protagonist of the third edition of the “Studio Visit” cycle, a programme that each year invites an internationally renowned designer to execute a personal interpretation of the works of the MAXXI permanent collection, using Alcantara® as the driving material of the work representing the installation as the result of his research. A designer with a pronounced curatorial vocation, Grcic picked out a fil rouge, that of fantastic architecture, that he himself detected in the MAXXI’s architectural archives, placing it in direct connection with the invention of the Alcantara® material. His exhibition examines the careers of several highly visionary creators: Italian engineer Sergio Musmeci, Italian architects Giuseppe Perugini and Maurizio Sacripanti all of whom were active during the Second World War and contemporary Lebanese architect Bernard Khoury. The collaboration between Alcantara S.p.A. and BMW Italia continues as they partnered up for a new project: the limited series BMW X5 Timeless Edition, an edition that celebrates the group’s first model from the BMW X range, its first SAV, 20 years after its launch. The car was presented to the public at BMW dealerships, during the Open Weekend, on the 8 and 9 of February. The front and rear seats are covered in plain black, alternating with an exclusive perforated design with a grey back running vertically down the central part of the seats. The material also covers the headliner, the central armrest and the door panels. It is all embellished with contrasting stitching, which echoes the colour of the exterior. To celebrate the exclusivity of this edition, the passenger headrest is customised with the electro-welded logo “Powered by Alcantara S.p.A.” and a screen-printed “Timeless Edition 1/50” label. With the Timeless Edition, the BMW X5 edition is, more than ever before, the ideal partner for any journey. That’s why it comes with a solution for carrying all the necessities for a trip out of town: an Alcantara® travel bag, with the same design as the car’s interiors. 96 97 ALCANTARA WITH ADEA at the Stockholm Furniture & Light Fair Stockholm, February 4-8, 2020 From 4 to 8 of February 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. attended the Stockholm Furniture Fair in collaboration with ADEA, the Finnish high-quality design brand with 25 years’ experience in the home and contract markets. For this occasion, ADEA adorned its collection of upholstered furniture: elegant, comfortable, functional and Nordic-style sofas, armchairs and day beds with soft Alcantara®. The selected variants include Athena, from the Wanderlust by Sebastian Herkner collection, which was used on the Como three-seater sofa; and the Bonnet collection (sofa and armchairs) with its distinctive soft, round seats perched on thin tubular legs. Athena, a tribute to the wise, divine daughter of Zeus, featuring exquisite stretch embroidery with a quilted effect, which gives the seats a sophisticated and yet minimalist touch. With its soft and curved shapes, the sofa version of Bon dresses in two different colours from the Alcantara S.p.A. Interior collection, to complement any rooms with its fresh contemporary and comfortable appeal. From sofas to chairs and from lamps to rugs, any surface decorated with Alcantara® is imbued with its unrivalled comfort and timeless elegance. Therefore, Alcantara S.p.A. is chosen by the most prestigious furnishing brands in the world, as demonstrated by this upcoming collaboration at the Stockholm Furniture Fair. 98 99 5.2 Universities, Research and Sustainability With the collaboration of the University production of PPE in the Coronavirus Federico II di Napoli, the multi-year emergency. research plan continues, aimed at the assessment of recycling and reuse In addition, a collaboration has been processes for the main industrial initiated with the University of Bologna waste and Alcantara® product at the to develop a digital vision system for end of its life, with a view to a circular product inspection. economy. Alcantara S.p.A. also participated as a In Fiscal Year 2020, collaboration secondary entity in the COST action with the Milan Polytechnic was proposal in the field of chemical consolidated in various areas: recycling of plastic waste. COST with Polidesign through lectures in (European Cooperation in Science and specialised design-oriented master Technology) (www.cost.eu) supports courses in the field of traditional the creation of collaborative and textile and automotive; open networks to pool knowledge of with the Department of Civil and scientific and technological realities Environmental Engineering and with across Europe. the LEAP laboratory involved in the For the development of products development of the decarbonisation resulting from the new low plan of the Company; environmental impact production with the Smart Materials and process, a collaboration is underway Structures Laboratory within the with the University of Perugia, which Department of Aerospace Science provides technical and analytical and Technology, for the specialised support. characterisation of materials for the 100 101 Nanda Vigo, Arch/Arcology, Palazzo Rocca Contarini Corfù, la Biennale di Venezia, 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Highlights • 11 years of Carbon Neutrality. • 2,119 tons of CO2 avoided • Increase in the volume with the trigeneration plant. of electricity produced • 35,683.261 tons of CO2 by the cogeneration plant. offset emissions. 103 6.1 Environmental Policy and Management System Alcantara S.p.A. adopts a Safety and Environmental Policy that details the guiding principles to which all activities, the management approach Fiscal Year 2020 Related and organisational responsibilities are subject. The Company is actively committed to preventing and minimising the impact of its processes and Main Focus SDGs THE PILLARS products on the environment through a series of actions: • improving environmental efficiency and minimising the environmental OF INTERVENTION impact generated; IMPACT • reduction of the impacts • constant training and information on the most relevant environmental issues; of the production process; • awareness-raising and outreach activities. REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION • through the new trigeneration plant, the use of the FANS* process and renewal of ISO 50001 certification; WATER • updating of the Water Footprint for the identification of improvement points for the reduction Alcantara S.p.A.’s attention to environmental issues is also demonstrated of water consumption, and implementation by the significant certifications obtained: of a project for the reuse of wastewater; • since 2000, certification of the Environmental Management System (EMS) in accordance with UNI EN ISO 14001; CERTIFICATIONS EMISSIONS • maintaining Carbon Neutrality • Integrated Environmental Authorisation (IEA), renewed in May 2013 and valid until May 2025; and reducing the Carbon Footprint, increasing energy efficiency. • since 2008 certified Carbon Footprint report; • since 2009 certified Carbon Neutrality status; *FANS production started in 2015 and includes the use of water instead of chemical solutions. The main raw material used is TLAS (polyethylene-terephthalate -co-5 sulfo isophthalate) • since 2014 Water Footprint report; instead of PST (polystyrene). • since 2017 Energy certification ISO 50001. 104 105 THE PRODUCTION The production process of Alcantara S.p.A. processing treatments depending on USE OF MATERIALS PER LINEAR METRE OF ALCANTARA® PRODUCT (g/m) starts with two polymers from which the type of use for which it is intended. PROCESS AND IMPACT the finished product is obtained The process is briefly described in the through successive stages of processing. diagram below, together with the main 4000 The material undergoes various final types of environmental impacts. 3000 ALCANTARA ® PRODUCTION PROCESSES Alcantara S.p.A., in accordance with by-products 2000 the provisions of the certified USE ALCARENE ® Environmental Management System, SPINNING has identified all significant ALCANOL® environmental interaction parameters 1000 relating to: TEXTILE WASTES • storage and use of chemicals; FELT • atmospheric emissions; • wastewater; 0 • noise pollution; FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS • waste; GREIGE PRODUCT • energy; Thermoplastic polymers Nitrogen WATER DISCHARGES • water resources; Dyes and auxiliary materials Raw materials for polyurethane WASTES • soil and subsoil protection. Packaging (cardboard, plastics, etc.) Adhesives and dressings DYEING These parameters, and the production Oils and Chemicals TAC-TAS Auxiliary products for post-treatment processes on which they depend, are constantly monitored and evaluated Textile supports Chemical solutions FINISHED PRODUCT as part of the management review FINISHING provided for by the system. In Fiscal Year 2020 the most significant increase was the consumption of NaOH MONITORING PERIOD: SEPTEMBER 2018-AUGUST 2019 due to the 25% increase in production of an SRD FANS intermediate, with a Description Unit VALUE consequent increase in the item “dyes Specific energy saving TEP/km ALC FANS 2.06 6.2 Use of Raw Materials ® and auxiliary products”. Another factor is the increase in chemicals for wastewater treatment Specific emissions avoided tons CO2e/km ALC® FANS 1.52 (also due to the installation of new wastewater treatment plants). There was also an increase in Alcantara S.p.A.’s production process uses only raw materials consumption of “polyurethane raw USE OF MATERIALS PER LINEAR METRE NON-RENEWABLE FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 materials”, due to the 23% increase OF ALCANTARA® PRODUCTS RESOURCES* authorised by the strictest EU regulations. All the auxiliary raw materials, such as some of the thermoplastic in the production of an IE FANS Nitrogen 599.98 671.32 970.74 intermediate. PROCESS polymers and the sizeings used, are treated on site, recovered and reused in the production cycle or destined for other industrial FANS production has enabled a Thermoplastic polymers X 893.16 1,069.5 1,056.19 uses. In addition, the chemical solutions used for production are reduction in CO2 emissions and Dyes and auxiliary products 694.96 712.77 876.40 regenerated and reused several times in the production process. primary energy savings, recognised by the GSE (Gestore Servizi Energetici Packaging (cardboard, plastics, etc.) 201.22 208.03 218.13 National Energy Services Manager) Textile supports 142.76 140.79 119.43 through the issue of Energy Efficiency Certificates (in Italian Titoli di Raw materials for polyurethane X 215.11 277.46 352.52 Efficienza Energetica TEE): Adhesives and dressings X 175.26 204.11 209.06 Auxiliary products for post-treatment 112.62 172.21 136.05 The potential environmental and safety critical issues of all new products are assessed through an internal “Product Safety” Chemical solutions X 39.68 34.74 34.43 procedure involving all corporate functions. The result of the CRITICAL Abrasive paper 2.45 2.17 3.58 evaluations is assessed by management prior to marketing ISSUES authorisation. Steel needles 0.22 0.21 0.18 Stainless steel splitting blades 0.42 0.47 0.47 Oils and Chemicals TAC-TAS 136 112.79 152.56 * “X” represents those resources that do not regenerate in a short period of time, such as minerals, metals, oil, gas, coal, etc. 106 107 Compared to the previous fiscal year, blades and steel needles has remained Consequently, these materials are 6.3 Carbon Neutrality there was an increase in nitrogen more or less constant. The other items sold as by-products for industrial uses consumption due to the increase have undergone a fluctuation that is under the name of: in the number of users requiring its within the norm. Alcantara S.p.A. has been Carbon Alcantara S.p.A. was one of the first All operations are certified by TÜV SÜD. use, while post-treatment auxiliary • Alcarene®: thermoplastic polymer for Neutral since 2009, i.e. it offsets industrial companies in the world, The total offset emissions amount to products and textile supports suffered Downstream of the production process, moulding; 100% of all residual carbon dioxide and the first in Italy, to achieve 35,683 tons CO2 and consist of: a slight decrease due to the increase polystyrene and polyvinyl alcohol • Alcanol®: vinyl adhesive. emissions which cannot otherwise Carbon Neutrality status (2009), • corporate emissions, excluding in the quantity of material processed waste is created, which cannot be eliminated with the current obtaining certification from one cogeneration plant emissions (impact by third parties. be reused in the process for the In this way a circular economy process level of technology and innovationof the strictest and most rigorous offset according to the EU-ETS system production of Alcantara® due to the is achieved, as a material that does attributable to activities and products, international certification bodies (TÜV according to the PAS 2060 standard); The use of thermoplastic polymers, quality required by the process. not consume new raw materials is from the cradle, including raw materials, SÜD), and has since then developed • scope 3 emissions attributable to the adhesives and sizeings, chemical solutions, placed on the market. to the grave, the end of product life a strong and constant commitment product (scope 1 and 2 emissions including waste management. to sustainability, as underlined by the attributable to the product already Each metre produced by Alcantara S.p.A. continuous improvement processes and included in the corporate inventory); has zero impact on global warming. the numerous certifications obtained. BY-PRODUCTS PLACED ON THE MARKET* UNIT FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 ALCANOL ® Quantity produced and placed on the market Kg 713,600 1,015,552 897,684 Percentage produced compared to raw material % 84.95 99.16 91.28 ALCARENE ® 1 METER Quantity produced and placed on the market Kg 673,463 436,983 1,237,202 Percentage produced compared to raw material % 46.93 28.06 72.14 Alk-Fill FI and Alk-Fill FE (textile waste) Quantity produced and placed on the market Kg 74,978 112,591 Alk-Fill Buff (buffing powder) RESIDUAL GHG EMISSIONS FY 2020 Quantity produced and placed on the market Kg 1,853 2,000 1,833 Total residual GHC emissions * The percentages declared in the table are calculated in relation to the raw materials actually used in production Raw materials (including transport) Product usage and disposal The quantity of Alcanol® produced and The Company’s product portfolio Natural gas placed on the market as a by-product includes a variant of the Alcantara® shows a decrease of about 12% product made of 25% (by weight) postTravelling to/from work compared to the previous year. The consumer recycled raw materials. quantity of Alcarene® produced and Used in the automotive sector, and Business trip placed on the market as a by-product more specifically for seating, this Transport of products shows an increase of 183% compared variant accounts for 0.21% of the total to the previous year. production, bringing the recycled Water percentage (in relation to the total External processing product) to 0.074% of the total. Electricity Waste transport and disposal Diesel By-products (including transport) -10,000 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 Thanks to the quantification of environmental sense. Offsetting involves a share of CO2 emissions equivalent emissions carried out in Fiscal Year those emissions that cannot to that which has been produced (and 2020 at organisation and product otherwise be eliminated and takes which is therefore to be neutralised). levels, Alcantara S.p.A. is able to offset place through the purchase of credits The projects from which Alcantara S.p.A. the residual CO2 emissions through (Gold Standard) on the voluntary acquired the credits made it possible the financing of three projects that, market. This is an option, regulated at to obtain total offsets for 35,683 tons under the aegis of the UN, contribute international level and provided for in of CO2 equivalent. The projects described to improving the conditions of the the Kyoto Protocol, which is based on below relate to the installations associated planet in an economic, social and the removal from the atmosphere of with the certificates acquired: 108 109 PROJECT NAME PROJECT TYPE COUNTRY SHARE % Bondhu Chula Stoves Bangladesh 2,000 6 Mauritania Wind Wind Mauritania 2,000 6 Hyundai Steel Waste Energy Cogeneration Project Cogeneration Korea 31,683 88 TOTAL 35,683 100 In Fiscal Year 2020, the GHG inventory a GHG emissions report attributable analysis from cradle to grave to the product in accordance with RESULTS OF THE “CORPORATE” INVENTORY (TONS CO2 ) FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 (conducted for the first time in 2011) the directives of UNI ISO 14064-1 and was carried out using ISO 14064 and the Product Life Cycle Accounting and Scope 1 total direct emissions 62,144 66,868 71,221 GHG protocol standards. The analysis Reporting Standard of the Greenhouse is intended to allow for the subsequent Gas Protocol. The life cycle includes Scope 2 total indirect emissions associated with the generation 9,641 650 396 offsetting of residual carbon dioxide services, materials and energy flows of electricity and purchasing thermal energy (590)* emissions (according to the PAS 2060 that develop and accompany the standard) and consists of two reports: product. In particular: Scope 3 total indirect emissions 2,339 2,626 2,403 a so-called “corporate” Green House “scope 1” and “scope 2” emissions Gases (GHG) emissions report, in associated with the activities of * Value recalculated following the change in the quantification methodology of Scope 2 emissions, in accordance with UNI ISO 14064-1 accordance with the directives of the UNI ISO 14064-1 standard and the LIFE CYCLE the Nera Montoro production site, considering the cogeneration plant Corporate Accounting and Reporting ANALYSIS within the boundaries of the site; Standard of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. direct and indirect activities for “PRODUCT” INVENTORY RESULTS (TONS OF CO2 ) FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Operational boundaries include all direct the production and transport of raw emissions (scope 1) and indirect emissions materials, outsourced processing Scope 1 total direct emissions 61,913 66,648 71,024 associated with the generation of activities on the finished product, electricity and purchasing steam production and transport of the finished Scope 1 total net of the Electricity and Thermal Energy offsetting (scope 2). They also include indirect product to the gates of the recipient from Engie Cogeneration (from 2013 subject to onerous ETS offsetting 4,335 5,090 4,905 emissions (scope 3) not attributable for the next stage of processing; at the expense of Alcantara S.p.A.) to the product and, in particular, those packaging, shaping and washing related to employees’ business trips at industrial users; Scope 2 total indirect emissions associated with the generation of 9,481 640 393 and transport of employees from/to end of life (landfill, incineration, electricity and purchasing thermal energy (588)* the workplace; recycling). Scope 3 total indirect emissions 35,800 28,233 27,782 66,629 61,558 66,119 ETS offset and supplier reduction (57.578)* Total tons CO2 to be offset/neutralised (=Total Corporate + Scope 3 Product ETS offset and supplier reduction) 43,296 36,819 35,683 For the high-efficiency cogeneration from the national grid, falling within plant, the impact in terms of CO2 the Scope 2 emissions, the relative has been considered and offset in contribution (evaluated using Sima *Value recalculated following the change in the quantification methodology of Scope 2 emissions, in accordance with UNI ISO 14064-1 compliance with the EU ETS (Emissions Pro software) is minimal, since all the Trading Scheme) system, which aims energy drawn from the grid is produced to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by plants that exploit renewable energy in industrial sectors with the greatest sources. The origin of the electricity EMISSIONS impact on climate change. drawn from renewable sources is certified through the purchase and CALCULATION Emissions related to the cogeneration cancellation of guarantee of origin plant fall within the EU-ETS system certificates (GO certificates). and are therefore considered as offset Below are the summary values of on the basis of the PAS 2060 standard carbon dioxide emissions, certified (66,118.873 tons CO2 ). by TÜV SÜD, expressed in tons of CO2 With regard to the indirect emissions equivalent. associated with electricity drawn 110 111 Compared to fiscal year 2019, the • the increase in emissions avoided has increased (thanks to the installation value of the emissions has decreased through increased sales of byproducts; of the trigenerator), whose emissions thanks to: • the decrease in electricity drawn from fall within the EU-ETS system and are, • the increased offsetting carried out the grid, since the amount of electricity therefore, considered as offset on the by the transporters; produced by the cogeneration plant basis of the PAS 2060 standard. RESIDUAL GHG EMISSIONS CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Alcantara S.p.A. is reporting its environmental and GHG emission performance through FY 2020 35,683 the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP is a not-for-profit organisation that runs the global disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, states and regions, to manage their environmental impacts. Disclosed Company’s information is articulated as in the below table. FY 2019 36,819 Corporate Governance Risks and Opportunities to tackle Business Strategy FY 2018 43,296 Target and Performances Emission Methodology, Data and Breakdown 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 Energy Additional Metrics Offsettings projects Verification Total residual GHG emission of pollutants into the atmosphere important, given the commissioning Carbon Pricing attributable to the product are 33,080 from IEA authorised emission of important new emission points at t CO2, with a decrease of about 3% in points (abatement installation the greige department and current Engagement comparison with last year. The table flues, hoods, etc.), replacing the SO2 dust emission reduction projects. below provides other emissions pollutant with dust, as it is more Supply Chain CDP yearly analyses the data reported by thousands of companies to map trends, OTHER ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS UNIT FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 model emissions data, pinpoint emerging best practice, evaluating performances. Alcantara S.p.A.’s data is accessible to requesting stakeholders, by previous authorisation, at www.cdp.net NO2 nitrogen oxides Kg 11,484 6,016 8,055 Dust Kg 3,866 405 412 VOC volatile organic compounds Kg 4,862 8,472 3,429 112 113 6.4 Energy Requirements and Savings The reduction in energy requirements in Alcantara S.p.A., in consideration of the increase in production, is due to the constant commitment to the optimisation of processes and production plants, achieved through the following main steps: 1998-2002 installation of a new air conditioning with new high-efficiency machines; total renewal of the plants; system in the greige product planning of the installation of a plant department, optimisation of the to recover heat from steam rising 2000 tertiary section of the waste water from the condensate collection tank; definition of a partnership with a local treatment plant; investment proposal for a project producer for the exclusive supply of to recover heat from the flue gas steam from a cogeneration plant; Fiscal year 2017 coming out of the Spooner furnace; exclusive use of electricity from renewable installation of a new 2,000 mc/h investment proposal to rationalise sources; cooling tower with new generation, the cooling water circuit; project more efficient pumps; installation of to install a new cogeneration plant 2010 a new high efficiency cooling unit to (Alcantara 3); continuation of the investments for further reduction of replace an old generation machine; reporting to the GSE of the energy plant energy consumption; installation of a greige product UTA savings resulting from the FANS with energy recovery; initiation of process; project to replace the use 2013 activities for the construction of of chilled water with tower water at commissioning of the cogeneration new high efficiency cooling units; the PVA FANS distillation plant; plant; installation of the instrumentation for the reporting activities to obtain Fiscal year 2019 2014 the TEE determined by the energy installation of a system for the installation of a new screw compressor savings generated by the FANS lines recovery of heat from steam rising at the waste water treatment plant, (installation and control of measuring from the condensate collection replacement of malfunctioning systems); installation of distributed tank of the Distillation department; condensate drains, installation of new power factor correction units; startimplementation of a network for the condensate booster systems with up of activities for the construction automatic and continuous acquisition steam propulsion, replacement of of the Trigeneration plant; start-up of of energy data; replacement of fluorescent lamps with LED lamps in activities for the implementation of two UTAs in the greige product the dyeing department and reduction the energy data acquisition network; department with new high efficiency of the DMF Distillation plant column investment proposal for heat recovery machines; investment proposal for a reflux coefficient I; from the SR furnace; investment project for the recovery of heat from proposal for heat recovery from the the fumes coming out of the Spooner Fiscal year 2016 mist of the condensate recovery tanks; furnace; investment proposal for the modification of ambient temperatures rationalisation of the cooling water in the greige product and fibre Fiscal year 2018 circuit; investment proposal for departments in compliance with installation of the trigeneration plant; the installation of a system for the Italian Presidential Decree 74/2013, installation of two new high-efficiency recovery of heat from steam rising continuation of the replacement of chillers; installation of a new highfrom the condensate collection tank malfunctioning condensate drains efficiency air compressor; planning of the fibre department; project and optimisation of the condensate of the intervention to implement an to replace the use of chilled water booster system at the DMF distillation automatic and continuous energy with tower water at the PVA FANS department; data acquisition system; planning distillation plant. installation of power factor correction of the replacement of two UTAs systems in the production departments, in the greige product department 114 115 INITIATIVES AND BENEFITS Following the closure of the external characteristics: of electricity (56% of the total thermoelectric plant close to the plant • Cogenerative endothermic engine: electricity requirements of the Nera that supplied steam, Alcantara S.p.A. 2.67 MWe2; Montoro plant) were supplied by the signed a contract with the company • Recovery boiler: 1279 kWt3; cogeneration plant. Engie for the design, construction and • Absorption refrigerator: 1392 kWf4. management of a cogeneration plant The effects of the high-efficiency COGENERATOR BENEFITS* for the supply of electricity and steam The plant is capable of producing cogeneration plant are beneficial in use from 2013. 21,050 MWh5 of electricity per year, from several points of view: energy, cogenerated without energy input: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL environmental and economic. This cogeneration plant is recognised • 10,697 MWh of thermal steam per year; Compared to separate production of by the GSE (Gestore nazionale • 8,174 MWh of refrigeration per year. MWh 51,034 61,148 58,166 56,661 66,329 71,018 66,030 430,385 electricity and heat, the cogeneration Natural Servizi Energetici National Energy plant has reduced energy consumption saving gas Services Manager) as a highThis plant will allow Alcantara S.p.A. to TEP 4,389 5,259 5,002 4,873 5,704 6,108 5,679 37,013 by about 5,600 tons of oil equivalent efficiency cogeneration plant (CAR achieve about 900 TEEs per year for per year. Cogenerazione ad Alto Rendimento – 3 years. The main factors that have allowed Benefits TEE7 5,780 6,926 6,588 6,420 7,510 8,039 7,474 48,737 CCHP Combined Cooling, Heating and for economic savings, in addition to Power) in an SEU (Sistema Efficiente Compared to the separate production the reduction in consumption, are as CO2 avoided tons 10,399 12,499 11,921 11,315 13,418 14,370 13,301 87,223 di Utenza User Efficiency System). of electricity, heat and refrigeration, follows: * This table is related to the figures of the calendar year. The plant supplies steam for a in Fiscal Year 2020 the trigeneration • high energy efficiency thanks to the maximum contractual flow rate of 48 plant achieved the following energy new generation installations; t/h and electricity up to about 50,000 and environmental results: • cogeneration of around 13 t/h in As shown by the data in the table above, the advantages of these projects are: MWhe/year1. simple recovery (zero cost steam • a significant reduction in energy bills in economic terms; As a result of the increase in energy produced by hot fumes); • energy independence and increased security of supply; FY 2020 • not having committed capital for the construction of the plant, leaving it available for the core business. consumption generated by the • benefits from obtaining white increase in production, in order to MWh 10,518 certificates; Natural saving gas continue to have electricity produced TOE6 905 • methane tax exemption for CAR internally at the plant cheaper and CO2 avoided tons 2,119 (Cogenerazione Alto Rendimento with a lower environmental impact CCHP Combined Cooling, Heating compared to the purchase from and Power) qualified plants; the RTN (Rete Trasporto Nazionale Engie is currently carrying out the • reductions on the electricity bill National Transmission Grid) it was authorisation procedures for the third thanks to the SEU system declaration, decided to expand the capacity of cogeneration plant twinned to the made possible because the entire the plant by installing a trigeneration existing one in operation since 2013. electricity distribution network plant, in operation since the end of In Fiscal Year 2020, 210,267 MWh of produced by Turbogas is internal to February 2019, with the following thermal steam and 47,003,280 kWh the plant. 1 MWhe/year: megawatt hour electrical per year 3 kWt: kilowatt thermal 5 MWh: megawatt hour 7 TEE: ton of energy equivalent 2 MWe: megawatt electrical 4 kWf: kilowatt refrigeration 6 TOE: ton of oil equivalent 116 117 ENERGY ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION TOTAL TJ8 FY 2019 TOTAL TJ FY 2020 6.5 Water Requirements CONSUMPTION MILAN Natural gas 1.4059 1.247 For heating 1.4059 1.247 The following are used in the commercial and administrative premises of the Electricity 1.7565 1.901 The primary source of water supply Other minor sources of supply Milan office: Purchased 1.7565 1.901 for the industrial activities carried are groundwater wells and the natural gas for room heating; out in the plant and research centre municipal aqueduct. Alcantara S.p.A. electricity for normal office activities, NERA MONTORO of Nera Montoro is the Nera river. is strongly committed to reducing room cooling and the operation of the The water is used for sanitary, fire the withdrawal of drinking water heating plant. Natural gas 89.4411 86.226 USE protection and irrigation purposes, for from the municipal aqueduct given For heating 0.4881 0.470 industrial use in the various production the increased consumption of water In the production site of Nera Montoro Diesel 0.2018 0.213 plants and, in particular, for dyeing the by local communities and new the following are used: finished product. All wastewater is production facilities in the area. natural gas for direct heating and For production processes 0.2018 0.213 directed to an internal treatment plant. steam production at 6 bar, as well as Electricity 299.453 304.716 for the cafeteria; steam at a pressure of 6 bar, Purchased 299.453 304.716 guaranteed by the cogeneration plant and the new tri-generator inside the plant; Other 827.026 826.791 electricity, mainly used for the Steam 827.026 826.791 production process and almost In Fiscal Year 2020, Alcantara S.p.A. entirely provided by the Turbogas also supplied Engie with the industrial plant and the trigenerator. The energy ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE THE ORGANISATION UNIT9 FY 2020 water necessary for the production of peaks exceeding the capacity of the installed production plants were Transport products and by-products energy MJ 15,113,896 steam, for an amount of 292,589 m3. The values in the table (both withdrawal CONSUMPTION provided by the national high-voltage Raw materials transport energy MJ 23,161,865 and discharge) do not include the water (HV) grid. Medium voltage (MV) supply Business air travel energy MJ 16,108,305 managed by the Turbogas plant of Engie. is used only in case of breakdown or maintenance of the HV network. Both Business car trips energy MJ 3,020,292 supplies are from renewable sources. Commuter employees energy MJ 20,884,062 Alcantara S.p.A. also monitors the fuel TOTAL MJ 78,288,420 consumption of the corporate fleet for the calculation of emissions. WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCES UNIT10 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 ELECTRICITY FROM CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION MJ RENEWABLE SOURCES TJ FY 2020 Nera river through artificial reservoir m 3 2,168,309 1,945,011 1,873,442 Hydroelectric 1.822 Nera Montoro Plant-Electricity 304,715,639 The Nera river direct withdrawal m3 28,805 42,695 5,535 Wind 67.240 Nera Montoro Plant-Thermal Energy (steam) 826,790,982 Plant groundwater well m 3 115,362 98,156 51,156 TOTAL 69.062 Nera Montoro Plant-Methane 86,105,328 Terni province municipal aqueduct m3 7,513 4,847 3,224 Nera Montoro Plant-Diesel 212,632 TOTAL WITHDRAWALS m 3 2,319,989 2,090,709 1,933,357 NERA MONTORO TOTAL CONSUMPTION 1,217,824,581 Water discharge in the Nera river m3 2,047,822 1,958,615 1,840,430 CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION MJ Milan Office Electricity 1,901,066 TOTAL WITHDRAWAL FROM ALL AREAS BY SOURCES, UNIT11 FY 2020 WATER CONSUMPTION UNIT FY 2020 WATER WITHDRAWAL FROM WATER-STRESSED AREAS Milan Office Thermal Energy 1,220,741 Total water consumption in all areas Ml 93 Surface waters Ml 1,879 MILAN OFFICE TOTAL CONSUMPTION 3,121,807 Total water consumption Ml 93 Underground waters Ml 51 in all water-stressed areas Sea water Ml Change in water storage Ml CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANISATION MJ/m Water produced Ml (if the water storage appears to have Transport products and by-products energy 15,113,896 a significant impact in relation Third-party water resources Ml 3 to water use) Raw materials transport energy 23,161,865 Business air travel energy 16,108,305 TOTAL Ml 1,933 Business car trips energy 3,020,292 of which fresh water Ml 1,933 (≤1,000mg/l total dissolved solids) Commuter employees energy 20,884,062 of which other types of water Ml TOTAL CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANISATION 78,288,420 (>1,000mg/l total dissolved solids) 8 TJ: Terajoule 10 m3: cubic metres 9 MJ: mega joule 11 Ml: million litres 118 119 DISCHARGES INITIATIVES In the production site there is only one carried out by qualified external improved compared to previous Phyto-treatment allows for the use of of applications have been tested in the than 2,500 plants irrigated by industrial final discharge point for the Turbogas laboratories (in compliance with years, remaining within extremely safe plant systems to reduce or eliminate USA and Australia, but still represent a wastewater rich in nutrients; Engie plant, authorised and controlled the requirements of the Integrated values; in particular, the controls on the transfer of sludge leachates from novelty in Europe. reduction of the load of pollutants by the Province of Terni, located Environmental Authorisation) and sent the acute toxicity test of wastewater the internal landfill outside of the The intervention carried out allows for treated by the water treatment plant, downstream of the water treatment plant. to the competent authorities, it should have always been found to be compliant. plant. The function of the plants is to an overall environmental improvement resulting in a reduction of treatment The final discharge point for wastewater be noted that the wastewater quality Below is a table with the average consume the leachate directly on site, of the landfill area, as well as products, sludge produced and into the Nera river is located in the parameters are well below the limits values of the main pollutants with avoiding costly transfers and waste interrupting the cycle that leads to improvement of the characteristics protected area of Lago di San Liberato provided for by current legislation. the greatest environmental impact, production after leachate treatment. the production of waste and opening of the wastewater. and is managed in compliance with According to the analyses, the values compared with the legal limits. For the design and installation of the up new destinations for the biological legal obligations. of the pollutants are always below phyto-treatment plant, Alcantara S.p.A. sludge produced by the water The phyto-treatment system is based In particular, on the basis of the controls the prescribed limits and further has availed itself of the support treatment system. In particular, the on the natural process by which plants of ARPA Terni and the Faculty of following results have been obtained: absorb water from the soil and are Agriculture of the Tuscia University, covering of the basins of the old able to transport large quantities of in collaboration with the Institute for landfill (area of about 7,000 m2 rewater from the soil to the atmosphere Water Research of the CNR. This type assigned) with the planting of more using solar energy as an input. QUALITY OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER: ANNUAL AVERAGE VALUES OF THE MAIN POLLUTANTS Parameter pH Suspended BOD5 COD Chrome VI Nitrous AmmoTotal Organic ChloriEscherichia Acute solids nitrogen niacal surfactants nitrogen nated Coli Toxicity nitrogen chemical chemical NH4 solutions solutions Assay Unit of measurement mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l mg/l UFC/100ml 2,500 selected shrubs The leachate is then Legal limits The leachate, or mixture consumed through this <= 50% for discharge 5.5-9.5 80 40 160 0.2 0.6 15 2 0.1 1 5,000 Total of liquids from the special plant system’s natural in surface waters discharge, no longer flows property of evapotranspiration. into the water treatment Fed solely by the waste water Average value system as in an ordinary from the industrial process, 8.080 7 8.9 34.4 <0.01 0.41 <0.1 0.4 <0.01 <0.01 140 <5% from 2017 analysis factory but acts as fertilizer the water treatment system Average value from for a plantation then in return provides 8.4 8 4.1 <15 <0.03 0.4 <0.01 0.5 <0.1 <0.1 acceptable of over 2,500 selected a sludge that can be 2018-2019 analysis shrubs. reused in other Average value from 2019-2020 analysis 8.15 9 4.3 <15 <0.03 0.04 <0.01 0.4 <0.1 <0.1 9.0 acceptable Leachate industrial processes. TOTAL DISCHARGES FROM ALL AREAS BY SOURCES UNIT FY 2020 TOTAL DISCHARGES IN WATER-STRESSED AREAS UNIT FY 2020 DISCHARGE LEACHATE PHYTO-TREATMENT REUSABLE SLUDGE Surface waters Ml 1,840 TOTAL Ml 1,840 Underground waters Ml of which fresh water (≤1,000mg/l total dissolved solids) Ml 1,840 Sea water Ml of which other types of water Ml (>1,000mg/l total dissolved solids) Third-party water resources Ml TOTAL Ml 1,840 of which fresh water (≤1,000mg/l total dissolved solids) Ml 1,840 of which other types of water (>1,000mg/l total dissolved solids) Ml 120 121 WATER FOOTPRINT For the calculation of the Water upstream (raw materials, transport) likelihood that another user will be Footprint, Alcantara S.p.A. used and downstream (distribution, use, deprived. the LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) end of life). The specific method used methodology, as required by ISO 14046. for the Water Footprint is the Available The largest contributions to the water The LCA methodology has been WAter REmaining (AWARE) (Boulay footprint come from the contribution applied by Alcantara S.p.A. since 2011 et al., 2016), which represents the of the raw material phase, direct to assess the potential environmental remaining water available per area water consumption by the plant and impacts of the life cycle of its after human and ecosystem demand auxiliary materials. production from cradle to grave, has been met. It therefore involves The table below provides the results thus including all activities and the assessment of the potential for obtained for the evaluation of the processes of the production (water water deprivation both for humans AWARE Water Footprint calculated in consumption, electricity and thermal and ecosystems, assuming that the fiscal year 2019 and Fiscal Year 2020. energy, waste production, etc.), less water is available, the greater the AWARE WATER FOOTPRINT (m eq) 3 (m eq/Kg) 3 (m3 eq/m2) FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2020 Alcantara®, average (total) 66,235,034 73,033,164 24.5 29.1 8.5 9.9 Alcantara®, average (dyeing process only)* 35,479,526 44,037,028 13.1 17.6 4.5 6.0 Alcantara , average ® (excluding dyeing process)** 30,755,517 28,996,136 11.4 11.6 3.9 3.9 *To evaluate the AWARE Water Footprint of the Alcantara® dyeing process, the following items were evaluated: water consumption, equal to 75% of the total soft water consumption produced; 100% of the raw materials related to dyeing; 75% 100% of the chemicals used for water treatment; 50% of the electricity consumption used for water treatment; electricity and heat consumption related to the dyeing department. ** The value has been calculated by subtracting from the total WSF that related to the dyeing process only. Furthermore, Alcantara S.p.A. conducted sea origin, cooling water and the water value refers to the direct and indirect another analysis for Fiscal Year 2020 of the turbines. The factor 1 m3 was consumption of fresh water included relating to water consumption using assigned to each incoming water flow, within the system limits considered, the Blue Virtual Water method. Unlike which allows them all to be added up i.e. the water consumption due to the calculation of the Water Footprint into contributions without drawing all the Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 using the AWARE method, the Blue a distinction between their origins processes. The greater contribution Virtual Water method consists of and incidences, not expressing the to Blue Virtual Water is determined calculating the volume of fresh water various potentials, but allowing their by the direct consumption of water used to make a product in the various quantitative calculation. due to the withdrawals from artificial stages of the production chain. Blue The calculation provided a volume reservoirs and by the sum of the Virtual Water considers all the water of fresh water consumed in all the indirect consumption tied to the use flows as incoming raw material, both production stages equal to 4,546,119 m3 of raw materials. direct and indirect, excluding water of for Alcantara S.p.A. The calculated 122 123 6.6 Waste Management Waste from production activities hazardous. The following table shows, DESTINATION CODE DESTINATION DESCRIPTION NON HAZARDOUS (kg) HAZARDOUS (Kg) TOTAL (Kg) consists mainly of residues (sludge) by type and volume, the list of waste from wastewater treatment plants. produced and disposed of at the Nera D1 Deposits onto or into land 4,760,280 This sludge is delivered to authorised Montoro plant (waste produced at the (e.g. landfill) 4,760,280 landfills and, in Fiscal Year 2020, it was Milan office represents a very small Physico-chemical treatment not specified delivered for recovery to authorised proportion of the total). All waste is elsewhere in this Annex which gives rise to final compounds cement works. sent to destinations within national D9 or mixtures which have been discarded 11,780 11,780 Most of the waste produced is not borders. by means of any of the operations numbered D1 to D12 (e.g. evaporation, drying, calcination, etc.) DISPOSAL METHOD FY 2020 D10 Incineration on land 543,520 543,520 UNIT OF HAZARDOUS HAZARDOUS NONTOTAL %TOTAL MEASUREMENT12 Blending or mixing prior to submission D13 110,340 110,340 Reuse t to any of the operations numbered D1 to D12 Preliminary storage prior to submission to any of the Recycling t D15 operations numbered D1 to D14 (excluding temporary storage, 1,476,595 369,485 1,846,080 Compost t prior to collection, on the site where they are produced) WASTE Recovery, Kg 6,347,215 924,785 7,272,000 PRODUCED including energy t 1,150.734 7,201.572 8,352.306 54 TOTAL DISPOSAL % 40.62 5.92 46.54 recovery AT THE Incineration t 543.520 543.520 3 Recycling/recovery of organic substances which PRODUCTION Deep aquifer t R3 are not used as chemical solutions (including composting injections and other biological transformation processes) PLANT Landfill t 4,760.280 4,760.280 30 R5 Recycling/recovery of other inorganic materials On-site storage t R7 Recovery of components used for pollution abatement Other t 381.265 1,586.935 1,968.200 13 Exchange of waste for submission to any R12 308,740 1,340 310,080 TOTAL t 2,075.519 13,548.787 15,624.306 100 of the operations numbered R1 to R11 Storage of waste for submission to any of the operations 12 t: tons R13 numbered R1 to R12 (excluding temporary storage, prior to 6,892,832 1,149,394 8,042,226 collection, on the site where the waste is produced) Kg 7,201,572 1,150,734 8,352,306 TOTAL RECOVERY % 46.09 7.37 53.46 Kg 13,548,787 2,075,519 15,624,306 TOTAL WASTE % 86.72 13.28 100 124 125 GRI CONTENT Zimoun, 156 prepared dc-motors, wires, mdf boxes 30x30x3cm, Alcantara and Art in the Apartment of the Princes, Royal Palace, 2018 INDEX GRI STANDARD TITLE GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE PARAGRAPH NOTES 102-1 Name of the organization 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 1.4; 4.2 102-3 Location of headquarters 1.3 102-4 Location of operations 1.3; 4.1 102-5 Ownership and legal form 1.3 102-6 Markets served 1.4; 4.2 102-7 Scale of the organization 1.4; 2.1 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 3.1 Organizational profile 102-9 Supply chain 2.2 Significant changes to the organization 102-10 2.2 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Before the introduction into the system of each new product, all applicable requirements are re-examined at dedicated interdepartmental meetings 102-12 External initiatives 1.8 102-13 Membership of associations 2.1 The GRI 102: 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chairman’s General Disclosures 2016 Letter Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 1.8 GRI 102: 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 1.1; 1.5 General Disclosures 2016 Ethics and integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 1.5 127 GRI STANDARD TITLE GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE PARAGRAPH NOTES GRI STANDARD TITLE GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE PARAGRAPH NOTES 102-18 Governance structure 1.5 Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 Methodology financial statements 102-19 Delegating authority 1.5 1.9 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 1.5 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Methodology environmental and social topics 102-47 List of material topics 1.9 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 1.5; 1.9 environmental and social topics 102-48 Restatements of information Methodology Composition of the highest governance 102-49 Changes in reporting Methodology 102-22 1.5 body and its committees 102-50 Reporting period Methodology 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 1.5 GRI 102: 102-51 Date of most recent report Methodology Nominating and selecting the highest General Disclosures 2016 102-24 1.5 Reporting process 102-52 Reporting cycle Methodology governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 1.5; 1.8 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Methodology 102-26 Role of highest governance body 1.5 Claims of reporting in accordance 102-54 Methodology in setting purpose, values and strategy with the GRI Standards 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 1.5 GRI 102-55 GRI content index content index The policies for the evaluation 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance of the performance are decided by body’s performance External the shareholders’ meeting with the GRI 102: ownership of Toray Group 102-56 External assurance audit General Disclosures 2016 report Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 1.5; 1.8 environmental and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 1.8 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 1.9 Review of economic, environmental GRI 103: 102-31 1.8 and social topics Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 1.9 Approach 2016 Highest governance body’s role 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 1.9 102-32 1.5 in sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 1.5 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 1.5 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2.1 102-35 Remuneration policies This information is not publicly disclosed due to confidentiality concerns Financial implications and other risks 201-2 2.1; 6.4 GRI 201: and opportunities due to climate change 102-36 Process for determining remuneration This information is not publicly disclosed Economic due to confidentiality concerns Performance 2016 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations Obligations undertaken and other retirement plans as laid down by law 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 3.3 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 2.3 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio This information is not publicly disclosed due to confidentiality concerns 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total This information is not publicly disclosed compensation ratio due to confidentiality concerns Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 202-1 3.2 compared to local minimum wage GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 Proportion of senior management hired from 202-2 3 .1 the local community 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 1.9 The entire staff is covered by the GRI 102: 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements national labour collective agreement General Disclosures 2016 Stakeholder 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 1.9 Infrastructure investments 203-1 5.1 engagement GRI 203: and services supported 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 1.9 Indirect Economic impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2.1 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 1.9 128 129 GRI STANDARD TITLE GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE PARAGRAPH NOTES GRI STANDARD TITLE GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE PARAGRAPH NOTES GRI 204: IUCN Red List species and national Not applicable Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2.2 304-4 conservation list species with habitats in 2016 areas affected by operations 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 6.3 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 1.5; 1.8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 6.3 GRI 205: Communication and training about GRI 305: 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 6.3 205-2 1.5; 1.8 Anti-corruption 2016 anti-corruption policies and procedures Emissions 2016 This information is partially disclosed 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents occurred 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 6.3 due to confidentiality concerns 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 6.3 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 6.3 GRI 206: Legal actions for anti-competitive Anti-competitive 206-1 behavior, anti-trust and monopoly None Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX) 305-7 6.3 Behavior 2016 practices and other significant air emissions GRI 207: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6.5 207-1 Approach to tax 1.8 Tax 2019 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 6.6 Over the past few years there have GRI 306: 306-3 Significant spills been no leakages or cases of Effluents contamination of the environment 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.2 and Waste 2016 GRI 301: 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 6.6 301-2 Recycled input materials used 6.2 Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 6.2 Water bodies affected by water discharges 306-5 6.5 and/or runoff 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 6.4 GRI 307: 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 6.4 Non-compliance with environmental laws Environmental 307-1 and regulations No fines or any sanctions Compliance 2016 GRI 302: 302-3 Energy intensity 6.4 Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 6.4 Reductions in energy requirements 302-5 6.4 New suppliers that were screened using of products and services 308-1 2.2 GRI 308: environmental criteria Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 2.2 supply chain and actions taken 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 6.5 Water sources significantly affected GRI 303: 303-2 by withdrawal of water 6.5 Water 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 3.1 Alcantara commits to providing 303-3 Water recycled and reused GRI 401: the missing information in the future Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 401-2 3.7 Employment 2016 not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 3.5 A 20-hectare land portion owned Operational sites owned, leased, by Alcantara is located inside managed in, or adjacent to, protected the SIC area (Site of Community 304-1 areas and areas of high biodiversity Interest). Although within the propriety GRI 402: value outside protected areas area, the lands are located out of the Minimum notice periods regarding GRI 304: Labor-Management 402-1 operational changes None plant’s perimeter Biodiversity 2016 Relations 2016 Significant impacts of activities, products No biodiversity studies have been 304-2 and services on biodiversity conducted in this topic that is not material 304-3 Habitats protected or restored None 130 131 GRI STANDARD TITLE GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE PARAGRAPH NOTES GRI STANDARD TITLE GRI DISCLOSURE NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE TITLE PARAGRAPH NOTES The OHSAS 18001 certification led to Operations that have been subject to human All operations have been assessed Workers representation in formal joint 412-1 the creation of a safety management rights reviews or impact assessments (SA8000®) 403-1 management-worker health and safety system. The responsible are those laid committees down by the Italian Legislation GRI 412: Employee training on human rights 412-2 3.5 Human Rights policies or procedures Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Assessment 2016 GRI 403: 403-2 diseases, lost days and absenteeism and 3.7 Significant investment agreements and Occupational Health 412-3 contracts that include human rights clauses 1.5 number of work-related fatalities and Safety 2016 or that underwent human rights screening Workers with high incidence or high risk 403-3 3.7 of diseases related to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in 403-4 3.7 formal agreements with trade unions Operations with local community engagement, 413-1 1.9; 5.1 GRI 413: impact assessments and development programs Local Communities 2016 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential 5.1; 6.1 negative impacts on local communities 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 3.4 GRI 404: Programs for upgrading employee skills 404-2 3.4 Training and Education and transition assistance programs 2016 Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 3.4 New suppliers that were screened 2.2 performance and career development reviews 414-1 GRI 414: using social criteria Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 2.2 and actions taken 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 3 .1 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Ratio of basic salary and remuneration Opportunities 2016 405-2 3.2 of women to men GRI 415: Alcantara S.p.A. has never made contributions 415-1 Political contributions Public Policy 2016 to politicians and political parties GRI 406: Incidents of discrimination and corrective 406-1 No incidents occurred Non-discrimination 2016 actions taken Assessment of the health and safety 4.2 416-1 GRI 416: impacts of product and service categories Customer Health GRI 407: and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health No incidents of non-compliance Operations and suppliers in which and safety impacts of products and services occurred Freedom of Association 407-1 the right to freedom of association 2.2 and Collective and collective bargaining may be at risk Bargaining 2016 Requirements for product and service 4.3 417-1 information and labeling GRI 408: Operations and suppliers at significant GRI 417: 408-1 2.2 Child Labor 2016 risk for incidents of child labor Incidents of non-compliance concerning No incidents of non-compliance Marketing and Labeling 417-2 product and service information and labeling occurred 2016 Incidents of non-compliance concerning No incidents of non-compliance 417-3 marketing communications occurred GRI 409: Forced and Operations and suppliers at significant risk 409-1 2.2 Compulsory Labor 2016 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 418: Substantiated complaints concerning 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and No complaints received GRI 410: Security personnel trained in human Customer Privacy 2016 losses of customer data 410-1 None Security Practices 2016 rights policies or procedures GRI 411: Rights GRI 419: Incidents of violations involving rights Non-compliance with laws and regulations No incidents of non-compliance of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 of indigenous peoples No violations occurred Socioeconomic 419-1 in the social and economic area occurred 2016 Compliance 2016 132 133 134 135 Iris van Herpen and Esther Stocker, “Extended Indefinitely”, Nine Journeys Through Time, Royal Palace, Milan, 2018 136 137 PIONEERING IN THE SUSTAINABLE FIELD SINCE 2009 Browse the interactive report on sustainabilityreport.alcantara.com Alcantara S.p.A. Via Mecenate 86 20138 Milan, Italy Telephone +39 02 580301 alcantara.com alcantarasustainability@alcantara.com Alcantara® is a registered trademark of Alcantara S.p.A. Printed on paper RecyStar Nature 138
