Building a Better Tomorrow SUNWAY BERHAD | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TABLE OF CONTENTS pg 04 ABOUT SUNWAY BERHAD pg 46 OUR PEOPLE, AS OUR FORCE FOR GOOD pg 48 OUR COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS pg 50 FOSTERING A DIVERSITY OF IDEAS FOR TRANSFORMATION pg 08 WHERE WE ARE pg 57 A HEALTHY WORKPLACE TO THRIVE pg 60 LEADERSHIP AND CONTINUOUS LEARNING FOR SUSTAINABILITY pg 63 SAFETY IS OUR CULTURE pg 09 WHAT WE DO pg 65 WORKING WITH OTHERS pg 67 COMMUNITY SAFETY pg 10 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE pg 69 UPLIFTING THE VULNERABLE FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH pg 70 #SUNWAYFORGOOD pg 75 GOALS & TARGETS pg 12 PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE pg 76 KEY PERFORMANCE INDEX pg 78 ACHIEVEMENTS AND AWARDS 2019 pg 14 LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT pg 80 ADDRESSING CLIMATE CHANGE pg 16 SUNWAY’S STAKEHOLDERS pg 82 OUR STRATEGY TOWARDS DECARBONISATION pg 85 EFFICIENT LAND AND MATERIALS MANAGEMENT pg 88 EFFICIENT CITIES AND BUILDINGS pg 18 OUR STAKEHOLDER’S MATERIAL CONCERNS pg 91 EFFICIENT ENERGY MANAGEMENT pg 96 EFFICIENT WATER MANAGEMENT pg 102 EFFICIENT WASTE MANAGEMENT pg 20 RISK, OPPORTUNITIES AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH pg 114 GOALS & TARGETS pg 115 KEY PERFORMANCE INDEX pg 117 ACHIEVEMENTS AND AWARDS 2019 pg 22 THE FUTURE IS URBAN pg 118 PROSPERITY AND PROGRESS FOR ALL pg 23 THE TIME FOR TRANSFORMATION IS NOW pg 120 BUILDING BRAND TRUST pg 121 INVESTING LONG-TERM IN OUR COMMUNITIES pg 23 HARNESSING THE POWER OF TECHNOLOGY TO DELIVER URBAN TRANSFORMATION pg 124 BUILDING THE URBAN FUTURE pg 128 GROWING OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT pg 129 GOALS & TARGETS pg 26 BUILD, OWN, OPERATE BUSINESS MODEL pg 130 KEY PERFORMANCE INDEX pg 131 ACHIEVEMENTS AND AWARDS 2019 pg 30 GOVERNANCE AS THE FOUNDATION FOR GOOD pg 134 ABOUT THE REPORT pg 32 THE UNDERLYING FOUNDATION FOR GOOD pg 34 ENCODING PEACE AND JUSTICE IN STRONG INSTITUTIONS pg 38 MANAGING OUR RISKS pg 136 LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS pg 39 PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE FUTURE pg 41 MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS pg 137 GRI CONTENT INDEX pg 43 GOALS & TARGETS pg 44 ACHIEVEMENTS AND AWARDS 2019 pg 145 ALIGNMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS 02 03 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah AO SUNWAY BERHAD [GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7] The history of Sunway Berhad (“Sunway” or “Group”) dates back to 1978. It is the parent company of the Sunway Group of companies – Malaysia’s largest conglomerate and one of the top 100 stocks listed on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad with businesses in 50 locations across 11 countries with 11,430 employees and a market capitalisation of RM8.9 billion as at 31 December 2019. Integrated Properties Investment REIT Construction Our core businesses are integrated property services comprising property development, property investment, construction, trading and manufacturing, quarry, building materials, healthcare and others. Together, we Property serve a wide range of customers, ranging from governments and authorities, to multinational corporations Healthcare Development across various industries, to homebuyers and to international and domestic travellers. Headquartered in Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, Selangor, Malaysia, Sunway has delivered more than 30,000 Trading and homes and has close to RM11 billion of assets under management under our investment and REIT divisions. Leisure Manufacturing Sunway Construction Group Berhad, our 54.6%-owned subsidiary, is the largest pure-play construction company in Malaysia by revenue. Hospitality Quarry Our healthcare, building materials, trading and manufacturing, quarry, and other strategic investment divisions are market leaders in their respective industries. Sunway REIT, our 40.9% owned associate is the second largest REIT in Malaysia by property value with a Property Building portfolio of RM8.05 billion assets under management. The combined market capitalisation for Sunway’s Investment Materials three public-listed companies total up to RM16.7 billion as at 31 December 2019. Attesting to Sunway’s commitment towards advancing the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, all our public-listed companies are constituents of the FTSE4Good index. Others VISION To be Asia’s model corporation in sustainable development, innovating to enrich lives for a better tomorrow Sunway’s Property Development division is one of the top property developers in Malaysia that has delivered PROPERTY over 30,000 units of residential, commercial and retail properties in Malaysia and overseas. DEVELOPMENT • Empowering our people to deliver enhanced value to all stakeholders With the success of our award-winning flagship township of Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, we have continued MISSION • Embracing sustainability in our business processes and decisions to build a reputation for innovative and sustainable integrated townships/developments in Sunway City • Attracting and nurturing a talented and progressive workforce for the digital era Ipoh, Sunway Damansara, Sunway Velocity, Sunway Penang and Sunway City Iskandar, and standalone developments alike in Malaysia, as well as key property markets such as Singapore, China and Australia. Integrity CORPORATE We believe in doing the right thing at all times CORE VALUES • We conduct ourselves in an honest and trustworthy manner • We act professionally, ethically and honourably Under the Group’s ‘Build, Own, Operate’ business model, Sunway’s Property Investment and Real Estate • We ensure that our actions are consistent with our words PROPERTY Investment Trusts (“REIT”) division owns an extensive portfolio of retail assets, hotels, offices, university INVESTMENT campuses, student accommodations, a medical centre and an industrial asset, predominately located within Humility AND REIT the Group’s integrated townships. We believe in being humble, polite and respectful • We never stop learning These properties are held either directly through subsidiaries of the Group or Sunway REIT, a 40.9%-owned • We care for and respect people and the environment associate. The total Assets under Management (“AUM”) of the division is in excess of RM10.7 billion with • We seek first to understand and then to be understood a total net lettable area (“NLA”) of approximately 11.3 million square feet. These assets generate stable and recurring rental income for the Group. Excellence We take pride in all that we do • We strive to deliver high quality products and services • We continually innovate and improve for greater progress • We seek to inspire others to excel 04 05 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT SUNWAY BERHAD (CONT’D) [GRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7] Sunway’s Leisure division offers thrilling adventures to international and local visitors through its two The Trading and Manufacturing division of Sunway Group began operations in 1983 and has since grown LEISURE signature theme parks – Sunway Lagoon in Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, and Lost World of Tambun in TRADING AND into an international trading establishment serving various industries including construction, marine, oil Sunway City Ipoh, Perak. MANUFACTURING and gas, mining, agriculture, manufacturing, logging and quarry. Spanning 88 acres and boasting over 90 attractions across six uniquely designed parks, Sunway Lagoon With a network of 43 active locations over 7 countries in the region, the division offers a wide range of has attracted over 30 million visitors since its inception in 1992 and is internationally recognised as one well-established in-house brands and agency lines, classified into five major product lines, namely Hoses & of the best theme parks in Asia and one of the most sought-after concert and events venue in the region. Fittings, Heavy Equipment Parts, Heavy Equipment, Building Materials and Industrial Hardware. Lost World of Tambun is set in the majestic 260 million years old limestone hills, landscaped with lush tropical flora and fauna and natural hot springs. With over 40 acres of attractions and rides as well as natural hot springs pools, the park offers both day and night entertainment for all ages. Sunway returned to the quarry industry in 2005 and has since become a well-established player in the QUARRY local quarry scene with the supply of single sized and blended aggregates and production of asphalt for the Our Hospitality division operates 11 hotels and resorts in Malaysia, Cambodia and Vietnam, representing a paving of roads and highways. HOSPITALITY collection of over 3,300 guestrooms, suites and villas. The division made two acquisitions in 2019, namely Blacktop Industries and Dolomite Granite Quarry. The The division’s portfolio of hospitality assets and services includes ownership and management of a cluster transaction for the first tranche of Blacktop Industries’ acquisition was successfully completed in July 2019 of hotels with large scale convention, meeting and exhibition facilities in an integrated city, to private villa which helped increase the size of its operations to a total of 8 quarries and 24 asphalt plants across 19 destination, a wellness retreat and a portfolio of 5, 4 and 3-star hotels in mixed-use developments with locations in Malaysia, contributing to some of the nation’s largest developments and infrastructure projects. adjoining leisure and retail facilities. The acquisition of Dolomite Granite Quarry is currently pending completion. The Group’s Building Materials division consists of three core segments; namely Interlocking Concrete With a track record of over 38 years, Sunway Construction Group Berhad (“SunCon”) is a leading contractor BUILDING MATERIALS CONSTRUCTION Pavers (“ICP”), Vitrified Clay Pipes (“VCP”), and Spun Piles. Each of these segments manufacture products in turnkey building and infrastructure projects contributing significantly to nation-building through iconic which are in compliance with Eco-Label and Green Label requirements, through sustainable business landmark projects. practices and eco-friendly manufacturing processes. Re-listed on the Main Board of Bursa Securities since 2015, SunCon has thrived into one of the most All manufacturing facilities are ISO accredited in Quality Management System and Environment Management reputable and largest listed pure play construction players in Malaysia, offering a full range of integrated Systems and all our products comply with Eco-Label and Green Label requirements. services from building, civil and infrastructure engineering, foundation and geotechnical engineering, mechanical, electrical and plumbing services (MEP), renewable energy services, to the manufacture and sale of precast concrete products. Established in 1999, Sunway Medical Centre is our flagship hospital for the Group’s Healthcare division. At Sunway, we are always on a look out and exploring new business opportunities that complement Sunway’s HEALTHCARE The hospital is one of the leading private hospitals in the region offering a comprehensive range of tertiary OTHERS service offerings within our value chains and help us realise our vision of sustainability by enriching lives healthcare services and advanced treatment options. for a better tomorrow. In September 2019, a second hospital, Sunway Medical Centre Velocity, was opened in the integrated development of Sunway Velocity Kuala Lumpur. The division is currently undertaking capacity expansion at the flagship Sunway Medical Centre and has embarked on an expansion plan to build six more hospitals over the next 5 years within our integrated developments in Malaysia. 06 07 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WHERE WE ARE WHAT WE DO [GRI 102-4, 102-6] 50 LOCATIONS >11,000 EMPLOYEES UNDER SUNWAY BERHAD MALAYSIA (HQ) THAILAND UNITED KINGDOM • Property Development • Trading and Manufacturing • Property Investment • Construction • Hospitality CAMBODIA • Healthcare • Leisure CHINA • Quarry • Hospitality • Trading and Manufacturing MYANMAR • Building Materials INDONESIA INDIA THAILAND SINGAPORE • Trading and Manufacturing VIETNAM CAMBODIA • Construction MALAYSIA • Healthcare MYANMAR • Trading and Manufacturing INDONESIA • Property Development SINGAPORE • Construction CHINA INDIA • Property Development • Trading and Manufacturing • Property Development AUSTRALIA • Building Materials • Construction AUSTRALIA UNITED KINGDOM • Property Development • Property Investment • Trading and Manufacturing VIETNAM • Hospitality • Building Materials • Trading and Manufacturing 08 09 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE [GRI 102-14] D ear Stakeholders, At Sunway, we are doing our part towards building a sustainable future for all in this part of the world that we call home. For more than four decades, our team Excellence is about delivering high-quality products and services in whatever sector we are engaged in. It is about constantly pursuing the highest standards We have arrived at a potential tipping point in the history of our civilisation and our planet. Over the last 200 years, the world has has worked to develop the skills, strength, knowledge in all that we do. witnessed tremendous economic growth. This progress and prosperity are remarkable, but they have come at a cost. and technology for us to achieve this goal. Our businesses have a presence in the most socioWe are now struggling to cope with social, environmental and economic problems that growth has brought in its wake. Our stakeholders – including customers, staff, economically significant urban centres in 11 shareholders and business partners – are all deeply markets across the world. We have developed deep And above all looms climate change, which poses a threat to the very survival of humanity. involved and committed towards this agenda. We and lasting partnerships with our masterplanned constantly strive to incorporate sustainability into communities where we have stayed as co-investors While we appear to be adequately equipped to deal with our current predicament given the tools, technology and knowledge at our our business practises, processes and operations. through our Build, Own, Operate model. command, the challenge facing us is one of character: Do we have the will and courage to act collectively to overcome these challenges? We approach our mission in a holistic and We have developed partnerships across the globe comprehensive manner with a focus towards with the United Nations, with governments, and My personal view is that this is no longer an option, but an urgent developing sustainable cities and thriving with world-renowned educational institutions such imperative as we have only ten years remaining to realise the 17 communities, enhancing healthcare and education, as the University of Cambridge, Harvard University, Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the United Nations as well as providing opportunities for the University of Oxford and University of California, under its “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for underserved through our #SunwayForGood corporate Berkeley. We believe in working with the best, and Sustainable Development.” responsibility initiatives. learning from the best. This requires action from more than just nations and Let me be clear though that our philosophy is based I also reaffirm Sunway’s commitment as a signatory governments. It requires the commitment of all components on providing a “hands up” rather than a “hand out.” of the United Nations Global Compact, renewing our of society -the private sector, academia, civil society, and, It is about empowering individuals and communities five-year pledge to continue creating a just, safe, fair of course, every single individual. to cultivate their own entrepreneurial skills to better and equitable society. themselves rather than relying solely on charity. We are all in this together. In this coming decade, it is incumbent upon us all to We are also committed to promoting the right values work together to build a better tomorrow. I am fully that we believe are crucial to ensure the success convinced that we can make a difference. of these efforts. At Sunway, our core values are Integrity, Humility and Excellence. Details of how we plan to achieve this goal will be spelled out in this report. Integrity is about conducting ourselves with honesty and trustworthiness – on every day, in every moment. It is about being professional, ethical and honest. Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah It is not just doing the right thing, but doing things Founder and Chairman right. Sunway Berhad Humility reminds us to be humble, polite and respectful. It is about displaying empathy, and demonstrating daily that we care and listen. It reminds us that no matter how much we think we know, we still have a lot more to learn. 10 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PRESIDENT’S Strengthening Governance And Partnerships To improve land use efficiency, we acquire strategic landbanks that are suitable for mixed-use development to reduce the MESSAGE As the Group’s businesses grow in scale and complexity, good corporate governance is crucial in ensuring that we continue to need for travel. During the construction process, virtual design construction (VDC) tools and pre-fabrication technologies, such conduct business in a fair and ethical manner, and consider the as system formwork and industrialised building systems (IBS), are interest of all our stakeholders in achieving long-term, sustainable utilised to increase efficiency and reduce wastage. We constantly [GRI 102-14] growth. seek to incorporate innovative materials and environmentallyD ear Stakeholders, To strengthen stakeholder trust in the Sunway Group, we have friendly pavements in our developments. We are exploring urban farms, and have launched a 74-acre organic farm in Sunway City adopted an augmented Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy. Ipoh. Our world is in the midst of structural changes driven by key trends: technological advancement, economic power shifts, climate change and resource scarcity, rapid urbanisation, and demographic shifts. The confluence of these forces has caused turbulence, but In support of the National Entrepreneurship Policy, Sunway We have also begun utilising new features in our buildings to reduce I believe that with clear minds, one heart and discipline, we will surmount this. iLabs, our incubator and accelerator, has set up a fund with Gobi our energy and water usage. In 2019, we completed retrofitting 5 Partners and Malaysia Venture Capital Management Berhad to malls, 7 hotels, 5 office towers and both of our theme parks. As of The Sunway Group started over 40 years ago as a tin-mining company and has since grown to become a conglomerate spanning nine explore technology-related high growth areas. 2019, 1% of our energy usage is from renewable energy and we industries. In each, we are a significant player. This diversity allows us to capture growth opportunities in many areas and provide aim to increase to 3% by 2030. The Group currently operates 13 comprehensive solutions to clients. We are doing our part to develop talent to support the growth green buildings with plans to add an additional 23 green buildings It also insulates our financial performance against the cyclical nature of individual of Malaysia’s digital economy. We are partnering with “42”, a by 2025. businesses. Sunway Group provided a steady return of over 8% to its shareholders computer programming school with a global network, to set up 42 for the last five years. We actively share common resources (human, financial and KL, which will be the nation’s first tuition-free campus providing Water security remains as one of the most important material technological) across the group, creating synergies and making us an attractive training in coding. items identified by our stakeholders. In fact, the Group has been choice for top talent in these functions. investing in water security and are taking steps to reduce water In healthcare, we continue to deepen our partnerships with wastage. Sunway Group recently invested in a water treatment The Group had another strong year in 2019. Profit before tax grew by 9.2% leading institutions globally. Leadership in Medicine: Southeast plant in Klang Valley, a water-stressed area, which is able to from 2018, to RM914.3 million. In addition to growing our businesses Asia Program, a one-year postgraduate program offered in provide 8.4 million litre of water a day from the existing mining organically, we acquired strategic assets to solidify our position, quarrying partnership with Harvard Medical School, graduated its inaugural lakes to selected commercial buildings within Sunway City Kuala in particular. We also expanded our geographic scope, with the construction class of 46 students in 2019. We also signed a Memorandum of Lumpur as well as harvesting rainwater for cleaning and landscape division making headway in India and Myanmar, and the property division Agreement with the University of Cambridge and the Royal College uses. further expanding in Singapore and China. Our master-planned communities of Physicians to collaborate in offering a series of Continuous continue to be enriched through the launching of Sunway Velocity Medical Medical Education seminars. Sunway Medical Centre at Sunway Finally, we strive to prevent and reduce waste through better Centre and Sunway Big Box Retail in Sunway City Iskandar. With an eye to the City Kuala Lumpur also serves as the regional site partner of the waste management, completing 17 waste management initiatives future, we launched Sunway Ventures, SunSEA Capital and Sunway iLabs to University of Cambridge’s clinical research centre. in 2019. We are also actively identifying and collaborating with establish a beachhead in new emerging industries. partners to utilise our waste products as inputs for their production. Developing People Looking ahead, we intend to continue growing shareholder value Prosperity And Progress meaningfully and responsibly – by actively contributing to our Occupational safety of our employees is important to Sunway local communities, harnessing environmentally sustainable Group. Our Quality, Environment, Safety and Health (QESH) In 2019, we achieved strong growth despite challenging market technology and pursuing growth areas that leverage the Management System conforms to international standards and we conditions. Profit after Tax and Minority Interest (PATMI) was strengths of Sunway Group. are continually striving to do better. The property development RM767.3 million, 18.9% higher than 2018. Annual dividend division and construction division, in collaboration with national pay-out were 9.07 sen per share, up from 7.12 sen in 2018. CHAMPIONING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT agencies, is preparing to pilot the Occupational Safety and Health in Construction Management (OSHCIM) guidelines. We aim to We believe this success should benefit both shareholders and our The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals have all business units attain international certifications for communities. Our property division launched a home ownership (UNSDG) and Malaysia’s Shared Prosperity Vision occupational health and safety standards by 2030. scheme to help more Malaysians own a home, with guaranteed 2030 (SPV) are agendas that the Sunway Group is 95% financing for eligible buyers that are financially responsible fully committed to. We aspire to be Asia’s model We are making good progress towards our target of 40 training yet find it challenging to qualify for conventional mortgages. corporation in sustainable development. To hours of per year for each employee. Sunway employees attended achieve this, our strategy and actions are guided an average of 31 hours of training each in 2019 (a 21% increase In Sunway Velocity, we invested RM31 million building link bridges by the following four key pillars: from 2018), of which three learning hours were on our online to connect our communities to the MRT and LRT stations. In platform. Sunway Serene, we continue to contribute RM100,000 annually • Peace and partnerships towards the maintenance of Tasik PJ Kita for the enjoyment of the • People Lastly, we look beyond ourselves and reach out to the community community. • Planet around us. Our #SunwayforGood programmes serve the • Prosperity economically vulnerable, helping those who may have fallen Looking Ahead behind regain their footing. Our goal is to improve a million lives Towards the achievement of these pillars, by 2030. Since 2015, we have contributed RM11.4 million to We have made good progress on our targets, and look forward to we have set eight group-wide goals aid the underserved communities in B40 group, people with further meaningful and responsible growth. Our progresses against comprising 17 strategic long-term disabilities, youth, women, children as well as senior citizens. our targets are outlined in this report. targets for delivery by 2030, in line with the goals of the UNSDG. Doing Our Part For The Planet Dato’ Chew Chee Kin We are mindful of the impact of development on our environment, President and strive to be more efficient and explore new ways of going Sunway Berhad green. 12 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY CO-CHAIRMAN MANAGEMENT (Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah) [GRI 102-19, 102-20] Sunway’s Founder and Executive Chairman, Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah, ensures the effectiveness of leadership of the Board. He is responsible for setting the visions, values and standards of the Company. The Board of Directors determine Sunway’s strategic direction and ensures our compliance to laws, internal regulations, risk management and control. Sustainability is a component of our corporate strategy. Sunway Group Sustainability Department is the unit responsible for sustainability strategy and sustainability management. The Department is advised by academic experts and researchers from Monash University, Sunway University and the Jeffrey Sachs Center PRESIDENT on Sustainable Development. Demonstrating our Board’s commitment to drive change through innovation and building on our legacy as a sustainability leader, Sunway Group Sustainability Department has been set up to cascade and drive the climate and environment policy, operations and management of natural resources, energy, utilities, environment, biodiversity, waste management, greenhouse gas emissions and use of alternative resources to systematically and sustainably maximise system efficiency. Decisions on the long-term alignment of sustainability-related areas of action are endorsed at Board level, whereby they would convene to discuss and assess Sunway’s progress on economic, environmental and social issues as well as the degree to which sustainability principles have been integrated into the various divisions. During this meeting, the Group’s sustainable development goals and targets are presented and endorsed by the Board, which are then incorporated into the Group’s sustainable development strategy. MANAGEMENT TEAM PARTNERSHIPS ADVISORY PANEL • Jeffrey Sachs Center (JSC) in Sustainable Development PEOPLE • Sunway University SUNWAY GROUP • Monash University SUSTAINABILITY DEPARTMENT SUSTAINABLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE ACROSS BUSINESS UNITS WITHIN SUNWAY GROUP PEACE United Nations Sustainable Development Goals structured around the 2030 Agenda 14 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUNWAY’S STAKEHOLDERS [GRI 102-21] We define our stakeholders as groups whom our business has a significant impact on and those with a vested interest in our operations. We believe that actively engaging and working in partnership with our stakeholders is crucial to addressing sustainability concerns. The table below illustrates our method of engagement with each stakeholder groups, frequency of engagement, their expectations and the manner in which we address their expectations. STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGEMENT METHODS FREQUENCY ADDRESSING EXPECTATIONS STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGEMENT METHODS FREQUENCY ADDRESSING EXPECTATIONS CUSTOMERS • Complaints resolution •U  pholding brand promise and LOCAL COMMUNITIES & NGOS •C  ommunity engagement • Community enrichment initiatives • Customer satisfaction surveys product quality excellence through social activities • Initiatives in line with Malaysia’s Expectations: • Events and activities Expectations: • Corporate advertisements Shared Prosperity Vision and • Product quality • Focus groups Throughout The interests of the community need • Upholding the interests of United Nations 17 Sustainable • Timely and transparent information • Loyalty programmes the year to be met in order to promote healthy stakeholders Throughout Development Goals about Sunway’s business operations • Roadshows economic, environmental and social the year • Loyalty and rewards programme outcomes in society. We deliver value to the communities in which we operate EMPLOYEES •E  mployee engagement • Career development programme through various community initiatives. programmes, trainings and • Employee Assistance Programme Expectations: townhall sessions (EAP) a 24-hour hotline SHAREHOLDERS • Annual general meeting •P  rudent risk management and Throughout Annually high financial return to our • Benefits • Employee engagement • Fair and safe workplace practices • ESG materiality study • Career developments survey the year Expectations: investors on top of ensuring • Employment equality • Kelab Sosial Sunway • Effective business strategies focused •E xtraordinary general transparency through reporting • 2-way communication activities on growth As and when and timely communication meeting (if required) • Effective communications and timely • Roadshows, quarterly and annual reporting presentations on results, with GOVERNMENT & INDUSTRY • ESG materiality study Annually •C  ompost food waste for • Corporate IR website • Prudent risk management clear strategic directions, goals AFFILIATES community use or urban farming • Email communications • Meetings • Market performance, business outlook and intended outcomes, broad to build resilience • One-on-one meetings Throughout • Project site visits and strategies risk exposures and targets Expectations: • Partnerships with others who use • Small group analyst briefings the year • Site inspections As and when • Compliance with regulations waste streams as input • Site visits • Support for policies of national • Technical committees interest including sustainability initiatives and innovation • Engagement sessions SUPPLIERS / VENDORS • ESG materiality study •P rocurement registration form and • Private partnerships to drive national • Engagement with Annually • Supplier feedback forms terms & conditions are published agenda Department of Occupational Expectations: on the website • Sharing of best practices for industry Safety and Health (DOSH) Throughout • Fair treatment •U  tilise the Esker software for progress • Report submissions the year • Tender and bidding As and when • Professional and transparent payment processes for timely • Implementation of policies and • Site visits and audits procurement payments requirements by relevant agencies or • Training, seminars and • Timely payments •D ay-to-day support professional bodies demonstrations engagements Ongoing • Dialogues Ongoing • Meetings 16 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR STAKEHOLDER’S MATERIAL CONCERNS [GRI 102-21, 102-31, 102-32, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-47] SUNWAY GROUP MATERIALITY SURVEY MATRIX 2019 6 In 2019, we conducted an in-depth stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment exercise. Based 4 3 1 MATERIALITY on our analysis of the output (in terms of quantitative and qualitative data), we identified 10 material 8 7 2 ASSESSMENT topics. Respondents of the survey were asked to rate each item under the EES categories based on the 11 5 12 10 level of importance of the material items are to them with 1 being the least important to 5 being the most 14 9 13 important. We received 1,140 responses from internal and external stakeholders. 20 16 21 17 15 Importance to Stakeholders 23 19 18 24 22 To address the material topics strategically, we have set goals and targets to be achieved by 2025 and 2030. 25 PRIORITISATION Moving forward, we will progress along these goals and targets, based on our commitment to contribute 34 32 30 28 26 27 towards advancing the UNSDG, current performance on leading market indices and material relevance to 37 35 33 31 29 stakeholders. 38 36 39 40 Our Board has approved a set of group-wide goals and targets. In 2020, the Group Sustainability department TARGET SETTING will communicate the goals and targets to the business units (BU) and monitor their progress on a regular 41 42 basis. A risk assessment will be carried out in the upcoming months. All goals and targets, as well as policies and procedures will be communicated to directors and employees via various platforms such as training sessions, induction programmes, internal communications and our website. It is our goal to progressively demonstrate sustainability leadership across our Asian footprint. 44 43 Relevance to Sunway Topics based on Bursa, UNSDG and GRI guidelines Legend: Low Medium High Critical Environmental Social Economic that are relevant to our business are identified 1. Water security 6. Customer privacy TOP 10 2. Water pollution 7. Energy security Stakeholders are identified MATERIAL ITEMS 3. Air pollution (impacting health) 8. Air pollution (global warming) 4. Customer health and safety 9. Biodiversity (ecosystem pollution) 5. Occupational health and safety 10. Climate change Stakeholders provide feedback 11. Anti-corruption issues 30. Rights of indigenous people OTHER MATERIAL 12. Discrimination at workplace 31. CSR activities ITEMS 13. Land pollution 32. Supply chain management 14. Violation of human rights 33. Indirect impact to the economy (job and 15. Biodiversity business opportunities) Results are compiled and the top ten items that are material to 16. Workforce upskilling 34. Financial penalty (due to non-compliance to 17. Equal opportunity for all employees environmental regulations) our stakeholders and relevant to our business are identified 18. Family-friendly policies at workplace 35. Supplier social assessment 19. Forced labour 36. Procurement practices 20. Product marketing, labeling and quality 37. Financial penalty (due to non-compliance to 21. Child labour social regulations) 22. Supplier environmental assessment 38. Public policy 23. Anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and 39. Financial penalty (due to non-compliance in Results from the materiality survey are reviewed and endorsed by the Board monopoly practices corporate governance) 24. Human rights training and practices 40. Investor concerns 25. Risk management (EES issues) 41. Increased cost of waste management 26. Employee engagement score 42. Increased cost of utilities (energy / water) 27. Financial performance 43. Using brownfield land or brownfield 28. Corporate governance development for future development Goals and targets are set 29. Use of renewable materials 44. Participation of trade unions 18 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 RISK, OPPORTUNITIES, AND MANAGEMENT APPROACH [GRI 102-15, 102-29, 103-2] GRI TOPICIMPACT & MATERIAL ITEMS RISKS OPPORTUNITIES SPECIFIC LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT APPROACH BOUNDARIES DISCLOSURES 1. WATER SECURITY •D  isruptions to businesses and •L  everage Build, Own, Operate business model to Customers, builders and Water • Identification of high-risk areas and building redundancy operations increase community resilience suppliers, government • All landscape to be irrigated by recycled supply by 2030 and regulators, investors, • 50% of water supply in commercial buildings located in Sunway City Kuala community and media Lumpur to be sourced from recycled supply by 2030 • Develop new solutions with our young entrepreneurs and to test it in our Pages 96-101 cities/developments 2. WATER POLLUTION •H  ealth risks to humans and biodiversity, •C  ompost food waste for community use or urban All stakeholders across our Water, Waste and •S  tormwater management, silt trap and particle monitoring for all affecting social license to operate farming to build resilience value chain Effluent developments as a standard practice • Fines that affect finances and reputation • Partnerships with others who use waste streams • Waste management policies as input • Urban farming to develop entrepreneurs, build community resilience, and Pages 96-101 reduce urban heat 3. AIR POLLUTION  • Health risks to surrounding •D  evelop competitive advantage for property All stakeholders across our Emissions, •T  otal Suspended Particles (TSP) measurement for all worksites (IMPACTING HEALTH) communities, affecting social license to products with homes catering towards well-being value chain Occupational Health • Built-in well-being features in all new property products operate & Safety, Customer Pages 82-87 • Fines that affect finances and reputation Health and Safety 4. CUSTOMER HEALTH • Business and reputational risks •N  ew solutions for township and development Customers, community, Customer Health •T  est-bedding scalable and replicable new security solutions at township AND SAFETY security as competitive advantage government and regulators and Safety levels and media Page 67-68 5. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH •S  afety and health of workers affect •P  artnerships with leading authorities and Employees, government Occupational •B  uild track-record as a competitive advantage for construction division AND SAFETY productivity academics to pilot industry leading standards and regulators and media Health and Safety • Fines that affect finances and reputation Pages 63-66 6. CUSTOMER PRIVACY •C  yberattacks can harm business and • Develop talent and test-bed new solutions Employees, government Customer Privacy •D  evelop new talent in Sunway University and test-bed new solutions that erode trust and regulators and media can be implemented or commercialised Page 38 7. ENERGY SECURITY •E  lectricity tariff hikes increases •D  evelop competitive advantage in the construction Customers, builders and Energy, Emissions •D  evelop competitive advantage in construction division operational costs division and implement in developments to save suppliers, government • Increase renewable energy in energy mix to save operational costs and energy for managed assets and as a competitive and regulators, investors, implement in new products as competitive advantage Pages 91-95 advantage for build-to-sell products community and media 8. AIR POLLUTION •H  ealth risks to surrounding •L  everage on improving the public network All stakeholders across our Emissions • Landbank acquisition strategy to include consideration for emissions (GLOBAL WARMING) communities, affecting social license to transportation system in Malaysia to deliver value chain • 40% waste diverted from landfill by 2030 operate transit-linked development as competitive • Test-bed replicable and scalable solutions in our cities Pages 82-87 • Fines that affect finances and reputation advantage 9. BIODIVERSITY •H  ealth risks to surrounding •B  uild track-record and capabilities as a Builders and suppliers, Biodiversity • Implement policies and create systems for ecosystem pollution management (ECOSYSTEM POLLUTION) communities, affecting social license to sustainable development leader with governance community and the media operate for pollution management through value-chain • Fines that affect finances and reputation Pages 83 & 85 10. CLIMATE CHANGE •D  amage to assets, environment and •L  everage Build, Own, Operate model to build All stakeholders across our Emissions •C  onstruction division to develop Virtual Design Construction models that society resilience value chain takes into account climate resilience • Leverage private security team as first-line of • Develop urban farms to build robustness defence to strengthen safety and security of the • Built-in climate resilience in managed assets and built-to-sell-assets community • All sites of more than 50 hectares must conduct the Environmental Impact Assessment (“EIA”) and consist of 40% open space • All new townships and buildings completed from 2025 onwards to have Pages 82-107 green certifications 20 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 THE FUTURE THE TIME FOR IS URBAN TRANSFORMATION IS NOW [GRI 203-2] Today, more than half the world lives in cities and and social benefits of those investments, such as Eight years from the merger of Sunway City Berhad are. Harnessed correctly, we can put our resources to by 2050 it has been estimated that two-thirds of all improvements in citizen health, jobs generated, and Sunway Holdings Berhad in 2011, we are now work to combat the rising threats of climate change humanity will be in cities. poverty and inequality eliminated, were many times bigger, better, stronger than before, and more welland co-create a sustainable future for all. greater even than the US$17 trillion value. positioned to capture one of the biggest opportunities In a unique way, cities are the world’s biggest to transform ourselves and the world. We believe that all the capitals that we have amassed challenge, but they are also potentially our largest Sunway’s urban transformation endeavours had and circulated in our urban areas of influence now solution.On one hand, cities consume much of the begun in 1974 with the transformation of an Simultaneously, everywhere across the world five enable us to drive the achievement of the United world’s energy and produce 70% of the world’s abandoned land of disused mining pools caused by megatrends are changing the way we live. Rapid Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals emissions. On the other hand, cities produce 80% destructive mining activities, devoid of vegetation, urbanisation is concentrating people in cities, (UNSDG) in our hands. of the world’s GDP and therefore are the centre of population and economic life into a thriving city. technological advancements are putting the power of gravity for economic growth. Cities are where people Henceforth, we have deepened our commitment to change in our hands, and the economic powershifts There is no better time than now to make tremendous can innovate and progress, and where efforts to sustainability by embedding it into a unique Build, are concentrating financial capital in Asia where we transformation. mitigate impacts of climate change and resilience Own, Operate business model that is powered by our building will have a disproportionate effect. This capabilities across a full real estate value chain. This is because cities are densely populated areas with includes landbanking, urban masterplanning and economies of scale and can deliver significant design, through to construction and development, potential for climate co-benefits. leasing, sales and marketing, as well as management and long-term ownership. Cities are potentially centres for green growth. In East Pacific Asia alone, the International Finance Our integrated capabilities have been our competitive Corporation has estimated that there is a cumulative advantage, ensuring recurring diversified income climate investment opportunity of US$17.5 trillion and growth, enabling us to grow our capacities and across six urban sectors in emerging markets cities capabilities to grab potential opportunities to be a to 2030 across six urban sectors1. A New Climate catalyst for urban transformation. To date, we have Economy study found that US$1 trillion spent per built, and now own and operate masterplanned year by cities on 11 types of low carbon projects would communities where we grow alongside our HARNESSING THE POWER OF produce US$17 trillion in net present financial value communities as we continue to hold up to 40% through 2050, just from the direct energy savings assets in our communities. alone. A follow-on research found that the economic TECHNOLOGY TO DELIVER URBAN TRANSFORMATION [GRI 203-1, 203-2] One of the key enablers that we have identified build-for-sale properties, we continue the digital to exponentially magnify our impact towards the journey by integrating digital technologies into our achievement of the UNSDG is the deeper integration customer journey map across touchpoints to drive of technology into the way we build, own, operate and awareness, consideration, purchase, and transform serve our communities. By setting targets aligned to the way we serve our customers. This is in line the UNSDG, we can drive innovation, increase our with our promise to deliver lifelong value to our regulatory resilience, strengthen investor confidence communities. In our cities, we are exploring ways and credibility as well as gain a competitive to enhance security through the integration of AI advantage for us in a low-carbon future. technology and installing electric vehicle charging bays across our townships to encourage green In our journey of transformation into a digital urban mobility. innovation enterprise, we have integrated private cloud, big data and analytics integration, and We expect our digital initiatives to drive our Esker e-invoicing to drastically reduce our carbon top line and bottom line growth to enable us to footprint and increase productivity, effectively continue to recycle capital into delivering game enables our people to focus on things that matter changing solutions that produce far-reaching urban the most – producing innovative solutions for urban transformation. This will enhance our contribution Aerial night view of Sunway City Kuala Lumpur transformation. Across our value-chain, we have to the aim of the Paris Agreement, to limit global harnessed the power of Moore’s law to deliver benefits warming to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. to the environment, society and the economy. In our 1 Climate Investment Opportunities in Cities: An IFC Analysis, World Bank Group (2018) 22 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 HARNESSING THE POWER OF TECHNOLOGY TO DELIVER URBAN TRANSFORMATION (CONT’D) [GRI 203-1, 203-2] INDUSTRY / DIVISION / INDUSTRY / DIVISION / TECHNOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS FOR URBAN TRANSFORMATION TECHNOLOGICAL SOLUTIONS FOR URBAN TRANSFORMATION ACTIVITIES ACTIVITIES PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT •F  or our landbanking and masterplanning activities, we acquire lands which are transit-oriented QUARRY •W  e have improved site connectivity and communications infrastructure which improved or suited for compact, mixed developments to mitigate our carbon footprint when we build, own operational efficiency while enhancing the way we serve our customers. and operate. • We continue to explore industrialised building systems where we aim to deliver a wide-range of socio-economic as well as environmental benefits. TRADING AND •W  e are now using Global Positioning Systems (GPS) tracking for service vehicles and machines, PROPERTY RETAIL • In Sunway Pyramid Mall, our flagship mall, where we are test-bedding our retail innovations, MANUFACTURING and have implemented a Warehouse Management System (WMS), as well as digitalised our INVESTMENT we have rolled out a cashless parking system and license plate recognition system so that our quality control services. shoppers can have a seamless experience. • To enhance security, we are working on a pilot project to enhance our security system with the integration of Smart CCTVs that include facial recognition. • We are currently testing out a self-service kiosk in Sunway Pyramid Mall Ice to deliver seamless BUILDING MATERIALS •W  e have implemented a WMS and GPS tracking service for vehicles and maintenance systems, experience to our customers. creating efficiency in delivery to our customers. • Sunway Malls has been working closely with Google and Apple, leveraging on their technologies • Continuing on our innovation journey of the production of permeable pavers, we are currently to offer indoor positioning via individual mall’s shopper mobile app. Currently, Sunway Pyramid also researching the development of solar pavers and conducting research to reduce sulphur Mall has completed successfully, while other malls are in the pipeline. content, CO2 emissions, promote the usage of rubber and increase the durability of our asphalt • Sunway Malls has built an app for its business partners, RetailTECH, to close communication pavements. gaps between tenants and mall operators, increasing our speed in delivering operational solutions when it matters most. • A Unified Payment Terminal is used in our malls. The terminal essentially allows retail tenants to accept cashless payment from major e-wallets, debit cards, and credit cards via an all-in-one payment terminal. WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (WMS) HOSPITALITY •A  longside Sunway Pyramid Mall, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa’s Cluster of hotels were also able to extend the cashless parking system and license plate recognition system, providing guests with a seamless experience. WMS software guides inventory receiving and put-away, optimises picking, packing, shipping of orders and increases accuracy of the warehouse with the help of barcode scanning (Eg. Reduces wrong item picking). HEALTHCARE •A  s we are expanding our healthcare services to deliver quality healthcare across the nation, we are piloting electronic medical records and have launched the SunMed Go application to All performed transactions is real time and traceable, thus it can provide valuable insight for inquiry. With this software, book the services patients want, effectively eliminating the need for queues and have their staff efficiency can be improved by executing optimum strategy for the warehouse by reducing the process turnaround medications delivered to their homes. time for processes like Receiving, Put-away, Picking, Packing and Cycle Count. This system is fully integrated with Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), thus human entry error is eliminated as well. Furthermore, analysis of the collected LEISURE • In our theme parks, we have integrated AI monitoring and counting of visitors. data can help produce better decision-making in future strategies involving warehouse operations (Eg. Picking pattern CONSTRUCTION •W  e have integrated building information management and 6D virtual design construction which to determine wave / batch picking). allows us to save time, minimise wastage and improve quality – be it in our nation-building projects across Asia, in spaces where people live, learn, work or play. In summary, the current benefits are much more focused on operations improvement and organisation sustainability. In • We are currently progressing our virtual design construction to 7D models which are capable the long run, it contributes to decarbonisation by: of performing efficient energy, heat emission, light and sun path analyses on buildings in compliance to the Green Building Index (GBI). • Optimising  the warehouse space utilisation and turn-around time for the whole supply chain process which reduces • We have integrated solar capabilities into our suite of integrated services so that we can integrate electricity consumption. renewable energy when we build for ourselves and others. • Reducing the need to print. • In Singapore, we are investing in an Integrated Construction and Prefabrication Hub (ICPH). The virtual design construction and solar capabilities will translate to better and greener cities, homes and businesses for people through our property-construction collaboration that we have deepened through our merger exercise in 2011. 24 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUILD, OWN, OPERATE BUSINESS MODEL Sunway employs a Build, Own and Operate (“BOO”) business model, where assets are acquired, designed and built for ownership by the Group. While the Group can operate as a third party contractor by constructing assets for others, its primary focus is to own assets TO SELL built to generate recurring income and enable the Group to expand its business presence across its chosen industries. Whether the focus is on developing a more competitive value proposition towards securing infrastructure contracts or towards developing Maximisation of land value through strategic landbanking, master planning and development a successful township, strategic synergy allows the Group to realise its vision and mission and deliver sustainable, enduring value for to balance growth, cash flow and management of inventory. stakeholders. FOR OTHERS Proven contractor with strong technical expertise to drive efficiencies, timeliness, cost savings Realising of Vision and Mission through the acquisition or design and build of infrastructure assets, landbanking and creation of vibrant, and high quality through highly specialised expertise in Design & Build and Virtual Design and sustainable landscapes and communities. Construction (VDC). FOR SELF Property and Construction collaboration from planning stage to reduce delays and design Integrated design and construction Assets built and then sold for revenue i.e. Assets built for Group ownership inefficiencies. In-house jobs provide bedrock orders. services contracts i.e. roads, bridges, rail, residential and commercial properties. and direct operational control. etc. for external customers. Revenue model: Revenue model: Provides construction support for the Property One-off sales of assets and recurring income Recurring income. TO OPERATE Development division and undertakes design from selected assets retained by the Group to and build of the Group’s investment support a sustainable community / township. properties. Yield optimisation through creation of space and asset enhancement initiatives. Management Revenue model: of assets to drive operational yield for hospitality, leisure, retail, commercial, healthcare and Project management and construction fees. industrial components, with potential for future REIT injection. FOR YIELD Assets injected into fund structure for recurring income. Acquisition or organic growth opportunities with management of capital and yield. STRATEGIC VALUE CHAIN SUPPORT Strategically supported by: Provision of raw materials, machinery and equipment, technical knowledge and undertaking Research and Development ( R&D ) in support of Providing a reliable, cost-effective and high-quality supply of essential materials and inputs infrastructure development. that is required by other business divisions such as Construction, Property Development and others. Revenue model: Sales to Group divisions and external customers. SUNWAY’S BUSINESS DIVISIONS INCLUDE: PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT PROPERTY INVESTMENT AND REIT LEISURE HOSPITALITY CONSTRUCTION HEALTHCARE TRADING AND MANUFACTURING QUARRY BUILDING MATERIALS 26 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TO BE ASIA’S MODEL CORPORATION FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Str ate E gie DIV s D IA AN AS TE SS PU Bu ICA RO NE RSU sin PL AC ess RE IFY W ES Lo GR YN RS ng OW ER -Te TH GIS rm Build, Own, Operate AR TIC Model to EA m S diu DIGITALISE AND INNOVATE Me ACROSS VALUE CHAIN e nc lle xce fE so PEACE PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY lar Pil Strong Progressive Low Carbon Cities Returns to Governance Communities Stakeholders s ler ab En Peace & Partnerships Progressive Green Value Perpetual for SDG Goals Sunwayians Chain Growth [GRI 102-22, 201-1, 305-2, 305-3, 306-2, 404-1, 413-1] RM767.3 MILLION 9.63% RM1.63 9.07 SEN Profit attributable Net tangible assets Return on equity Dividend per share to shareholders per share 40,131 TONNES 1% RM22.8 MILLION 4.1 TONNES Of CO2e avoided Electricity from Utilities cost avoidance Waste diverted from since 2015 solar energy since 2015 landfill since 2015 9.14 22% 30.7 404,901 Work-related injuries per Senior management Training hours Beneficiaries from CSR milion hours worked are women per staff activities since 2015 Sunway City Kuala Lumpur 28 29 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOVERNANCE AS THE Strong Governance FOUNDATION FOR GOOD Peace & Partnerships for SDG Goals At Sunway, corporate governance goes beyond us guiding principles on business conduct and From left to right: Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Lin See Yan (Independent Non-Executive Director), Wong Chin Mun (Senior Independent Non-Executive Director), Dato’ Chew Chee Kin (President, Nonregulations and compliance. We view it as the ethics to all our board members, employees, Independent Executive Director), Dato’ Sri Idris Jala (Non-Executive Co-Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director), Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah (Executive Chairman, foundation for sustained competitive advantage and suppliers underscoring our commitment to Non-Independent Executive Director), Tan Sri Datuk Seri Razman M. Hashim (Deputy Executive Chairman, Non-Independent Executive Director), Sarena Cheah Yean Tih, S.M.S. (Non-Independent Executive Director), Philip Yeo Liat Kok (Independent Non-Executive Director), Tan Sri Datuk Dr Rebecca Fatima Sta Maria (Independent Nonthat strengthens our business as well as sustainable business. Our corporate governance Executive Director) management of sustainability-related risks. practices are set out in our Annual Report. Our corporate governance framework consists Strong governance is our commitment to of policies and control systems which provides uphold peace, justice and strong institutions. 30 31 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 THE UNDERLYING FOUNDATION FOR GOOD [GRI 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-26, 102-35] GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK At Sunway, our Board of Directors leads our ambition for positive transformation. They are stewards for our LEADING OUR growth and are responsible for setting the foundation of good governance within the organisation. They set INDEPENDENT NON-INDEPENDENT TRANSFORMATIVE Sunway’s core values, strategic direction and the management of Sunway towards sustainable performance. NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ENDEAVOURS Dato' Sri Idris Jala Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah Our Board Charter sets out the Board’s strategic intent and outlines the roles and powers that our Board holds, and those which it cascades to our Management. This also sets the tone of the various Board Committees and shapes a culture of responsibility among employees, with a system of checks and balances ENSURING EFFECTIVENESS OF THE STRATEGIC LEADERSHIP at all levels of the organisation. OVERALL BOARD, BOARD COMMITTEES & INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS • Leading philanthropist in Asia by Forbes Our Co-Chairmen are Non-Independent Executive Director, Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah and Independent Non• Founder and Trustee of the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation, Malaysia’s largest social Executive, Dato’ Sri Idris Jala. Their commitments to drive change towards a peaceful and inclusive world is • World-renowned transformation specialist enterprise for education • Bloomberg’s top 10 most influential policy evident in their leadership roles in driving economic, social and environmental progress for our organisation makers in the world • Chairman of the United Nations and the world at large. • Founder and Executive Chairman of The Sustainable Development Solutions Global Transformation Forum Network (SDSN) Malaysia chapter • Served on the advisory panel of the World • Established Jeffrey Sachs Center for The Board of Sunway Berhad consists of 5 Independent Non-Executive Directors, and 4 Non-independent Sustainable Development as regional hub Economic Forum (WEF) on New Economic Executive Directors. Growth and also on the Advisory Panel of for research and policy practice, creating World Bank. world-class programmes to train new generation of students, practitioners and Our Board Committees are the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee, Risk policy leaders Management Committee, ESOS Committee and Risk Management Committee. • Chairman of the Malaysian Crime Prevention Foundation (Selangor Chapter) Membership of our Board of Directors and Board Committees, their charters, frequency of meetings, AUDIT COMMITTEE attendance rates and conflicts of interest are outlined in our Annual Report. • Fully non-executive Audit Committee • Oversees and monitors the internal control systems, financial and accounting reporting, compliance, Our Board’s effectiveness is evaluated with consideration of their contributions towards strengthening our operation and financial risk management • Guided by the Policy on Selection of External Auditors governance, economic, environmental and social performance as outlined in the Board Charter. • Our company commits to the regular rotation of auditors in compliance with the requirements of the PRESIDENT Malaysia Institute of Accountants Our leadership team operates within the governance framework in order to systematically fulfill its roles • Our external auditors rotate their engagement partners and engagement quality control reviewer Responsible for meeting the Group’s and responsibilities under the Companies Act 2016, Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia assigned to the Group every 7 years business performance targets and • We provide for fines and settlement specified for ESG issues in our audited accounts. implementing the Board’s strategies Securities Berhad as well as all relevant laws and regulations. and policies Our board has oversight on our code of conduct, code of ethics, environment, social and governance (ESG) NOMINATION COMMITTEE risks. • Evaluates the Board’s and Board committees’ effectiveness including Independent Directors’ performances and contributions Our company commits to the regular rotation of auditors in compliance with the requirements of the • Ensures Independent Non-Executive Directors’ continuing independence Malaysia Institute of Accountants. Our external auditors rotate their engagement partners and engagement • Reviews board size, composition and training needs of Directors MANAGEMENT TEAM quality control reviewer assigned to the Group every 7 years. • Sets selection criteria for appointment of new Director(s) and evaluating performances of retiring Directors and recommending their re-election • Ensures management succession planning We continuously emphasise responsible and sustainable business practices as well as adhering to the highest levels of corporate integrity throughout our company in line with our core values of integrity, humility REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and excellence. • Fully non-executive Remuneration Committee with independent members • Ensures that Directors are fairly remunerated for their responsibilities and contributions to the Company’s overall performance and the levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract and retain Directors of high calibre RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE • Ensures a sound system of risk management and internal controls • Determines and identifies key material risks with quantifiable impact to bottom line • Sets risk tolerance levels within the Group in achieving the Group’s strategic goals EMPLOYEES’ SHARE OPTION SCHEME (“ESOS”) COMMITTEE • Reviews the By-Laws of the ESOS and sets criteria for allocation of options under the ESOS • Ensures that actual allocation of options under the ESOS is in accordance with the rules of ESOS By-Laws • Approves new allocation of options under the ESOS to new qualified employees and employees who have been promoted 32 33 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENCODING PEACE AND JUSTICE IN STRONG INSTITUTIONS [GRI 102-11, 102-16, 102-17, 102-28, 102-33, 102-34, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3] Our commitment to peace, justice and strong and regulations of the governments, commissions OUR COMMITMENT institutions is addressed through a series of and exchanges in jurisdictions and countries within In 2014, it was found that companies with the most ethnically diverse codes, and policies, and is deeply ingrained in our which the Group operates. Each of us is responsible executive teams, not only with respect to absolute representation but organisation as a core value we uphold integrity. for taking appropriate actions to understand and also of variety or mix of ethnicities are 33% more likely to comply with the laws, rules and regulations that are Our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics provides applicable to their positions and / or work. outperform their peers on profitability. an ethical framework to guide actions and behaviours (McKinsey, 2018) of all our Directors and our employees and promote Our fraud response plan includes our fraud policy transparency while at work. The core sections of and establishes standard procedures to guide our this conduct is guided by several corporate policies. management personnel within Sunway on how to The Code of Conduct is reviewed time to time for respond to allegations or suspicions of fraud. This effectiveness. is to ensure that all cases of suspected or alleged Companies in the top quartile for gender diversity on their executive frauds are reported promptly, and investigations are The Group will comply with all applicable laws, rules conducted effectively. teams are 21% more likely to experience above-average profitability than companies in the fourth quartile. (McKinsey, 2018) We are committed to conducting our business with Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy which outlined ZERO TOLERANCE utmost integrity. We want to build and maintain our anti-bribery and corruption strategies and action Women’s leadership is linked to reduced greenhouse gas emissions, FOR FRAUD a workplace of high integrity with zero tolerance plans in preventing, detecting and managing bribery stronger worker relations and reduced incidence of fraud, insider BRIBERY AND towards all forms of fraud, bribery and corruption. and corruption issues. The policy provides guidance trading, and other unethical practices. CORRUPTION Our Board maintains oversight of our approach in to Sunway employees and associates on how to managing risks of fraud, bribery and corruption. deal with bribery and corruption and related issues (International Finance Corporation, 2019) that may arise in the course of business. The policy Our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics sets out reaffirms our pledge to a workplace of high integrity clearly our behavioural standards and emphasises with zero tolerance for all forms of bribery and that all employees must not engage in any form corruption. Under the policy, Sunway has adopted a of fraudulent acts or dishonest conducts involving “No Gift” stance whereby it is prohibited to offer or Empowering women and girls could contribute up to property or assets, and/or on financial reporting receive gifts, whether cash or other gratifications, to and accounting. We have already put in place a or from any person or company except for customary US$28 trillion to global GDP by 2025. Fraud Response Plan which establishes standard gifts of modest nature during festive occasions to procedures to guide our management personnel avoid conflict of interest situations and to comply within Sunway on how to respond to allegations with anti-bribery and corruption laws. The policy also (McKinsey Global Institute, 2015) or suspicions of fraud, ensuring that all cases of outlines our commitment to ensure all entertainment suspected or alleged frauds are reported promptly, and hospitality expenses adhere to strict approval and investigations are conducted effectively and guidelines and all sponsorships and donations are independently. not used as a subterfuge for bribery. As standard 2019 practice, Sunway does not make or offer monetary In line with the National Anti-Corruption Plan 2019or in-kind political contributions to political parties, Board of Directors 2023 (NACP) launched by the Prime Minister political party officials or candidates for political Female Male 40-50 years old >50 years old Others Malay Chinese of Malaysia on 29 January 2019 and the new office. 22% 78% 11% 89% 33% 11% 56% corporate liability provision in section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) Act Through this policy, employees are reminded that 2009 which will take effect on 1 June 2020, the they will be subjected to stern disciplinary action Board established an Anti-Bribery and Corruption including dismissal as well as civil and criminal Task Force (“Task Force”) to implement policies liabilities if found in violation of this policy. The and procedures for the anti-bribery and corruption Group and its associates will comply with principles programme and to strengthen our internal processes set out in this policy in all jurisdiction of operations, Gender Age Grouping Ethnicity and practices on anti-corruption. even where compliance with this policy prohibits conduct that may otherwise be permitted by the In November 2019, the Board approved the Antilocal laws of other jurisdiction. 34 35 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENCODING PEACE AND JUSTICE IN STRONG INSTITUTIONS (CONT’D) [GRI 102-11, 102-16, 102-17, 102-28, 102-33, 102-34, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3] We encourage all our employees and stakeholders knowledge or is aware of any improper conduct within WHISTLEBLOWING of the Group to report suspected inappropriate the Group is encouraged to disclose through the CODE OF CONDUCT AND BUSINESS ETHICS PROCEDURE behaviour or misconduct relating to fraud, corrupt Whistleblowing hotlines at the telephone number practices and / or abuses involving the Group’s +603 5639 8025, or email to whistleblowing@ ANTI-CORRUPTION, All Sunway employees must comply with the Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission Act (MACC) 2009 resources. sunway.com.my, or fax to +603 5639 8027. BRIBERY accordingly. They must also not accept or provide gifts or entertainment that may influence business AND FRAUD decisions. Fraudulent acts will be prosecuted. We have established a Whistleblowing Policy and All faxes and emails to these channels will be Procedures. The objective of this is to provide a directed to the Head of Group Internal Audit mechanism for all employees and our stakeholders Department (GIAD) and the Chairman of the Audit COMPLIANCE WITH Maintain and adhere to sound internal controls and procedures to ensure critical risks are managed to including contractors, joint ventures partners or Committee. If the reporting individual is unsure of INTERNAL CONTROLS the best of ability and financial and operational information reflects all business transactions accurately, parties who work with the company as well as the type of evidence needed for the GIAD to begin an AND PROCEDURES timely and unbiased, financial forecasts and assessments are genuine and assets are safeguarded. members of the public to report concerns about investigation, the employee is encouraged to make any suspected wrongdoing, inappropriate behaviour use of the Whistleblowing Report Form provided in the or misconduct relating to fraud, corrupt practices Company’s portal under the Governance Portal. The ENVIRONMENT We strive to achieve sustainable development by focusing on safeguarding people’s health, operating the and / or abuse on a timely basis for management employee may send this form via local postal service business responsibly, protecting the environment, and fostering good relationships with the communities action. The whistleblowing procedure is intended to if he/she wishes to remain anonymous. The Head of in which we operate. be used as an ultimate remedy, if no other means are GIAD will maintain a record of the complaints and available to address the matter. will track their receipt, investigation and resolution. GIAD will investigate each claim independently HEALTH AND SAFETY All employees are expected to comply with all Occupational Safety and Health laws in whichever country For Sunway employees who wish to raise a specific based on standard internal audit practices and they operate. concern, they are encouraged to try and solve the fraud response procedures. Upon completion of matter through existing procedures and discuss the each investigation, GIAD will prepare a report to the MAINTENANCE OF Sunway books and records are recorded accurately, fairly and reasonably reflect the substance of matter first with their line supervisor(s) or head of Chairman of the Audit Committee for further action. BOOKS AND RECORDS transactions and must comply with companies’ accounting policies and internal control requirements. department or profit centre manager before initiating The Head of GIAD shall prepare a summary report Purposefully misrepresenting information or activities on company documents and reports may be the whistleblowing policy and procedures. and present it to the Audit Committee on a quarterly considered falsification of documentation, which is a serious offence. Sunway reserves the right to basis. GIAD did not receive any report through the report any act of misrepresentation suspected of being criminal in nature to the police or other relevant Any employee or member of the public who has whistle blower channel in the financial year 2019. authorities. NON-DISCRIMINATION Each of us will be treated equally with respect, non-discrimination and dignity. The Group endeavours to provide equal opportunity to ensure that employment decisions are based on merits and performance without regard to race, religion, gender, age, nationality or disability, and shall not create any form of discrimination or prejudice in the workplace. SEXUAL HARASSMENT Sunway views sexual harassment as a serious misconduct that undermines the integrity and respect of POLICY our employees. Sunway also recognises the fact that sexual harassment is considered a criminal offence as categorised in the Criminal Procedure Code of Malaysia. ASLI chief executive officer Melissa Ong, Permatang Pauh MP Nurul Izzah Anwar and Sarena Cheah at the launch of the report ‘The Effectiveness of Existing Laws to Prevent and Curb Sexual Harassment’ at Sunway City Kuala Lumpur. 36 37 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 MANAGING PARTNERSHIPS OUR RISKS FOR THE FUTURE [GRI 102-30, 418-1] The Group’s risk management framework is Details of the ERM framework which covers ESG We invest in long-term partnerships with the to co-create a pathway towards a progressive future. RISK MANAGEMENT benchmarked against the ISO31000:2018 Risk risks is located in our Annual Report. We provide for communities in our masterplanned developments by As owners and operators, we engage them regularly PARTNERING OUR (CLIMATE RISK AND Management – Guidelines and is designed to embed fines and settlements specified for ESG issues in our holding up to 40%-60% of the total assets within through our CSR initiatives, events and launches COMMUNITIES RESILIENCE) Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) into key audited accounts. the communities we build, own, operate and serve. to create strong networks to drive towards the activities, initiatives and processes of the Group. This unique business model aligns our interests attainment of the UNSDG. This enables the Group to identify, evaluate, mitigate Our Board has approved a set of groupwide goals with those of our communities as we work together and monitor risks that may prevent the Group from and strengths. Group Risk Management Department achieving its objectives. In doing so, the stakeholders (“GRMD”), continues to review the quarterly risk are assured that their interest is protected. During reports in identifying and mitigating all major risks the financial year, the Group constantly reinforces its of the operating subsidiaries under the Group. The risk management framework to remain relevant and quarterly risks from all operating subsidiaries are effective given the present business environment. consolidated and updated to the Chief Financial Officer, President and RMC, highlighting major risks Our Group Risk Management Department (GRMD) and mitigating controls carried out. All goals, targets, To exponentially drive urban transformation towards corporate funds into Sunway Ventures to invest in sets a corporate-wide approach to non-compliance policies and procedures are constantly communicated URBAN LIVING the achievement of the sustainable development synergistic urban solutions. We have set-up SunSEA procedures to investigate and follow up on any to directors and employees via various platforms such LABORATORY goals, we are transforming Sunway’s cities into urban Capital to search and invest in the best ideas across non-compliance identified as well as reporting the as training sessions, induction programmes and our living laboratory – loci for action – where we can Asia. We have also set up Sunway iLabs to nurture number of substantiated claims or incidents of nonwebsite. It is our goal to progressively demonstrate build on what we have amassed to catalyse further the brightest youths to develop next generation compliance. sustainability leadership across our Asian footprint. innovation and affect greater transformation for transformative ideas within our cities, encouraging ourselves and our world. them to become job creators instead of job seekers. Sunway iLabs has set up a fund with regional In our cities from where we predominantly operate, venture capital firm, Gobi Partners and Malaysia we have built ecosystems where our Sunway Venture Capital; Management Berhad (MAVCAP) team, consisting of engineers, architects, doctors, to launch the Malaysia SuperSeed Fund to explore researchers, and educators can further game change key sectors such as artificial intelligence, big data, urban transformation by working together with the cloud services, e-commerce, FinTech, Internet of Our Information Technology Shared Services Centre confidentiality. We take this responsibility seriously CYBERSECURITY best minds across the globe alongside governments, Things, marketplace, the circular economy as well adheres to ISO 27001:2013 international standards and have established a company-wide governance AND DATA academia, industry and non-profit organisations. as TaqwaTech. which focuses on Information Security Management infrastructure to take a holistic approach to data GOVERNANCE System (ISMS). ISMS is a framework of policy and privacy and security. This practice is applied across We have cemented partnerships with the United In our healthcare division, together with Sunway procedures that includes all legal, physical and all our business units including protecting the Nations through the Sustainable Development University, we have partnered with Harvard Medical technical controls involved in an organisation’s privacy of all stakeholders including shoppers in our Solutions Network as well as one of the world’s best School (HMS) to develop a one-year HMS Southeast information risk management processes. malls and medical centre patients. minds for sustainable development, Professor Jeffrey Asia Healthcare Leadership (SEAL) Certificate Sachs, to progress our efforts. We have set up the Programme to help emerging healthcare leaders We manage cybersecurity challenges through a Sunway is committed to ensuring proper and Jeffrey Sachs Center on Sustainable Development at develop expertise in leadership management, stringent series of codes, policies and security adequate protection of personal data within its Sunway University and the Future Cities Research healthcare finance and human resource management controls. Customer data is protected from control in compliance with the Personal Data Institute (a collaboration between Sunway University in order to maintain excellence in service and private intrusions and unauthorised access. Employees are Protection Act 2010. and Lancaster University) to deliver the next care. This world-class training provides a platform subjected to the strictest standards of privacy and generation urban solutions. In our partner education for healthcare leaders and frontline clinicians from institutions (Sunway University, Monash University) the Asia Pacific region to sharpen their skills in we are conducting research alongside the best minds their quest to ensure the safest, most appropriate from University from Cambridge, Harvard University, and highest quality standards of care as the current University of Oxford and University of California, healthcare ecosystem increases in complexity. We Berkeley to create new ideas for a better world. have jointly committed RM1 million with Sunway University to extend scholarships to some 100 Simultaneously, we are harnessing the youthful drive intakes of qualified healthcare professionals each for change inherent in start-ups and the power of year. The third cohort of HMS SEAL in 2019 saw digital native youths to come together with us to 46 participants benefit and graduate from the create the future we all want. We have allocated programme. 38 39 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PARTNERSHIPS MEMBERSHIP IN FOR THE FUTURE ASSOCIATIONS (CONT’D) [GRI 102-13] In line with the rising demand for evidence-based In the realm of medical education, a joint practice, we have also set up the Sunway Clinical collaboration has been developed with the University INDUSTRY ORGANISATION SUNWAY’S REPRESENTATION Research Centre to conduct and coordinate all of Cambridge, Royal Papworth Hospital and Royal research involving human subjects which are College of Physicians (London). The programme GENERAL Malaysian Employers Federation (MEF) Sunway Berhad related to pharmaceutical products, medical will enable the sharing of academic excellence devices, medical radiation and imaging, surgical through regular academic visits and exchanges, and Sustainable Development Solutions Network Malaysia products, medical records, biological samples, as offer scientific and clinical training for outstanding Malaysian Crime Prevention Foundation – Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah, Chairman well as epidemiological, social and psychological postgraduates from Sunway. Selangor Chapter (MCPF Selangor) investigations. Specifically, together with the Royal College of Jeffrey Cheah Foundation Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah, Founder and Trustee As the world of medicine transforms, collaboration Physicians (London), Sunway Medical Centre was PROPERTY Ms Sarena Cheah, National Council Member is the answer to our commitment to excellence in the first private hospital to organise the Membership International Real Estate Federation (FIABCI) (2018-2020) medicine and medical education. In 2017, the of the Royal College of Physicians (MRCP) Practical Sunway Clinical Research Centre was established Assessment of Clinical Examination Skills (PACES) Dato’ Jeffrey Ng Tiong Lip, Patron as the sole Regional Site Partner of the School of preparatory course and mock exam in the country. Clinical Medicine of the University of Cambridge. This is a valuable platform for future physicians to Mr Chong Sau Min, Committee Member, REHDA Together with Cambridge, Sunway Clinical Research get hands-on practice with real patients and highly Real Estate and Housing Developer’s Association Wilayah Persekutuan, Kuala Lumpur Centre aims to develop an integrated approach to trained surrogates as well as valuable feedback from (REHDA) Ms Sarena Cheah, National Council Member healthcare, clinical trials and research in Malaysia accredited examiners from the UK and Malaysia. for the prevention, earlier diagnosis and improved Ms Ng May Cheng, Committee Member, REHDA Youth treatments suited to the Asian genetic composition. Perak RETAIL Malaysia Shopping Malls Association Mr Chan Hoi Choy, Advisor Council of Asian Shopping Centres (CASC) The Sustainable Intelligent Transportation Ecosystem The factors that encourage and hinder people to LEISURE Malaysian Association of Amusement Theme Park and Mr Calvin Ho, Committee Member SUSTAINABLE (SITE) project has developed algorithms to modify choose public transport (such as BRT, free shuttle Family Attractions (MAATFA) Magendran Marimuthu, Honorary Secretary INTELLIGENT traffic light signals to reduce waiting time, as well bus, and elevated walkway) were also assessed, and TRANSPORTATION as algorithms to count vehicle flow based on camera several recommendations were made to increase International Association of Amusement Parks and ECOSYSTEM (SITE) footage by using Sunway City Kuala Lumpur as the their usage. Concentrations of NOx, CO2, CO, PM2.5 Attractions (IAAPA) live laboratory. A detailed traffic simulation model and PM10 air pollutants were also measured, and Sunway Lagoon Theme Park, Member Malaysian Association of Zoological Parks and Aquaria was also developed, which can be used to predict correlated with factors such as daily traffic patterns (MAZPA) traffic flow for any given condition. The simulation and environment. model and vehicle count data will be used to evaluate HOSPITALITY Association of Hotel Employers (AHE) the effectiveness of any proposed algorithm. Sunway Hospitality Business Unit (Malaysia) Malaysian Association of Hotels (MAH) Association of Malaysian Spas (AMSPA) Chaine des Rotisseurs Malaysia Chapitre The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat The International Wine & Food Society (IWFS Ipoh) The solutions developed in the cities can drive change where we can produce everlasting progress Malaysia – China Chamber of Commerce (MCCC) A FUTURE FOR ALL HEALTHCARE sustainability by creating new revenue streams for in better cities that cradle economic growth, improve us, or implemented as solutions for others. the likelihood of communities, and win the battle Malaysia Healthcare Travel Council (MHTC) against climate change, thus creating a progressive Association of Private Hospitals of Malaysia (APHM) In the next ten years, we look forward to Sunway’s cities future that leaves no one behind. becoming engines and catalysts for transformative American Malaysian Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) Sunway Healthcare Business Unit British Malaysian Chamber of Commerce (BMCC) Malaysia Australia Business Council (MABC) Malaysia New Zealand Chamber of Commerce (MNZCC) 40 41 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 MEMBERSHIP IN GOALS & TARGETS ASSOCIATIONS (CONT’D) [GRI 102-13] INDUSTRY ORGANISATION SUNWAY’S REPRESENTATION LEGEND Targets are set; Data compilation in progress PROGRESS Targets are set; Baseline yet to be set CONSTRUCTION Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) Sunway Construction Business Unit TRACKING Targets are set; Baseline is set Dato’ Ir. Tan Kia Loke, Honorary Advisor, MBAM Council and Education Fund Committee FUTURE VALUE GOALS TARGETS (EFFECTIVE FROM 2019) FY 2019 PERFORMANCE Datuk Kwan Foh Kwai, Committee Member, MBAM Education Fund Committee PILLAR 1: PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS Mr Chung Soo Kiong, Deputy Chairman, International Affairs Committee Goal 1: Zero cases of corruption, bribery and fraud Data compilation in progress Strong Institution Major (R) Leong Yee Keong, Deputy Chairman II, Master Builders Association Malaysia (MBAM) Safety and Health Committee of MBAM Partnerships with the United Nations, governments, and Mr Steven Shee, Vice President, MBAM Council and Goal 2: world-renowned educational institutions such as the Chairman, Publications, ICT and Data Resource Centre Develop global partnerships Partnerships for the Goals University of Cambridge, Harvard University, University Committee of MBAM of Oxford and University of California, Berkeley Mr Tony Foo Yoon Seong, Committee Member, Material Resources and Exhibition Committee of MBAM Ms Tan Siew Lian, Committee Members, Material Resources and Committee of MBAM QUARRY Malaysia Quarries Association Mr Lee Chuan Seng, Deputy Chairman (Selangor Kuala Lumpur) Mr Lee Chuan Seng, Training & Development Malaysia Quarries Association (National) Committee Member BUILDING Road Engineering Association of Malaysia (REAM) MATERIALS Sunway Paving Solutions Sdn Bhd International Road Federation (IRF) Mr Arreshvina Naranayan, Member American Concrete Institute (ACI) – Malaysian Mr Calvin Ooi, Member Chapter Mr Umulnajwa Samsudin, Member COMMERCIAL Malaysian REIT Managers Association (MRMA) Dato' Jeffrey Ng Tiong Lip, Chairman AND REIT Malaysian Investor Relations Association (MIRA) Sunway REIT Business Unit Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah taking up the role of a teacher during Teach For Malaysia Week. 42 43 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS AND AWARDS 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AWARDS for Sunway Berhad •1  st for Industry Excellence Award for the Industrial Products and Services category at MSWG-ASEAN Corporate Governance Award 2018 • 3G Sustainability of Performance Award 2019 by Cambridge IFA at the 4th Good Global Governance Awards 2019 • Best Country Award for Overall CSR Excellence for Malaysia at the 11th Annual Global CSR Summit and Awards 2019 • Company of the Year in the Conglomerate category at the CSR Malaysia Awards 2019 • PwC Malaysia Building Trust Awards 2019 (top 20 finalist) • “ Tier 1 = Setting the Pace,” ranked by Bursa Malaysia, the highest amongst its four-tier ranking system for best sustainability and disclosure practices within its sustainability and annual report as part of Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Disclosure Review 2019 Sarena Cheah receiving the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Company of The Year in the conglomerate category at the CSR Malaysia Awards 2019 from former Women, Family and Community Development Deputy Minister YB Puan Hannah Yeoh. LEADERSHIP AWARD for Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah • AAMO Asian Leadership Award at the 20th Asian Association of Management Organisations (AAMO) Triennial Conference •E  ditor’s Choice Award for Malaysia’s Exemplary Leader of Sustainable Development 2019 at the EdgeProp Malaysia’s Best Managed Property Awards 2019 •F  orbes Asia’s 2019 Heroes of Philanthropy and is the only Malaysian who has made the definitive list for three times •L  ifetime Achievement Award at the 5th Fortune Times Awards Ceremony and Gala Dinner •L  ifetime Education Award at the Sin Chew Education Awards 2018 •U  K-Malaysia Business Personality Award at the BMCC Business Excellence Awards 2019 Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah receiving the Lifetime Education Award at the Sin Chew Education Awards 2018. 44 45 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR PEOPLE, Progressive Communities AS OUR FORCE FOR GOOD Progressive Sunwayians At Sunway, our people are our force for good. conventions and we are committed to respecting They drive the transformations that we want human rights as set in the UN Guiding Principles to achieve within the organisation, in the on Business and Human Rights, and the United communities we build, own, manage and Global Compact Principles. These principles, serve as well as our world at large. Our people along with Sunway’s Vision, Mission, Core policies are aligned to those of the International Values, and Policies provide us with a common Labour Organisation’s (ILO) eight foundational approach to treating one another and others. Sunway volunteers during the #SunwayforGood Rise Against Hunger meal-packing programme. 46 47 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS [GRI 102-12, 102-41, 202-2, 402-1] Since 2012, we have been participating in the UN forced labour, child labour and discrimination in the The rights of workers matter to our organisation. As a collective freedom in accordance with local law and FOUNDATIONAL Global Compact 10 Principles and upholding its workplace. The commitment to these conventions are WORKERS RIGHTS signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we regulations. Employees are free to join a trade union PRINCIPLES principles with respect to human rights, labour, reflected in our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics uphold the principle of eliminating all forms of forced of their choice provided they abide by local law and environment and anti-corruption. Its principles are and our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our company and compulsory labour, the effective recognition of the rules of the trade union. part of our strategy, and day-to-day operations of our policy regarding labour standards is communicated the right to collective bargaining and the elimination company. to all Sunway employees. of discrimination in respect of employment and The freedom of association in Malaysia is instituted occupation. We also eliminate excessive working according to and within the Trade Union Act 1959, We are committed to respecting human rights as Sunway Berhad is governed by the Employment Act hours to comply with local laws on working hours. We Industrial Relations Act 1967 and Immigration Act set out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business 1995 and all other relevant labour laws of Malaysia. also comply to minimum wage defined under Section 1956/63 of Malaysia. and Human Rights. These principles, along with These laws underline principles that reflect the 2 of the Employment Act 1955 (Act 265), Sabah Sunway’s vision, mission, core values and policies protection of human rights through fair working Labour Ordinance and Sarawak Labour Ordinance. Where the right to freedom of association and provide us with a common approach to treating one hours, fair payment of wages and fair treatment to all collective bargaining are restricted under the another. They govern how we run our business and without differentiation on gender, race and religion. We carry out risk assessment for potential new law, Sunway will allow its workers to choose their our role in the societies in which we operate. operations or projects as well as existing operations representatives freely. Our Whistleblowing channel covers grievances or projects and have taken action to address issues We recognise the International Labour Organisation’s associated to human rights and provides a such as prevention of child labour, prevention of Our representatives meet with the respective unions (ILO) eight fundamental conventions concerning confidential and anonymous channel and is forced labour, reduction of excessive working hours, every three years to finalise a collective agreement. freedom of association and the recognition of the available to both internal and external stakeholders. and support a living wage. The notice period and provisions for consultation right to collective bargaining, the elimination of Independent arbitration is confirmed. and negotiation is three months. We believe and acknowledge that in addition to GLOBAL OPERATING PRINCIPLES & LAWS SUNWAY’S VISION, MISSION AND CORE being a right, freedom of association enables us We have provisions for medical benefits and to protect our respective economic interests and compensation for medical boards in all of our VALUES Sunway employees’ civil freedoms such as the collective agreements. •U  N Global Compact 10 Principles right to life, security, integrity, and personal and - Human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption SUNWAY’S CODE OF CONDUCT & BUSINESS • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human ETHICS Rights BUSINESS UNITS NAMES OF UNIONS % OF EMPLOYEES COVERED • International Labour Law Prohibiting child and forced labour SUNWAY’S SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Non-Metallic Mineral Products - Ensuring non-discrimination and equal SUNWAY VCP SDN BHD 27% Manufacturing Employees’ Union opportunity Supporting a harassment-free and violence free SUNWAY LAGOON CLUB Club Employees Union Peninsular workplace LOCAL SOURCING 2019 61% BERHAD Malaysia Prohibiting retaliation or any form of physical and mental disciplinary practice Percentage of senior management** 94% SUNWAY BIZ HOTEL SDN - Respecting worker’s right to freedom of from the local community* 47% BHD National Union of Hotels, Bar & association Restaurant Workers Peninsular Ensuring compliance with laws governing working Percentage of sourcing from local 95% SUNWAY HOTEL (SEBERANG Malaysia suppliers 48% hours and wages JAYA) SDN BHD *Local community refers to Malaysians LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS **Senior management includes employee with job grade of EG09 and above only We are of the view that we are part of the communities In 2019, we recorded 94% of senior management WE ARE PART OF we serve. This view is reflected in our co-investor from local communities attesting to our commitment We are committed to upholding the children’s rights comply with child labour laws in all the countries THE COMMUNITIES proposition. Every masterplanned community we that we are truly a part of every community we serve ZERO TOLERANCE and Business Principles within our operations. Our we operate in. Beyond, we address children’s rights WE SERVE build is a long-term partnership with the local and are invested in the growth, well-being and health FOR CHILD LABOUR adherence to children’s rights are reflected in our through a series of social programmes that cover the community. as well as economic growth of our communities AND FORCED alignment to the human rights and labour principles basic needs for physical protection, food, healthcare, wherever we are. LABOUR outlined in the United Nations Global Compact. We education and protection against abuse. Aligned to this, we are committed to hiring locally. 48 49 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FOSTERING A DIVERSITY OF IDEAS FOR TRANSFORMATION [GRI 102-8, 401-1, 405-1, 405-2, 406-1] Expanding on the diversity that starts from our We have taken action to improve workforce diversity, Board of Directors, our 11,430-strong team equal opportunities and reduce discrimination. The TABLE 1: SUNWAY’S WORKFORCE CONDUCIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT comprises diverse people with different experiences framework to deliver our diversity and inclusion and skillsets of different in gender, age groups, objectives focuses on talent, workplace and SUNWAY’S WORKFORCE 2019 ethnicities, cultures and geographies who come community as three key areas that are essential to together to generate transformative ideas, deliver our long-term business success, competitiveness GENDER DIVERSITY NON EXECUTIVES EXECUTIVES sustained environmental, economic and social and growth. impact for ourselves and our communities at large. Male Female Male Female i. Talent Building a diverse talent pool working in 71% 29% 42% 58% We believe that a diverse team in all dimensions – an inclusive workplace environment. Total 100% 100% race, religion, gender, age, nationality and differentlyabled will create an inclusive and progressive culture. ii. Workplace Nurturing an inclusive workplace AGE DIVERSITY NON EXECUTIVES EXECUTIVES We believe in upholding equal opportunities for all environment and culture to retain and develop <30 years old 44% 37% and practice zero tolerance for any sort of workplace our talent and maximise their potential. 30-40 years old 30% 33% discrimination. iii. Community Building community and enriching 40-50 years old 16% 19% Our Code of Conduct covers workplace discrimination.1 lives through corporate responsibility focusing >50 years old 10% 11% While the Diversity and Inclusion Policy underscores on education, healthcare and C.A.R.E. projects, Total 100% 100% our objective to create a workplace environment that an acronym for community aid, reach-out and ETHNIC DIVERSITY NON EXECUTIVES EXECUTIVES promotes dignity and respect for all. enrichment. Malay 50% 32% Chinese 6% 49% Indian 16% 13% Others 7% 4% Foreigners 21% 3% Total 100% 100% AVERAGE BASIC SALARY FOR WOMEN TO MEN 2019 0.89:1 AVERAGE BASIC SALARY FOR WOMEN TO MEN 2019 0.95:1 (INCLUDING FOREIGN HIRES) CEO ANNUAL TOTAL COMPENSATION TO MEDIAN ANNUAL 142:1 TOTAL COMPENSATION ANNUAL TOTAL CEO COMPENSATION (RM’000) 8,171 MEAN PAY (ANNUAL) (RM’000) 87 MEDIAN PAY (ANNUAL) (RM’000) 57 LOWEST TOTAL PAY (ANNUAL) (RM’000) 15 HIGHEST TOTAL PAY (ANNUAL) (RM’000) 2,811 DISCRIMINATION CASES REPORTED 0 NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 2,916 Conducive working space in Sunway iLabs FULL-TIME STAFF TURNOVER RATE 17.9% PERCENTAGE OF CONTRACTORS / TEMPORARY STAFF 18.7% INTERNSHIPS PROVIDED 369 1  ompanies in the top quartile for gender or racial and ethnic diversity are more likely to have financial returns about their national industry medians. More C Notes: diverse companies win top talent and improve their customer orientation, employee satisfaction and decision-making and all that leads to a virtuous cycle of 1. The age category of 40-50 includes employees within the ages of 40.1 to 50. increasing returns. Source: Mckinsey, Diversity Matters 2. Figures stated in the table above are rounded up 50 51 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FOSTERING A DIVERSITY OF IDEAS FOR TRANSFORMATION (CONT’D) [GRI 102-8, 401-1, 405-1, 405-2, 406-1] 2019 TABLE 3: PERCENTAGE BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BASED ON YEARS OF SERVICE EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY (GENDER) EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY (AGE GROUP) YEARS OF SERVICE 2017 2018 2019 Executives Non executive 11% 10% < 1 YEAR 21% 24% 22% 16% 19% 37% 1 5 YEARS 38% 37% 39% Female Female Executives Non executive 44% 42% 29% 5 10 YEARS 22% 21% 21% Male Male 30% 10 15 YEARS 10% 9% 9% 58% 71% 33% 15 20 YEARS 5% 5% 5% <30 years old 37% <30 years old 44% 30-40 years old 33% 30-40 years old 30% > 20 YEARS 5% 5% 5% 40-50 years old* 19% 40-50 years old* 16% Note: Includes daily workers & foreign workers >50 years old 11% >50 years old 10% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% *The age category of 40-50 includes employees within the ages of 40.1 to 50. Figures stated in the table may not add up due to rounding of decimals EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY (ETHNICITY) YEARS OF SERVICE BY JOB GRADE 4% 4% 3% 6% 5% 21% 5% 22% 13% 9% 22% 32% 9% CHART 1: TOTAL NUMBER OF 1: CHART TOTAL NUMBER AND EMPLOYEES TURNOVER OF EMPLOYEES RATE RATE AND TURNOVER Executives 7% Non executive 50% Executives Non executive 20% 17.90% 22% 16% 16.90% 17.30% 37% 41% 49% 6% Malay 32% Malay 50% <1 year 22% <1 year 22% No. of People Turnover Rate Chinese 49% Chinese 6% 1-5 years 37% 1-5 years 41% Indian 13% Indian 16% 5-10 years 22% 5-10 years 20% Others 4% Others 7% 10-15 years 9% 10-15 year 9% Foreigner 3% Foreigner 21% 15-20 years* 5% 15-20* years 5% >20 years 6% >20 years 4% *The age category of 15-20 includes employees within the ages of 15.1 to 20. Figures stated in charts may not add up due to rounding of decimals Turnover Rate 10,350 11,191 11,430 Total Employees 2017 2018 2019 Year TABLE 2: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING LONG SERVICE AWARDS NO. OF EMPLOYEES LONG SERVICE AWARDS 2017 2018 2019 10 YEARS 255 256 231 20 YEARS 105 38 67 30 YEARS 3 9 18 52 53 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FOSTERING A DIVERSITY OF IDEAS FOR TRANSFORMATION (CONT’D) [GRI 102-8, 401-1, 405-1, 405-2, 406-1, 413-1] CHART 2: TOTAL NUMBER OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES BY GENDER We have zero tolerance for direct or indirect Sunway is committed to and strongly supports Total Number Of New Employee Hires By Gender discrimination, victimisation, intimidation, bullying a policy that allows employees to work in an ZERO TOLERANCE FOR HARASSMENT or harassment in the workplace. environment free from unwelcomed harassment by its employees or any external party such as Any non-compliance incidents can be reported vendors, visitors or guests of Sunway. We view sexual to Group HR and can be subjected to disciplinary harassment as a serious misconduct that undermines 1,158 1,016 1,421 action. Our standards for labour standards is the integrity and respect of the working relationship No. of People communicated to all employees. Our talent policies of employees in the workplace. Sexual harassment is and initiatives are aimed at strengthening our team also regarded as a serious violation of the company’s as well as creating an equitable, and safe workplace rules and regulations. We also recognise the fact that where our team can thrive and work together for sexual harassment is considered a criminal offence high-impact urban transformations. as categorised in the Criminal Procedure Code of Malaysia. 107 30 37 11 98 69 Female 1,469 1,560 1,328 Male Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas 2017 2018 2019 Year In 2006, we engaged with students from SMK rate, a heightened sense of appreciation for people THE JOURNEY TO Bandar Sunway under the Sunway-GOLD (Generating with different abilities and an understanding of GOLD Opportunities for the Learning Disabled) programme how they can be of service to people with different both as part of an awareness development exercise abilities at work. as well as a social inclusion project. As a result, our employees started purchasing baked Every year, we select some of the differently-abled goods and other art projects from GOLD as corporate CHART 3: TOTAL NUMBER OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES BY AGE GROUP students for on the job training at different Sunway tokens, and featured their projects at our corporate Total Number of New Employee Hires by Age Group establishments including Sunway Medical Centre, events, and malls. In 2010, Sunway Berhad pledged 37 97 Sunway Pyramid, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa and RM100,000 alongside the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation 66 182 174 126 Sunway University. to start a social enterprise for the students of GOLD. 457 579 577 Students who took part in the programme developed In 2015 and 2016, sponsorship to GOLD from valuable job skills that made them employable. Sunway Group included the development of a Since 2016, of the 151 graduates that were trained, large showcase at Kompleks 3C including one unit No. of People 80% were employed. of kiln for production of decal mugs, equipment >50 years old for sublimation of decal printings, and a fourSunway employees who were part of this on-the-job day outbound school experience in Lumut for 40 40-50 years old* training programme reported a higher job satisfaction students. 30-40 years old 67 45 22 3 22 19 6 1 97 41 23 6 <30 years old 1,930 1,834 1,893 *The age category of 40-50 includes employees within the ages of 40.1 to 50. Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas Domestic Overseas 2017 2018 2019 Year 54 55 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FOSTERING A A HEALTHY DIVERSITY OF IDEAS FOR WORKPLACE TRANSFORMATION (CONT’D) TO THRIVE [GRI 102-8, 401-1, 405-1, 405-2, 406-1, 413-1] [GRI 401-2, 401-3] As we continue our journey in shaping the future, we continue to seek a range of new talents by: Our Kelab Sosial Sunway anchors both the Group’s available to all Sunway employees. All information OPPORTUNITIES HEALTHY aim to cultivate a positive organisational culture and conveyed via the EAP is confidential. FOR YOUTH • Participating in career fairs PRODUCTIVITY forwards the Group’s sustainability agenda. • Conducting career talks and industry engagement sessions at targeted public and private universities In line with our commitment towards Goal 3: • Offering a special programme for students who aspire to be ICAEW Chartered Accountants through In 2019, we had 9,363 employees as members. Good Health and Well-Being as well as Goal 12: a sponsored and structured rotation training programme within Sunway We conducted 14 health awareness activities for Responsible Consumption and Production, Sunway • Visiting schools and organising industry engagement sessions with a selection of the best universities in Sunway’s employees in the same year. Topics The Good Run was held to raise awareness on the the UK to reach out to Malaysian students living there include common cancers, insomnia, varicose veins, importance of doing good for the community and the • Collaborating with internationally-based Malaysian student bodies to promote our summer programme depression, heart disease, fatty liver, colon cancer, world. Held in conjunction with the 20th anniversary • Partnering with the International Council of Malaysian Scholars and Associates (ICMS) by participating in pneumonia in children, hybrid medicine, nutrition, of Sunway Medical Centre, the recent Sunway The their two annual flagship events, namely Industry Insights (I2) and Malaysian Public Policy Competition and vaccination. Good Run held in October 2019 brought more than (MPPC) 7,000 participants together. The run is an initiative Our human resources division collaborated with an aimed at motivating individuals to contribute to a independent consultant “The Mind” to introduce healthy, sustainable community and living space, the Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) in July by serving as a platform to bring the community 2019. together to advance the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. The run also promotes awareness The programme intends to provide a safe, nonabout cancer. The gross collection of approximately judgemental and confidential channel for Sunway RM275,000 went towards supporting medical employees to speak out about issues that affect their treatment costs for cancer patients of the B40 group mental and emotional well-being. The 24-hour EAP via the Media Prima-NSTP Humanitarian Fund. Hotline (+6018 389 3220) has been set up and is Students of Sunway-GOLD programme More than 7,000 people participated in Sunway The Good Run 2019 56 57 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 A HEALTHY WORKPLACE TO THRIVE (CONT’D) [GRI 401-2, 401-3] WORK + LIFE INTEGRATION Summary of Employee Leaves PROGRAMMES DESCRIPTION Parental / Childcare Leave 2019 Maternity Leave 2019 Paternity Leave 2019 No. of applications No. of applications No. of applications 867 222 257 Care for • Our premises offer designated car parks and escort assistance by the security officers. No. of days applied No. of days applied No. of days applied Working • Mother’s rooms provide convenience to working mothers and other visitors. 1,049 13,319 706 Mothers • Mother’s rooms are present in our malls, education buildings, office (Menara Sunway) and hospital (Sunway Medical Centre). Childcare • Sunway partially subsidises the tuition fees for R.E.A.L. Kids Sunway and The Parenthood if parents are Our annual Sunway Leaders Conference which is The panellists were Sunway employees and Subsidy employees. SUNWAY LEADERS now in its 19th year is one of our key events. Centred represented four generations. • This subsidy is available for up to two children per family for a maximum of RM200 per month per child. around health and wellbeing, 2019’s conference CONFERENCE • Child care subsidy of up to RM2,400 are tax exempted. brought together about 2000 Sunway managers At the Conference, themed “Good Health and Welland identified senior executives from all Sunway Being,” our leaders, including Sunway’s Founder Employee Employee health screenings are available at the Group function level as well as in selected business units. businesses. and Chairman, Tan Sri Dr Jeffrey Cheah and Health President Dato’ Chew Chee Kin also shared their Screening Confirmed executives of Sunway Berhad with minimum of 6 months service may undergo the Health Screening In 2019, we invited some of the best minds including mid and long-term vision for our organisation and Programme as follows: iconic leader, Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Rafidah Aziz, strategic imperatives for each of our business units i. Below 40 years of age: Once every two years Chairman AirAsia X to speak on Leadership and Good to drive Sunway’s transformation and achievement ii. 40 years and above: Once a year Health, including physical, emotional and mental of the Sustainable Development Goals. Our Deputy health. Dr William Tan, Physician Neuroscientist, Chairman, Tan Sri Datuk Seri Razman M. Hashim Confirmed executives are eligible to apply for subsequent health screening upon either one year (for those above Paralympian and Guinness World Record holder who closed the Conference. 40 years of age) or two years (for those below 40 years of age) from the date of the last health screening. spoke on the mental health challenges he faced and how he overcame them, as well as the importance of The Sunway Leaders Conference started since 2000. The Health Screening Programme is also extended to all confirmed non executives of Sunway Berhad aged 40 physical and moral support. Melissa Idris, Assistant The number of attendees on average was 800 people and above with a minimum of 6 months service. They may undergo the Health Screening Programme once a year Vice President and Editor of Astro Awani moderated from 2000 – 2009, 1,500 people from 2010 – and will be eligible to apply for subsequent health screening upon one year from the date of their last health a power talk about Intergenerational Perspectives on 2015, and 2,000 people from 2016 – 2019. screening. Healthy Living and Work. Kelab Sosial Social Club for Sunway employees that organises various activities such as: Sunway • Blood donation drives • CSR activities • Donations drives • Health Talks • Local and overseas trips • Sports and Recreational activities Other Leaves • Annual leave • Emergency leave • Extended Maternity Leave • Maternity leave • Medical / Hospitalisation leave • No-pay leave • Parental / Childcare leave • Paternity leave • Prolonged Illness Leave • Study leave • Special leave (e.g. compassionate leave, marriage leave) Staff Discounts • We act as a co-investor in our integrated communities and we manage our assets within them. • As part of our long-term co-investor proposition, we encourage Sunway employees to be part of the communities they serve and live, learn, play and be healthy alongside our communities. • Live: discounts on property purchases • Learn: discounts for selected educational programmes in all our Learning institutions • Play: discounts for theme park tickets, hotel room rates and food & beverage • Health: discounts for healthcare services Sunway employees at Sunway Leaders Conference 2019 58 59 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LEADERSHIP AND CONTINUOUS LEARNING FOR SUSTAINABILITY [GRI 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 412-2] To enable our team to capture opportunities from as poverty, the environment, demographic change We believe that the way to affect sustained Learners are required to complete assessments challenges to affect transformation, we provide and globalisation affect their businesses and their DIGITALISING transformation for ourselves and the world is to at the end of each training to successfully mark EVERYONE IS A guidance and tools for every Sunway employee to work. This empowers them to lead the change LEARNING provide regular learning opportunities to Sunway their completion. In 2019, 10% of total learning LEADER develop an understanding of how global issues such towards a better future. EXPERIENCES employees. hours collected are from online learning courses on mandatory training, onboarding, and UNSDG. To We transformed our people management by further improve learning experiences, we continue to digitalising SAP SuccessFactor® to deliver improve the user experiences on the online learning experiences that help employees achieve their own platform. goals and our collective goals as an organisation. In order to raise awareness on the importance of the The Centre of Asia Leadership’s training in Adaptive that go beyond managerial expertise into the realm of We use the SAP SuccessFactor® Learning UNSDG amongst Sunway employees, SDG themeSENIOR EXECUTIVE Leadership provides our leaders with the skills creative problem-solving to orchestrate meaningful Management System that allows our employees related posters are displayed in Sunway office LEADERSHIP and mindsets to lead agile workforces for the 21st progress and lead and agile workforce. Our leaders to complete courses online at their own pace. lifts and on staff computer desktop wallpapers. TRAINING century. Developed at the Harvard Kennedy School, also participate in leadership programmes that A majority of the online learning hours are from The visuals are updated every month to educate the Adaptive Leadership framework features both the covers topics related to leading teams and business compliance courses. The content of the training employees on what each goal is about. This enables theory of change and real-life case examples. Each of transformation. covers key compliance policies. Core online learning the employees to support the organisation’s efforts in our leaders are equipped with paradigms and skills programmes for all employees are Code of Conduct advancing the SDG agenda. and Business Ethics, Conflicts of Interest, Sunway E-Policy, Information Security @ Work, and My Performance. 30.7 hours Sunway offers a series of leadership programmes development. In 2018, the Group launched the pilot EMPOWERING that aligns with Sunway’s Leadership Competencies. phase of the Excellence in My Career and Leadership LEADERSHIP (ExCeL@Sunway) to support Sunway employees Suitable candidates are identified for the “Train in their leadership and career development. This the Trainer” approach, with the aim to get the best platform identifies growth areas in both personal and Average training hours per employee talents to facilitate our core leadership programme. professional capacities, facilitates more frequent and (Executive level and above) meaningful career conversations with leaders and With the “Train the Trainer” approach, we have delivers more personalised learning opportunities trained 744 employees on leadership skills and and a focused development journey. further built on our organisation’s capability. ExCeL@Sunway is open to all highly motivated Continuous learning is critical to maintaining Sunway employees who are interested in charting a competitive, skilled, productive and engaged their career paths and improving their leadership workforce. In 2018, 100% of Sunway employees development. Growth areas are identified through Our newsletter, Berita Sunway, established since and thoughts on pressing issues through Voices of received performance and career development our Leadership Development Centre with a concerted BERITA SUNWAY 2000, is an in-house magazine which highlights Sunway (one of the sections in Berita Sunway), a reviews, conducted by their managers and our effort from Sunway leaders across the Group to wider socio-economic and environmental challenges mainstay segment of our magazine for the past three People Department. Each was given an opportunity ensure consistency in standards and expectations. and how divisions and teams across Sunway editions. The magazine also sheds light and helps to maximise their potential through training and onare discovering and implementing solutions for increase awareness on pressing issues affecting our the-job stretch opportunities that complemented and Our other leadership competencies training includes these challenges. The newsletter highlights our country and to spur honest conversations among extended their existing skills and responsibilities. First-Time Manager, Situational Leadership® II and employee volunteerism efforts, #SunwayforGood colleagues. Among the challenging topics we have 7 Habits of Highly Effective People. social inclusion efforts, employees and services. covered include gender equality (Issue 63), dangers Sunway is committed to continuous learning and of plastic (Issue 64), and mental health (Issue The magazine also highlights compelling stories 65) – timely topics that have also been discussed from different parts of the communities we serve as nationally by our government as well. well as our own efforts towards the UNSDG. We had circulated 11,400 copies of the tri-annual It provides Sunway employees the liberty, publication throughout our establishments. Digital empowerment and platform to share their concerns version is also available on www.sunway.com.my. 60 61 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LEADERSHIP AND SAFETY IS CONTINUOUS LEARNING OUR CULTURE FOR SUSTAINABILITY (CONT’D) [GRI 102-35, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 412-2] [GRI 416-1, 403-2, 403-3] We believe that upgrading employee skills is and knowledge. Functional and technical skills make Our culture of safety is anchored by our Quality, safety management and continuous improvement LEARNING fundamental to a dynamic and efficient workforce. up the most of the learning topics available, followed SAFETY ON Environment, Safety and Health (QESH) Management programmes on hearing conservation. PLATFORMS The three main types of learning platforms provided by leadership and soft-skills training and other forms WORKSITES System which is an integrated management system to Sunway employees include online learning, of learning including professional certification, which conforms to international standards. Sunway operates with an objective, “To achieve conferences and seminars as well as classroom team-building, assessment centre, entitlement of ZERO life lost”, at all project work sites. Health learning. These platforms cover a wide range of 5-days study leave and wellness lunch talks. We have an Occupational Safety and Health and safety risk assessments are established for new learning topics, to equip employees with various skills Committee from the respective business unit and existing projects across all of its business units. divisions that meet on a regular basis to drive Improving safety and health is vital. Mandatory Learning Platforms continuous improvement on our safety and health training is delivered for new workers and refresher practices. training for longer-serving employees. ISO45001:2018 is a standard about improving Several efforts have been made to improve public employee safety, reducing workplace risks and safety during construction works: Conferences & Others (Certification, creating better, safer working conditions. In 2019, • Safety fencing within machine perimeter Seminar Team-Building) Sunway Lagoon Theme Park was certified with • Safety interlock device at fencing 22% 14% ISO45001. • Yellow lines to distinguish between passages and Classroom 74% Leadership and operations area Soft-Skill Trainings Our building materials division has implemented • Scheduled inspection of safety devices by the 14% a programme to prevent any incidences or high maintenance and Health, Safety and Environment Functional & risk of specific diseases. The division has engaged (HSE) team Online Learning Technical Skills the Department of Occupational Safety and • Warning and mandatory Personal Protective 4% 46% Health (DOSH) and participated in the Systematic Equipment signage Occupational Help (SO Help) enhancement level • Movement of vehicular traffic Areas of Focus programme. SO Help is a national platform for • Catch platforms • Customer Services Training • First-Aid Competencies Training strategic and synergistic cooperation between • Safety net and peripheral net • Safety & Health Training • Microsoft Excel Training the government, employers, OSH practitioners • Passageway with overhead protection • ISO / Quality Assurance • Functional Specific Training and employees to enhance industrial hygiene standards in the workplace. The division received Some of the high-risk activities that require permits a Level 5 excellent mark across all categories include: hot work, excavation, scaffolding, confined including ergonomics improvement, chemical spaces, working at heights, lifting and night work. We strive to compensate, recognise and develop our employee vesting a higher proportion of options. REWARDING employees to keep them engaged and productive. EXCELLENCE We provide compensation and benefits that are A high-performance culture is part of Sunway’s competitive or are in accordance with local laws. leadership and strategy which translates into people Sunway Group reviews its salary structure each year practices, performance management and total in line with general industry practice. Periodically, rewards management. Results of performance reviews we monitor the market by performing benchmarking are directly linked to bonuses and increments. In 2019, our property division has cemented an the OSHCIM Guideline. The OSHCIM guideline has to ensure that our total remuneration remains PROGRESSING external collaboration with Universiti Teknologi been established to ensure every stakeholder in the competitive. Key Focus Areas of Sunway’s My Performance: SAFETY Malaysia, DOSH & CIDB: Occupational Safety construction industry works together to minimise the • Continuous dialogue that matches the cadence of STANDARDS Health Construction Industry Management number of fatalities. Each business units may offer specific benefits work (OSHCIM) Pilot Project for the implementation of and employees will receive a competitive benefits • Value-added in which the manager drives feedback package that is relevant to their respective business and development units. • Employee-driven experience aligned with individuals’ unique needs that emphasise on Examples of Discounts for Sunway Staff: continuous growth and development • Theme parks • Employees give and receive real-time bi-directional • Shopping malls social and collaborative feedback at any point in • Hotel room rates the year • Property purchases • Sunway Medical Centre benefits The performance management process also involves a career conversation session which helps employees Employees also benefit from the Employees’ Share and managers understand their career aspirations. Option Scheme (ESOS). The ESOS structure Employees will first perform self-evaluation before promotes a culture of reward based on merit. The being evaluated by their supervisors. A moderation or vesting amount depends on the performance of calibration cycle in the final review involves division the respective employees with higher performing heads and the CEO. 62 63 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SAFETY IS OUR WORKING CULTURE (CONT’D) WITH OTHERS [GRI 403-2, 403-3, 416-1] [GRI 204-1, 307-1] Sunway is committed to conducting its business in and offline screening process is performed by SUNWAY’S SAFETY CULTURE PROCUREMENT an ethical, legal and socially responsible manner. following clear and transparent procurement policies POLICY Our overall procurement practices are guided by and practices. the Integrity Pact and is applied across all of our BOARD OF DIRECTORS GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT DIVISION business units. In 2019, at least 95% of our procurement budget was used for significant locations of operations (all SUNWAY’S QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH COUNCIL We source responsibly, selecting partners who Sunway business units’ operations in Malaysia) HEALTH (QESH) SYSTEM meet high standards in areas such as ethical and spent on local suppliers (‘local’ referring to Integrated management system conforming to international CHAIRMAN SUNWAY BUSINESS UNITS conduct, human rights, workplace standards and Malaysian companies) although Sunway does not standards environmental management. have a formal policy requiring locally-based suppliers • ISO 9001 (Quality Management) to be prioritised. • ISO 14001 (Environmental Quality System RISK ASSESSMENT AND CONTROL All suppliers have equal access to purchasing • OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment) We conduct hazard identification, risk assessment and risk opportunities. A sustainable procurement policy is being developed • ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management) control exercises in line with OHSAS 18001 management in 2020 and will be included in Sunway Berhad’s system requirements as well as local legislation. Our Group A tendering and bidding process screens for Sustainability Report 2020. Risk Management Division conducts risk assessments with our LOCAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS credibility before purchases are made. This online Occupational Safety and Health Council. We consider how our builders identify, manage and control environmental, safety and SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT health risks and impacts at construction sites. All tenderers are pre-qualified by assessing their Quality, Environmental, Safety and PROCUREMENT POLICY Health implementations in their existing projects. STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES – Accident / Incident Reporting Leading To Injuries Or Fatalities We view our builders, consultants, and suppliers to comply with the Environmental Quality Act 1974, WORKING WITH as our extended team that will drive us towards the Occupational Safety & Health Act 1994, Factories Yearly accident SUPPLIERS achievement of the UNSDG. and Machinery Act 1967 and all other relevant OSH personnel An accident We continue to legislation and regulations. In the event of any non Upon an accident/ Monthly statistics are investigates report is sent ensure our We have ongoing initiatives to improve our supply compliance, penalties are imposed accordingly to incident, accident submitted to incident to identify to appropriate compliance with chain management and the transparency of our the builders. communication is statistics the Department the root cause division heads for the Occupational value chain. By working closely with our extended carried out among are of Occupational with help from the their review and Safety and teams, we seek to ensure responsible operations Once a contract has been awarded, our builders all stakeholders prepared Safety and safety committee further action Health Act 1994 throughout the value chain and that the materials and consultant teams will be briefed on our Quality, Heath Council and components we procure are in compliance with Environmental, Safety and Health requirements. The relevant local and global regulations and standards. Environmental, Safety and Health (ESH) performance TABLE 4: HEALTH AND SAFETY of any development project is monitored through Due to our diverse businesses, we source products Sunway Safety Merit System (SSMS) Assessment DESCRIPTION 2017 2018 2019 and services from thousands of suppliers worldwide. where the target is to achieve 80%. The SSMS is Our Supplier Code of Conduct is communicated to an internal assessment established based on the Injury rate / LTIFR1 4.01 4.37 9.14 suppliers in all our operations. The code supports Malaysia Environmental, Safety & Health statutory Injuries per million man-hours worked TARGETS the right to freedom of association and collective requirements. The assessment criteria emphasises Occupational disease rate bargaining in compliance with local laws. We hold on site implementation requirements. It is conducted 0.56 our suppliers to a high-level of health and safety to ensure compliance of Environmental, Safety & Cases per million man-hours worked Sunway Safety Merit System standards in compliance to local laws. Health (ESH) standards at project sites. In order Lost days rate to achieve a rating of 80% and above, compliance 112.29 99.39 171.81 80%3 Lost days per million man-hours worked Our building contracts address the need to of our builders with the Malaysia Environmental mitigate the impacts of construction activity on Safety & Health statutory requirements is required Work-related fatalities 7 1 1 the surrounding environment and safety at the throughout the construction stage. Number of fatalities construction sites. All contracts require our builders Number of workers undergoing health surveillance2 84 103 104 1 LTIFR refers to Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2 ‘Health surveillance’ refers to any examination and investigations which may be necessary to detect exposure levels and early biological effects and responses, and includes biological monitoring, biological effect monitoring, medical surveillance, enquires about symptoms of occupational poisoning or occupational disease and review of records and occupational history (Source: http://www.dosh. gov.my/index.php/legislation/guidelines/occupational-health-1/658-05guidelines-on-medical-surveillance-2001/file) 3 Only applicable to Sunway Integrated Properties and Sunway Construction projects Notes: 1. The business units covered include building materials, healthcare, hotel, retail and leisure. 2. Multiplying by 1,000,000 hours is derived from the Department of Occupational Safety and Health Malaysia. 3. Malaysia follows the ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases (Code of Practice). 64 65 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WORKING WITH COMMUNITY OTHERS (CONT’D) SAFETY [GRI 204-1, 307-1] [GRI 410-1, 413-1, 413-2, 416-1] Costs to crime for individuals include property losses, auxiliary police and security personnel to keep our SAFEGUARDING income losses, and healthcare costs. Ultimately stakeholders safe. In all our townships, we have SUNWAY’S PROCUREMENT POLICY crime could cause the loss of lives. centralised security systems to manage township OUR COMMUNITIES security. • Follows best practice in line with client expectations Crime also depletes tax revenues by discouraging tourism and foreign investors as well as creating We have installed more than 10,000 CCTVs across • Minimises risks associated with procuring from vulnerable sources a need for more expenditure on the prevention, our developments in Malaysia and overseas and detection and prosecution on crime that could be work closely with the Royal Malaysian Police • Focuses on the responsible sourcing of materials better used for development. Preventive measures (PDRM), NGO bodies, such as the Malaysian Crime in mitigating crime remain our top priority in our Prevention Foundation (MCPF) and other community • Environmental conservation policy and practices through Letter of Award (LOA) operations. stakeholders to make our premises and vicinity safe. • Regular engagement and training sessions Sunway acts as a co-investor in its masterplanned Our security personnel are able to provide assistance communities. At the design and planning stage, we in reporting any incidences of non-conformance to •P  erforming a risk assessment that evaluates social and environmental compliance before a project is awarded to existing or new employ Crime Prevention by Environmental Design our policies for human rights, forced labour, child suppliers (CPTED) principles in all our integrated townships, labour and children’s rights. integrated developments and buildings. •M  onitoring socio-environmental performance and initiatives to reduce suppliers’ impact from operations and reporting findings to We engage our tenants on social issues through the management As community guardians, Sunway’s Safe City townhalls as well as other events such as fire drills concept is applied in all our integrated townships and evacuation exercises. • Warning and possibly terminating suppliers who conduct unethical behaviour that contravenes our socio-environment performance and development. We have a total of 1,400 Our malls run programmes that prioritise child safety. Sunway Pyramid Mall’s Leo Club, Sunway Putra Mall’s SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT CHILD Putra Junior, and Sunway Velocity Mall’s Velokiddie Club (26,255 members) each run safety and education PROTECTION AND programmes for children. EDUCATION Sunway’s suppliers must comply with all applicable laws, codes, or regulations of the countries, state and localities in which they operate including laws and regulations relating to environmental, occupational health and safety and labour practices. This safeguards against child labour, discrimination, health and safety, working conditions, working hours, compensation, right to PROPERTY INITIATIVES association and fair employment. SUNWAY • In Sunway Pyramid Mall, each child is entitled to a complimentary safety pack that In addition, suppliers must require their suppliers (including temporary labour agencies) to do the same. Suppliers must conform PYRAMID includes temporary tattoos with the concierge numbers for when a child is lost, childtheir practices to any published standards for their industry. MALL safe wristlets that link the parents to their children. • The mall also opened Leo’s Junior Kids Toilet & Baby Room in LG1, specially-designed Suppliers must conduct their businesses in accordance with the highest standards of ethical behaviour and in accordance with to cater to kids and nursing mothers, taking into consideration the hygiene and applicable laws and regulations in: aesthetic factors. The bright and colourful walls and facilities in the room are all given a sanitising nano coating and the air is freshened and ionised for a clean and pleasant • Fair trade practices experience. The room also serves to educate young children on the proper use of toilet • Bribery, kickbacks and fraud facilities and train them to be independent. This facility is the pilot project for Sunway • Sunway’s policies and procedures (including conflicts of interests, procurement relationships and Code of Conduct & Business Malls with similar restrooms to be set up in Sunway Velocity Mall, Sunway Putra Mall, Ethics) Sunway Carnival Mall and Sunway Giza Mall in the near future. • Intellectual property rights SUNWAY • In 2019, Velokiddie Club hosted 11 events. These events include a mall safety Complies with all applicable labour and employment laws, ordinance, by-laws, rules, regulations or orders. VELOCITY tutorial to educate parents and children on mall safety. Another event was a prevention MALL campaign for Hand Foot and Mouth Disease. • Stipulates how information is being managed, monitored and reviewed SUNWAY •S  unway Putra Mall became the first autism-friendly mall in Malaysia with privileges PUTRA such as reserved parking, dimmed lights, low volume music and assistance. Every MALL Tuesday is also allocated as an Autism Friendly Shopping Day. Permanent facilities include a calm room and sensory walls. 66 67 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 COMMUNITY UPLIFTING THE SAFETY (CONT’D) VULNERABLE FOR [GRI 410-1, 413-1, 413-2, 416-1] SUSTAINABLE GROWTH In 2019, we managed to redevelop our security structure for integrated development and reduced foreign At Sunway, we pledge to continue to do good and believe in doing well by doing good, and strives COMMUNITY security guards in accordance to the government’s initiative. SOCIAL INCLUSION to stand alongside all Malaysians to ensure that no to establish a positive, far-reaching impact for the SAFETY AND one is left behind. We actively take actions to curb people, planet, and prosperity. SECURITY inequalities and embark on long-term sustainable projects to benefit the underserved through our Through #SunwayforGood initiatives, we target to Corporate Responsibility. Corporate Responsibility is reach out to the poor, marginalised, differentlyMEASURES DESCRIPTION a model that upholds the belief that organisations abled, youth, women and senior citizens in the B40 must add long lasting impact and value to society, category. Our focus is on giving “hands up” instead • Natural surveillance the environment and the economy, and this has of “hand out” by teaching them skills, or providing CRIME PREVENTION • Natural access control always been at the core of our business strategy. trainings and opportunities to enable them to BY ENVIRONMENTAL • Territorial reinforcement independent work towards a fulfilled life. To identify DESIGN (CPTED) • Maintenance We are able to champion this through our the people who needs our assistance the most, we #SunwayForGood initiatives which focuses on three partner with various government bodies and nonEMERGENCY •P  anic buttons around our shopping malls and carparks for a quick emergency key pillars which are Education, Healthcare, and prpfit organisations to ensure that we are helping RESPONSE PLAN response Community Enrichment. These pillars are aligned those who need it the most in the communities we • Every commercial building carries out at least one fire drill / evacuation with our commitment to the UNSDG. We believe serve. exercise annually aligned to the requirement by BOMBA. Failure to comply in giving back in all forms – food, scholarships, will affect the renewal of fire certificate for Sunway’s buildings job opportunities and more, all of which are in Since 2015, we have impacted 404,901 beneficiaries • Sunway Group Security has formed 2 SWIFT Teams (Sunway Immediate line with the #SunwayForGood pledge to promote in our communities. We target to improve 1 million Forward Team) to respond to any kind of emergencies or disasters within sustainability and social responsibility efforts. We lives by 2030. Sunway City Kuala Lumpur and Sunway City Iskandar ENFORCEMENTS OF • In 2019, the Ministry of Health has empowered Sunway’s auxiliary police to CLEAN AIR issue notice to summons for those caught smoking at non smoking zones at Sunway City ESCALATORS •A  ll new escalators will have additional auxiliary brake, in accordance with Sunway believes that the its core values of integrity, In 2019, Sunway’s volunteers contributed time, British Standard EN 115 EMPLOYEE humility and excellence can be cultivated through effort and funds to support various community • We conduct inspection on all escalators and travellators VOLUNTEERISM active employee volunteerism. projects organised by Sunway and a total of 7,612 volunteerism hours was recorded. MINIMUM •S  unway’s Group Security division organises monthly trainings for our security Through volunteerism, Sunway’s volunteers cultivate TRAINING FOR personnel an understanding of the communities they serve and Our volunteers can participate in #SunwayforGood AUXILIARY POLICE • PDRM runs at least two gun shooting courses with our auxiliary police how they can do better to advance development for initiatives during working hours, as well as receive & ALL SECURITY • A minimum of 48-hour foot drills and BOMBA training is held each year all. Volunteering promotes relationship building, replacement hours if they participate in the projects PERSONNEL • At least 16 hours of classroom training is delivered each year develops leadership and soft skills, while cultivating during their rest days. • Two months of training is conducted a sense of identity and belonging in the communities. In 2019, we contributed a total of RM2.8 million Since our inception, Sunway’s employee club, Kelab for non-profit organisations and for community SECURITY AI •S  unway has partnered with NEC to test-bed new security solutions in Sunway Sosial Sunway has been reaching out to the most investments. Iskandar which will include biometrics and video analytics, making Sunway vulnerable in our communities. Iskandar a smart, secure and sustainable township • Partnership with the PDRM and MCPF TABLE 5: SOCIAL INVESTMENT AND VOLUNTEER CONTRIBUTIONS SECURITY AND CRIME PREVENTION • Our 1,400 security force personnel include auxiliary police, in-house security and out-sourced Nepalese guards SOCIAL INVESTMENT AND • Our auxiliary police personnel have undergone a 2-months intensive training 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 VOLUNTEER CONTRIBUTIONS programme at PDRM’s training centre (PULAPOL) TOTAL INVESTMENT (“RM” MILLION) 1.26 1.01 2.13 3.65 2.8 TOTAL BENEFICIARIES (NO. OF PEOPLE) 6,335 5,360 53,127 114,311 225,768 TOTAL MAN-HOURS 3,725 3,535 4,521 16,8011 7,612 1 S  unway Group embarked on a mission to deliver a targeted 1,000,000 meals to undernourished communities around Malaysia, Timor Leste and Cambodia. In 2018, the mission was completed with the packing of 500,000 meals. 68 69 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 #SUNWAYFORGOOD The one common thing that all Malaysians love is • First Corporation in Malaysia to Sponsor Beras ATM •  Distributing Packed Food to The Homeless in being able to celebrate various festivities throughout  Sunway is the first corporation in Malaysia to donate Anjung Singgah the year. Be it Chinese New Year, Raya, Deepavali or rice ATM machines. The rice ATM has two functions  Sunway worked with Yayasan Kebajikan Negara to Christmas, every Malaysian comes together as one to – to give out rice supply in desired quantity and distribute bubur lambuk and packed food to 400 enjoy the merriment. has a donation compartment to receive cash funds homeless individuals living in Anjung Singgah from the public. The funds will be used to purchase YKN, Jalan Hang Lekiu, Kuala Lumpur and 200 However, tucked in some corners of our developing more rice for the needy. underserved beneficiaries living in Anjung Kasih cities, lie families who are struggling to put food on YKN in Hospital Serdang and Hospital Selayang. the table on a daily basis. Therefore, festive seasons Each machine can contain 200kg of rice at one may not necessarily be a happy occasion for them. time and runs on RFID card system. Identified  Anjung Singgah YKN is a social intervention beneficiaries will be given an RFID card and they centre set up to give the homeless a temporary Wanting to bring a cheerful Ramadhan to the can use the card at the ATM to collect two kilograms shelter, food and drinks. Anjung Kasih YKN is a underserved communities, especially families in of rice every first and third Fridays of the month. temporary accommodation for the less fortunate the B40 group, we organised a #SunwayforGood family members who needs to accompany their Raya Cheer programme that brought joy to 11,520 Locations of the Beras ATM were:: relatives who are patients receiving treatments beneficiaries nationwide. Sunway’s key focus area is at government hospitals. It also serves as an to lend aid to urban families and communities from Masjid Daerah Tapah, Perak intervention center to prepare them with skills B40 backgrounds (households with incomes of less Masjid Alhassyimiyyah Kg. Talang, Perak needed to live independently with the country’s than RM3,000 because they are the most vulnerable Masjid Bandar Perda, Seberang Jaya, Penang current development. to economic, environmental, and social shocks.) -Markas MPKK, Kg. Pertama Seberang Jaya, Penang • A Cheerful Ramadhan for Underprivileged Children The month-long event included bubur lambuk Masjod Al-Husna, Bandar Sunway, Selangor Sunway worked with the Selangor Youth Community distribution, installation of rice automated teller Sunway employees and Sunway Group Deputy Executive Chairman Tan Sri Datuk Seri Razman M. -Masjid Abu Ubaiddah Al-Jarrah, Wangsa Maju, to bring a Raya Cheer to 150 children from machines (ATM), iftar barakah sessions, packed food Hashim giving out bubur lambuk to beneficiaries at Masjid Al Husna as part of the #SunwayforGood Kuala Lumpur Pertubuhan Pendidikan AnakAnak Yatim Selangor Raya Cheer CSR programme distribution to the homeless and Raya Cheer (shop Masjid India, Johor Bahru, Johor (Rumah Bakti Dato’ Harun), Rumah Kebajikan for baju Raya and buka puasa) with B40 families -Masjid Nurul Muttaqin, Kg. Ulu Pulai, Gelang Raudhatul Al-Faeez, Pertubuhan Kebajikan Anak spread across Kuala Lumpur, Selangor, Perak, Patah, Johor Yatim Darul Ehsan Malaysia and 150 stateless Penang and Johor, where we have built, served, and children from Sekolah Bimbingan Jalinan Kasih. remain as part of the communities. • Bubur Lambuk Distribution We treated them to a shopping session with Sunway  A total of 7,000 packets of bubur lambuk were volunteers where they received a new baju raya, We distributed a total of 7,000 bubur lambuk distributed in various locations. The bubur lambuk participated in specially crafted workshops and packets, donated eight Beras ATMs with more than were specially prepared by teams of expert chefs enjoyed a delicious buka puasa session in Sunway 8,000kg of rice and hosted various iftar barakah from Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya, Sunway Putra Resort Hotel & Spa. sessions to benefit the underserved communities. Hotel, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa, Malaysian Red Crescent Society and various mosques. We have worked with various partners to identify individuals that need aid the most for the • Sunway Berbuka Puasa with 22 Families in B40 #SunwayforGood Raya Cheer campaign across the Group nation. These partners including state governments, More than 100 volunteers together with YB Dr Afif NGOs and community centres including the Perak Bahardin, the then ADUN Seberang Jaya visited 22 State Government, the Penang State Government, families in Seberang Jaya to berbuka puasa with Yayasan Kebajikan Negara, Selangor Youth them in their homes. A total of RM6,000 worth of Community, Malaysia Red Crescent Society, groceries and duit raya was given to the families. Lembaga Zakat Selangor, Jabatan Agama Islam Wilayah Persekutuan and committee members of various mosques. More than 540 Sunway employees volunteered their time throughout the whole Raya Cheer campaign. Sunway Group Deputy Executive Chairman Tan Sri Datuk Seri Razman M. Hashim handing out rice to a beneficiary as part of Sunway’s Beras ATM initiative, which was newly launched in 2019. 70 71 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 #SUNWAYFORGOOD (CONT’D) NO. EVENTS DESCRIPTION NO. EVENTS DESCRIPTION FESTIVITIES (SOCIAL INCLUSION) FESTIVITIES (SOCIAL INCLUSION) 1 CNY campaign 2019 3 Mid-Autumn Festival 1.1 CNY Cheer In conjunction with Chinese New Year, a fundraising dinner was held in collaboration with SJK(C) Chee Wen Lanterns are an important element during the festival and carries a significant meaning in Chinese culture. Sunway Velocity to bring good cheer to Chinese elders from several old folks’ homes including: Mall hosted its annual lantern making contest with bigger and better prizes worth up to RM150,000 in conjunction with the • Persatuan Kebajikan Dan Sosial Kim Loo Ting Kuala Lumpur Mid-Autumn Festival. This year, it was open to the public of all ages. Special categories were created for children aged below • Sri Jayanti Metha Home 12 and for youths between 13 and 25 years old. Participants submitted their lanterns to be displayed at the mall, and judges • Rumah Kasih Hospital Kuala Lumpur were invited to score the lanterns based on workmanship, creativity, colour and lighting of the lantern for those 12 years and • Rumah Warga Tua Onn Ling, Pajam above, while those 12 years and below were graded according to theme, creativity, colour and structure. • Rumah Warga Tua Rahmat, Semenyih The elders were invited to feast at the charity dinner while enjoying wonderful performances. Additionally, The grand prize winner walked home with a travel package for two to Tokyo, Japan, a ITSU massage chair, and a RM3,000 they were each presented with a red packet, as is customary to the Chinese festival. cash prize. The first runner-up also walked home with a ITSU Massage chair and a RM2,000 cash prize while the second runner-up won a ITSU massage chair and RM1,000 cash prize. After the prize-giving ceremony, shoppers went for a lantern 1.2 Hakka This year’s Chinese New Year celebration was brought up to a much bigger scale with many fun activities walk around the mall to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival. Gathering due to support from the Hakka Association. Earlier, 80 children from Yayasan Sunbeams Home, Projek Perumahan Rakyat, OrphanCare Foundation, and Persatuan 1.3 A Hokkien On the 12 day of the Chinese Lunar calendar this year, the staff of Sunway Carnival Mall, Sunway Hotel th Anak-Anak Yatim Dan Ibu Tunggal Kampung Medan were treated to activities such as sushi making by Sakae Sushi, meals Heritage Seberang Jaya and Sunway Hotel Georgetown joined hands to spread a Lunar New Year cheer to the by O’Briens and 4Fingers and screening of The Lion King at TGV cinema. The children also joined in the lantern walk, led by Celebration residents of Rumah Sejahtera Permatang Tinggi. About 80 residents and helpers received Chinese New the Chinese traditional dragon dance. Year goodies such as mandarin oranges and other food items. Additionally, Mr. Chai Wen Yew, the General Manager of Sunway Carnival Mall and Mr. Woo Hing Siang, the Finance Director of Sunway Hotel Seberang Sunway Putra Mall also celebrated Mid-Autumn Festival by creating more than 8,888 origami rabbits using recycled Jaya distributed customary red packets in conjunction with the Chinese New Year tradition. decorative papers. This effort was recognized by The Malaysia Book of Records for the most number of origami rabbits. The origami were later distributed to Biji-Biji Initiative for decorative purposes and half of it was recycled into note books. 2 Hari Raya 2019 OTHERS (EDUCATION, HEALTH, AND SOCIAL INCLUSION) 2.1 Raya A total of 300 orphans and stateless children were treated by Sunway Group to a Raya shopping spree at Shopping Sunway Pyramid to purchase their baju Raya. The children, who are selected by Selangor Youth Community 4 Earth Hour Lights Off 2019 Spree (SAY) and Yayasan Islam Darul Ehsan are from Pertubuhan Pendidikan Anak-Anak Yatim Selangor, Rumah Kebajikan Raudhatul Al-Faeez, Pertubuhan Kebajikan Anak Yatim Darul Ehsan Malaysia, Pusat Jagaan In conjunction with Earth Hour, all non-essential lights facing the main driveway were turned off, which includes the iconic Pertubuhan Kebajikan Ehsan Ash-Shakur and Sekolah Jalinan Bimbingan Kasih. After a fruitful two-hour lion head, all dome and pelmet lights as well as street lighting on Saturday 30 March, 8.30pm 9.30pm. Tenants facing the shopping, the kids were then led to Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa to enjoy fun and educational activities main driveway were also encouraged to turn off all their lights for the one hour earth event. as well as a scrumptious Ramadan buffet spread with SAY founder and royal patron, DYTM Raja Muda Selangor, Tengku Amir Shah Ibni Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah Alhaj. To wrap up the programme, each 5 Blood Donation child received duit raya, a prayer mat and cookies. In line promoting good health and well-being, we support blood donation initiatives due to how they are instrumental in 2.2 Feeding Sunway Velocity Mall hosted a “Feeding Families” initiative this year for the underprivileged in conjunction saving and sustaining the lives of those with critical medical conditions. By lending our building space for blood donation Families CSR with Ramadan and as part of its Bunga-Bunga Raya festive campaign. Hinged on the belief that everyone drives, we provide an avenue for the public and staff to donate their blood to ensure sufficient blood supply in the medical should participate in efforts for the betterment of the community, every redemption made by the mall’s sector. This year, two of our office buildings, Sunway Geo and Wisma Sunway did just that, consequently enabling successful valued shoppers resulted in a RM5 donation to the Feeding Families initiative. blood donation drives in their respective locations. At the event, 50 families from the Cochrane Perkasa People’s Housing Project (PPR) in Cheras received 6 Sunway The Good Run RM200 worth of daily essentials such as rice, condiments, cooking oil and other necessities that would help for food preparation during the Ramadhan and Raya period, in addition to being treated to a buka Sunway The Good Run was held to raise awareness on the importance of doing good for the community and the world. Held puasa dinner. in conjunction with the 20th anniversary of Sunway Medical Centre in 2019, all collections from the run were channeled to a cancer-focused organisation. 72 73 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 #SUNWAYFORGOOD GOALS & TARGETS (CONT’D) [GRI 306-4] NO. EVENTS DESCRIPTION LEGEND Targets are set; Data compilation in progress PROGRESS Targets are set; Baseline yet to be set OTHERS (EDUCATION, HEALTH, AND SOCIAL INCLUSION) TRACKING Targets are set; Baseline is set 7 Free Health Screening A collaboration with the National Kidney Foundation of Malaysia to provide free health screening for individuals from the FUTURE VALUE GOALS TARGETS (EFFECTIVE FROM 2019) FY 2019 PERFORMANCE B40 communities in the Klang Valley. PILLAR 2: PEOPLE 8 Back To School – Ipoh, Johor & SMK Yaacob Latiff Employee Engagement: To be the best employer by 2025 in Work in progress to improve Employee Engagement The Back to School programme is part of the #SunwayforGood pledge to continue to do good and stand alongside Malaysians Malaysia Score (EES) for good by empowering and inspiring students to learn. Each package consists of a schoolbag, a water bottle, a food container and a stationery set to start them off on the right track for the new school year. Goal 3: Occupational Health and Safety: Progressive Sunway All business units (where relevant and Sunway Lagoon Theme Park has been certified 9 Sunway SILK Program Employees applicable) to be ISO 45001 certified by ISO45001:2018 2025 Sunway SILK (Seeding Inspiration and Leadership via Knowledge) is a corporate initiative of Sunway Group to empower local communities by encouraging corporate volunteerism among employees. Employee Training Hours: 40 hours of training per employee 30.7 hours per employee (Executive level and above) 10 Run for Rare Customer Health and Safety: The main objective of the event is to raise awareness about rare diseases among Malaysians. Being the co-organiser/sponsor, All integrated townships, integrated All property developments designed since 2014 strives this event strengthens and solidifies Sunway’s reputation as a conglomerate that contributes to society. developments and buildings to be to achieve disabled-friendly and child-friendly access in designed in accordance with Crime our projects with minimal or no step within the unit. 11 GOLD Job Training Prevention Through Environmental Design The height to all light switches in Sunway properties Goal 4: (CPTED) by 2025 were also reduced to enable reach by the elderly on The Sunway Job Training Programme offers special needs students on-the-job real world training. It was established at Progressive Communities wheelchair or children. Sunway Lagoon, Sunway Medical Centre, Sunway Pyramid Mall, Sunway University and Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa. The programme provides the students with job training and exposure, to develop and equip them with practical and social skills CSR Activities: for future employment. Under the supervision of experienced and dedicated personnel, the students build confidence and To impact 1,000,000 beneficiaries by 404,901 beneficiaries (cumulative from 2015-2019) learn independence. 2030 12 No Smoking Refresher Course Sunway aims to protect members of the public from exposure to second-hand smoke to create a healthier, cleaner and safer environment for everyone. The Ministry of Health appointed a team of auxiliary police to educate and enforce a zoned smoking policy in the 800-acre township of Sunway City. Polis DiRaja Malaysia (PDRM) supports this initiative. A refresher course/ seminar for our Auxiliary Police personnel was organised by Sunway Group Branding and Marketing & Communications. We invited Officers from Ministry of Health Malaysia and Royal Malaysian Police (PDRM) to facilitate these sessions which were conducted over two days. 13 Sunway-Oxbridge Essay Competition Sunway Oxbridge Essay Competition is in its fifth year and is part of Sunway Group’s CSR effort to improve English proficiency among Malaysian students. It is jointly organised by Sunway Group, The Oxford & Cambridge Society Malaysia, Jeffrey Cheah Foundation, Sunway University and Monash University Malaysia. Sunway Group had received over 16,472 entries from all over Malaysia for the past five years. 74 75 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY PERFORMANCE INDEX INDICATOR UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2017 2018 2019 INDICATOR UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2017 2018 2019 PEOPLE PEOPLE Total number of employees Number 10,350 11,191 11,430 vii. Employee Diversity Years of Service Total number of new employees Number 2,764 2,624 2,916 Executives worked less than 1 year % 21 20 22 Turnover rate % 17 17 18 Executives worked between 1 to 5 years % 36 37 37 i. Board Diversity Gender Executives worked between 5 to 10 years % 23 22 22 Male directors % 89 80 78 Executives worked between 10 to 15 years % 9 10 9 Female directors % 11 20 22 Executives worked between 15 to 20 years % 5 5 5 ii. Board Diversity Age Grouping Executives worked more than 20 years % 6 6 6 Directors between 40 to 50 years old % 11 10 11 Non executives worked less than 1 year % 22 27 21 Directors more than 50 years old % 89 89 89 Non executives worked between 1 to 5 years % 39 36 41 iii. Board Diversity Ethnicity Non executives worked between 5 to 10 years % 20 19 20 Malay directors % 11 10 11 Non executives worked between 10 to 15 years % 10 9 9 Chinese directors % 67 60 56 Non executives worked between 15 to 20 years % 5 5 5 Directors of other ethnicity % 22 30 33 Non executives worked more than 20 years % 4 3 4 iv. Employee Diversity Gender viii. Employee Leaves Male executives % 47 44 42 Number of parental/childcare leave applications Number 551 733 867 Female executives % 53 56 58 Number of days applied for parental/childcare leave Number 827 1,140 1,049 Male non executives % 71 74 71 Number of maternity leave applications Number 187 251 222 Female non executives % 29 26 29 Number of days applied for maternity leave Number 10,714 14,967 13,319 v. Employee Diversity Age Group Number of paternity leave applications Number 236 262 257 Executives less than 30 years old % 37 37 37 Number of days applied for paternity leave Number 645 759 706 Executives between 30 to 40 years old % 34 34 33 ix. Others Executives between 40 to 50 years old % 18 18 19 Proportion of senior management hired from local % 97 97 94 Executives more than 50 years old % 11 11 11 community Non executives less than 30 years old % 45 47 45 Ratio of basic salary of women to men excluding foreign Ratio 0.99:1 0.9:1 0.89:1 Non executives between 30 to 40 years old % 28 28 30 workers Non executives between 40 to 50 years old % 17 16 15 Ratio of basic salary of women to men including foreign Ratio 1.07:1 1.0:1 0.95:1 Non executives more than 50 years old % 9 9 10 workers vi. Employee Diversity Ethnicity x. Longstanding Service Awards Malay executives % 28 31 32 10 years Number 255 256 231 Chinese executives % 49 49 48 20 years Number 105 38 67 Indian executives % 12 12 13 30 years Number 3 9 18 Other races executives % 3 4 4 xi. Health and Safety Foreigner executives % 8 4 3 Injuries per million man-hours Injury rate worked 4.01 4.37 9.14 Malay non executives % 50 47 50 Chinese non executives % 6 5 6 Occupational Disease Rate Cases per million man-hours worked 0 0 0.56 Indian non executives % 17 15 16 Lost days per million man-hours Lost days rate worked 213.75 184.56 257.04 Other races non executives % 8 7 7 Foreigner non executives % 19 26 21 Work-related fatalities Number 7 1 7 Number of workers undergoing health surveillance Number 84 103 104 Note: Figures stated in charts may not add up due to rounding of decimals Note: Figures stated in charts may not add up due to rounding of decimals 76 77 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ACHIEVEMENT AND AWARDS 2019 PEOPLE • Sunway Lagoon Theme Park Best Employer Brand by Graduates Choice Award 2019 • Sunway Malls Silver in HR Asia Recruitment Awards (Malaysia) 2019 for Best Onboarding Experience INCLUSIVITY AWARDS • Sunway Lagoon Theme Park Best Outdoor Edutainment and Best Family Friendly Destination by Baby Talk + MamaPapa Readers’ Choice Awards 2019 • Sunway Malls Motherhood Choice Award 2019 Malaysia’s Family Friendly Mall Operator organised by motherhood.com.my • Sunway Putra Mall Autism Star Certificate of Recognition for Autism Friendly Initiative by The National Autism Society of Malaysia Bronze Marketing Excellence Awards 2019 for Corporate Social Responsibility Category Community and Social Welfare category for the “Autsome is Awesome” initiative at the International Council of Shopping Centres (ICSC) Asia-Pacific Awards Silver ICSC APAC Award 2019 for Cause-Related Marketing Category Sunway Lagoon Theme Park wins Best Employer Brand by Graduates Choice Award 2019 Sunway Malls wins Silver in HR Asia Recruitment Awards (Malaysia) 2019 for Best Onboarding Experience 78 79 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ADDRESSING Low Carbon Cities CLIMATE CHANGE Green Value Chain Our business, as well as the use of our products floods while allowing rainwater to nourish the and services depends on and impacts the Earth. Our incubator and accelerator is working natural environment in a variety of ways of to guide young minds to produce new solutions ways. We leverage on our Build, Own, Operate such as urban farms which build robustness in business model to create future-proof, climateour cities and extend our biodiversity focus as resilient communities through the entire value the first line of defense. Our strategy towards chain of our townships’ and assets’ lifecycle. decarbonisation is to optimise efficiency For example, our construction division has built across our value chain, decarbonise power and solar capacities. Our building materials division electrify fuel. has created permeable pavers which prevent Artist impression of Sunway City Iskandar 80 81 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR STRATEGY TOWARDS DECARBONISATION [GRI 203-1] OPTIMISE OUR VALUE CHAIN SUNWAY’S OPTIMISE DECARBONISE ELECTRIFY LANDBANK EFFICIENT BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH ACQUISITION • Conservation and rehabilitation efforts in Sunway’s cities as well as urban EFFICIENCY POWER FUELS farms for climate resilience and efficient land use EFFICIENT LAND USE • We continue to acquire transit-linked land in populous areas for development DESIGN AND • We continue to reinvest and grow in our integrated, compact townships MASTERPLANNING minimising urban sprawl and the need for transportation • We continue to plan for mixed developments ZERO PLASTIC USE POLICY • We are setting in place news guidelines for our build to sell properties RELATED POLICY We have implemented a Zero Single Plastic Use Policy in our property division’s assets, venues, and events. CONSTRUCTION AND EFFICIENT MATERIALS MANAGEMENT SUPPLY CHAIN • We continue to develop our virtual design construction capabilities to 7D MANAGEMENT • We continue to use green construction methods such as IBS and system formwork • We continue to source for green building materials such ALC blocks, and eco CORPORATE DATA CENTRE pavements OPTIMISE OUR To further decrease our emissions, our corporate data centre ran a study that confirmed that running a • We are setting in place new guidelines for our new buildings to be constructed OPERATIONS business application in a private cloud is generally more energy and carbon-efficient than running it on a green traditional 3-tier architecture. Cloud computing offers greater diversity and can serve more customers at the • Our construction division has the capacity to build solar photovoltaic farms same time with fewer servers. •T  he private cloud computing transition will be followed by the replacement of remaining older / obsolete MARKETING & EFFICIENT TECHNOLOGY FOR SERVICE DELIVERY servers/computers to lower our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. SALES • Continue to digitalise the consumer journey • Replacements will take into consideration embodied emissions from physical hardware required to be • Annual water, energy and waste audit and initiatives estimated based on the weight and material composition of each component. PROPERTY • Green buildings • Once completed, we estimate to save 4912.56 kwh / month which translates to saving 44.2 tonnes of INVESTMENT • Maintain urban forestry in our integrated cities of Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, CO2 emission per year. AND BUSINESS Sunway City Ipoh and Sunway City Iskandar OPERATORS • Rapid adoption of innovative technologies E-INVOICING • Turnover of outdated equipment • We have implemented an e-invoicing system and in 2019, 84% of our business units used this system. REIT AND REIT • Retrofitting assets with efficient fixtures • Studies show that carbon reductions ranged from 66% to 99% improvement. MANAGEMENT • Build urban farms as natural carbon sequestration sites GPS TRACKING SYSTEM • We implemented GPS tracking systems on all our vehicles within our trading and manufacturing divisions. This system decreases our emissions as we are able to conduct preventive maintenance services, shorter routes to job sites, right-sizing our fleet to eliminate underutilised vehicles and their environmental impact We have completed the installation of solar PV panels which produce 2,561,725 kWh of electricity in as well as empower drivers with data to reduce idling, speed and other behaviours that increase fuel DECARBONISE Monash University, Sunway University, our Eco-walk, assets owned by Sunway Paving Solutions, and consumption. POWER Sunway Big Box Retail Park. TRANSITIONING TO NATURAL GAS • In 2019, our quarry division replaced burning source of light fuel oil with natural gas for asphalt manufacturing plant in Kemaman, Terengganu translating to savings of RM1.50 / tonne on burning cost. • This resulted in lowered plant maintenance cost, and savings of 452 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. •W  e invested RM123 million in Malaysia’s first BRT in a private-public partnership. The BRT buses are EURO 5 VEHICLES ELECTRIFY FUELS powered electrically powered and does not have any gas emission. The buses are expected to serve the • For 2019, 186 company-owned machinery used Euro 5 diesel with lower carbon / CO2 emissions. highly-dense population of Sunway City Kuala Lumpur and its surrounding areas with about an estimated • Euro 5 limits pollutants that are considered harmful to human health such as carbon monoxide (CO), 500,000 people. hydrocarbons (HC), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate matter (PM). • We have installed about 20 electric charging bays around the highly dense Sunway City Kuala Lumpur. • We partnered with Malaysia’s first e-scooter startup to provide scooters in Sunway City Iskandar. GOALS AND TARGETS 2030 • We have set energy and waste goals for all our entire operations. 82 83 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 OUR STRATEGY TOWARDS EFFICIENT LAND DECARBONISATION (CONT’D) AND MATERIALS [GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3] MANAGEMENT [GRI 304-1, 304-3] TABLE 6: CO2e EMISSIONS AND CO2 EMISSIONS AVOIDED SUNWAY’S APPROACH tonnes CO2 TREES OPTIMISE EFFICIENCY EQUIVALENT YEAR SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 TOTAL CO2 TO CO2e AVOIDED VALUE CHAIN AREAS: BUILD Emitted Avoided Emitted Avoided Emitted Avoided Emitted Avoided 2015 131 0 169,236 0 1,676 0 171,043 0 0 LANDBANK ACQUISITION 2016 82 0 190,020 7,505 1,600 0 191,702 7,505 112,575 DESIGN & MASTER PLANNING CONSTRUCTION & SUPPLY CHAIN 2017 109 0 184,225 8,805 3,355 28 187,689 8,833 132,495 2018 104 0 195,940 9,489 2,865 28 198,909 9,517 142,755 2019 99 0 201,886 14,248 2,813 28 204,798 14,276 214,140 Besides maintaining urban forestry in our townships, we are propagating urban farms within our integrated EFFICIENT township. Urban farms creates greens spaces, recycles waste, cuts traffic, provide employment, prevents BIODIVERSITY erosion and act as natural carbon sequestration system, building resilience. We do not build on critical sites. TOTAL 954,141 40,131 601,965 MANAGEMENT • Sunway City Kuala Lumpur (40% open space, 800 acres) We run biodiversity awareness programmes in Sunway Lagoon Theme Park’s petting zoo. We were rated Data for emissions generated were obtained by using the relevant emission factors from The Department for Environment, Food & ”Excellent” by the Department of Wildlife and National Parks for our practices. In 2019, we have started Rural Affairs (DEFRA), United Kingdom and Sustainable Energy Development Authority (SEDA) Malaysia. Our carbon footprint is the Sunway Seeding Inspiration and Leadership via Knowledge (SILK) corporate initiative. The aim is to calculated in accordance with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute’s (WBCSD/WRI) teach the students of SMK Bandar Sunway to create their own urban farms, and transform it into a social GHG Protocol, a corporate accounting and reporting standard. This protocol is considered the current best practice for corporate or enterprise by 2021. We will also be partnering with the organisation, ThoughtForFood to create new urban organisational emissions reporting, and we measure our emissions in three ‘scopes’: farmers amongst youth in 2020. CO2 emitted: • Sunway City Ipoh (55% open space, 1,350 acres) • Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned, such as company-owned vehicles We run biodiversity programmes in Lost World of Tambun where we have a petting zoo which is annually • Scope 2: Total CO2 emitted refer to indirect emissions from purchased electricity using the location-based and market-based methods. audited by the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. We were rated ”good” in 2019 for our practices. • Scope 3: Total CO2 emitted refer to indirect emissions such as our business travel, waste generation and outsourced services. Lost World of Tambun has also signed a memorandum of understanding with the Malacca Zoo for carrying out wildlife conservation programmes. We have recently built an organic farm which is approximately 20 CO2e avoided: acres in size within the township. Different types of fruits and vegetables are grown in the farm including • Scope 1: None durian, dokong, rambutan, lady’s fingers, kangkong, corn, choy sum, cucumber, carrot and purple spinach. • Scope 2: Total CO2e avoided figure is obtained from solar energy and energy savings. The produce are harvested for the farm-to-fork menu at The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat as well as being • Scope 3: Total CO2e avoided figure is obtained from waste which is diverted from the landfill. used as feed in our deer farm. • Sunway City Iskandar (40% open space, 1,800 acres) 15 tree seedlings grown for 10 years will offset 1 tonne of CO2e We have set up an eco-club in Sunway International School to teach young students about nature and environmental awareness. Students also learn how to plant and take care of trees within the club. Percentage of CO2 Emission by Sector in 2019 We focus our new land bank acquisition on lands that which reduces distances between places where EFFICIENT LAND are suitable for compact and mixed-development in people live, learn, work and play to mitigate GHG ACQUISITION high-density urban areas to mitigate urban sprawl. emissions. Six of our largest mixed developments are Transit-oriented walkable developments promote caron brownfield sites. Brownfield site redevelopment lite urban mobility and encourage the use of public may lead to a net GHG reduction of 51.9 Mt CO2 eq. 98.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.3% transportation. We plan for mixed developments over a 70-year period, or 0.74 Mt CO2 yr -1. Electricity generation Waste Air travel Land transportation 84 85 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT LAND AND MATERIALS MANAGEMENT (CONT’D) [GRI 102-9, 417-1] • New Communities EFFICIENT Continuing our commitment to efficient urban land use, we handed over properties with an estimated In our journey towards greener construction, we materials used in every project to ensure creation COMMUNITIES gross development value (GDV) of RM2.243 billion. 97% of our total GDV were within mixed-use and endeavour to make use of environmentally-friendly and maintenance of sustainable sourcing and transit-oriented development. materials, which reduces energy consumption at building costs. With each project, we ensure a construction sites, promote conservation of nonbalance of innovative construction practices and • Future Communities renewable resources and reduce our environmental usage without affecting the quality and durability of We launched RM1.2 billion worth of properties and 90% of these were within mixed-use or transit-oriented impacts. We also monitor the amount of building building materials. development. Our property launches were Sunway Velocity TWO Block B Service Apartments, Sunway Onsen Suites, Sunway Avila Phase 1 Service Apartments, Sunway GeoLake Townhouse, Sunway Citrine Lakehomes, Sunway Avila Phase 2 Service Apartments and Sunway Lenang Phase 1b semi-detached homes. • Autoclaved Aerated Concrete (ACC) ENVIRONMENTALLY We use AAC blocks, a lightweight, precast, foam concrete building material. AAC blocks are eco-friendly as FRIENDLY BUILDING they are easy to shape, lightweight, reducing emissions from solid waste and associated carbon emissions. As a result strategic landbank acquisitions that considers urban spatial planning, we achieved RM1.55 MATERIALS They withstand high temperature, are fire and sound resistant as well as provide maximum workability, billion in sales, exceeding our sales target of RM1.3 billion. versatility and longevity resulting in quality durable properties. They help reduce at least 30% in industrial wastes, 50% in greenhouse radiation and over 60% of integrated energy on the surface of bricks. • 7D Virtual Design Construction (VDC) • Pavement with Environmental Perks EFFICIENT Our construction division is further developing 7D models that are capable of performing efficient energy, Our pavement products are listed under Malaysia’s MyHIJAU green certified products list and are sourced heat emission, light and sun path analysis on buildings. We utilise VDC in all our Build, Own, Operate from a company which has Singapore’s Green Label certification that endorses industrial and consumer CONSTRUCTION projects to minimise construction wastage, speed up work, as well as deliver safer worksites. products with lesser undesirable effects on the environment. Sunway City Kuala Lumpur has been repaved with environmental pavers. • System Formwork Formwork is the term used for the process of creating a temporary mould where concrete is poured and • Low Volatile Organic Compounds Paint as Eco Option formed. Traditional formwork is fabricated using timber but it can also be constructed from, among We offer environment-friendly goods by using low Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) paint for building others, steel and glass fibre reinforced plastics. We use system formwork with standard prefabricated materials. This is to avert release of dangerous gases and solids from paints and lacquers, paint strippers, modular components and a large casting panel. After the modular components are put together, the cleaning supplies, pesticides, building materials and furnishing, and craft materials including adhesives system formwork will suit the required shape of concrete structures. Benefits accrued from use of system and permanent markers that emit VOC, which are considered one of the top five risks to human health. formwork include a reduction in use of materials, wastage, manpower, time and safety issues. • Industrialised Building System To reach a wide-range of economic, environmental and social benefits and boost productivity, we utilise • Quarry the IBS or prefabrication which involves components that are manufactured offsite. The components are EFFICIENT Our quarry division has eight quarries and 14 asphalt plants located strategically across the nation in main then installed on site with minimal effort. IBS is term to describe the use of automation, mechanisation SUPPLY CHAIN urban areas for efficient distribution of construction materials. and prefabrication of components for the building industry. We currently use the IBS method for interior walls (non-load bearing walls) in Sunway Serene, Sunway GEOlake Residences and Sunway Velocity TWO. • Building Materials Our building materials division has created its own range of eco-label products which are supplied to our own projects and others. We innovate and manufacture products which are in compliance with Eco-Label and Green Label requirements. All our manufacturing facilities are ISO accredited in Quality Management System and Environment Management System, and our products fully comply to MS1314. Sustainable construction material in buildings in the world market. In our Build, Own, Operate SUSTAINABLE require less use of natural resources and greater projects, we manage materials by adopting a CONSTRUCTION • External suppliers reusability of such materials and products for structured management strategy as a guide to ensure MATERIALS Our suppliers are expected to comply to rules and regulations as well as a code of conduct that meets our the similar purpose. This also increases industry sustainable consumption of materials. standards for environmental conservation and protection. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is set out on page efficiency as such materials are readily available 66. Establishing procurement Doing the right things right for schedule that avoids premature • Greenery provision the first time and every time delivery of the materials NEW BUILDS 2020 • Green transport and connectivity Materials • Stormwater management • Sustainable construction methods Management • Sustainable products Strategy Onsite 5-S practice on First-In-First-Out (FIFO) material storage practices 86 87 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT CITIES AND BUILDINGS [GRI 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 305-5] SUNWAY’S APPROACH TYPE OF PROPERTIES CERTIFICATIONS NAME OF PROPERTIES BUILD-OWNEDSunway City KL (Silver) OPTIMISE EFFICIENCY DECARBONISE POWER ELECTRIFY FUELS Green Building Index (GBI) OPERATED CITIES Sunway Iskandar (Silver) Sunway Penang @ Anson (Gold) VALUE CHAIN AREAS: BUILD The Pinnacle (Gold) Green Building Index (GBI) Sunway Southern Region Office (Certified) Sunway Pyramid West (Certified) LANDBANK ACQUISITION OWNED-AND-OPERATED Sunway Clio Hotel (Certified) COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS Sunway Putra Mall (Bronze) DESIGN & MASTER PLANNING CONSTRUCTION & SUPPLY CHAIN Sunway Big Box Retail Park (Bronze) GreenRE Sunway Geo Tower (Bronze) GREEN CITIES AND BUILDINGS Sunway Citrine Hub (Bronze) Green Mark The Pinnacle (Gold) Sunway Mont Bleu (Gold) Green Building Index (GBI) We see green masterplanned communities and 2020 onwards, we aim to have all our buildings EXISTING RESIDENTIAL Sunway SPK 3 Harmoni (Gold) GREEN CITIES AND buildings as some of the most effective ways to certified at vacant possession. Currently at least GreenRE Sunway GEOSense (Bronze) BUILDINGS reach a range of global goals, create sustainable seven assets under our management are certified communities, drive economic growth and address green and we aim to have all our new assets within Sunway Serene (Gold) climate change. As a result of our lifecycle approach, our portfolio to be certified green from 2025 Sunway GEOlake (Gold) two of our masterplanned communities and at least onwards. Sunway Velocity TWO Tower A & B (Gold) 13 of our buildings have been certified green. From Sunway Velocity TWO Tower C & D (Gold) UPCOMING RESIDENTIAL Green Building Index (GBI) & Sunway Belfield (Gold) (TARGET RATINGS) GreenRE Sunway Kota Damansara Section 10 (Gold) Sunway Avila (Gold) Sunway Valley City Phase 2 Serviced Apartment (Gold) Sunway GRID (Silver) Sunway Velocity TWO Corporate Office (Platinum) Sunway International School USJ1 (Platinum) Sunway South Quay CP2 Office (Gold) Sunway Big Box Office (Gold) Sunway Carnival Mall Expansion (Gold) Sunway Valley City Phase 3 – Mall (Gold) Green Building Index (GBI) & UPCOMING COMMERCIAL Sunway South Quay CP2 – Retail Mall (Gold) GreenRE (TARGET RATINGS) Sunway South Quay CP2 University (Gold) Sunway Valley City Phase 1 Office and Retail (Silver) Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan Cina Cheah Fah (Bronze) Sunway Big Box Hotel (Bronze) Sunway Medical Centre Tower D, E (Bronze) Sunway Medical Centre Seberang Jaya (Certified) Sunway Senai’s Precast Plants Green Mark Sunway Carnival Mall Expansion (Gold Plus) 88 89 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT CITIES EFFICIENT ENERGY AND BUILDINGS MANAGEMENT (CONT’D) [GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5] [GRI 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 305-5] SUNWAY’S APPROACH 13 2 OPTIMISE EFFICIENCY VALUE CHAIN AREAS : OWN AND OPERATE Buildings Certified Green Townships Certified Green PROPERTY INVESTMENT REIT AND AND BUSINESS OPERATORS REIT MANAGEMENT GREEN STANDARDS FOR NEW BUILDS 2020 ALL RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS IN 2020 LIFECYCLE THINKING : NEW BUILDS FOCUS AREAS FEATURES FOCUS EXAMPLE Energy Efficiency • E  nhance overall thermal performance of building envelope LIFECYCLE STAGES INITIATIVES • Natural ventilated design or energy efficient mechanical ventilation system Decarbonise • Energy efficient lighting in common areas Planning •T arget energy efficiency during the design stage •  Target energy efficiency • Energy efficient lifts with AC variable voltage and frequency drives, regenerative drives and sleep (Potential using Building Information Modeling (BIM) during the design stage mode features Energy) using BIM • Energy efficient features such as motion and daylight sensors, lifts with regenerative drives, Energy Efficiency Index (EEI) for buildings Design •U  tilising energy savings design to achieve energy • Building orientation • Renewable energy – Solar PV (Embedded optimisation • Building envelope Energy) • All our non-residential buildings are built adhering • Heating and cooling Indoor Environmental •C  omputation of building energy efficiency index to determine the energy savings for building energy to MS1525 standards which is Malaysia’s code of • Insulation Quality consumption Practice for Energy Efficiency in non-residential • Natural ventilation in common • Air-conditioning system is designed with indoor temperature between 23˚C to 26˚C and relative buildings. areas humidity between 50% to 70% • Our residential buildings are built adhering to • Motion sensors • Good ambient internal noise level MS2680 standards which is the code for Energy • Green roofs • Use of low VOC paints certified under local / international certification body Efficiency and User of Renewable Energy for • Vertical gardens Water Efficiency Residential Buildings Code of Practice. Both are • Water efficient fittings which are certified under water efficiency products labelling scheme voluntary building codes. Optimise • Water sub-meters to monitor water usage • Non-potable water including rainwater harvesting for landscape irrigation • Drought tolerant plants that require minimal irrigation Build • Achieve energy savings during building operations •E  nergy efficient lighting, • Non-chemical water treatment to building cooling towers (Operational fixtures, lifts and escalators • Using recycled water for fire test Energy) • Herb garden as landscape Operate •E nergy savings through optimising operational •A nnual energy audit and Green Construction • Efficient concrete usage for building components (Sustainable building performance review • Products that are environmentally-friendly and sustainable Energy) • Preventive maintenance Optimise • Planting of greenery and restoration of existing trees to reduce heat island effect • Retrofits including LED light Electrify • Adoption of environmental friendly practices during construction and building operations replacement, chiller plant • Good access to public transport network with covered walkway optimisation and Building • Provision of electric car charging stations Energy Management Systems • Treatment of stormwater runoff through provision of infiltration before discharge to public drainage (BEMS) • Air-conditioning refrigerant gas with Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) of zero or with global warming potential (GWP) of less than 100 • Non-chemical (salt-chlorinator) swimming pool 90 91 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT ENERGY MANAGEMENT (CONT’D) CHART 4: TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (IN MWH) BY SECTOR 5,213 [GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5] 4,328 6,012 4,314 5,019 9,976 Every year we conduct energy audits across our industry. In 2019, we carried out retrofit projects 3,699 4,916 349,325 ANNUAL ENERGY operations and assets to identify areas for energy in five of our malls, seven of our hotels, five of our 2,949 4,433 338,654 EFFICIENCY AUDITS efficiency optimisation. We track performance by office towers and both theme parks to progressively 318,872 sectors according to performance standards for each decrease our Building Energy Intensity. 3,098 11,268 8,227 288,872 12,591 22,358 23,527 258,712 20,161 Energy consumption by sector (MWh) 11,141 27,823 27,857 16,197 10,845 27,012 13,425 17,141 17,329 28,878 17,228 ENERGY EFFICIENCY RETROFITS 2019 28,145 17,976 24,488 24,740 22,961 Total 14,523 20,054 ENERGY SAVINGS 47,626 49,458 Quarry SECTOR ENERGY INITIATIVES BUILDINGS 21,655 (MWh) 47,981 Student Residences 45,145 Retail LED Light Replacement •S  unway Pyramid 62,262 41,808 Trading and Manufacturing • Sunway Giza Mall Building Materials • Sunway Carnival Mall Healthcare Chiller Plant Optimisation •S  unway Pyramid Education • Sunway Carnival Mall 122,265 141,349 161,708 178,602 176,987 Leisure Building Energy Management System • Sunway Pyramid Office (BEMS) Hotel Solar PV • Sunway Big Box Retail Park Retail 2015 20161 20172 20183 2019 4 Hotel LED Light Replacement • Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa 460 Year Office LED Light Replacement • M  enara Sunway 2,467 1 N  ew properties added: Sunway Clio Property (Hotel), Sunway Pyramid West, Sunway Giza Mall, Sunway Velocity Mall, Sunway Medical Centre 3 • Sunway Tower 2 New properties added: Sunway Citrine Retail, Sunway Geo Avenue, Sunway Iskandar International School, Sunway Velocity Hotel • The Pinnacle 3 New properties added: Sunway Medical Residence 4 New properties added: Sunway University Apartment, Sunway Quarry • Sunway Putra Tower Chiller Plant Optimisation •M  enara Sunway • Wisma Sunway TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION GENERATED FROM SOLAR ENERGY Leisure LED Light Replacement • Sunway Lagoon Club 344 Education 2019 2020 (Target) LED Light Replacement • Sunway University & College 3,712 1% 3% Solar PV •S  unway University & College • Monash University Chiller Plant Optimisation • Sunway University & College TARGETS FOR SOLAR PANEL INSTALLATION IN 2020 Healthcare LED Light Replacement • Sunway Medical Center 177 Sunway Pyramid Mall – Phase 1 Tambun Agro Solar Solar PV • Eco-walk 307 Building Materials Solar PV • Sunway VCP 1,307 Sunway Medical Centre Spun Pile and Paving Solutions Total 71,036 Sunway Monash Residence Sunway Velocity Mall Sunway International School Iskandar Sunway Big Box Retail Park POTENTIAL SAVING OF ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION PER YEAR 11,234 MWh (equivalent to avoiding 6,572 TONNES CO2e) 92 93 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT ENERGY MANAGEMENT (CONT’D) CHART 7: BUILDING ENERGY INTENSITY (KWH/M2/YEAR) [GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5] BEI decreased by 366 358 358 2% from 2015 CHART 5: TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (%) BY SECTOR 312 BEI increased by 7% from 2015 BEI (kWh/m2/year) 274 274 274 265 4% 1% 1% 4% 1% 2% 4% 1% 2% 3% 1% 1% 2% 1% 2% 3% 256 BEI decreased by 19% from 2015 252 211 207 205 Healthcare 5% 193 BEI increased by 6% 6% 7% Quarry 183 200 187 7% Energy consumption by sector (%) 176 10% from 2015 8% Retail 11% 10% 8% 8% Student Residences 186 177 178 Hospitality 6% 6% 5% 5% 5% Trading and Manufacturing 159 152 BEI decreased by 7% 7% 7% 152 153 Office 8% 7% 17% from 2015 Building Materials Education 15% 14% 14% 16% 16% Healthcare 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Year Education Leisure 47% 49% 51% 53% 51% Office Hotel CHART 8: ENERGY USE INTENSITY (MWH/PERSON/YEAR) Retail Energy use intensity (MWh/person/year) 2015 20161 20172 20183 2019 4 Year 7.87 8.09 8.05 1 N  ew properties added: Sunway Clio Property (Hotel), Sunway Pyramid West, Sunway Giza Mall, Sunway Velocity Mall, Sunway Medical Centre 3 7.81 2 New properties added: Sunway Citrine Retail, Sunway Geo Avenue, Sunway Iskandar International School, Sunway Velocity Hotel 7.25 3 New properties added: Sunway Medical Residence 4 New properties added: Sunway University Apartment, Sunway Quarry EUI has increased by 11% from 2015 CHART 6: TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWH) AND TOTAL GFA (M2) Leisure 330,995 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 303,674 Year Energy Consumption (MWh) Occupied GFA in millions (m2) *Note: Includes buildings from the leisure sector 282,844 Total annual energy consumption has 254,262 increased 45% from year 2015 228,718 CHART 9: ENERGY USE INTENSITY (KWH/TONNE/YEAR) 1.30 1.25 1.27 Energy use intensity (kWh/tonnes/year) 1.16 105 101 GFA has 99 97 increased 37% 0.95 from year 2015 Total Electricity Consumption 79 Total Occupied GFA 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 EUI has Year decreased by 20% Note: Includes buildings from the retail, hotel, office, education, healthcare and student residences sectors from 2015 Building Materials 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Year 94 95 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT WATER MANAGEMENT [GRI 303-1, 303-2, 303-3] In Malaysia where we predominantly operate, in the state, we have invested mitigation measures SUNWAY’S APPROACH HIGH according to the latest available figures by the Ministry for water-related risks. In Sunway City Kuala Lumpur PRIORITY AREA of Water, Land and Natural Resources’ (KATS) latest and Sunway South Quay, we invested RM18 million MANAGEMENT available figures, Selangor is consistently the state in research and installation of a water treatment OPTIMISE EFFICIENCY that suffered the most number of unscheduled water plant which can supply up to 8,400 m3 water daily. supply interruptions for the years 2014 to 2017. This amounts to 50% of water consumption by the KATS’s figures show Selangor topping the list for community in the area. We have installed rainwater VALUE CHAIN AREAS unscheduled water cuts by accounting for 84,796 harvesting tanks in several of our properties, as a of 174,997 nationwide incidents in 2014, 81,969 water recycling strategy. The collected rainwater of 167,055 nationwide incidents in 2015, although is used for watering landscape and for cleaning PROPERTY INVESTMENT REIT AND this has fallen considerably to 19,061 out of 61,517 purposes. In the year 2019, the total rainwater AND BUSINESS OPERATORS REIT MANAGEMENT nationwide incidents in 2017. collected was 16,718,000 litres. Additionally, Sunway Lagoon Theme Park recycled 48,000 litres Our total water withdrawal in Selangor is at of their lakewater for irrigation and general cleaning RM629,000 per month (276,000 m3 x RM2.28 per purposes. m3). In our highest-density and largest developments LIFECYCLE THINKING: NEW BUILDS LIFECYCLE FOCUS FOCUS EXAMPLE INITIATIVES Planning Target water efficiency • Adoption of green building codes to conserve water during the design stage • Water distribution modeling for the most efficient design Design Utilising water efficient • Implement water efficient fittings fittings during design Build Achieve water savings •W  orksite water management TSS levels to remain within during building operations the 50-150 mg/L threshold • Silt traps to control erosion particulates from entering waterways Operate Water savings through • Focused management in high priority areas optimising operational • Annual water audit building performance • Retrofits including rainwater harvesting and water-efficient fittings • Water usage monitoring • Irrigation and landscaping Water Treatment Plant at Sunway City Kuala Lumpur 96 97 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WATER EFFICIENCY RETROFITS 2019 EFFICIENT WATER SECTOR WATER INITIATIVE BUILDINGS MANAGEMENT Retail Rainwater harvesting for non-potable use • Sunway Velocity Mall (CONT’D) Hotel Water-efficient fittings, fixtures and systems • Sunway Putra Hotel [GRI 303-1, 303-2, 303-3, 306-1, 306-5] Rainwater harvesting for non-potable use • Sunway Clio Hotel Water-saving fittings, fixtures and systems • Sunway Pyramid Hotel To manage urban stormwater, we use a combination of structural and non-structural measures: • Sunway Clio Hotel EFFICIENT STORMWATER Office Rainwater harvesting for non-potable use • Menara Sunway MANAGEMENT Retain and restore Manage the quantity and Install facilities for runoff Using water-efficient fittings, fixtures and systems • Menara Sunway degraded valuable features quality of stormwater at / or quantity and quality control • The Pinnacle of the stormwater system near its source • Sunway Geo • Wisma Sunway • Sunway Tower Using recycled water and drought-resistant plants • Menara Sunway • The Pinnacle Our worksites generate surface water run-off which DOE’s permissible limit. The silt trap is a temporary Leisure Rainwater harvesting for non-potable use • Lost World of Tambun EFFICIENT will eventually be discharged into water bodies ponding area built to collect and store sediment • Sunway Lagoon Theme Park WORKSITE WATER nearby. We conduct periodic monitoring of total from water runoff, and helps separate silt and other MANAGEMENT suspended solid (TSS) at final discharge point to particles, improving the quality of water before it is Utilisation of lake water and ground water • Sunway Lagoon Theme Park ensure our water discharges’ parameters are within reintroduced back into the drainage system. Education Rainwater harvesting for non-potable use • Sunway University TABLE 7: TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS 2019 COMPLIANCE AVERAGE PROJECT MINIMUM MAXIMUM LIMIT BASELINE CHART 10: TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION BY SECTOR (M3) SUNWAY MEDICAL CENTRE 4 100 mg/L 100.0 3.0 90.0 45,388 SUNWAY GEOLAKE RESIDENCE RC1 100 mg/L 5.0 2.0 14.0 51,625 36,464 VELOCITY TWO 150 mg/L 21.0 6.0 19.0 36,647 277,073 44,549 36,853 5,756,768 Water consumption (m3) 37,737 156,101 152,134 39,273 4,902,731 215,732 TABLE 8: SILT TRAPS 2019 217,757 26,451 4,570,787 135,973 190,057 444,230 COMPLIANCE AVERAGE 179,533 PROJECT MINIMUM MAXIMUM 37,131 179,382 LIMIT* BASELINE 3,811,539 211,714 408,895 92,426 1,144,497 397,183 SUNWAY MEDICAL CENTRE 170,484 Total 100 mg/L 290 No discharge 480 241,672 836,231 SEBERANG JAYA 2,739,224 Student Residences 360,724 770,220 SUNWAY CARNIVAL MALL 75 No discharge 136 165,989 Trading and Manufacturing 100 mg/L EXTENTION 221,602 633,955 1,137,381 1,281,896 Building Materials 349,346 1,094,615 SUNWAY GEOLAKE RESIDENCE RC1 100 mg/L 71 5 36 Healthcare 762,620 465,967 Office SUNWAY BIG BOX HOTEL 50 mg/L 16 No discharge No discharge 403,231 Education SUNWAY SERENE PLOT 1 100 mg/L 125 No discharge 146 Leisure 977,081 1,429,100 1,692,038 1,913,520 2,078,570 Hotel SUNWAY VELOCITY TWO 100 mg/L 109 No discharge 74 Retail SUNWAY MEDICAL CENTRE 4 2015 20161 20172 20183 2019 4 100 mg/L No discharge No discharge 59 ANNEX Year 1  ew properties added: Sunway Giza Mall, Sunway Pyramid West Mall, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa, Sunway Pyramid Hotel, Sunway Clio Property (Hotel), The Banjaran Hotspring Retreat, Sunway N *Reading exceeded the compliance limit due to heavy rainfall and ineffective silt trap design. Medical Centre 3, Sunway Spun Pile, Sunway University Residence As a corrective measure, we have improved on our silt trap design and maintenance 2 New properties added: Sunway Velocity Mall, Sunway Citrine Retail 3 New properties added: Sunway Velocity Hotel, Sunway Geo, Sunway Medical Residence, Sunway Iskandar International School 4 New properties added: Sunway University Apartment 98 99 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT WATER MANAGEMENT (CONT’D) [GRI 303-1, 303-2, 303-3] CHART 11: TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION BY SECTOR (%) CHART 13: WATER USE INTENSITY (M3/M2) 1% 1% 3% 1% 1% 4% 1% 1% 3% 1% 1% 3% 1% 1% 5% Intensity has increased by 48% from 2015 3.7 4% 4% 4% Intensity has increased 6% 4% 5% 4% 4% 3.4 3.7 by 147% from 2015 6% 3.3 8% 9% 8% 8% 3.1 9% 3.3 Intensity has decreased Water consumption by sector (%) 13% by 21%from 2015 Water use intensity (m3/m2) 17% Student Residences 3.0 17% 20% 17% 2.6 Intensity has increased Trading and Manufacturing 2.5 2.6 17% by 22% from 2015 2.3 2.3 Building Materials 2.1 2.2 20% 24% 23% 22% 2.0 Intensity decreased by 15% Healthcare 1.8 9% from 2015 1.9 2.0 Office 1.8 Retail Education 1.5 Hospitality Leisure 36% 37% 37% 39% 36% Healthcare 1.1 1.1 Hotel 1.0 1.0 Education 0.8 Retail Office 2015 20161 20172 20183 2019 4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Year Year 1  ew properties added: Sunway Giza Mall, Sunway Pyramid West Mall, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa, Sunway Pyramid Hotel, Sunway Clio Property (Hotel), The Banjaran Hotspring Retreat, Sunway N Medical Centre 3, Sunway Spun Pile, Sunway University Residence 2 New properties added: Sunway Velocity Mall, Sunway Citrine Retail 3 New properties added: Sunway Velocity Hotel, Sunway Geo, Sunway Medical Residence, Sunway Iskandar International School 4 New properties added: Sunway University Apartment CHART 14: WATER USE INTENSITY (M3/TONNE) CHART 12: TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) AND TOTAL GFA (M2) GFA has increased Water use intensity (m3/tonne) Water consumption in millions (m3) 31% from year Occupied GFA in millions (m2) 2015 0.39 0.37 1.21 1.22 1.24 1.16 0.29 Intensity increased 2.91 2.91 2.89 0.26 0.25 by 34% 0.95 from 2015 2.44 Total annual water consumption has 2.21 increased 31% from year 2015 Total Occupied GFA Building Materials Total Water 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Consumption Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Year Note: Includes buildings from the retail, hotel, office, education, healthcare and student residences sectors 100 101 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT WASTE MANAGEMENT [GRI 301-2, 304-2, 306-2, 306-3] According to Solid Waste Management and Public chlorofluorocarbon and flame retardants. Dumping or SUNWAY’S APPROACH LIFECYCLE Cleansing Corporation (SW Corp), Malaysia generated illegal recycling of e-waste can cause these materials THINKING 38,142 tonnes of waste per day, an increase from to leak into the environment. 19,000 tonnes of waste a day in 2005 in 2018. Of REDUCE WASTE TO LANDFILL this, 44.5% of the waste collected was food waste, Sunway adheres to the Solid Waste and Public followed by plastic waste (13.2%). The amount of Cleansing Management Act 2007. We practice fabric waste entering landfills had doubled since a hierarchical waste management strategy to VALUE CHAIN AREAS 2012 to 6.3% from 2.8% in 2012. It is estimated effectively manage waste that lands in landfills. We that 60% of fabric waste are made of synthetic fibres focus particularly on managing waste categories such which are hard to degrade, while 75% of fabric as food waste for its potential methane emissions PROPERTY INVESTMENT REIT AND waste can be recycled into fuel. SW Corp intends to and plastic waste for its potential to cause land, air AND BUSINESS OPERATORS REIT MANAGEMENT increase the recycling rate to 30%. and water pollution and harm to wildlife. These two categories are also the highest volumes of waste According to the Global E-Waste Monitor 2017 collected. At present, the management and control of Report by the United Nations University, Malaysia e-waste is regulated under the Environmental Quality generated 8.8kg of e-waste per person in 2016, (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 2005, enforced totalling 280 kilotonnes. Most e-waste contains since 15 August 2005. Under this regulation, The waste management hierarchy provides various have the best effects on the environment lie at the precious metals (such as gold, silver, platinum and e-waste is categorised as a scheduled waste. Any EFFICIENT WASTE strategies in tackling waste in a sustainable manner. top of the upside down pyramid, and moves down palladium), iron, copper, aluminium and plastics importation or exportation of it is regulated under MANAGEMENT The implementation of these strategies help to towards the least preferred options. We make sure that can be extracted and sold. But much e-waste Section 34B of the Environmental Quality Act 1974 HIERARCHY generate the maximum amount of beneficial products to align our waste management strategies to the also contains rare earth, hazardous metals (such and the Basel Convention on the Transboundary OF MANAGED from the available wastes. The most preferred options hierarchy below, across our properties. as mercury, lead and cadmium) and chemicals like Movements of Hazardous Waste and Disposal 1989. BUILDINGS of waste management, which represent options that Most Preferred • Scheduled Waste EFFICIENT WASTE Scheduled waste requires cautious handing due to to local laws and regulations. We closely monitor the PREVENTION MANAGEMENT ON its hazardous constituents which may lead to adverse management of scheduled waste at our project sites WORKSITES impact on the environment and public health. We and ensure the waste is transported by a licenced ensure scheduled waste generated at our project contractor to approved recycling facilities prior to sites are stored, transported and treated according disposal. REDUCTION • Chemical Management We ensure that occurrences such as chemical and strive to maintain best chemical management spills and leakages are minimised as much as via labelling practices, appropriate handling and possible to prevent water contamination. At Sunway storage on site. In 2019, we recorded zero chemical RECYCLING Construction and Sunway Integrated Properties, we spillage at Sunway Construction project sites. acknowledge the importance of managing chemicals RECOVERY • Recycle and Reuse of Hydraulic Oil In 2019, we continued to reuse and recycle hydraulic able to prevent the deterioration in the quality of the oil from machinery at our construction sites. We oil. Through this approach, we recycled the hydraulic believe that this has led to minimal soil and water oil for topping up purpose. Since this recycling DISPOSAL pollution and conservation of natural resources. process undergoes thorough filtering processes, we Our idea of recycling hydraulic oil is to change can only use it for topping up since no additives the hydraulic oil based on the interval set by the found in the recycled oil. Least Preferred manufacturer. By adhering to the schedule, we are 102 103 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EFFICIENT WASTE MANAGEMENT (CONT’D) [GRI 301-2, 306-2] HIERARCHY INITIATIVES IN 2019 HOTEL HIERARCHY INITIATIVES IN 2019 Recycle In conjunction with World Earth Day, a recycling competition was organised by Sunway Lagoon Theme Park to create awareness amongst staff on sustainable development. The theme park managed to surpass the goal of collecting 1,000kg of recyclable materials by managing to collect 1,600kg of recyclable materials. GROUPWIDE Reduce All of Sunway’s owned and managed properties collect recyclable items including papers, plastic, bottles, cans and On World Animal Day, Sunway Lagoon Theme Park pledged to collect 1,000 eco-bricks (plastic bottles packed more as well as run awareness campaigns for tenants and shoppers. with non-biodegradable, non-recyclable, single-use plastic trash from the park) to build an enclosure for their pygmy goats. An eco-brick contains up to 160g of plastic trash, this project saved approximately 150kg of nonBring Your Own Bottle (BYOB) concept is encouraged at all Sunway’s internal events. Participants are encouraged recyclable plastic trash from ending up in the landfills. to bring their own water bottles, containers and cutlery. A total of 19,800 plastic bottles waste were avoided (1,800 kg from the Northern region and 18,000 from the Central region). Recycle The Soapful initiative by Sunway Hotels & Resorts in collaboration with Ecolab Sdn Bhd, Kinder Soaps Sdn Bhd and Selangor Youth Community (SAY) aimed at repurposing used soap bars to help communities in need. Ecolab Recycle In 2018, Malaysians threw away 63,000 tonnes of fabric waste into landfills. Textile dyeing is the second largest collected used soap bars from the hotels, which were then delivered to Kinder Soaps’ to be repurposed into new polluter of clean water globally while microplastics from synthetic clothing pollute the water, endangering aquatic bars of soap, following stringent standard operating procedures that adheres to safety and environment standards. life. Toxic chemicals in fertilisers also disrupt the natural ecosystem and are health hazards to humans and lifestock. SAY identified beneficiaries’ children’s homes for the project while Kinder Soaps taught children from selected Kloth Care bins are installed in 11 of Sunway’s properties for donations to charitable organisations, exported to orphanage homes on the processes of repurposing used soaps. developing countries, reused as industrial wiping cloth or undergo fuel to energy conversion. Textile recycling bins are placed in Sunway’s properties. The repurposed soaps were for personal use and sold as part of a social enterprise intiative, delivering benefits to people and the planet. In Sunway Hotel Hanoi, used soaps were distributed to Quynh Hoa, a charity centre, in Establishments: collaboration with Diversy Company. Used soaps from Sunway Hotel Phnom Penh were donated to charity homes • Menara Sunway • Sunway International School • Sunway Velocity Hotel after being repurposed into new soap bars. Sunway Hotel Georgetown and Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya donated • The Pinnacle Sunway • Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa • Sunway Lagoon Theme Park their surplus bath gel and shampoo to Kechara Penang and Penang Cheshire Home to help raise awareness on • Sunway University • Sunway Putra Hotel • Sunway Geo Tower self-hygiene among the underserved community in Penang. • Sunway College • Sunway Putra Mall For the Ethical Waste Management Practice Programme, Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa, Sunway Hotel Georgetown, RETAIL Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya, Sunway Lagoon Theme Park and Sunway Putra Hotel repurpose used cooking oil for biodiesel, minimising cooking oil waste to landfill as well as reduce pollution to the environment. Reduce In an effort to reduce single-use plastic straws, Sunway Pyramid Mall, Sunway Putra Mall, Sunway Carnival Mall and Sunway Velocity Mall conducted the Metal Straw Campaign by offering shoppers a set of metal straw when In November, Sunway Hotels & Resorts signed a partnership with FatHopes Energy to recycle its used cooking they spend a min of RM100 in two receipts mallwide, excluding selected outlets. With a similar goal of introducing oil into biodiesel. Under the initiative, more than 50% or the used cooking oil generated by the Group’s six metal straws in their mall, Sunway Citrine Hub celebrated World Environment Day with the Bring Your Own Straw participating hotels will be collected by FatHopes Energy each week for conversion into biodiesel. This both (BYOS) campaign. This initiative is aimed at encouraging visitors to bring their own metal straws or any other prevents drains from getting clogged and reduces reliance on fossil fuels, eliminating GHG emissions. environment-friendly straws. It is also a call for the restaurants and cafés in the malls to stop providing plastic straw to their visitors. The decision to ‘break up’ with plastic straws is in line with the UNSDG and the banning of plastic Sunway Putra Hotel sold their used lightbulbs to Tex Cycle, a licensed recycle company that specialises in collecting straws in all Federal Territories of Kuala Lumpur, Labuan and Putrajaya by 2020. contaminated waste for disposal at sites permitted by the Department of Environment Malaysia and handled by licensed contractors. Recycle Sunway Pyramid’s food and beverage tenants generate a total of 2.4 tonnes of food waste every day. Sunway Sunway Putra Hotel collected of metal scrap from used appliances such as toasters, trolleys, bins, televisions and invested in a compost machine which can process up to 500 litres of food waste everyday, saving 180,000 litres of weighing scales to be recycled into new products such as building materials and home furnishings. food waste from landfills every year. Shoppers participated in pot decorating and seed planting workshops, as well as redeemed free seeds and compost during the launch of the programme. Free compost is available for the public Food composting machines were installed in Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa. The composters decompose all types at the mall’s compost collection spot, located at B1 Blue Zone. of food waste in an aerobic environment using controlled parameters such as temperatures, agitation and airflow. This technology enables the reduction of up to 80% of food waste within 24 hours and transforms into bio-organic LEISURE compost. Reduce Sunway Lagoon Theme Park’s ‘Reach-Out Programme’ was organised to educate pre-schoolers on the ‘3R’ (Reduce, The “Bin it to Win It Campaign” was held on November 2019, an initiative in which all Sunway Hotels & Resorts Reuse & Recycle) around the Klang Valley and managed to reach 4,689 pre-schoolers in 2019. The theme park participated. A total of 2,417kg were collected. The collections were donated to Kloth Care Malaysia, identified had 12,916 pre-schoolers and primary school students who visited the Wildlife Park on an educational tour which orphanage homes, old folks homes and NGO charity houses. incorporated education on 3R and sustainability. Sunway Hotel Hanoi organised the “Trash for Tree” project by collecting 300kg papers and 200 units of used Introduced the no single-use plastic policy. The purpose of this policy was to set out the commitment to eliminate batteries in exchange for 6 potted plants with Green Life Project. single-use plastic in Sunway Lagoon Theme Park. Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya donated 281kg of towel and bath mat to Penang Cheshire Home to be repurposed Lost World of Tambun has also implemented a ban on the use of plastic straws in their theme park. into handmade souvenirs. 104 105 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 CHART 17: GENERAL WASTE BY SECTOR (TONNES, %) EFFICIENT WASTE 1,644, 12% 688, 5% 1,028, 8% 1,021, 8% MANAGEMENT 1,006, 8% 820, 6% 401, 3% 418, 3% 642, 5% 538, 4% 676, 5% (CONT’D) 441, 3% 1,988, 15% 2,132, 16% 2,364, 18% [GRI 301-2, 306-2] HIERARCHY INITIATIVES IN 2019 Waste (tonnes, %) Leisure 7,633, 58% 8,090, 63% 7,421, 58% Healthcare OFFICE Education Recycle In Menara Sunway, the food waste was stored in a refuse chamber, yielding an average of 15 drums of food waste Office per week, which are then collected by a vendor to be sent to their site. At the site, the food waste is ingested by Black Soldier Fly (BSF) larvae and earthworms, which break down the organic matter to form fertilizer. The BSF Hospitality larvae and earthworms are fed to poultry farm and fisheries, while the organic fertilizer is used to nourish vegetable Retail crops. Reduce Food and beverage tenants in Sunway Lagoon Theme Park and Kelab Sosial Sunway in Menara Sunway implemented 2017 2018 2019 the no single-use plastic policy. Year Reuse Food composting machines were installed in The Pinnacle. The composters decompose all types of food waste in an aerobic environment using controlled parameters such as temperatures, agitation and airflow. This technology enables the reduction of up to 80% of food waste within 24 hours and transforms into bio-organic compost. CHART 18: DIVERTED WASTE BY SECTOR (TONNES, %) CHART 15: GENERAL WASTE VS DIVERTED WASTE (TONNES) Waste (tonnes, %) 14,556 14,307 14,237 887, 66% 840, 60% 805, 57% Waste (tonnes) 1,347 1,400 1,402 Trading and Manufacturing Leisure 50, 4% 5, 1% 43, 3% 5, 2% Education 26, 2% 21, 2% 13,209 12,837 12,905 45, 3% Office 172, 12% 168, 12% 94, 7% Hotel Total Waste 313, 23% 298, 21% 328, 23% Retail Diverted Waste 2017 2018 2019 General Waste Year Note: Diverted waste includes recyclable waste, composted food waste, and e-waste 2017 2018 2019 Year CHART 16: GENERAL WASTE VS DIVERTED WASTE (%) Food Waste Composted 9% 10% 10% 32 tonnes 91 tonnes 119 tonnes Waste (%) 2017 2018 2019 91% 90% 90% Scheduled & Clinical Waste Diverted Waste 394 tonnes 313 tonnes 362 tonnes General Waste 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Year 106 107 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SUNWAY CITY Perpetual Growth/ Capital Recycling Launched for Sale (2019): Low Carbon Emission Vehicle Support Electric vehicles parking bays are provided at Sunway KUALA LUMPUR • Sunway GEOlake Internet Access Pyramid Mall, The Pinnacle and Sunway Medical Centre • Free Wi-Fi on SunwayNet Sustainable buildings • MSC Status 2 Green Certified Buildings: • Digital Hub • Sunway Geo Tower Inception date Size GDV to date Classification • The Pinnacle Brownfield Public Transport Network 1974 800 Estimated • Sunway invested RM123 billion in a PPP initiative Pedestrian Infrastructure acres RM10 for Malaysia’s first Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system 100% walkable with elevated • Transit-linked development with convenient access underground connectivity walkway and (high-density urban form) billion within (0.5 km to public transport – TOD) URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND SPATIAL PLANNING Compact development •R  esidential, commercial, retail, healthcare, education, hospitality, leisure and entertainment Integration and mixed land use • 40% of assets owned and operated by Sunway • I nclusive Development recognition by the Selangor Town and Country Social inclusion Planning Development Resilience to climate change • Building redundancy through water treatment plants Youth Support / SME Support Tourism Sector Support Sunway Innovation Labs and Makerspace aims to • Tourism Malaysia Collaboration foster entrepreneurship and stimulate market-driven • Publicity via Airline Companies innovations, to help entrepreneurs become more • Sunway Lagoon Sharknado competitive in this rapidly changing environment. • Website and internet booking Their partnership with Sunway University helped • 42 million visitations yearly create a start-up ecosystem for young aspiring • Malaysia Tourism Award for Most Outstanding entrepreneurs. Contribution to Tourism Private Sector ENVIRONMENT DIMENSION SOCIETY AND CULTURE DIMENSION Greenscapes and bluescapes Cultural Infrastructure 40% Performing Arts Centre (Under Construction) Biodiversity Security Services Flora • 9,258 CCTVs • 150 species, 31,179 native plants and 142,291 • 381 auxiliary police adaptive plants • 14 patrol cars Fauna •4  tourist police • 22 bird species Childcare • “Excellent” Score on Annual Audit Report by •  Sunway partially subsidises the tuition fees for Department of Wildlife and National Parks for R.E.A.L Kids Sunway and The Parenthood if Sunway Lagoon Theme Park parents are employees • Malaysia Institute of Planners Low Carbon City • This subsidy is available for up to two children per Award family for a maximum of RM200 per month per • World Class FIABCI International Prix d’Excellence child Award • Child care subsidies of up to RM2,400 are tax • Malaysia’s first green township and awarded with exempt the Green Building Index (GBI) Silver certification in 2012 108 109 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SUNWAY CITY Perpetual Growth/ Capital Recycling Launched for Sale (2019) Sustainable Buildings Montbleu Residences (220 units of townhouses) was IPOH • Sunway Onsen Suites Planned for 2020 • Medical Centre & 2nd block of Service Apartments awarded BCA Greenmark Gold (Provisional) Pedestrian Infrastructure with natural hot springs facilities 100% walkable Inception date URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND SPATIAL PLANNING 1995 •M  ore than 1700 units of residential, commercial and industrial properties completed to date Compact • 40% of assets owned and operated by Sunway development • Lost World of Tambun Size • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat 1,346 • Hypermarket • Extreme Park acres • Sunway Lost World Hotel • Proposed Medical Centre Ipoh, Perak Integration • Proposed Education Campus and mixed • Proposed Lost World Mall land use • Proposed Assisted Living GDV to date • Proposed Hilltop Development (over 300 acres) Estimated RM1.2 Tourism Sector Support • Lost World of Tambun – Theme Park, Hotsprings & Hotel billion • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat • Collaboration with Tourism Malaysia • 1.5 million visitations yearly Classification Greenfield ENVIRONMENT DIMENSION Greenscapes and bluescapes 55% preserved in the form of natural mountains & lakes. 2 lakes of a total of 18 acres were maintained for the purpose of recreation and retention to avoid flooding Biodiversity • Flora  Diversity of fruit crops including predominantly durian (Durio Zibethinus), nangka (Atrocarpus heterophyllis), cempedak (Atrocarpus indica), mango (Mangifera indica), cermai (Phyllanthus acida), buah Melaka (Phyllanthus emblica), several species of citrus plants and miscellaneous fruit crops. These were planted primarily around the once occupied farm houses within the western part of the project site. • Fauna The common mammals observed in the project site are monkeys and squirrels. There are also a number of small reptiles and amphibians found in the area. The common birds observed at the edge of the hilly area and limestone hills in the project site are the common and Jungle Myna, Kingfishers, Bulbuls and Magpie Robin. Other forest species often seen include Malkolas, Babblers, Drongos and Woodpeckers. SOCIETY AND CULTURE DIMENSION Security Services • 15 CCTVs • auxiliary police • patrol cars Local Food Production • 20 acres Sunway Organic Farm • Types of fruits & vegetables: Durian, Dokong, Rambutan, Lady’s Fingers, Kangkong, Corn, Choy Sum, Cucumber, Carrot, Purple Spinach • Deer Farm & Rabbit Farm: Fed with organic vegetables • Harvested for consumption of our guests in Banjaran and Lost World of Tambun 110 111 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMIC DIMENSION SUNWAY CITY Perpetual Growth/ Capital Recycling Launched for Sale (2019) Public Transport Network Sunway Iskandar has collaborated with Scootbee, ISKANDAR • SISB L1/PH3 • Lenang BL/PH1B1A the world’s first self-distributing electric scooter, to increase modes of transportation within the city. Investment Properties (2019) Sustainable Township • Sunway Big Box Retail Park Green Building Index (GBI) Silver certification awarded to Sunway Iskandar township in 2019 Planned for 2020 • SISB L4/PH1 Pedestrian Infrastructure • Lenang BL/PH6 100% walkable with elevated walkway, underground connectivity URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND SPATIAL PLANNING • 897 units of residential and commercial properties completed to date Compact • Sunway Citrine Hub (operated by Sunway Mall) development • Sunwa Big Box Retail (operated by Sunway Big Box) • Sunway Xpark golf driving range & Xpark Sunway Iskandar • Sunway Grid (Office & Residence – construction in progress) • Sunway Lakehomes (Landed – construction in progress) Integration • Proposed FARMDO and mixed • Proposed Sunway Medical Center land use • Proposed Assisted Living • Proposed Digital Free Commercial Zone Tourism Sector Support • 758,675 visitations in 2019 ENVIRONMENT DIMENSION SOCIETY AND CULTURE DIMENSION Greenscapes and bluescapes Innovation support 40% Partnership with NEC to install 11 ANPR cameras: • License plate recognition capabilities Biodiversity • Vehicle counting capabilities Flora • Database size of 1,000 vehicles for all cameras • 12,000 trees from 75 various species across the • Central monitoring system township • Professional services: testing and commissioning • 43 mangrove plant species from 32 families with of platform and project management five predominant species • Support and annual maintenance: warranty for the first year and maintenance for the second year Fauna • 24/7 remote support based on 101-200 tickets per • 30 species of birds, 4 species of amphibians, 3 year species of reptiles and 13 species of fish Security Services • 58 CCTVs Inception date Size GDV to date Classification • “Good” Score on Annual Audit Report by • 40 auxiliary police Greenfield Department of Wildlife and National Parks for Lost • 3 patrol cars, 2 motorbikes, 4 bicycles 2012 1,800 Estimated World of Tambun till present acres RM1.7 • Sunway International School in Sunway Iskandar has set-up an eco-club where students can learn billion more about nature and the environment. Students also learn how to plant and take care of trees within the club. 112 113 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GOALS & TARGETS KEY PERFORMANCE INDEX LEGEND Targets are set; Data compilation in progress INDICATOR UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 PROGRESS Targets are set; Baseline yet to be set TRACKING Targets are set; Baseline is set PLANET i. Energy Usage Retail 122,265 141,349 161,708 178,602 176,987 FUTURE VALUE GOALS TARGETS (EFFECTIVE FROM 2019) FY 2019 PERFORMANCE Hotel 41,808 45,145 47,981 47,626 49,458 PILLAR 3: PLANET Office 21,655 20,054 22,961 24,488 24,740 Leisure 14,523 17,976 17,228 17,141 17,329 Carbon emission: To avoid at least a total of 250,000 tonnes of CO2e by 2030 40,131 tonnes of CO2e avoided (cumulative from 2015 Education 28,145 28,878 27,012 27,823 27,857 MWh (equivalent to 3.75 million tree seedlings – 2019) Healthcare 13,425 16,197 20,161 22,358 23,527 grown for 10 years) Building Materials 10,845 11,141 12,591 11,268 8,227 Energy: Consume at least 3% of electricity Trading and Manufacturing 2,949 3,699 4,314 4,328 5,213 from renewable source by 2030 1% of electricity from renewable source (2019) Student Residences 3,098 4,433 4,916 5,019 6,012 Quarry1 9,976 Water: All landscape to be irrigated by ii. Energy Savings recycled supplies by 2030 Data compilation in progress Retail 12,669 14,856 16,024 18,713 Hotel 460 Water: 50% of water supply in commercial Goal 5: buildings located in Sunway City Kuala Data compilation in progress Office 73 110 110 2,174 Green Value Chain Lumpur to be sourced from recycled Education MWh 1,131 supply by 2030 Healthcare 177 Waste: 40% waste diverted from landfill Building Materials 1,307 by 2030 10% of waste diverted from landfill Others 86 86 86 393 Retail 256 211 274 265 274 Effluent: All industrial and construction sites to be ISO 14001 certified by 2030 Data compilation in progress Hotel 252 200 187 193 205 Office kWh/m2/year 159 186 177 178 176 Biodiversity: All new townships to be Education 183 207 152 153 152 developed must have EIA studies and Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, Sunway City Ipoh, Sunway Healthcare 366 274 358 312 358 40% green open space Iskandar townships have more than 40% open space (greenscapes and bluescapes) Leisure MWh/person/year 7.25 7.87 8.09 7.81 8.05 Building Materials kWh/tonne/year 99 105 101 97 79 Goal 6: All new townships and buildings iv. Water Usage Low-Carbon Cities completed from 2025 onwards to have 23 buildings targeted to be green certified Retail 977,081 1,429,100 1,692,038 1,913,520 2,078,570 green certifications Hotel 403,231 762,620 1,094,615 1,137,381 1,281,896 Office 221,602 241,672 211,714 179,533 217,757 Leisure 465,967 633,955 770,220 836,231 1,144,497 Education m3 349,346 360,724 397,183 408,895 444,230 Healthcare 165,989 170,484 179,382 190,057 215,732 Building Materials 26,451 37,737 36,647 36,464 45,388 Trading and Manufacturing 37,131 39,273 36,853 44,549 51,625 Student Residences 92,426 135,973 152,134 156,101 277,073 1 Data collection for Quarry division started in 2019 Notes: 1. Figures stated in charts may not add up due to rounding of decimals. 2. Improvement of data completeness is under progress. 3. ‘-’ refers to data unavailability. 114 115 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENTS AND INDEX (CONT’D) AWARDS INDICATOR UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP PLANET • Sunway Berhad Rated “Excellent” by the Department of Wildlife and National Parks v. Water Use Intensity Retail 2.5 2.6 3.0 3.4 3.7 • Sunway City Kuala Lumpur Hotel 1.5 2.3 3.1 3.3 3.7 Only township to win Malaysia Green Building Council’s (MGBC) “Top 10 Green Buildings of the Decade Awards” at MGBC’s 10th Anniversary Gala Dinner Office m3/m2 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.8 1.0 Education 1.8 1.8 1.9 2.0 2.2 • Sunway Iskandar Healthcare 3.3 2.0 2.1 2.3 2.6 Five Elements Award at The Star Property Awards Building Materials m3/tonne 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 • Sunway Malls vi. General Waste FSC Leadership Award 2019, in recognition for efforts in promoting responsible forest management and sustainability Retail 7,633 8,090 7,421 • Sunway Property Hotel 2,132 1,988 2,364 All-Star Awards – Top Ranked Developers of the Year at The Star Property Awards Office 441 642 676 Heritage and Residential (Mid-Rise) Category at the FIABCI Singapore Property Awards 2019 for Sophia Hills project tonnes Leisure 1,644 688 1,021 Landscape Development Award at the Malaysia Landscape Architecture Awards (MLAA) Gala Night 2019 for Sunway Montana Education 538 401 418 Project Malaysia’s Responsible Developer: Building Sustainable Development Award at the EdgeProp Malaysia’s Best Managed Property Healthcare 820 1,028 1,006 Awards 2019 vii. Diverted Waste Silver in Property Development Category (People’s Choice Award) at Putra Brand Awards 2019 Retail 313 298 328 The Edge Top 10 Property Developers Award at The Edge Malaysia Property Excellence Awards 2019 Top 10 Property Developer at the BCI Asia Award 2019 Hotel 94 172 168 Office 4 26 21 • Sunway Medical Centre Leisure tonnes 2 9 30 Purpose-built Category 2019 at the FIABCIMalaysia International Real Estate Federation Education 45 50 43 Healthcare 3 5 5 Trading and Manufacturing 887 840 805 viii. GHG Emissions Scope 1 131 82 109 104 99 Scope 2 tonnes CO2e 169,236 190,020 184,225 195,940 201,886 Scope 3 1,676 1,600 3,355 2,865 2,813 ix. GHG Avoidance Scope 1 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 2 tonnes CO2e 0 7,505 8,805 9,489 14,248 Scope 3 0 0 28 28 28 Notes: 1. Baseline year for energy and water data is 2015 while the baseline year for waste data is 2017. 2. Figures stated in charts may not add up due to rounding of decimals. 3. Improvement of data completeness is in progress. 4. The term ‘Energy’ in this report refers to purchased electricity from Tenaga Nasional Berhad, unless stated otherwise. 5. ‘-’ refers to data unavailability. Sunway Malls is the first in Malaysia to receive Leadership Award from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Asia Pacific Region 116 117 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PROSPERITY AND Returns to Stakeholders PROGRESS FOR ALL Perpetual Growth Property Investment Leisure Healthcare Trading and Manufacturing Property Development Hospitality Construction Quarry Building Materials Besides wealth creation for our shareholders, while creating benefits for the environment and we believe that we can create sustainable the society at large. By spurring innovation with economic growth by creating environments that focus on the youth, we are able to support a are conducive for investments, enable people pathway for sustained economic progress as to become job creators and have rewarding jobs outlined in the Shared Prosperity Vision 2030. 118 119 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUILDING INVESTING BRAND TRUST LONG-TERM IN [GRI 102-21, 417-1] OUR COMMUNITIES [GRI 203-1] We build the trust of consumers and other submit defects and check progress online, register We continue to be the largest stakeholder in all services and amenities, promising lifelong growth for stakeholders by continuously delivering good quality for complimentary tickets to events organised by CO-INVESTOR our masterplanned communities and developments all within our community. By doing so, we ensure QUALITY PRODUCTS products and playing an active role in the community. Sunway, view Sunway’s latest property offerings PROPOSITION IN – Sunway City Kuala Lumpur, Sunway City Ipoh, constant job creation for the communities around us, AND SERVICES We continue to build trust by creating tremendous as well as community news. The chatbot live chat LOW CARBON CITIES Sunway City Iskandar, Sunway South Quay, Sunway increase of value in surrounding properties, income value, and we protect this trust by committing to system uses both the website and the Facebook Damansara, Sunway Putra Place, Sunway Seberang from tourism (in communities with tourism support manage the issues that matter to our stakeholders. Messenger platform to deliver greater experience Jaya, Sunway Velocity and Sunway Paya Terubong. components). and to assist enquiries from interested customers These communities currently span about 4,500 The product workmanship performance of our or buyers on Facebook and on the website. With acres. We own up to 40% of total assets in each Expanding our Build, Own, Operate model, we will projects under construction are monitored through the chatbot, we are able to respond immediately of the integrated developments, and recycle capital continue to build socio-economically progressive Sunway Quality Merit System (SQMS) Assessment to customer queries and attend to their questions back into the communities through the creation cities by recycling capital into our masterplanned where we target to achieve 80%. The SQMS is and complaints based on keyword search. A total of of new assets, security enhancements and other communities. an internal assessment established based on the 12,833 property buyers from year 2011 has logged QLASSIC standard. The assessment is conducted into the system, representing a 61% login rate. based on sampling of active trades throughout the construction of main building works of a project. In 2019, we have improved the tracking of our In order to achieve a rating of 80% and above, the property buyers using the Net Promoter Score quality of works for structure, architecture (wall, (NPS) Survey via a new IT system. As a result, we floor, ceiling, window, door, fitting, etc.) and M&E have recorded an increase in response rates and installation shall be monitored and controlled engagement with customers, as the system allows DECARBONISATION throughout the project. sales staff to conduct surveys immediately upon OF ELECTRICITY visiting the Sales Gallery. The result is higher NPS Our quarry division has digital Quality Assurance Score. Customers can also conduct surveys at their and Quality Control (QA / QC) report which is a web own pace via MySunwayProperty portal upon Vacant application for laboratory users to enter and prepare Possession and nine months after Vacant Possession. test reports. Reports are accessible online by all The system enables staff to provide immediate ENERGY WASTE ELECTRIFICATION EFFICIENCY CLEAN PREVENTION MATERIAL relevant parties. Data captured are used for plant follow-up recovery actions on customer feedback / EFFICIENCY quality and operator performance analysis. comments if any to ensure consistent and excellent Sales Services. As part of our customer experience digitalisation strategy for our property purchasers, Sunway has In 2019, Sunway Malls embarked on measuring created a MySunwayProperty web-based portal, customer satisfaction through the Customer chatbot and a Sunway Property Facebook page. Satisfaction Index and Net Promoter Score starting With MySunwayProperty portal, property buyers with its flagship Mall, Sunway Pyramid. Both can view construction progress photos of their measurements will be conducted yearly, according MASS ZERO-CARBON LIVEABLE purchased properties, track construction stages to a set standard for our evaluation and study to be TRANSIT CITIES DENSITY and progress billings (including payment details), rolled out to all malls in the future. TABLE 9: CUSTOMER SATISFACTION ACTIVE TRANSPORT CONNECTED COMPACT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR TRACKING DIVISION OVERALL CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Measured Results : Net Promoter Score BETTER FREIGHT ADJACENT PROPERTY Customer Satisfaction Sales Gallery Visit Upon DEVELOPMENT Vacant Possession LOGISTICS DEVELOPMENT 43.4 43.6 48.6 48.8 86.2 OFFICE Tenant Satisfaction 77% 88% HOSPITALITY Guest Satisfaction 87% 88% 89% MIXED LAND USE HEALTHCARE Healthcare Customer Satisfaction Index: [(Excellent 92% 95% 95% 95% 96% Rating + Good Rating) ÷ Total Response] × 100 QUARRY Enhanced collaboration and better network infrastructure for real time applications and integrated customer PO and daily order taking system Note: '-' refers to unavailable information 120 121 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INVESTING LONG-TERM IN OUR COMMUNITIES (CONT’D) [GRI 203-1] All our developments designed since 2014 strives to also reduced the height of all our light switches ECONOMIC BENEFITS OF LOW-CARBON CITIES UNIVERSAL DESIGN achieve disabled-friendly and child-friendly access across our properties to enable easy reach for the with minimal or no steps within the unit. We have elderly who are wheelchair-bound as well as children. •C heaper to provide infrastructure and services in more compact, connected and clean cities. Less land, materials and energy are required to physically connect households and firms when they are closer together, and higher densities make infrastructure investments more economically feasible, from metro systems to district heating and cooling. Moreover, many low-carbon measures are now more economically attractive than their high-carbon counterparts. The bundle of low-carbon measures identified in this Sunway Berhad owns and manages a portfolio of considers ESG investment decision making across PROPERTY investment properties for recurring income stream. over 50% of funds. In our Build, Own, Operate report represents a US$23.9 trillion opportunity; adopting all these low-carbon measures would also support the equivalent of 87 PORTFOLIO million jobs in 2030 (mostly from deep building efficiency improvements) and 45 million jobs in 2050 (mostly in the transport As a sponsor of Sunway REIT, some of these asset assets, climate change matters are considered at MANAGEMENT may eventually be pipeline assets to Sunway REIT. both the sponsor and REIT levels. sector). Sunway REIT also offers specific ESG funds, and •T he productivity of workers and businesses is higher in larger, more densely populated cities, particularly those with good public transport networks. A recent review of over 300 studies on compactness finds that a 10% difference in the number of people living and working in an area is worth about US$182 per person a year from higher productivity and better access to jobs and services. Our integrated townships are tourism hubs which brings in 42 million footfalls yearly, Sunway City •T he transition to compact, connected and clean cities can build national capacity to both create and absorb innovations that TOURISM lead to job creation and revenues for our local Ipoh brings in 1 million footfalls, and Sunway City will be critical for economic competitiveness in the future. This report finds that a 10% higher population density (measured by communities. Sunway City Kuala Lumpur currently Iskandar brings in 687,556 footfalls in 2019. number of inhabitants per square kilometre) is associated with an additional 1.1% patents per 1,000 people in Europe and an additional 1.9% in the US. Innovation in all its forms can have huge real-world impact. China, for instance, has supported its city governments to experiment with electric vehicles and charging infrastructure with impressive results: as of 2017, China was home to 40% of the world’s electric passenger cars and over 99% of the world’s electric buses. • Property •W hen these benefits are taken together, compact, connected and clean cities would offer countries a distinct competitive advantage DEMOCRATISING  One of the main challenges for homeownership to own a unit, with stamp duties waived and an as they seek to secure global talent and investment. Most countries seek to attract firms that produce tradeable goods and services. ACCESS TO THE in Malaysia is loan rejection and the inability for interest-free flexi-instalment plan for 24 months with Because these firms can sell their products to a global market, they are not constrained by the size of local or regional markets. BASICS potential buyers to come up with upfront payments the differential sum. To add value to the purchaser, Firms and workers in these sectors are highly mobile, and are likely to be attracted to the direct cost savings, higher productivity for property purchases and obtain the loan margin the loan comes with a financial health check by an and better quality of life associated with zero-carbon cities. that they need. Our property division launched the independent firm who also works to advise them on Super 5 easy home ownership scheme last year to how to plan their financing. In 2019, our property ease home ownership for Malaysians. The scheme division saw a year-on-year increase of 30% in sales. offers 95% guaranteed financing for eligible This initiative is undertaken by our property division. buyers. Purchasers need only to pledge RM5,000 Sustainable infrastructure is essential to meet Kelana Jaya (12 acres) which comes complete with the SDGs by enhancing access to basic services, a jogging track. We invest about RM100,000 a year • Affordable Financial Services SUSTAINABLE  One of the frequent challenges that our suppliers, licensed by Bank Negara Malaysia with the mission INFRASTRUCTURE promoting environmental sustainability and to maintain the lake which has been gazetted as supporting inclusive growth. a a public lake belonging to the Petaling Jaya City employees and customers have shared with us is to provide one of the lowest fees for remittance Council (MBPJ). We have also installed Bandalong the difficulty in sending money abroad. Remittance services leveraging our own economies of scale. Our In 2019, we continue to build access in Sunway Litter Traps at the outlets. fees in Malaysia could cost between 6% and 9%. It customers include businesses transferring money Velocity where we are targeting to complete is also a time-consuming and highly inconvenient overseas to their suppliers and vendors, parents infrastructure investments of RM31 million. We have Currently, we have Bandalong Litter Traps installed process. Marking our first fintech venture, we paying for their children’s studies abroad, expatriates already completed two link bridges connecting from at the outlets to contain the rubbish from flowing have invested in setting up Sunway Money as sending money back home to their families. The Sunway Velocity to the Maluri and Cochrane station all over the lake. The Traps are designed to float in an electronic remittance services, which is fullyinitiative is invested by Sunway Ventures. and one link bridge connecting from Sunway Velocity waterways in order to capture litter before it flows to Chan Sow Lin MRT station. We are currently farther downstream by using the flow of the current to • Free Consultations And Affordable Healthcare building three link bridges from Sunway Velocity guide debris into the trap. The performance floatable Products TWO to Sunway Velocity. Besides investing in control technology operates 365 days a year without  Sunway Pharmacy is a pharmacy chain which consultation at no cost and money-back guarantees infrastructure in each of our cities, we are investing mechanical assistance to capture floating litter, makes healthcare products available and affordable for low pricing. This initiative is invested by Sunway in infrastructure for our pocket developments which making it a a proven, cost-effective solution for for everyone. Access and availability of affordable Ventures. are not transit-linked developments. floatables control and is the answer to the growing healthcare products. Sunway Pharmacy provides problem of litter in our waterways. They are ideal inIn Sunway Serene, we invested approximately RM10 stream solution for floatables where combined sewer • Low Carbon Last-Mile Delivery million to beautify the adjacent Tasik PJ Kita @ overflows are concerned.  Sunway Pop Box is a last-mile delivery solution from missed deliveries. This initiative is invested by in the form of an automated smart parcel locker. Sunway Ventures. Lessen carbon footprint and productivity decreases 122 123 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUILDING THE URBAN FUTURE We continue to bring young minds together to develop living lab to various startups. This includes a SUNWAY iLABS solutions for the urban future. In 2019, we brought student startup from Sunway University which we INNOVATIONS BEING NUMBER OF DETAILS OUTCOMES together more than 1,000 students, innovators and are incubating, to provide technology solutions to TEST-BEDDED (2019) PARTICIPANTS entrepreneurs from around the world to develop help with the health and wellbeing of the animals solutions for the urban future. in Sunway Lagoon through an automated zoo BERKELEY METHOD OF Sunway iLabs invited two prominent The winners’ ideas are now being 81 participants management system. Other innovations test-bedded ENTREPRENEURSHIP facilitators from University of California, mentored under Sunway iLabs Startup We have provided testbeds in our Sunway City in 2019 are highlighted in the table below. BOOTCAMP Berkeley to mentor the 80 Sunway Foundry. All 80 students gained University students, and grouped them friendship, skills and knowledge from up, made them come up with ideas, this 3-day bootcamp. pitch it, and win. This was done within a 3-day bootcamp. INNOVATIONS BEING NUMBER OF DETAILS OUTCOMES TEST-BEDDED (2019) PARTICIPANTS DIGITAL We hosted a workshop on big data, where Many Sunway students and staff close 50 participants ALIBABA GLOBAL The Global eCommerce Talent Program, Snuffles, a student run data analytics N/A TRANSFORMATION there were talks on cyber security, big to 80 attended it and gained from it. ECOMMERCE TALENT or GET, is an intensive learning session start-up that aims to empower aspiring WORKSHOP ON BIG data, and IoT. (GET): DIGITAL for trainers and professors who are drop shippers with easily digestible DATA ENTREPRENEURSHIP looking to develop an ecommerce course data to select winning products for AND INNOVATION in their home country. GET aims to create their e-commerce shops won 2nd place ECOBRICKS – We hosted a workshop on ways to reduce We had students, working adults and 30 participants CHALLENGE teachers who are able to enable their in the competition that was held in NOVEMBER 2019 plastic wastage, create accessibility, and even kids coming up with new products students to start their own businesses Guiyang, China. Snuffles intends save the world. at Makerspace out of plastic waste. By training professors in universities and to get more unemployed youths to other educational outposts. participate in the e-commerce industry by helping them gain a competitive JETRO IMMERSION We collaborated with Japan External There were many potential partnerships 15 participants edge through data analytics. The team PROGRAMME Trade Organisation on a 6-month between these Japanese and Malaysian consists of three Sunway University immersion program. For the first month, companies. The Japanese startups and students the from School of Science five startups came over to iLabs, and those who attended the talks gained & Technology, and one student from we mentored their ideas and organised a lot from the programme. There are San Francisco State University. In business meetings for them with local many more exciting talks, business 2019, the team went through iLabs’ businesses that shared the same nature meetings, and mentor sessions Jumpstart Mentorship Programme with theirs. We facilitated the business planned for the upcoming five months for several months. They were then meetings, and invited special speakers to with them. selected by Alibaba GET to take part enlighten the entrepreneurs during this in the GET Digital Entrepreneurship 5-day programme. and Innovation Challenge that took place in Guizhou, Guiyang, China. A total of 10 teams participated in the KOREAN SOCIAL This programme was to match Korean We got an MoU signed with Social 10 participants challenge from different countries. ROCKET STARTUP startups with Malaysian businesses, and Rocket, to collaborate with them They competed among teams from PROGRAMME also for the Korean startups to test out and develop startup education and Harbin University, Northwestern the Malaysian market with their products. mentorship programmes and many Polytechnical University China, APU, other matters. Utar, Inti, Universidad Iberoamericana University Mexico and UiTM. 124 125 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BUILDING THE URBAN FUTURE (CONT’D) INNOVATIONS BEING NUMBER OF INNOVATIONS BEING NUMBER OF DETAILS OUTCOMES DETAILS OUTCOMES TEST-BEDDED (2019) PARTICIPANTS TEST-BEDDED (2019) PARTICIPANTS MAKE IT CHALLENGE The Make It Challenge was a collaborative Five teams have produced five different 30 participants SOLUTIONS LAB This is an initiative set up to empower One such project from 2019 was N/A 2019 challenge for students to build solutions solutions and each solution has a students to apply their skills and carried by our Diploma student, to tackle responsible consumption and potential to be incubated at iLabs. The knowledge to solve real world problems Markous who helped a local social production focused on re-imagining how following are the ideas that came from faced by the industry and provide enterprise, Life Origins (producers of food can be produced and consumed in the programme: students with an opportunity to work with high quality insect protein from black a sustainable manner. Make It Challenge real start-ups & entrepreneurs. soldier fly larvae) to build an IoT system was organised by Sunway University in •U  rban Seeds: To provide service to solution for their larvae farm. The collaboration with Lancaster University produce organic green vegetables in system is able to collect temperature, and a partnership with United Nations the university compound to be used moisture and humidity data of the Technology Innovation Labs, UNTIL. for School of Hospitality by also farm to provide adequate information Students from the participating converting food waste in the campus for decision making in optimising farm universities will be able to continue as compost for the farm. operations. working on the proposed solution / • Pretty Produce: To add value to minimum viable product after the ugly fruits and vegetables that are STARTUP SPEAKER We invited entrepreneurs to give talks to The top three teams / individuals 40 submissions, programme. discarded by farms, retailers and SERIES AND BUSINESS students, and later on by the end of the selected from the final pitch, gained 23 shortlisted restaurants and resell them to IDEA CHALLENGE 2019 8-week series, we conducted a business an express pass into iLabs Startup businesses that could benefit from idea challenge for the students to come Foundry that is a mentorship program them instead of throwing them away. up with a business idea and pitch it. recently initiated by iLabs. • Baggo: To provide and incentivise the use of reusable food grade bags at supermarkets to reduce plastic SUNWAY CAMBRIDGE This workshop was designed to foster At the end of the workshop the 40 participants used to purchase fresh fruits and PARTNERSHIP first steps in developing long term researchers from both universities were vegetables. WORKSHOP strategic research partnerships between committed to nurturing the seeds sown • Meal In A Box: To provide a systematic Sunway University and the University at this initial meeting. food meal service where data is used of Cambridge. Sunway University’s to create meal options for families to ambitions for transforming into one of the optimise meal packages and ensure top education and research institutions less food is discarded by families. is an inspiration and we believe these • Optimeal: To provide a platform that early seeds of collaboration will evolve connects hotels, restaurants and cutting edge intellectual and scientific bakeries with potential customers to development towards these goals. sell excess food (that are normally discarded) at a cheaper rate. This UNITED NATIONS A social coding event that brought young The winner won a ticket to the United 120 participants idea is currently being pushed TECHNOLOGY AND computer programmers, scientists and Nations Climate Action Summit 2019 for implementation at Sunway INNOVATIONS LAB others to improve on or build a new that was held in New York, to present University. REBOOT THE EARTH software program that addresses the his idea. HACKATHON 2019 current climate crisis by using open data and technological concepts to solve a local climate crisis that may be unique to each location and its community needs. 126 127 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GROWING OUR GOALS & TARGETS GLOBAL FOOTPRINT LEGEND Targets are set; Data compilation in progress PROGRESS Targets are set; Baseline yet to be set TRACKING Targets are set; Baseline is set FUTURE VALUE GOALS FY 2019 PERFORMANCE PILLAR 4: PROSPERITY Goal 7: Perpetual Growth PATMI RM767.3 million increase by 18.9% from FY 2018 Goal 8: Earnings per share 14.62 sen CHINA Returns to Stakeholders Dividend payout 9.07 sen UNITED KINGDOM MYANMAR INDIA THAILAND CHINA VIETNAM MYANMAR CAMBODIA INDIA MALAYSIA THAILAND INDONESIA VIETNAM SINGAPORE CAMBODIA MALAYSIA INDONESIA SINGAPORE AUSTRALIA AUSTRALIA Workshop held at Sunway Innovation Labs. 128 129 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KEY PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENTS INDEX AND AWARDS INDICATOR UNIT OF MEASUREMENT 2017 2018 2019 BRAND AND TOURISM EXCELLENCE PEOPLE • Sunway Berhad Sunway Berhad was ranked 1st for Industry Excellence Award for the Industrial Products and Services category at MSWG-ASEAN i. New employees by gender Corporate Governance Award 2018. New domestic male employees Number 1,469 1,560 1,328 Sunway Group won the Company of the Year in the Conglomerate category at the CSR Malaysia Awards 2019. New overseas male employees Number 107 37 98 Sunway Group bagged the “Platinum” award in the Best Environmental Excellence Award category and the Best Country Award for Overall CSR Excellence for Malaysia at the 11th Annual Global CSR Summit and Awards 2019. New domestic female employees Number 1,158 1,016 1,421 Sunway Group won Malaysia’s Responsible Developer: Building Sustainable Development Award at the EdgeProp Malaysia’s Best New overseas female employees Number 30 11 69 Managed Property awards 2019. ii. New employees by age Sunway Group took home the 3G Sustainability of Performance Award 2019 by Cambridge IFA at the 4th Good Global Governance Awards 2019. New domestic employees less than 30 years old Number 1,930 1,834 1,893 Sunway Berhad bagged two awards at The Star Property Awards, clinching the All-Star Awards – Top Ranked Developers of the New domestic employees between 30 to 40 years old Number 457 579 577 Year, and the Five Elements Award for Sunway Iskandar. New domestic employees between 40 to 50 years old Number 174 126 182 Sunway Group bagged the “Platinum” award in the Best Environmental Excellence Award category and the Best Country Award Number for Overall CSR Excellence for Malaysia at the 11th Annual Global CSR Summit and Awards 2019 New domestic employees more than 50 years old 66 37 97 Sunway Berhad was named the top 20 finalists at the PwC Malaysia Building Trust Awards 2019 New overseas employees less than 30 years old Number 67 22 97 Sunway Berhad won The Edge Top 10 Property Developers Award at The Edge Malaysia Property Excellence Awards 2019 New overseas employees between 30 to 40 years old Number 45 19 41 Putra Malaysian Marketer of the Year (People’s Choice Award) at Putra Awards 2019. New overseas employees between 40 to 50 years old Number 22 6 23 • Sunway Clio Hotel New overseas employees more than 50 years old Number 3 1 6 TripAdvisor 2019 Certificate of Excellence CTrip Top Production Hotel Bronze Award 2019 (4-star) CTrip Hotel Guide’s Most Recommended Award 2019 TripAdvisor 2019 Certificate of Excellence Penang Green Office Certification 2019 2021 by Penang Green Council • Sunway Hotel Seberang Jaya Penang Green Office Certification 2019 2021 by Penang Green Council Best Employer 2019 award by KWSP • Sunway Hotel Hanoi Booking.com Review Award in 2019 Loved By Guest Award by Expedia in 2019 • Sunway Lagoon Theme Park 4th in Top 10 Water Park in Asia Pacific by Themed Entertainment Association (TEA) 7th in Top 10 Water Park in Asia by TripAdvisor Travellers’ Choice Award 2018 13th in Top 20 Asia Pacific Waterparks 2017 by Themed Entertainment Association (TEA) Best Outdoor Theme Park Concert Venue by Malaysia Tourism Gold Council Awards 2019 Best Theme Attraction (Malaysia) by Tripzilla Excellence Awards 2019 Best Theme Park by Going Places Readers’ Choice Awards 2018 awarded in February 2019 Certificate of Excellence Hall of Fame by Tripadvisor 2019 Gold for Most Effective Use in Events, Silver for Most Effective Use in Media / Public Relations, and Bronze in Most Creative Consumer Event by the Advertising + Marketing Agency of the Year Awards Silver Award under the Entertainment category by Putra Brand Awards 2019 • Lost World of Tambun Most Expansive Ice Sculpture by Asia Book of Records Top 10 Water Park in Asia Pacific by Themed Entertainment Association (TEA) Top 25 Amusement Park in Asia by TripAdvisor Sunway staff from various business divisions 130 131 PEACE & PARTNERSHIPS PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS AND AWARDS (CONT’D) BRAND AND TOURISM EXCELLENCE (CONT’D) INNOVATION ENABLER AWARDS • Sunway Malls • Sunway Berhad InfluentialBrands® Top Brand Award 2019 Winner for Outstanding Property Development for Startups at the Malaysian Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (MVCA) award 2019. • Sunway Medical Centre Best Fertility Centre Award at the Parent’s Choice Awards 2019 • Sunway Medical Centre Best Oncology Service Provider, Best Neurology Service Provider, and Best Urology Service Provider at Asia Pacific Healthcare & 2019 DX Talent Accelerator by IDC Malaysia Medical Tourism Award 2019 CHT Pursuit of Excellence Healthcare Award 2019 at the CHT Awards 2020 UK-Malaysia Partnership Award 2019 at the 2nd British Malaysian Chamber of Commerce Business Excellence Awards 2019 Won the Purpose-built Category 2019 at the FIABCI-Malaysia International Real Estate Federation. • Sunway Putra Hotel CTrip Award for Chinese Preferred Hotel 2019 • Sunway Putra Mall Best Experiential Marketing Gold Award for the “In the Woods for Wonder” Campaign (Category B: 500,001-999,999 square feet) 2019 by PPK Malaysia & CASC Asia Bronze Marketing Excellence Awards 2019 for Corporate Social Responsibility Category Silver ICSC APAC Award 2019 for Cause-Related Marketing Category Social Media Excellence Award under Community & Social Welfare category at Malaysia Social Media Week 2019 • Sunway Pyramid Hotel TripAdvisor 2019 Certificate of Excellence • Sunway Pyramid Mall Bronze for Best Venue: Conventions / Exhibition / Festivals Sunway Pyramid Artbox at the Marketing Events Award 2019 Bronze for Best Shopper/Retail Event Sunway Pyramid Hakka Celebration at the Marketing Events Award 2019 (Star Agency) Bronze for Best Event Ambience – Sunway Pyramid Hakka Celebration at the Marketing Events Award 2019 (Star Agency) Gold for Best Brand Experience at the CX Asia Award 2019 Gold for Emerging/Digital Technology category at the ICSC APAC Awards 2019 Sunway Property wins The Edge Top 10 Property Developers Award Silver for Best Shopper/Retail Event – Playstation Play Everything Lounge at the Marketing Events Award 2019 Silver for Best Venue: Conventions/Exhibition/Festivals Sunway Pyramid Hakka Celebration at the Marketing Events Award 2019 • Sunway Resort Hotel & Spa Best Premier Holiday Destination in Malaysia by International Excellence Awards 2019 • Sunway Velocity Hotel Top Rising Star Award 2019 by CTrip Malaysia • Sunway Velocity Mall Popular Shopping Mall at the Malaysia Social Media Week Social Media Excellence Award under Popular Shopping Mall category by Malaysia Social Media Week 2019 • The Banjaran Hotsprings Retreat Best Luxury Nature Resort by Asia Pacific Tourism & Travel Federation Malaysia Tatler’s Best 20 Restaurants 2020 – Jeff’s Cellar Traveller’s Choice Award Winner (Top 25 Hotels Malaysia, Top 25 Hotels for Romance Malaysia, Top 25 Luxury Hotels Malaysia and Top 25 Hotels for Service Malaysia by TripAdvisor 2019 Sunway wins big at the BMCC Business Excellence Awards 2019 132 133 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ABOUT THE REPORT [GRI 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56] Sunway reiterates our commitment to sustainability with the publication of our sixth sustainability report. Our report outlines Aligned to Global Standards and Goals Sunway’s approach in integrating sustainability into our structure, policies, management and operations. We provide insights into our sustainability journey within our report as well as insights into our journey. We hope to share our sustainability commitment with our various stakeholders including our teams, investors, customers, business partners, suppliers and contractors, the community at large as well as government and national agencies. Report Scope and Period This is our fifth sustainability report and unless otherwise indicated, the information in this Report reflects data and activities of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2019 (1 January to 31 December 2019). We last reported our sustainability commitments and initiatives in December 2018. Our integrated property services and construction divisions contribute to 55% of our Independent Assurance revenues and 81% of our profit before tax (PBT). Our operations in Malaysia contribute to 90% of our revenue. Our sustainability agenda reflects our decisions and our business activities on the society and our multiple stakeholders. We continuously Sunway’s Board of Directors and sustainability committee reviews the content of the report to determine relevance to our business seek to improve the quality of our reporting and hence, we welcome all feedback, ideas, and questions on Sunway Sustainability Report annually. This is so that we can ensure that current and material issues are addressed. 2019. We are targeting to undertake independent assurance for our Sustainability Report in 2020. Report Content, Boundaries and Standards Feedback The top 10 material items for Sunway’s stakeholders are taken into account. Current and emerging material issues pertaining to Feedback from our stakeholders is vital for us to continually improve our reporting and sustainability practices. We welcome your views, sustainability and the interests of our stakeholders are addressed. Other operational committees oversee existing management systems comments or feedback, which may be directed to: and certifications such as the ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System, ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, ISO 50001 Energy Management System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational and Jacqueline Wong Yin Teng Health and Safety Assessment System and ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility. Group Sustainability Sunway Group Relevant targets and key performance indicators are established, tracked, and disclosed within this Sustainability Report. Level 4.5, East Lobby, Menara Sunway Annexe, We have prepared this report in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. We define our reporting content based on the Jalan Lagoon Timur, Bandar Sunway, following: 47500 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia Tel: +035639 8234 A) Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Fax: +035639 8934 We identify our stakeholders and respond to their expectations and interests. sustainability@sunway.com.my B) Sustainability Context: Accessibility We present performance in the wider context of sustainability. This report can be downloaded from our corporate website: www.sunway.com.my C) Materiality: We are focused on issues that impact business growth and are most important to our stakeholders. D) Completeness: We include full coverage of material topics and boundaries that are of significant economic, environmental, and social impact for our stakeholders. 134 135 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LIST OF TABLES AND CHARTS GRI CONTENT INDEX [GRI 102-55] Charts Page Number GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons Disclosure Title Standard Number to SDGs for omissions, if applicable Chart 1 Total number of employees and turnover rate 53 GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 Chart 2 Total number of new employee hires by gender 54 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organisational Profile Chart 3 Total number of new employee hires by age group 55 GRI 102: 102-1 Organisation’s name Pages 4-8 Chart 4 Total energy consumption (in MWh) by sector 93 General 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Pages 4-8 Disclosures 2016 102-3 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Pages 4-8 Chart 5 Total energy consumption (%) by sector 94 102-4 Location of operations Page 9 Chart 6 Total energy consumption (MWh) and total GFA (m2) 94 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form Pages 4-8 Chart 7 Building energy intensity (kWh/m /year) 2 95 102-6 Market served Pages 4-9 102-7 Scale of the organisation Pages 4-8 Chart 8 Energy use intensity (MWh/person/year) 95 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Pages 50-56 Chart 9 Energy use intensity (kWh/tonne/year) 95 102-9 Organisation’s supply chain Pages 86-87 Refer to Sunway Berhad Chart 10 Total water consumption by sector (m3) 99 102-10 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period Annual Report 2019 Chart 11 Total water consumption by sector (%) 100 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 16 Pages 34-37 102-12 External Initiatives 17 Pages 48-49 Chart 12 Total water consumption (m3) and total GFA (m2) 100 102-13 Membership in national/international associations 17 Pages 41-42 Chart 13 Water use intensity (m3/m2) 101 Strategy Chart 14 Water use intensity (m3/tonne) 101 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 16 Pages 10-13 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 16 Pages 20-21 Chart 15 General waste vs diverted waste (tonnes) 106 Ethics and Intergrity Chart 16 General waste vs diverted waste (%) 106 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 16 Pages 34-37 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 16 Pages 34-37 Chart 17 General waste by sector (tonnes, %) 107 Governance Chart 18 Diverted waste by sector (tonnes, %) 107 102-18 Governance structure 16 Pages 32-33 102-19 Delegating authority 16 Pages 14-15 Tables Page Number Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 16 Pages 14-15 environmental,and social topics Table 1 Sunway's workforce 51 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and 102-21 16 Pages 16-19, 120 Table 2 Number of employees receiving long service awards 52 social topics Composition of the highest governance body and its Table 3 Percentage breakdown of employees based on years of service 53 102-22 5, 16 Pages 32-33 committees Table 4 Health and safety 64 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 16 Pages 32-33 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 5, 16 Pages 32-33 Table 5 Social investment and volunteer contributions 69 102-25 Conflicts of interest 16 Pages 32-33 Table 6 CO2 emissions and CO2 avoided 84 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, 102-26 16 Pages 32-33 values, and strategy Table 7 Total suspended solids 2019 98 Refer to Sunway Berhad 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 4 Annual Report 2019 Table 8 Silt traps 2019 98 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 16 Pages 34-37 Table 9 Customer satisfaction 120 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and 102-29 16 Pages 20-21 social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 16 Page 38 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 16 Pages 18-19 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 16 Pages 18-19 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 16 Pages 34-37 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 16 Pages 34-37 102-35 Remuneration policies 16 Pages 32-33 136 137 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX (CONT’D) GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons Disclosure Title Disclosure Title Standard Number to SDGs for omissions, if applicable Standard Number to SDGs for omissions, if applicable Refer to Sunway Berhad GRI 202: Information unavailable. Steps 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 16 Annual Report 2019 Market are being taken to obtain the Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to 202-1 1,5 Refer to Sunway Berhad Presence local minimum wage information to be included in 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 16 Annual Report 2019 2016 the next report. Proportion of senior management hired from the local 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 16 Page 51 202-2 8 Pages 48-49 community Not disclosed due to the GRI 203: Pages 23-25, 82-83, commercial sensitivity given 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 7, 9, 11 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 16 Indirect 122-123 the highly competitive human Economic resource environment 1, 3, 8, Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Pages 22-25 Stakeholder Engagement 10, 17 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Pages 18-19 Anti-Corruption 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 8 Pages 48-49 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 34-37 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16 Pages 18-19 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 34-37 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 16 Pages 18-19 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 34-37 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16 Pages 18-19 Reporting Practice GRI 205: 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 16 Pages 34-37 AntiCommunication and training about anti-corruption policies Refer to Sunway Berhad Corruption 205-2 16 Pages 34-37 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements and procedures Annual Report 2019 2016 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Pages 134-135 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 16 Pages 34-37 102-47 List of material topics Pages 18-19 Business Ethics and Compliance 102-48 Restatements of information Pages 134-135 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 34-37 Management 102-49 Changes in reporting Pages 134-135 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 34-37 Approach 102-50 Reporting period Pages 134-135 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 34-37 102-51 Date of most recent report Pages 134-135 GRI 102: 102-52 Reporting cycle Pages 134-135 General 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 16 Pages 34-37 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Pages 134-135 Disclosures Pages 134-135 2016 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 206: 102-55 GRI content index Page 137 Information unavailable. Steps Anti102-56 External assurance Pages 134-135 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and are being taken to obtain the competitive 206-1 16 monopoly practices information to be included in TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS Behavior the next report. 2016 Economic Contribution to Society GRI 307: GRI 103: Refer to Sunway Berhad 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environmental Management Annual Report 2019 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 16 Pages 65-66 Compliance Approach Refer to Sunway Berhad 2016 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual Report 2019 GRI 416: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product Customer 416-1 3, 16 Pages 63-64 Refer to Sunway Berhad and service categories 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report 2019 Health and Information unavailable. Steps GRI 201: Refer to Sunway Berhad Safety 2016 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and are being taken to obtain the 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8, 9 416-2 3, 17 Economic Annual Report 2019 safety impacts of products and services information to be included in Performance Refer to Sunway Berhad the next report. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 2016 201-2 13 Annual Report 2019 GRI 417: Requirements for product and service information and due 417-1 12, 16 Page 120 Marketing labeling Information unavailable. Steps and Labeling Information unavailable. Steps Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement are being taken to obtain the 201-3 8 2016 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and are being taken to obtain the plans information to be included in 417-2 16 the next report. service information and labeling information to be included in Refer to Sunway Berhad the next report. 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 8 Annual Report 2019 Information unavailable. Steps Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing are being taken to obtain the 417-3 16 communications information to be included in the next report. 138 139 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX (CONT’D) GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons for GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons Disclosure Title Disclosure Title Standard Number to SDGs omissions, if applicable Standard Number to SDGs for omissions, if applicable GRI 419: GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 6 Pages 88-90, 96-101 Information unavailable. Steps are Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Water and 419-1 16 being taken to obtain the information 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6 Pages 96-101 Compliance social and economic area Effluents to be included in the next report. 2016 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6 Pages 88-90, 96-101 Responsible Supply Chain and Sourcing Biodiversity GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 65-66 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 85, 102-103 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 65-66 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 85, 102-103 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 65-66 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 85, 102-103 GRI 204: GRI 304: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent Procurement 13, 14, 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 8, 11 Pages 65-66 Biodiversity 304-1 to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Page 85 Practices 15 2016 outside 2016 GRI 301: Information unavailable. Steps are 13, 14, 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services Pages 85, 102-103 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 8, 12 being taken to obtain the information 16 2016 to be included in the next report. 13, 14, 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Page 85 301-2 Recycled input materials used 8, 12 Pages 102-107 17 Information unavailable. Steps are Disclosure is not applicable IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 13, 14, as Sunway does not operate 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 8, 16 being taken to obtain the information 304-4 species with habitats in areas affected by operations 18 in these areas to be included in the next report. GRI 308: Information unavailable. Steps are Emissions Supplier New suppliers that were screened using being taken to obtain the information 308-1 8, 16 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 84 Environmental environmental criteria to be included in the next report. Management Assessment Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 84 Information unavailable. Steps are 2016 Negative environmental impacts in the supply being taken to obtain the information 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 84 308-2 8, 16 chain and actions taken to be included in the next report. GRI 305: 3, 12, Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 7 Page 84 GRI 414: Information unavailable. Steps are 13 Supplier Social New suppliers that were screened using social being taken to obtain the information 2016 414-1 8, 16 3, 12, Assessment criteria to be included in the next report. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Page 84 13 2016 Information unavailable. Steps are Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 3, 12, 414-2 8, 16 being taken to obtain the information 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Page 84 actions taken 13 to be included in the next report. Information unavailable. Steps Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy are being taken to obtain the 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 13, 14 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 88-90, 96-101 information to be included in Management the next report. Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 88-90, 96-101 305-5 Reduction of GHG emission 13, 14 Pages 88-90 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 88-90, 96-101 Information unavailable. Steps GRI 302: 7, 12, 3, 12, are being taken to obtain the 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Pages 88-90, 96-101 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Energy 2016 13 13 information to be included in the next report. 7, 12, 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Pages 96-101 Information unavailable. Steps 13 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other 3, 12, are being taken to obtain the 305-7 7, 12, significant air emissions 13 information to be included in 302-3 Energy intensity Pages 88-90, 96-101 13 the next report. 7, 12, Effluents and Waste 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Pages 88-90, 91-95 13 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 102-107 Reductions in energy requirements of products 7, 12, Management 302-5 Pages 91-95 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 102-107 and services 13 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 102-107 Water Management and Efficiency GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 88-90, 96-101 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 88-90, 96-101 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 88-90, 96-101 140 141 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX (CONT’D) GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons for Disclosure Title Disclosure Title Standard Number to SDGs for omissions, if applicable Standard Number to SDGs omissions, if applicable GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 6 Pages 98-99 GRI 405: Effluents and Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 5, 10 Pages 50-56 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 12 Pages 102-107 Waste 2016 and Equal 306-3 Significant spills 12 Pages 102-107 Opportunity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 405-2 10 Pages 50-56 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 12 Page 75 2016 to men 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 12 Pages 98-99 GRI 413: Operations with local community engagement, Local 413-1 11 Pages 54-56, 67-68 Talent Attraction, Retention and Development impact assessments, and development programs Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 50-56 Operations with significant actual and potential 2016 413-2 11 Pages 67-68 Management negative impacts on local communities Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 50-56 Human Rights 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 50-56 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 50-56 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 5, 8 Pages 50-56 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 50-56 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 2016 401-2 8 Pages 57-59 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 50-56 provided to temporary or part-time employee 401-3 Parental leave 5, 8 Pages 57-59 GRI 405: Nondiscrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 406-1 10 Pages 50-56 GRI 402: taken 2016 Labor/ Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 8 Pages 48-49 GRI 407: Relations Freedom of Operations and suppliers in which the right to Information unavailable. Steps are 2016 Association 407-1 freedom of association and collective bargaining 10 being taken to obtain the information GRI 404: and Collective 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 4, 5, 8 Pages 60-62 may be at risk to be included in the next report. Training and Bargaining Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 2016 Education 404-2 8 Pages 60-62 assistance programs 2016 GRI 408: Information unavailable. Steps are Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Child Labour Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 404-3 8 Pages 60-62 408-1 10 being taken to obtain the information and career development reviews 2016 incidents of child labor to be included in the next report. Occupational Safety, Health and Well-being GRI 409: Information unavailable. Steps are GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 63-64 Forced or Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 409-1 10 being taken to obtain the information Management Compulsory incidents of forced or compulsory labor 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 63-64 to be included in the next report. Approach Labour 2016 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 19, 63-64 GRI 410: Security Security personnel trained in human rights GRI 403: Information unavailable. Steps 410-1 10 Pages 67-68 Practices policies or procedures Occupational Workers representation in formal joint management– are being taken to obtain the 403-1 8 2016 Health and worker health and safety committees information to be included in Safety 2016 the next report. GRI 411: Disclosure is not applicable as Rights of Incidents of violations involving rights of Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 411-1 10 Sunway does not operate in these indgenous indigenous peoples 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 3, 8 Pages 63-64 areas people 2016 fatalities GRI 412: Information unavailable. Steps are Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Human Rights Operations that have been subject to human being taken to obtain the information 403-3 3, 8 Pages 63-64 412-1 10 related to their occupation Violation 2016 rights reviews or impact assessments to be included in the next report. Information unavailable. Steps Employee training on human rights policies or Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements are being taken to obtain the 412-2 10 Pages 60-62 403-4 3, 8 procedures with trade unions information to be included in the next report. Significant investment agreements and contracts Information unavailable. Steps are 412-3 that include human rights clauses or that 10 being taken to obtain the information Inclusivity and Supporting Local Communities to be included in the next report. underwent human rights screening GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 50-56 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 50-56 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 50-56 142 143 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GRI CONTENT INDEX (CONT’D) ALIGNMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS GRI Disclosure Mapped Page reference and reasons UN Sustainable Development Goals Page Numbers Disclosure Title Standard Number to SDGs for omissions, if applicable Product Safety and Customer Well-being Goal 1 No poverty 46-79 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 63-64, 67-68 Goal 2 Zero hunger 46-79 Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 63-64, 67-68 Goal 3 Good health and well-being 46-79 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 63-64, 67-68 Goal 4 Quality education 46-79 GRI 416: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product Customer 416-1 3 Pages 63-64, 67-68 and service categories Goal 5 Gender equality 46-79 Health and Information unavailable. Steps Safety 2016 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and are being taken to obtain the Goal 6 Clean water and sanitation 80-117 416-2 3 safety impacts of products and services information to be included in Goal 7 Affordable and clean energy 80-117 the next report. Product Quality and Responsibility Goal 8 Decent work and economic growth 118-133 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 86-87 Management Goal 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure 118-133 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 86-87 Goal 10 Reduced inequality 118-133 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 86-87 Goal 11 Sustainable cities and communities 118-133 GRI 417: Requirements for product and service information and Marketing 417-1 12, 16 Pages 86-87 labeling Goal 12 Responsible consumption and production 80-117 and Labelling Information unavailable. Steps 2016 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and are being taken to obtain the Goal 13 Climate action 80-117 417-2 16 service information and labeling information to be included in the next report. Goal 14 Life below water 80-117 Information unavailable. Steps Goal 15 Life on land 80-117 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing are being taken to obtain the 417-3 16 communications information to be included in Goal 16 Peace and justice strong institutions 30-45 the next report. Cyber Security and Data Governance Goal 17 Partnerships to achieve the goal 30-45 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 19, 38 Management The Ten Principles Of The UN Global Compact Page Numbers Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 20-21, 38 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Page 38 Human Rights GRI 418: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Customer Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Principle 1 48-49, 65, 67 418-1 16 Page 38 rights Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of customer data Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 48-49, 65, 67 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Principle 3 48-49, 65 right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 48-49, 67 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour 48-49, 66-67 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 37, 48-50, 55, 66 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 82-107 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 82-107 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 86-87 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 35-37 144 145 SUNWAY BERHAD [Registration No. 201001037627 (921551-D)] Level 16, Menara Sunway, Jalan Lagoon Timur, Bandar Sunway, 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. Tel : (603) 5639 8889 Fax : (603) 5639 9507 www.sunway.com.my Printed on: 146
