CONTENT C R I T I C A L SKILLS ONLINE LEARNING PERSONALISED EFFICACY SUSTAINABILITY CONTENT T H I N K I N G LEARNERS D I G I T A L E F F I C A C Y PROGRESS EFFICACY L E A R N I N G CRE ATIVIT Y OUTCOMES LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP T A L E N T ECO N O M Y GROWTH L E A R N E R S TALENT CAREERS E XPERIENTIAL C A REER S PROGRESS SKILLS UNIQUE LEARNING ONLINE C R I T I C A L THINKING SUSTAINABILITY D I G I TA L EXPERIENTIAL A S S E S S M EN T S TALENT SOF T C AREER S LEADERSHIP C R I T I C A L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y SKILLS T H I N K I N G CO L L A B O R AT I O N CRITICAL THE TALENT ECONOMY UNIQUE DIGITAL THINKING GROW TH PROGRESS CRITICAL EFFICACY LEADERSHIP LEARNING UNIQUE O N L I N E D I G I T A L PERSONALISED DIGITAL COLLABOR ATION THINKING CONTENT Annual report and accounts 2019 LEARNING PERSONALISED DIGITAL COLLABOR ATION L E A R N I N G C R E AT I V I T Y SUSTAINABILITY OUTCOMES LIFELONG LEARNING GROWTH O U T C O M E S DIG I TA L SKILLS S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y ONLINE C R E AT I V I T Y C O L L A B O R AT I O N TALENT ECONOMY LIFELONG LE ARNING CAREERS L E A R N I N G LIFELONG CO M M U N I C AT I O N TALENT ECONOMY LIFELONG LE ARNING U NI Q U E PERSONALISED PER SONALISED LE ARNER S LEARNING COLLABORATION COMMUNICATION PROGRESS CAREERS SKILLS CRITICAL THINKING CREDENTIALS SUSTAINABILIT Y EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING SKILLS Focused on digital, lifelong learning Who we are Our purpose is to help people make progress in their We are the world’s learning company, operating in lives through learning. 70 countries around the world, with more than 22,500 Our vision is to have a direct relationship with millions employees. We provide content, assessment and digital of lifelong learners and to link education to the way services to schools, colleges and universities, as well as people aspire to live and work every day. To do that, professional and vocational education to learners to help we will collaborate with a wide group of partners to increase their skills and lifelong employability prospects. help shape the future of learning. We aim to support learners throughout their lifetime Our capabilities include combining world-class for every moment that matters – whether this is exam educational content and assessment, powered preparation and success, graduating from university, by services and technology, to enable more effective getting a new job, studying for a postgraduate degree, teaching and personalised learning at scale. changing career, or looking for a new challenge. Our capabilities are based on our deep expertise in how people learn. Our commitment to sustainability and learning outcomes Across our operations, we are committed to a new 2030 Sustainability Strategy to unleash untapped talent – helping everyone to reach their full potential and shape a brighter future. Read more about our Sustainability Strategy on p16 The outcomes that are being demanded of education are evolving. The next generation of Efficacy builds on what we have learned, to create the tools Pearson needs to be a trusted guide to lifelong learning, with the aspiration of improving learning outcomes. Read more about our approach to Efficacy on p27 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 01 In this report Overview Our performance Financial statements Our reporting structure From 2020, we will be operating within 02 Key performance indicators 29 Financial review 114 Independent auditors’ report to a new structure. This is outlined on p12. 04 Chair’s introduction 36 Operating performance review the members of Pearson plc In this annual report, the ‘Strategy’ 122 C onsolidated financial section follows our new structure. 06 Chief Executive’s 40 Organisational risk management statements The ‘Financial review’ and ‘Operating strategic overview 42 Principal risks and uncertainties performance review’ sections continue 09 Trends shaping our market 188 Company financial statements to use our geographical reporting Governance structure – North America, Core and Our strategy Other information Growth – as these relate to our 52 Corporate governance 10 Our strategic model 199 Five-year summary 2019 performance. Next year’s 84 Directors’ remuneration report 201 Financial key performance reporting will use our new operating 12 Our businesses 107 Additional disclosures indicators structure throughout. 14 Creating value for Strategic report our stakeholders 205 Glossary of major products The strategic report, up to and including and services 16 Sustainability p50, is formed of three sections: 208 Shareholder information ‘Overview’, ‘Our strategy’ and ‘Our 27 Efficacy IBC Principal offices worldwide performance’, and was approved for 28 Directors’ duties statement issue by the Board on 6 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by: Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer Unleashing a world of talent AIDA Aida helps students learn calculus and apply it in the real world. p35 BTEC VIRTUAL SCHOOLS I want to be a director I have the flexibility who makes a change. to work with others to make p20 STEM less intimidating. p39 02 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Key performance indicators Financial measures Sales Adjusted operating proﬁt1 Adjusted earnings per share1 £million R £million R pence R £3,869m £581m 57.8p 19 3,869 19 581 19 57.8 18 4,129 18 546 18 70.3 17 4,513 17 576 17 54.1 16 4,552 16 635 16 58.8 15 4,468 15 723 15 70.3 Net debt2 Operating proﬁt/loss3 Basic earnings per share3 £million £million pence £1,016m £275m 34.0p 19 1,016 19 275 19 34.0 Post IFRS 16 18 553 18 75.6 18 809 Post IFRS 16 17 451 17 49.9 17 432 16 -2,497 16 -286.8 16 1,092 15 -404 15 101.2 15 654 Operating cash ﬂow and cash Net cash generated from operations3 Dividend per share conversion1 £million R £million pence £418m £480m 19.5p 19 418 (72%) 19 480 19 19.5 18 513 (94%) 18 547 18 18.5 17 669 (116%) 17 462 17 17.0 16 663 (104%) 16 522 16 52.0 15 435 (60%) 15 518 15 52.0 1 See p30–32 for an explanation of these alternative performance measures. Total shareholder returns4 R 2 2019 includes impact of IFRS 16 (see note 1b to the consolidated financial statements). 2018 is presented on a post IFRS 16 basis for comparability. -30.55% 3 Equivalent statutory measure. 1-year TSR 4 Source: Datastream. -34.28% 5-year TSR Note: See p201–204 for full reconciliation of the alternative performance measures to the equivalent +6.42% 10-year TSR statutory measure. R See how we link strategy to management reward on p84 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 03 Business measures Digital revenue1 Business growth in our key businesses 66% Virtual Schools Underlying revenue +6% 19 36% 30% 34% Full Time Equivalent (FTE) students in continuing partner schools +5% 62% 18 34% 28% 38% Global Online Program Management 59% Underlying revenue +10% 17 32% 27% 41% Enrolments +6% Digital Digitally-enabled Non-digital Professional Certification (Pearson VUE) 1 Excludes GEDU, Wall Street English (WSE) and US K12 Courseware. Underlying revenue +10% GEDU was sold in 2017, WSE was sold in 2018; US K12 Courseware was Test volume +8% held for sale in 2018 and was sold in 2019. US Student Assessment Underlying revenue (1)% Digital platforms Digital/print test volume % 57%/43% Launch of the Pearson Learning Platform (PLP) – Revel launched commercially with 17 titles in 2019 English Launch of AI-enabled calculus app, Aida English Courseware underlying revenue +3% PTE Academic test volume +17% Simplification UK Assessments & Qualifications In-year incremental cost savings achieved in 2019 £130m Underlying revenue +6% Annualised cost savings achieved from simplification programme £335m US Higher Education Courseware Percentage of revenue on one Enterprise Underlying revenue (12)% Planning Resource (ERP) system c.80% 63%/37% Digital/print revenue split % Non-financial measures Talent and employee engagement p21 Improve gender diversity 2019 2018 Active Employee Resource Groups 50 Female Board members 33% 30% Employee Engagement Network meetings Female senior managers2 34% 31% connecting employees with the Board 2 Female employees 59% 62% GB median gender pay gap 12% 14% Reduce our carbon footprint 2019 vs. 2018 2 Two reporting lines from the Chief Executive. Global greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e) 80,421 (14)% Note: Underlying growth rates exclude currency movements, portfolio changes and accounting changes. 04 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Chair’s introduction Pearson is transforming to succeed Sidney Taurel Chair Dear shareholders, Executive. John has been in role for seven we announced an agreement to sell our In a year of significant change for Pearson, years. In that time, he has worked tirelessly remaining 25% stake in Penguin Random the Board and the Executive Management to lead Pearson through a period of House to Bertelsmann for approximately team continued to work together to lay significant change, and has been successful $675m. The formation of Penguin Random the foundations to create a sustainable, in transforming it from a media conglomerate House in 2013 created the first truly global profitable, digitally-enabled organisation to a single-focused learning company. consumer book publishing company and which helps millions of learners make Under his leadership, Pearson has become has created significant value for Pearson progress through their lives. a simpler, more digitally-focused business, shareholders, generating c.£1.9bn in net underpinned by a stronger balance sheet disposal proceeds and dividends. The disposal Progress and performance and better positioned to deliver a sustainable is enabling us to return capital to you, our and healthy future. shareholders, through a £350m share We entered 2019 with a determination to buyback which commenced in January 2020. return to growth on our top line and deliver Such a transformation and shift in the ways increased profit. However, despite a strong a company operates is never an easy change, You can read more about these performance across 76% of Pearson, a and the Board and I would like to thank accomplishments in the Chief Executive’s disappointing performance in our US Higher John for his significant contribution during overview that follows. Education Courseware business, driven by his tenure. A succession process is under a much quicker decline in print textbooks, way that will consider both external and Maintaining financial strength meant underlying Group revenue was flat. internal candidates. while looking to Pearson’s Underlying adjusted operating profit was In January 2020, we announced that Coram longer-term future up 6% on 2018, in line with the bottom of our Williams, our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), guidance range. We acknowledge there are The Board remains confident about Pearson’s had informed the Board that he will be still challenges to overcome and we remain medium and long-term prospects and our leaving Pearson to take on a comparable focused on building on the progress we growth opportunities are significant. Our role elsewhere. On behalf of the Board, have made so far – Pearson is now a leaner, immediate focus is on improving financial I would like to thank Coram for the more efficient and more digital company and operational performance and continuing fundamental role he has played in the with a strong balance sheet and this gives to grow the 76% of the business that company’s achievements over the last five us a platform from which we can address represents the future growth drivers of years. We wish him all the best in his new role. these challenges. Pearson. Our longer-term vision is to deliver Sally Johnson, our current Deputy CFO, lifelong learning to customers, leading to Technology is disrupting every industry and will succeed Coram when he leaves Pearson increased employability and work-related education is no exception. The US Higher at our AGM in April. At that point, Sally will skills – all as part of a wider ecosystem of Education Courseware market is experiencing become the CFO and an Executive Director on delivery partners and stakeholders. fundamental structural shifts as students the Board. Sally is exceptionally well-qualified swap expensive textbooks for more Our capital allocation policy is to maintain a to be the new CFO of Pearson. She has a deep affordable, digital options. There is an strong balance sheet and a solid investment understanding of the company and the increasing focus on employability and grade rating, to continue to invest in the markets we operate in. She will be a strong reskilling or upskilling for different careers in a business, to have a sustainable and addition to the Board, bringing a focused, lifetime. There is a greater demand for lifelong progressive dividend policy, and to return analytical and commercial perspective. learning and the digital tools and services surplus cash to our shareholders where required to fulfil this demand. A key tenet of Simplifying Pearson appropriate, as evidenced through the two our strategy has been the steady investment share buybacks we have launched. While in digital innovation and technology, which 2019 saw continued progress in our planned our focus is generally on organic investment, places us in an advantageous position to meet simplification programme initiated in 2017. we have recently completed two small but these changing demands, and ultimately to The programme is on track to deliver ahead interesting acquisitions – Lumerit Education deliver sustainable growth in earnings and of both our initial and upwardly revised and Smart Sparrow. You can read more about dividends over the long-term. targets for cost savings, with total annualised these in the Chief Executive’s overview that cost savings of £335m by the end of 2019. follows. Thanks to the strength of our balance Succession planning and We also continued to simplify the portfolio sheet, we now have optionality for more leadership changes to enable us to focus on the biggest should we see a good strategic opportunity. opportunities in education, and we Our strategy is clearer than ever, and due to In December 2019, we announced that management’s work to modernise the completed the disposal of our US K12 John Fallon had informed the Board of his company, any potential future acquisitions Courseware business. In December, intention to retire from his role as Chief can now be integrated quickly and seamlessly. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 05 Pearson Pearson Pearson digital digital revenue revenue digital revenue 1 * * 2019 2019 2018 vsvs 2018 Progress over the last three years 66% 62% 2019 2018 2019 2018 2017 Digital 36% 34% Adjusted operating profit £581m £546m £576m Digital Digital 20192019 2018 2018 Digitally-enabled Digitally Digitally 30% enabled enabled 28% Dividend per share 19.5p 18.5p 17p Non-digital Non-digital Non-digital 34% 38% Net debt £1,016m £143m £432m 1 Excludes WSE and This includes the impact of IFRS 16. Excluding this, and on a like US K12 Courseware. for like basis, 2019 net debt is £374m. As we navigate through a period of significant world’s very best learning and assessment learners. Sherry’s expertise in building change, both within Pearson and across the tools made by us. fast-growth, entrepreneurial businesses, industry as a whole, our financial strength focused on technology and education, is In addition, the Board continues to focus on provides a firm foundation for our business already proving invaluable, as we target having a corporate culture that is inclusive, transformation, and our continuing digital-first, high-growth business models. innovative, meritocratic and aligned with the investment in the company to grow company’s purpose, values and strategy. The Board benefits from a wide range of shareholder value through the prudent Part of this means ensuring that all Directors backgrounds, skills and experience spanning allocation of capital. act with integrity, lead by example and key areas for the future of Pearson, such as We have proposed a final 2019 dividend of promote the desired culture. digital technology, sustainability, international 13.5p resulting in a full year dividend of 19.5p, regulatory affairs and entrepreneurship. In December, my fellow Board members and an increase of 5%. This is consistent with We are also passionate about supporting I identified a diverse pipeline of ‘ready later’ underlying profit growth in 2019 and reflects diversity and promoting diverse talent emerging talent both at the Executive the Board’s continued confidence in the internally, as part of our company goal to management level and other key roles, and future growth of the business and our unleash our world of talent. plans have been put in place to accelerate sustainable and progressive dividend policy. their path to succession where possible. To this effect, I am delighted with the appointment of Sally Johnson. My fellow Corporate governance and As a company with a clear purpose, our Board members and I aim to further support engagement with stakeholders sustainability footprint is increasingly the talent pipeline. You can read more about becoming more integrated into our core In 2019, our Board continued to engage with, our employee engagement and talent business and operations. In 2020, I am and encourage participation from employees, initiatives in the Governance sections pleased that we are launching our 2030 educators, learners, community and thought which begins on p51 Sustainability Strategy, in line with the leaders, as well as other stakeholders to UN Sustainable Development Goals ensure the company is contributing to wider The world’s learning company (SDGs). We are committed to embedding society. My fellow Board members and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Our purpose is to empower people to I attended and spoke at various events with principles more deeply across our business. progress in their lives through learning. employees and other stakeholders in London We are focused on leveraging our products Our vision is to enable that to happen through and in the US. In addition we held meetings and partnerships to advance equity in a direct relationship with tens of millions of with a broad range of stakeholders to learning for under-represented groups and learners who we will support through a understand the challenges and opportunities equip learners with the skills they need to lifetime of learning, helping them link their they faced with digital teaching and learning build a more sustainable future for all. We will education to better employment. We will be in schools, higher education and industry. continue to scale up our initiatives to respect able to play that role because of the worldFurthermore, the Board and I spent time human rights and minimise environmental class capabilities we bring to bear, and the throughout the year with many of our impact across our value chain. The Board has ways in which we combine them to achieve shareholders to ensure we maintained been very engaged on this topic because better learning outcomes. an open, transparent dialogue on our integrating ESG across the company is an The Board remains confident about Pearson’s strategy and progress. important way to drive growth, manage risk longer-term prospects and resilience to near and reduce costs. You can read more about term challenges and we are excited about Nourishing talent and focusing our approach in our Sustainability section on the opportunities to build shareholder value p16 and Governance section on p51 on sustainability through the delivery of profitable growth and strong cash generation, while continuing to As always, I would like to thank all colleagues Board composition invest for the future. in the business for their efforts towards our We made two important additions to the achievements in 2019. All of our employees I look forward to seeing you in the coming Board in 2019. I would like to officially are lifelong learners – and our biggest asset. year and thank you for your ongoing support. welcome Graeme Pitkethly, the CFO of We want to make Pearson the employer of Unilever PLC and NV, and Sherry Coutu, choice. We know that we must continue to do angel investor and entrepreneur. We are for employees what we do for people all over benefiting from Graeme’s financial expertise, the world: help them make progress in their global overview and deep understanding of lives and careers. That starts by enabling our consumer behaviour, particularly as we look Sidney Taurel employees to grow and develop using the to build more direct relationships with Chair 06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Chief Executive’s strategic overview We are pioneering new forms of digital learning John Fallon Chief Executive Dear fellow shareholders, One important way to meet this need is by Every industry is being disrupted in some After over seven years as Chief Executive, and combining relevant content with assessment, way by technology, and ours is no exception. more than 22 years with the company, I will be powered by technology, to make learning 10 years ago, we sold 21m textbooks to retiring from Pearson later this year. I’d love to more adaptive, personalised and accessible. American college students; last year, we sold be retiring with the flags flying high, and the As the world’s digital learning company – 66% fewer than 4m. The college textbook has share price performing well. Sadly, that’s of our £3.9bn in annual revenues last year not been disaggregated in the way that the not currently the case. I do believe, however, were digital or digitally-enabled – Pearson is music album was – which saw music revenues that, in time, we will all see the benefits of better placed than anyone to do this. decline significantly from peak to valley before the huge amount that has been achieved now starting to grow again. It has not been over the last few years – and that the company The challenge and the opportunity displaced by ‘free’ models of the sort that has is increasingly well placed to capitalise on in US Higher Education Courseware reduced newspaper advertising revenues what is proving to be a long and difficult dramatically and ensured analogue dollars transformation. In the short term, however, our progress become digital cents. Nor have we suffered a has been overshadowed by the fact that, Kodak ‘moment’, pushed into obsolescence by The power and the purpose of as America’s leading college publisher, the digital revolution. we have first had to work our way through digital learning arguably one of the most challenging of This year, a third of all courses taught in analogue to digital disruptions yet faced by American Universities will use our content and Pearson’s purpose is as strong and powerful any part of the media sector. We will survive homework tools, just as they did a decade as at any point in the company’s 175-year it with our market leadership intact, and, ago. In fact, use of these resources is greater history. Our business model – to grow and with an overwhelmingly digital business, now than it ever was. We have 8m platform prosper as a company by enabling millions well placed to grow again. But it is proving subscriptions a year for our digital courses, of people around the world to grow and to be a very painful journey to get there. which enable students to complete prosper throughout their own lives by assignments and receive feedback, 35% more providing a digital platform that makes The 24% of Pearson that is still in US Higher than a decade ago. In addition, students use learning engaging, rewarding and Education Courseware declined last year by over 2m eTexts, with all the rich content and affordable – is highly sustainable. 12%, more than we guided to at the start of pedagogy of our textbooks, at a cheaper price In one of my first Chief Executive reports, the year, as students embraced digital over and a fraction of the weight. The level of I argued that digital learning would be one print much more quickly. Digital revenue engagement – in faculty use and student of the great global growth opportunities of grew, but textbook sales fell close to 30%. feedback – is greater than ever. And, students the next 20 years. I believe that even more In 2010, we had a $2bn US Higher Education are willing to pay – $80 for a fully adaptive strongly today. The exponential pace of Courseware business, split 75:25 between platform-based course; $40 for an eText. digital change – and the impact of artificial print and digital. By 2022, we expect to have So, why has our US Higher Education intelligence and machine learning on the an almost fully-digital1 US Higher Education Courseware revenue halved in ten years? world of work – will require all of us to acquire Courseware business well set to grow again. If our digital products are now deeply fresh knowledge and learn new skills embedded in the workflow of our customers, throughout an ever-longer working life. Laying the foundations for growth Deconstructing decades of complexity to build the foundations for Pearson’s transformation into a platform-based company, to become the winner in digital learning. Legacy Simplification Platform-based Global property portfolio reduced by net 30 properties c.2,500 applications decommissioned 81 data centres closed 1 ERP system running 80% of Group revenue c.£1bn of costs removed since 2013 1 The core US Higher Education Courseware business is expected to be almost entirely digital. We also have an Advanced Placement business selling higher education content into US schools. This, together with several other smaller, non-college channels, comprises roughly c.$200m of print revenue which has been broadly stable. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 07 shouldn’t we have largely seen print migrate much simpler, more efficient and modern English Language Test (SELT), which will drive to digital on an orderly 1:1 basis? The answer company. Over the last six years, we’ve future growth in our English business. lies in a number of factors that are specific to reduced the cost base by around £1bn, We agreed a partnership with this market. Whilst professors decide what and headcount by around 20,000, due to Oxford University to offer new short courseware to adopt, it is the students who divestitures and restructuring. We’ve courses for learners. buy them. This means that many of our sales decommissioned around 2,500 applications, go through thousands of campus stores, closed 81 data centres, and implemented 16 These growth businesses will continue to as well as through Amazon and specialist new global, scalable, cloud-based platforms. grow in 2020, as we invest in new forms of online retailers. And, whilst the physical 80% of the company runs on one ERP system online education, in better, smarter, online textbook has an edition cycle of three to five today – which includes our major businesses assessments, in new AI-inspired direct-toyears, a student often needs it for no more in the US, UK and Canada. We plan to start the learner apps, and in shifting Pearson’s focus than a single four-month semester. roll out across further markets in 2020. to link education and employability with the workplace. These market conditions proved fertile for As a result, benchmarking the costs of running the emergence of a highly disruptive trend – Pearson against other large companies, This shift will be helped by a small, bolt-on a large secondary market in the analogue we are now much more efficient than we were acquisition – Lumerit Education – we made product, the print textbook, enabled by a few years ago. It will take some time yet to last year, our first in five years. You can read technology. College textbooks have been fully bed in all these new systems but, as we a case study on Lumerit Education in the bought and sold second-hand for decades. do so, they will give us the ability to both Governance report on p61. Lumerit Education What technology changed was the nature achieve further efficiencies and provide the helps address the issues of college degree of it: from some students selling back their data by which we can engage more deeply completion and affordability. It uses data books to the campus store at the end of the with our learners and support them at key and analytics to match learner profiles to semester, to most students choosing to rent moments of learning throughout their lives. academic programmes and will support the on a term-by-term basis. And, the scale of it: growth of our nascent ‘Accelerated Pathways’ in 2010, the secondary market was a fraction Investment, innovation and growth business. Accelerated Pathways works of the size of the primary one; by last year, with major corporates to maximise the As a simpler, more efficient company, we are it had overtaken it. value of their employee tuition assistance able to invest more organically – significantly programmes and offer education as an Salvation rests in our own hands. The more than we were investing five years ago – employee benefit, which we see as a major disruption has come to the analogue past, and we’re starting to see the benefits. In spite new growth opportunity. not the digital future, of US Higher Education of those ongoing challenges in US Higher Courseware. The future of learning will be Education Courseware, in 2019, Pearson as a A second small acquisition – Smart Sparrow, digital, and consumer-defined. Experience, whole was able to match prior year underlying an ed-tech company which specialises in the outcomes and affordability will all matter. sales for the first time since 2014. That’s creation of rich, interactive content – will help The new Pearson Learning Platform – on because the broader 76% of Pearson grew our Pearson eText to become much more of which we are now launching our first products by 4% in aggregate. Our growth businesses an engaging, interactive and personalised – will be the platform on which this future of – Pearson VUE, Virtual Schools, OPM and PTE learning experience. The strength of our learning will be built. It will enable engaging, Academic – grew by 8%. We also performed balance sheet – which our CFO, Coram immersive, learning experiences, that are well across our wider assessment and Williams, talks about on p30 – means that we personalised, diagnostic and adaptive. It will courseware businesses, where the majority are able to complement increased organic be fast, flexible and secure, enabling better have stabilised or grown. investment with bolt-on acquisitions that learning outcomes at lower prices. A digitalenable us to expand into faster-growing Innovation and investment have come in first approach to updating features, content markets more quickly. And, the work we’ve many forms across the company in the and tools – made for the benefit of the teacher done to simplify the company means we can last year: and the learner, so the digital product is never now integrate these acquisitions much more out of date. A digital-first approach to pricing, We launched Aida, the world’s first quickly and seamlessly. in which students share in the financial AI-inspired calculus app to help maths benefits of a much more scalable, students across the globe to apply calculus A fully-focused learning company platform-based model. into the real world, breaking the unseen For almost 50 years, Pearson has been barrier to STEM (Science, Technology, Building on those 8m platform subscriptions, proud to play our part in the publishing and English and Maths) careers. and 2m eTexts, Pearson will be well placed to commercial success of first Penguin, and then start to regain share from secondary sales of  e exported our highly regarded UK W more recently Penguin Random House. At the its own textbooks – and do it in a sustainable vocational qualifications overseas through end of 2019, we announced that we are and purposeful way. our work growing the BTEC brand in markets planning to sell our remaining 25% stake to such as the UAE, Turkey and Sri Lanka. our partner, Bertelsmann, for approximately A simpler, more efficient company $675m, which is expected to close in the first  e supported the Egyptian government to W half of 2020. Using the proceeds, we launched For many years, Pearson as a whole was digitally transform its national assessment a £350m share buyback programme in early overly dependent for profits from the US system for high school students – Pearson’s 2020. Our total stake in Penguin Random Higher Education Courseware business. biggest assessment commercial agreement House has generated c.£1.9bn in net disposal The fact that we’ve been able to survive by test volume to date. proceeds and dividends for Pearson. We know disruption on this scale is due to all that we We developed a commercial agreement the company is in good hands and we wish have done to make Pearson as a whole a with the UK Home Office for the UK Secure our colleagues and authors every future 08 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Chief Executive’s strategic overview success. This enables Pearson now to be through some challenging times for the disruption – through AI, machine learning and completely focused on being the world’s company. I am proud of the fact that, in all automation. Indeed, this year we published digital learning company. the major changes we’ve had to make, we’ve our first Global Learner Survey, which not only stayed true to our values of being brave, gauges the views of learners around the Efficacy 2.0 – designing better imaginative, decent and accountable. world, but also gives great insights in the learning outcomes and shifting sands of education as learners look In times of great change and disruption, for new ways to consume education in a greater impact it is especially important, in retaining the digital age (read more on p9) engagement and support of colleagues, We can be more confident in the positive to be as open and transparent as possible – All this brings great opportunities, but it impact our increased investment will have to acknowledge when mistakes have been brings great challenges too. The disruption is on learning outcomes because of all the work made and lessons learned, to provide a forum hollowing out many middle-skill jobs, it risks we’ve done over the last seven years to design in which colleagues can challenge decisions bringing much greater economic and social efficacy into our new products and services. and help us make better ones as a result. inequality, and it demands that society In 2013, we committed to publicly reporting embraces lifelong learning. So, I’m pleased that we’ve strengthened the on the efficacy of some of our largest extensive ways in which we already engage This gives Pearson a very special opportunity. products. We have made good progress with colleagues across the company with The world needs a learning company on this journey and on improving outcomes, the launch of an Employee Engagement willing to hold itself to account for the based on what we learned. The next Network. This small group of cross-functional learning outcomes its products enable. generation of Efficacy builds on this to employees has been created to enable It needs a company with the relationships take this important work much further. the Board and Executive team to hear around the world – the emergent ecosystem We aim to improve our impact on learning perspectives on what is working and what – to have an impact at scale. And, it needs a outcomes, support company growth, build can improve across Pearson. company that defines lifetime value to help public trust, and ensure our products, influence millions of people through a lifetime We have become much more structured and assessments, services and solutions are of learning. deliberate in how we make Pearson a more known worldwide for their positive impact diverse and inclusive company. We are doing An exciting future is in store, where we are for customers. You can read more about this through a collaboration model, including empowered to make a direct connection with this on p27 our new Global Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) tens of millions of learners at a key moment in A more sustainable and council, which I chair, a network of Employee their lives and become their trusted partner. Resource Groups, as well as a D&I advocate We now have the balance sheet, cost base, prosperous company network underpinned by a community of platform, capabilities – and the product I see this commitment to efficacy – to holding practice. People come to Pearson to learn, pipeline – to go after that future very ourselves to account publicly for the learning and to grow personally and professionally. aggressively, and that’s what we are going to outcomes we help enable – as fundamental Our goal is to be the number one company do. We have invested the proceeds of our to ensuring the long-term sustainability of in the world for learning and development. simplification programme in digital learning. the business. It is one of the key means by And, we are doing this by offering dedicated Now, we must unleash its full power. which we align our business with the UN learning time to all of our people and access As the company enters this next phase, I think Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to our own world-class learning products it will benefit from a new leader, with a fresh particularly goal 4 on quality education, and services. perspective, which is why I’ve decided to goal 8 on decent jobs and economic growth, On a personal note, I’d like to thank Coram retire by the end of 2020, once the Board has and goal 10 on reducing inequality. As I noted Williams who has led the finance function appointed a new Chief Executive, and after earlier, at its very core, Pearson is a company with great intelligence, integrity and grit an appropriate transition. In the meantime, driven by a sense of purpose – we exist to through these challenging times. He has of course, I will continue to do everything empower people to progress in their lives made big strides in improving the clarity I can to help bring the full benefits of digital through learning. The deeper we integrate and transparency of our financial reporting. learning into view as quickly as possible. sustainability into our business and strategy, He has also been fundamental in making the bigger and more positive will be the As this is my last annual report before I retire, Pearson a simpler and more efficient impact we have on society – and the more I would like to thank all my colleagues, past company, in strengthening the balance sheet likely we are to prosper over time. We are and present, our partners and shareholders and in enabling us to invest in the future publishing our new 2030 Sustainability for their support throughout the years. growth of the company. His key partner in Strategy with this annual report, building on Pearson is a very special company, which that work has been Sally Johnson, our our focus of identifying, supporting and I have been enormously privileged to lead. Deputy CFO. She knows the company and developing people so they can reach their There is a lot still to do, but I’m confident that, our markets exceptionally well, is highly full potential and create a better world with the platform we’ve built, better days regarded across the company and she is for us all. You can read more on our 2030 lie ahead. going to make a brilliant CFO. Sustainability Strategy on p16 and throughout the strategic report. What the future holds Developing our own world of talent Although it may not yet be obvious externally, John Fallon I believe we are now on the cusp of the Chief Executive As we saw again last year, the power of next phase in the Pearson transformation. our purpose is one of the things that sustains One of the biggest issues the world faces so many talented and committed colleagues today is the exponential pace of digital Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 09 Trends shaping our market Global Learner Survey Lifelong learning is not just a philosophy, it’s the new reality In September 2019, we released the results of our inaugural Globally, there is wide Global Learner Survey, the first of its kind study that gauges the agreement that people need opinions of learners worldwide. This new study captured the collective to keep learning throughout voice of 11,000 learners in 19 countries to get a full picture on how their career to stay up-to-date people are learning. The findings show that now, more than ever, in their careers. people are taking charge of their education, and technology matters. In the next decade, digital and virtual learning will be the new normal Expectations of online learning Expectations of AI 67% c.70% in the US, UK 90% in China 76% & Europe of people believe that more college believe more primary and believe that AI will have a students will be attending school secondary students will too. positive impact on education. virtually within 10 years. Half of Gen Z in the US, UK and Australia think you can be 1/3 1/4 of workers in the US have of workers in the UK have successful without a traditional found themselves in need of found themselves in need college education upskilling or retraining in the of upskilling or retraining Despite statistics showing higher last two years. in the last two years. lifetime earnings with a college degree… 51% 53% in the US in the UK of Gen Z learners think you can do ‘ok’ in life without it. 68% 2/3rds China, India, Brazil and Hispano America are outpacing the US and or more of people in China, Brazil, UK in the upskilling race and Hispano-America and India have defining a new global economy identified the need to upskill or retrain of learners think you can do just as well and are doing so. More than anywhere else in the world, with an education from a vocational or people in these markets believe education trade school. is driving the global economy. 10 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Our strategic model Building a digital, platform-based business centred on the learner Our strategic advantages Our new operating structure in 2020 Insights and capabilities We are refining the structure of our business to better reflect the shift We partner with world-class authors, towards more digital learner-centred products. institutions, government and regulatory bodies, as well as employers to develop our content, assessment and service Key businesses in our new structure capabilities. We take a data-driven approach to product design, based on Global Online Global International North American proven learning science and pedagogy. Learning Assessment Courseware This enables huge advancements in rich content, personalised learning and Virtual Schools Pearson VUE English  S Higher Education U effective analytics. O  nline Program  S Student U A  ssessment  Courseware Management Assessment & Qualifications Investing back into our business Pearson’s strong balance sheet supports Interdependencies in our key businesses across our core capabilities the continuing investment in our digital We have three core capabilities – content, assessment and services. transformation and structural growth Our key businesses share interdependencies across them, powered by the markets. We are investing record levels to Pearson Learning Platform, all of which is supported by our Enabling Functions. become the winners in digital education. Global reach and scale Content We have a truly global scale and focus. We operate in 70 markets worldwide. Our products and services benefit from being centrally developed and globally deployed, with local expertise and U  S Higher Education capabilities ensuring success. Online Program Courseware Management A ssessment English & Qualifications Virtual Schools US Student Assessment Pearson VUE en t S er v ic sm ENABLING e s es s As FUNCTIONS PEARSON LEARNING PLATFORM Our 2030 Sustainability Strategy Advance equity Build skills for Lead by in learning sustainable futures example Our values are brave, imaginative, decent and accountable We are the world’s learning company Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 11 Our long-term strategy Delivering long-term value for all stakeholders We are shifting from a product-centred approach Customer experience and to a learner-centred model. This means our portfolio learning outcomes of products can now be integrated around the learner, Our customers, including learners, educators, meeting their needs throughout their learning life. employers, governments and more, benefit from a great consumer experience with This relentless focus on learner needs is driving a new approach consistent focus on learning outcomes. to how we deliver learning. The new Pearson Learning Platform will be the platform on which the future of learning will be built. Supporting sustainable growth This will be an engaging, immersive learning experience that is Delivering returns for our shareholders highly personalised. through a long-term improvement in top-line and bottom-line growth. Over time, this helps From this... To this... increase the share price and maintain a progressive, sustainable dividend. Employee engagement Through our transformation, we are focused on supporting our people, driving equality and diversity, and helping them make progress at Pearson and in their lives. Strengthen sustainability A B Through our sustainability work, we are C helping increase access to quality education for more people around the world, equip people with the technical skills, knowledge, creativity and resilience needed to achieve the UN SDGs, and consider human rights and the environment across our value chain. Read more about the value we create for Product-centred Learner-centred platform our stakeholders on p14 Individual products delivered An integrated, multi-product learning to learners who are currently experience, with a ‘known’ customer ‘unknown’ to us. base enabling lifelong learning, and Capital allocation creating lifetime value for Pearson Maintain a strong balance sheet and the learner.  aintain an investment grade M credit rating Organic investment and acquisitions Return capital via a sustainable and progressive dividend Return any excess capital via special returns where appropriate 12 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Our businesses Our new reporting structure Global Online Learning Global Assessment in 2020 We are changing the structure of our Two large digital businesses, The largest businesses are Pearson business to better reflect the shift towards Virtual Schools and Online Program VUE and US Student Assessment. more digital learner-centred products, Management (OPM) Also includes Clinical Assessment with effect from 1 January 2020. Our four reporting segments with their constituent businesses are shown to the right. We will Revenue £586m Revenue £1,031m also be presenting our Enabling Functions Contribution £84m Contribution £351m costs, which include corporate functions. OUTLOOK We highlight 2019 revenue and revenue Revenue growth of mid to R  evenue growth of low to growth vs. 2018, as well as profit high-single digits mid-single digits contribution for the year, by our new reporting structure, as follows: MARKETS Virtual Schools – global market size US Student Assessment – is c.$2bn1 market size is c.$1.15bn1, stable Revenue and underlying revenue OPM – global market size is $3.5bn1 Global Certification – market size is growth in 2019 Both growing 8–10%1 and further c.$1.8bn1, faster growing (by new structure) upside in evolving markets Entering the corporate +8% learning segment (11)% GROWTH DRIVERS £586m Increased demand for In US Student Assessment: move online education to fewer, smarter, digital tests with In Virtual Schools: scale up in existing further opportunities for AI scoring; 03bn £1.09bn £1. states to increase penetration; target converting PARCC states to custom states with high-growth potential assessment through digital solutions In OPM: improve conversion rates In Pearson VUE: increased regulation through portfolio and product in licence to practice and demand £ 1.1 6 b n innovation; optimise portfolio for certification +3% +4% In corporate learning: target large learner base available at corporates to upskill and retain employees Contribution in 2019 (by new structure) COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Flexibility, personalisation and In US Student Assessment: market responsiveness flexible model to offer print or £84m £3 Pearson courseware, assessment digital-based tests and proven m and platform capabilities record of secure, reliable and 51 £231 Capability to match learning needs accurate test administration m in the workplace with providers In Pearson VUE: high operational Deep knowledge of education leverage, scalable model; 450+ Operational scale credential partners showing strength of our brand and breadth of £299 m relationships; network of 20,000 test centres Global Online Learning KEY CUSTOMERS Global Assessment  tudents of all ages in schools, higher S In US Student Assessment: state education and corporate segments and institutional partners, as well International Key partners include universities and as other assessment players North American Courseware charter school boards In Pearson VUE: governments, academia and employers across the This information is provided for illustrative purposes. It is not intended to supersede the professional, IT and regulatory sectors segmental information presented in the financial review and operating performance review or in the DIGITAL PROGRESS consolidated financial statements, which reflects  ully digital, scalable model F  igitally-enabled, scalable model D the way in which the business was managed, Invested in platform to improve with leading platforms monitored and reported through 31 December 2019. learner experience AI scoring already in use We now go into more detail on key businesses in our new structure. 1 Pearson estimates. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 13 International North American Courseware Businesses including US Higher Education Courseware is key business Assessment, English, with Canadian Courseware also in the segment Schools and Higher Education Revenue £1,161m Revenue £1,091m Contribution £299m Contribution £231m OUTLOOK OUTLOOK  evenue growth of low to R In US Higher Education Courseware, We plan to accelerate our product mid-single digits we expect the trends we saw in 2019 release schedule from the end of to continue, with significant declines in 2020 onwards, and digital growth print partially offset by modest growth will also accelerate GROWTH DRIVERS E  nglish: expected growth of in digital, as we add more products to PTE (Pearson Test of English) after the Pearson Learning Platform UK Home Office recognition; target recognition in other STRUCTURAL CHANGES In 2010, Pearson had a $2bn US Higher B  y 2022, we expect US Higher comparable markets including Education Courseware business, Education Courseware to be an Canada; English Language Learning selling 21m textbooks a year almost completely digital business2 – as a driver of employability increasingly based on the Pearson Assessment: opportunity to Learning Platform. deliver national, high-stakes digital assessments at scale in emerging markets Vocational qualifications: technological change, with AI driving major shifts in Shift from print to digital in US Higher Education Courseware work; continued need for reskilling and upskilling is growing demand for Digital penetration + decline in print as % of revenue the vocational and assessment market 80% 60% 40% COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE D  eep knowledge of market capabilities and deep customer relationships PTE Academic provides a world-class 20% and convenient learner experience. AI scoring leads to unbiased results, 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 with quick response time Print Digital Pearson VUE test centres providing breadth of network Unique status – leading provider DIGITAL PROGRESS The Pearson Learning Platform will drive digital growth through: and owner of vocational qualifications and content (BTEC) S  hare gains with better experiences R  ecapturing sales from the and outcomes secondary market Expanding the platform segment Direct-to-learner relationships KEY CUSTOMERS E  nglish: adult professionals (B2C), with new product models franchisees, schools and universities Employability opportunities: national and regional governments, regional training providers, private school chains and employability partners DIGITAL PROGRESS  xpanding our digital courseware E PTE Academic is the only English assessment of its type that combines a 2 The core US Higher Education Courseware business is expected to be almost entirely fully digital experience with AI scoring digital. We also have an Advanced Placement business selling higher education content into US schools. This, together with several other smaller, non-college channels, comprises roughly c.$200m of print revenue which has been broadly stable. 14 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Creating value for our stakeholders In a digital world, we are a driving force behind change. Our focus is on providing better access, affordability and learning outcomes Education is evolving to meet the changing Learners Employees Shareholders STAKEHOLDER GROUP demands of today’s learners. In a digital world, we are a driving force Pearson helps tens of millions Our purpose-driven employees We have a broad range of behind that change. of learners across the world are key to the sustainable investors who entrust their This enables us to create make progress in their lives. success of Pearson. capital with us. long-term sustainable growth for our investors and all stakeholders of the company. For Pearson, engaging with 88% 2 477 of people globally agree that Employee Engagement Network investor meetings with stakeholders always takes education doesn’t stop at college/ meetings connecting employees place through the lens of university and believe that you need with the Board 284 sustainability, which to keep learning to stay relevant in institutions in 2019 informs and influences our your career approach across our global We regularly gauge the views We are focused on creating a We engage with our investors HOW WE SERVE & ENGAGE operations. In order to of learners to understand healthier company, encouraging on an ongoing basis. ensure that our new 2030 how people are incorporating and enabling more people to We communicate with them Sustainability Strategy is learning into their lives beyond progress. We are working to regularly, including at our focused on the areas the traditional classroom. develop talent, drive more financial results, our AGM that are most important This enables us to put learners diversity, ensure greater and at investor meetings and to our stakeholders, an at the centre of what we do, employee engagement, drive conferences around the globe. Engagement Strategy was a build world-class digital products innovation, support accessibility cornerstone of the process. delivering amazing experiences, and inclusion efforts, and Read more on p16 and help people to learn and improve best practice sharing thrive in the talent economy. across Pearson. Our inaugural Global Learner Our people want better tools Our shareholder base has a KEY CONCERNS Survey shows that around the to help them manage more diverse range of views covering world education is still highly effectively and develop their financial, environmental and valued. But, people are redefining own careers. They want to feel ESG-related issues. when, how and what they learn, more closely connected to relying less on traditional leadership, be supported through institutions and adopting a our digital transformation and do-it-yourself approach, have more access to Pearson’s learning on their own terms. products and services. We are helping meet learners’ In 2019, we introduced a more We have a positive, ongoing OUR RESPONSE needs through working with flexible approach to performance dialogue with our shareholder institutions, employers and management, developed a new base. We aim to deliver long-term governments to increase options behaviours framework, and sustainable value for our for virtual learning, online launched ‘Managers’ Corner’ investors and all our company degrees, stackable credentials to help managers guide their stakeholders. We also respond to for adults and on-demand teams better. We created our first surveys and questionnaires to Read more on our learning for everyone. See the Employee Engagement Network provide information about our interconnected approach strategy section on p10 for more and launched ‘Pearson Products ESG practices. to stakeholder engagement, about how we are becoming a for Pearson People’ as part of and how the Board engages learner-centric business. our commitment to help our with our stakeholders, employees prosper. See how in the Governance report, this approach helps create long on p62 term value in our strategy section on p10 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 15 Educational Institutions Employers Governments Business Partners STAKEHOLDER GROUP & Educators & Regulators We work with teachers, Pearson works with employers, We partner with governments to From technology providers to instructors and educators trade associations and industry ensure learners have access to suppliers, channel partners to across all stages of education. bodies to meet the demands of high-quality instruction, materials our authors, we have a broad the workforce and equip learners and assessments linked to range of partners across our with the skills they need to thrive. beneficial outcomes, including global business. building workforce skills. 91% 84% 50 c.80% of educators in the US and UK of UK employers we surveyed plan to US states and a wide range of global Pearson global spend derives believe technology in education gives maintain or increase their investment markets in which Pearson works from c.600 suppliers people more freedom, flexibility, in adult education and training in the with government stakeholders choice and convenience in their year ahead education options We collaborate with educators Through assessment and These learning opportunities We are focused on building HOW WE SERVE & ENGAGE and provide them with the tools qualifications, micro-certification, address learners’ needs, close successful business partnerships they need in order to help the online learning and professional skills gaps and meet workforce across the education ecosystem next generation of learners to badging, among other solutions, demands. Governments and to ensure joint success be successful in their education we are supporting the efforts regulators also set policy to help and growth. and make progress in their lives. of industry to prepare workers drive sustainable growth and for the jobs of today and of ensure learners have access to the future. affordable education. In a cost-conscious environment, Industry is looking for education Governments are looking for We share similar goals with our KEY CONCERNS educators are focused on systems to help drive innovation, effective approaches to better partners – from driving business delivering high-quality tackle the global skills gap and connect education and training transformation to developing educational experiences that contribute to long-term economic to employer needs, improving world-class products; enhancing set their students on a course growth by ensuring learners learner outcomes. customer experience, adherence to a better career and life for enter the world of work better to data privacy and IT security them and their families. prepared to succeed in processes; managing risk; their careers. developing talent and more. We expect partners to share our values. We aim to provide more engaging We have listened hard to We are committed to building We build relationships with OUR RESPONSE ways to connect students with employers and are designing strong relationships with political world-class partners and lifelong learning opportunities, products that meet the needs and educational leaders. We do suppliers for the benefit of all accelerated through the move to of industry head on, whilst not make policy. Instead, we our stakeholders. We believe that digital. This enables more timely providing learners with the share best practices, inform the working with partners who share feedback on student progress skills to succeed in the workforce. policy-making process, and forge our commitments not just to to help set them up for success. innovative partnerships aimed best-in-class business practices, We also continue to listen to at increasing learner access, but also best practice and learners to understand how affordability and success. international standards for we future-proof our products human rights and environmental and services for the learning stewardship, strengthens our journeys of the next generation value chain and reduces our of learners. business costs and risks. 16 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Sustainability Talent is the world’s most valuable resource – we’re working to unleash it We are pleased to announce our Materiality analysis new 2030 Sustainability Strategy Our new sustainability framework was  inking to business priorities: our process L The world is facing exciting, unprecedented developed based on a materiality analysis was designed to align with and support our opportunities and challenges. We need that considered how Pearson’s business corporate strategy and brand strategy. everyone to reach their full potential and priorities and stakeholder expectations  upporting global goals: we will continue our S help shape a brighter future. By leveraging have changed and are likely to evolve. commitment to advancing the UN SDGs and our capabilities and partnering with others, Our materiality assessment was undertaken leverage their targets and indicators in our we can help develop lifelong learning with Forum for the Future, a well-respected goal-setting. opportunities that enable people around the sustainability charity. world to create better lives for themselves, Active, ongoing input and engagement from As we approached this work, we have taken their families and generations to come. internal and external stakeholders is key to several key considerations into account: ensuring the achievement of our new 2030 Our focus is identifying, supporting and E  ngaging with our stakeholders: we engaged Sustainability Strategy. Our key stakeholder developing people so they can reach their full with key stakeholders to understand the groups include: potential and supporting the UN Sustainable issues most important to them and where Development Goals (SDGs) particularly goal 4 employees; they expect Pearson to play a role. on quality education, goal 8 on decent jobs shareholders; and economic growth, and goal 10 on Identifying current and future trends: reducing inequality. we conducted futures research to help learners; identify the social, environmental and The focus areas of our strategy are below. educational institutions & educators; economic issues that will influence learning, Later this year, we will release our targets our ecosystem of partners and Pearson’s employers; and more detail about how we will advance business in the years to come. these objectives. governments & regulators; business partners & suppliers; and international, non-governmental & Our new 2030 Sustainability Strategy non-profit organisations. In addition to Pearson’s other stakeholders, to inform our Sustainability Strategy, we listen Pearson sees a world of talent carefully to the insights of international, non-governmental & non-profit organisations Talent is the world’s most valuable resource. We want to unleash it. working to improve education for vulnerable Our Sustainability Strategy has three main pillars: and marginalised groups, advocating for the UN SDGs and looking at the impact of business in society. Advance equity Build skills for We conducted internal and external in learning sustainable futures interviews, focus groups and workshops to identify high-impact issues. We have the role and responsibility to help We will use our skills, assets and overcome barriers to lifelong learning, partnerships to equip people with the To download more information about from socio-economic hurdles to equity and technical skills, knowledge, creativity and our materiality analysis, complete health challenges. resilience needed to achieve the UN SDGs. ESG data, our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and UN Global Compact Index, visit pearson.com/sustainability Lead by example Our 2030 strategy will continue to focus on building the foundations for a sustainable business, such as our commitments to respect human rights and minimise environmental impacts across our value chain. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 17 Taking stock of our 2020 Sustainability Plan Progress in 2019 We are approaching the end of Pearson’s 2020 Sustainability Plan, which is focused on Advancing equity in learning three pillars: 1) reaching more learners; 2) shaping the future of learning; and 3) being a trusted partner and supporting our commitment to the UN SDGs. Pearson has made We have built a foundation to scale how good progress across the pillars of our plan. our products and services can help more under-represented learners from diverse backgrounds make better progress. Helping Reach more learners improve access to quality education for a broader spectrum of learners contributes to Improve access to and Collaborate to reach Read more about our growing our business, stimulating innovation affordability of products underserved learners partnership with and advancing the UN SDGs. Some of the and services Through partnerships Save the Children on p18 underserved and underrepresented groups We have built strong involving non‑governmental and CAMFED on p18 we have focused on to date include adult foundations to reach more organisations, teachers, learners without degrees, underprepared learners from disadvantaged education experts, learners in US higher education, people with backgrounds and support governments and others, disabilities, women and girls, and refugees. them to overcome barriers we are also tackling As one example, within the assessment through products and services. some of the biggest business in the US, the computer-based GED See examples on p17, 20, 36, education challenges. allows adult learners to prepare for college, 37 and 38 career training programmes or better-paying jobs. By supporting adults who have faced Shape the future of learning barriers completing their high school education, it is a key piece of our sustainability Build skills that foster Promote education for Engage in multi-stakeholder objective to advance equity in education. employability and inclusive sustainable development research, dialogue and economic growth collective action to solve Other examples of products that are We are increasingly integrating global challenges helping learners overcome barriers We are better preparing and promoting sustainability include Accelerated Pathways (see p36) and students to progress in content and skills, including in We are active participants in BTEC qualifications (see p18 and 37) learning, work and life through our BTEC qualifications and US multi-stakeholder, collective a range of products and Higher Education Courseware action initiatives that aim to Accessibility services. For example, products. We also released a strengthen global education Pearson is committed to continual ‘Pearson’s Career Success’ white paper with Arizona State systems, explore the role of programme, which has University, Business Fights the private sector in global improvement to increase the accessibility reached 135,000 learners since Poverty and the UN Principles education and development, of our products. Our Global Accessibility 2018, helps students set career for Responsible Management and advance the UN SDGs. Steering Group drives support for people with goals, fill skills gaps and Education on how to scale up See organisations on p26 disabilities through the intentional integration prepare for employment. and partner on opportunities of accessibility standards into product to advance learning and skills development. Our Pearson Able Employee for sustainable development. Resource Group has a remit to improve Read more on p18–19 company practice in the support of learners and employees with diverse needs. Be a trusted partner Pearson has joined the Valuable 500, a global movement to put disability on the Respect and support Protect our natural Build a sustainable business leadership agenda. As part of our our people, customers environment supply chain membership, we have committed to publicly and communities We met our 2020 targets We have taken a number of disclose a policy framework for product We successfully achieved to reduce our operational steps to continuously improve accessibility as well as to build, develop our goals to develop and Greenhouse Gas emissions how we consider social and and share a market-leading approach to implement an Editorial by 50% (using 2009 as the base environmental issues in our mentoring people with disabilities. Policy to ensure content is year) and reduce energy use in supply chain and procurement. appropriate (see p19) and our buildings on an absolute Read more on p23–25 In 2019, the Assessment business drafted report on Pearson’s GB basis by 50% (using 2013 as an internal policy for accessibility, provided gender pay. the base year) early. Read 25 virtual accessibility training sessions more on p22–23 for employees, and designed an external In 2018 and 2019, we also accessibility website with tools and guidance. reported on Pearson's GB gender pay and continue to The team also designed a three-year tactile take actions to further graphics study and completed Phase 1. reduce the gap. The study’s advisory board includes representatives from the National Federation of the Blind, the Braille Authority of North America, Braille production vendors, 18 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Sustainability certified Braille transcribers, students, To support educators, we developed and In 2019, Pearson and CAMFED adapted the parents and teachers of the visually impaired. tested a user dashboard complementing BTEC qualification to make it accessible to all the ‘Space Hero’ app, which includes the young women acting as volunteer guides In 2019, the Global Product business revised features to help teachers follow up on their in CAMFED’s programme: not just guides an existing internal policy on accessibility and students’ progress and tailor future classes. working in schools but also those supporting laid the foundations to update all guidelines The partners published ‘The Space Hero girls as they graduate from school, and those from Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Manual’ and distributed it to maths teachers mentoring young women to set up and grow (WCAG) 2.0 to 2.1, in line with increasingly in schools. In addition, over 300 school staff local enterprises. The revisions also reflect a global customer requirements. The team members were trained on academic subjects greater emphasis on employability skills, and also signed agreements with a number and providing psychosocial support. new content has been introduced on topics of new channel partners to ensure the such as sexual and reproductive health and widest and most convenient possible CAMFED information technology. The revised BTEC access to our products. Since 2013, Pearson has partnered with qualification was launched in Zimbabwe, Every Child Learning international NGO CAMFED (Campaign Tanzania and Zambia during 2019 and is for Female Education) to help girls from projected to reach a further 4,500 candidates Since 2015, Pearson has joined forces with low-income communities in sub-Saharan over the next three years. Save the Children to deliver the multilateral Africa stay in school, learn and develop key Every Child Learning programme to support Pearson Ventures skills for life and work. The project is funded Syrian refugee and host community girls and by the UK Department for International Pearson Ventures invests in companies boys in Jordan, aged 9–12 years, in Grades 4, 5 Development’s Girls’ Education Challenge, building new market opportunities and 6. The programme helps improve their and supported by national Ministries of using innovative business models, learning and build their resilience, whilst Education. Together, we developed a life future technologies and new educational making their learning environments safer. skills curriculum and learning resources experiences. In December 2019, the initiative To achieve this ambition, the partnership used by young women ‘Learner Guides’ in made investments in its first two startups, has focused on researching and integrating supporting vulnerable children studying in Springboard and Knowledge to Practice (K2P), new programmatic and digital educational rural schools. We also created a customised which are focused on lifelong learning and solutions – including the creation of the BTEC qualification to recognise the skills, employability. The investments total $4.2m innovative classroom mobile learning tool, experience and achievements of Learner with Springboard at $2.2m and K2P at $2m. the ‘Space Hero’ (Batl Al Fada’a) maths app. Guides and enhance their employability Volunteering prospects. As of December 2019, we have The programme was successfully expanded Pearson sponsored a 2019 North America awarded 2,880 BTECs to young women from three to 19 schools during the academic Volunteer Day to support the philanthropic from marginalised backgrounds in Zimbabwe, year 2018–19, working collaboratively with interests of its employees and make a Tanzania, Ghana and Malawi, against a children, parents, teachers, school leadership difference in communities across the US and target of 5,000. and the Jordanian Ministry of Education. Canada. Over 500 colleagues participated Over 10,000 children used the Space Hero in a variety of impactful activities including app through the programme, and over book drives, reading to classrooms, food 2,000 participated in Arabic remedial classes drives, Habitat for Humanity, mentoring at to help them catch up with their peers the Boys & Girls Club, park clean-ups and through the programme. trips to local animal shelters. Building skills for sustainable futures We want our learners to be equipped with the skills and capabilities they need to build careers and communities, navigate Supporting Syrian refugee and host community girls and boys uncertainty, address the world’s biggest sustainable development challenges and thrive in the 21st century and beyond. In response to our customers, we have developed content, courses, qualifications and other services that help students learn about sustainability. By integrating sustainability-related content into our products, we can explore new market opportunities while making a direct contribution to the UN SDGs and inspiring the next generation to improve their world. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 19 Content: Pearson’s Editorial Policy To ensure that the content within our products is aligned to Pearson’s values, and to prevent inappropriate content from being published, our Global Editorial Policy acts as a guide for content developers to create products that are relevant, appropriate and inclusive. Our policy is based on principles in the following areas: 1. Respecting human rights including freedom from discrimination and bias 2. Creating content that embeds an awareness for and the promotion of Diversity & Inclusion 3. Demonstrating support for learning that is We work with a number of authors and for their employees. Read more about based on evidence and facts professors who have made sustainability supporting our suppliers and our work to 4. Aligning with legal and ethical obligations of part of the materials they create for Pearson. prevent modern slavery in the supply chain content creation and production We have also developed a number of on p23–25 sustainability qualifications, and have 5. Ensuring content respects regional laws and Our Human Rights Statement outlines the embedded sustainability within BTEC is not locally inappropriate or offensive priority human rights risks and opportunities qualifications across sectors, including for Pearson that our programme is taking The policy is applied across all markets engineering, warehouse operations, steps to address. Our approach to human and business units, and is overseen by a animal management, science and IT. rights covers five areas: learners, content, cross-regional and functional steering employees, partnerships (see responsible committee, chaired by a member of our Leading by example sourcing, p23–25), and privacy and data Executive team. A network of 35 policy We are committed to being the best partner (see risk section, p47–48) champions are responsible for we can be to learners, educators, suppliers implementation and act as a point of Learners and communities: living our values through escalation for queries in our businesses Through our human rights impact how we do business, treat people and protect and markets around the world. assessment, we determined that Pearson’s the environment. greatest opportunity to advance human rights In 2019, we incorporated the Policy into Human rights is supporting underserved and vulnerable Pearson’s Code of Conduct. An online learning Our goal is to respect and promote human learners through its products and services. module is automatically assigned to new rights, including the right to education, On p17 we describe our approach and starters in content-facing and support throughout our operations and with our examples of products that are helping functions and, for external providers, as part customers, employees, contractors and learners overcome barriers, such as the GED of our vendor onboarding process. To date, supply chain. Our approach is guided by (see p17), Accelerated Pathways (see p36) over 6,000 employees and 1,500 external the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and BTEC qualifications (see p18 and 37) providers have completed our Global Editorial the International Labour Organization’s Policy training. Policy checkpoints are To protect learners from harm, we are declarations on fundamental principles and included in our product development committed to safeguarding wherever rights at work, the UN Guiding Principles processes, and a Policy review of published we operate, and particularly in schools, on Business and Human Rights, and the titles has also been established in some training and learning centres, and teaching UN Global Compact Principles. We are a business units. facilities. More detail on our approach founding signatory to the UN Global Compact, appears on p45. We have undertaken work In our Global Product unit, key D&I discipline and we are a member of the Global Compact’s to strengthen our processes for learners to leads have completed training on content UK Local Network. raise concerns about harassment or abuse, review, and we have released internal We respect the rights of our employees to including by integrating recommendations guidelines to integrate best practices and freedom of association and representation from the UN Guiding Principles on Business escalate issues. Moving into 2020, we will through trade unions, works councils or any and Human Rights into relevant safeguarding launch additional training and certification other appropriate forum wherever local laws risk assessment frameworks. We have on reviewing content for D&I and scale up allow. We work to prevent discriminatory, completed a gap analysis of current processes our efforts in this area. illegal and inhumane labour practices and identified areas of improvement to take including child labour, forced labour, slavery forward in 2020. and human trafficking. We use our influence with our suppliers to improve standards 20 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 I want the female African perspective to be heard and film is a powerful tool to express my ideas. I want to be a director who makes a change. Josephine Kiaga, BTEC Student of the Year 2019 CASE STUDY BTEC BTEC Student of the Year 2019, Josephine centres in 60 countries around the globe. Kiaga, is both a creative and an inspirational Learners choose BTECs because they are Creative and voice for her peers and the wider community. high-quality, hands-on qualifications She took a BTEC Subsidiary Diploma in grounded in the real world of work. Creative Media Production (Film and Students learn by doing, and develop inspirational Television), as well as a BTEC Diploma in Performing Arts (Acting) at Braeburn valuable employability skills that they will use throughout their future career or for International School Arusha in Tanzania, to progression into university and to make a support her ambitions to become a director. positive impact on the world. We know that Josephine sets her sights high: “I want the this has a positive effect on students: research female African perspective to be heard and from the UK Department for Education shows film is a powerful tool to express my ideas. that, for pupils in state-funded mainstream I want to be a director who makes a change schools, taking a Technical Award, such as a and who creates with a purpose.” BTEC Tech Award, is associated with pupils having lower absence rates, lower permanent Josephine is a powerful leader. She was an exclusion rates and lower fixed exclusion ambassador of human rights at the East rates, when compared with similar pupils African Model United Nations (EAMUN) who did not take a Technical Award. conference and she co-organised a ‘Girls’ Empowerment’ day for local girls in the Our priority growth markets are China, community where they ran workshops ASEAN, Middle East, Central/Eastern Europe regarding entrepreneurship, female hygiene and North Africa. The key strategic industry and more. She has also achieved distinctions sectors that we are focused on to address the in public speaking enabling her to teach skills demand are engineering, construction, London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art digital/tech, travel and tourism, as well as (LAMDA) classes assisting fellow students. health and care. As BTEC Student of the Year, Josephine This is an example of how we are designing is a future creative leader and a powerful products to have an impact on key learning advocate for women and her country. outcomes such as employability skills and Her energy and passion for the creative promoting education to advance the UN SDGs arts will take her far. as part of our 2030 Sustainability Strategy. Learn more about Efficacy on p27 About Pearson’s BTEC qualifications Learn more in our Sustainability section on p16 Over 1m learners every year choose a BTEC course through c.6,000 approved BTEC Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 21 Employees Investing in and supporting our talent Employee learning and development Our employees are key to helping us fulfill This year, we launched ‘Pearson Products for Our culture is centred around helping people our vision of helping far more people prosper Pearson People’, as part of our commitment unlock their futures through learning and a throughout a lifetime of learning. As such, to help our employees prosper. We introduced range of diverse work experiences. we play a crucial role in creating a working GEDWorks™, an opportunity for regular To become a digital-first company, environment that enables our employees to employees and their families in the US to we recognise the importance of helping grow, develop and succeed. This strategic earn a GED credential for free (read more our employees build their own digital skills. report describes the various ways in which the about the GED on p17), and free access ‘Digital Learning Live’ launched this year as company engages with, invests in and rewards to Pearson’s eText titles through the an interactive webinar series to provide all its employees. The remuneration report also VitalSource Bookshelf. employees with practical digital skills that describes the remuneration philosophy which We implemented changes to our performance can be used across Pearson. The Help Me applies to the company as a whole. management approach to shift our focus from kNow hub provides a large library of videos, Employee engagement an annual backward-looking conversation to activities and lessons to help our employees This year, we have enabled engagement with a regular conversations over the year, giving feel more comfortable with the new digital range of opportunities for employees at all employees the opportunity to continuously tools introduced company-wide this year. levels of the organisation. learn, grow and improve performance. The We are introducing a Senior Vice President relationship between pay and performance On the back of our successful Innovation Jam (SVP)–Employee Experience role which will has not changed, to ensure that employees in 2018, we formed Tiger Teams to support bring together our HR Centres of Expertise are rewarded for their contribution and implementing ideas and solutions. The Tiger to integrate our approach from recruitment impact. Managers have more flexibility to Teams have been directly involved with to retirement in a more meaningful way differentiate their reward decisions. introducing a more flexible approach to for employees. performance management, including a new We offer benefit programmes that make Managing organisational changes behaviours framework, and they have been our employees’ lives easier, simpler and more Pearson experienced continued change this instrumental in shaping our learning rewarding. Our programmes vary globally and year, through consolidation and headcount strategy for 2020. include health insurance, disability coverage, reduction, as we work to achieve our retirement savings matching, employee share We launched the ‘Managers’ Corner’ digital-first strategy. We continue to support purchase options, commuter benefits, tuition community in January 2019 to streamline our employees with regular communication. reimbursement, and programmes that communications for our managers. The In the UK, we follow a legally prescribed support wellbeing and work-life balance. purpose is to help our managers understand consultation process and undertake a what they need to know, need to do and need This year, we implemented US policy changes minimum period of 45 days. to talk about with their teams. This is a critical designed to give our employees more time We are also in the early stages of channel for ensuring all employees are aware with family when needed. Maternity leave implementing predictive analytics to help of key matters of concern, including financial and Parental & Serious Illness in the Family us identify variations in employee turnover and economic factors affecting our business. Leave (PSIL) were extended and the Financial globally. As we mature in this space, we will Our ‘We are Pearson’ campaign launched Aid for Adoption Policy was modified to be better positioned to develop targeted in October 2019 with the celebration of expand reimbursement benefits to offset strategies that increase retention. Pearson’s 175th birthday. The activity was surrogacy expenses. focused on reinvigorating the hearts and In 2019, the Pearson Alumni Network Pearson maintains its accreditation by the minds of our employees across the globe supported a community of past and current Living Wage Foundation and has committed virtually and through 59 in-person local engagement with employees through to paying employees and regularly contracted birthday celebrations in 25 countries. quarterly newsletters, a ‘Leaders in Learning’ staff working in our buildings across the podcast, the ‘Career Coach’ to share job In response to the UK Corporate Governance UK and in London the real Living Wage. opportunities from around the sector, Code, we are excited to take part in Labour practices and the ‘Alumni Learning Series’. strengthening the voice of our workforce with We respect the right of our employees to the creation of our Employee Engagement freedom of association and representation Network (read more on p64) through trade unions, works councils or any other appropriate forum wherever local laws allow. We have policies and processes in place to prevent discriminatory, illegal or inhumane labour practices, including child labour, forced labour, slavery and human trafficking, in our places of business, as well as to address violations when they occur. Representation takes many forms. We support the right to unionise in the UK. 22 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Sustainability Diversity & Inclusion Key performance indicators: women in Pearson Every person is unique, whether that be in terms of age, gender, identity, race, ethnicity, Among our seven D&I priorities is a goal to improve gender representation at the top two religion, disability, sexual orientation, levels of the company. At Board level, 33% of our members were female as at the end of education, learning style, national origin, 2019. As a founding member of the 30% Club, we have endorsed and committed to work personality type, as well as across a range of towards the target of a minimum of 33% representation of women on the Board and in other factors – as set out in our Diversity & our Senior Leadership Group by 2020. The table below sets out our female representation Inclusion Statement. At Pearson, we value a over the past three years. The final column on the right represents actual numbers. diverse workforce and a workplace which reflects our learners – the customers we 2018 2019 2019 serve around the world. Board of Directors 30% 33% 4 Senior leadership1 31% 34% 34 Last year, Pearson designed and adopted a new strategic framework for diversity and All employees 2 62% 59% 13,022 inclusion practice. Our charter is to capitalise 1 Two reporting lines from the Chief Executive. on different perspectives and leverage 2 Total employee figures for female composition of workforce are based on a snapshot of employees as diversity to spur innovation and growth at 31 December 2019. Average annual figures for 2019 are used elsewhere in this report and differ due through an inclusive culture and working to including seasonal employees at peak periods in our assessment businesses, as well as those who may no longer be employed by the Group at 31 December 2019 due to the simplification programme. environment. Our approach includes: a Global Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Council led by the CEO to provide strategic oversight and to extend our work into many more Key performance indicators: global Greenhouse Gas emissions data markets and countries. The Council includes Metric tonnes of CO2e 20091 2018 2019 business leaders, allies and advocates as Combustion of fuel and operation well as representatives from our Employee of facilities (GHG Protocol Scope 1) 44,649 13,057 13,251 Resource Groups. Electricity (GHG Protocol Scope 2 – location based) 130,395 49,920 47,384 a set of seven priorities which guide our Electricity (GHG Protocol Scope 2 – market based)2 – 4,583 418 action planning and major initiatives. Emissions relating to air and rail travel, a global network of D&I Advocates who electricity transmission, waste and water provide support to advance our practice in (GHG Protocol Scope 3) 35,262 30,022 3 19,786 their businesses and geographic locations. Total – location based 210,306 92,999 80,421 Total – market based 39,312 33,454 a plan to help our ten employee resource groups at Pearson evolve and mature. 20131 2018 2019 The networks are for women, women in Total energy used in buildings (MWh) 285,590 127,083 129,717 technology, parents, veterans, Latinos, Intensity ratios the LGBT+ community, generational differences, people with disabilities, tCO2e per employee (scope 1, 2 & 3) 6.8 3.48 3.57 employees of black and/or African ancestry, tCO2e/sales revenue (scope 1, 2 & 3) 20.50 20.79 and a group representing black, Asian and 1 2009 is a baseline year for carbon reduction and 2013 is a baseline year for energy reduction. minority ethnic people. 2 For nine of our key markets we buy renewable energy through green energy tariffs or renewable a D&I dashboard review and goal-setting energy certificates (RECs) in the country of consumption. This accounts for 97% of our electricity use. We buy RECs regionally for the remaining 3% in those markets where we have a small presence. session held with each business and 3 A new, enhanced data source was employed in 2019. We have updated and rebased our estimated function leadership team. This was a new emissions as a result. introduction in 2019. Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006. Disability is an important part of our wider The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and commitment to Diversity & Inclusion. Reporting Standard (revised edition), using the Scope 2 dual reporting methodology, together with the We work to ensure that appropriate latest emission factors from recognised public sources, including, but not limited to, the UK Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy Information procedures, training and support are in Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate place for people with disabilities to ensure Change. The data in the table above has been independently verified by Corporate Citizenship. fair access to career and progression opportunities. Our Pearson ABLE employee resource group helps improve practice by bringing together people with disabilities in Pearson and accessibility advocates. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 23 Responsible sourcing What goes into our products? At Pearson, we believe in doing business with partners who share our commitment Direct Indirect to human rights and the environment – strengthening our supply chain through shared values and commitments. In 2019, Pearson purchased over £2.35bn of goods and services from third parties, from large multinationals to smaller specialist Paper Print Consultancy Human Marketing companies and sole traders. Around 80% services Resources of Pearson’s global spend is represented by 605 suppliers. The majority of products and services Pearson purchases are sourced from Transportation Content Information Facilities suppliers in OECD countries, predominantly Technology in North America and Europe. Our relationships with suppliers are guided by our commitments to international standards for human rights and environmental In 2019, Pearson received a number of D&I We met our 2020 GHG and energy reduction responsibility. We are committed to the awards (see p26) and was recognised as targets achieving: UN Global Compact and other human rights fostering an inclusive culture through our standards including the Universal Declaration 62% reduction in total (location based) of Human Rights, the International Labour leaders. The Managing Director of Pearson GHG emissions (vs target of 50% reduction Organization’s declarations on fundamental Canada was named on the 2019 HERoes against 2009 baseline). principles and rights at work, and the Women Role Model Executives list, which celebrates women driving change to increase  5% reduction in energy use in our buildings 5 UN Guiding Principles on Business and gender diversity in the workplace. Also, our (vs target of 50% vs 2013 baseline). Human Rights (see p19 for more on our SVP-BTEC and Apprenticeships has been commitments). The UK Modern Slavery In 2019, we installed LED lighting in three of Act also guides our approach, and our recognised in the 2019 EMpower list of the our UK properties. Modern Slavery Statement is available at: top 100 ethnic minority business leaders. W  e maintained our commitment to using https://www.pearson.com/legal-information/ Pearson continues to report on GB gender our-policies/modern-day-slavery.html 100% renewable electricity and offset pay in line with UK regulations. Our work to our emissions from our energy and We are a founding member of the Book Chain extend our reporting on gender pay to cover fuel consumption and business travel Project, a partnership between publishers our global operations by 2020 continues and (through an Indonesian forestry to enhance industry standards relating is on track. conservation project and an Indian to labour standards and human rights, Our environmental impact renewable energy project, both of which product safety, and paper sourcing. We are committed to reducing our impact on are certified to the VCS standard). Sourcing policies the environment. Responsible environmental In 2019, we maintained our ISO 14001 Our policies help ensure Pearson’s values stewardship helps to create a healthy and certification, the environmental management are reflected and shared with everyone sustainable planet for our learners and all of standard in the UK and Australia. This we do business with. The Business Partner society. Our biggest direct impacts are carbon standard incorporates both internal and Code of Conduct (Partner Code) clarifies the emissions from our use of energy, so we external audits. responsibilities and expectations we have of need to ensure we manage our own our business partners (which includes joint operations responsibly. venture partners, vendors, franchisees, We continue to do our part to address the distributors, suppliers, contractors, global challenges of climate change. In 2019, consultants and agents) for ethical and we calculated our Scope 3 GHG emissions and responsible business practices. developed a proposal for the Science Based Target Initiative to establish our new longterm goal for carbon emissions in 2020. 24 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Sustainability The Partner Code sets out our support for We are committed environmental stewardship, universal human rights (including equal employment, freedom of speech and of association, and cultural, to reducing our impact economic and social wellbeing), good labour practices, and decent working conditions. on the environment. It also sets out expectations that our supply partners, and their subcontractors, oppose discriminatory, illegal, or inhumane labour practices, including slavery and human trafficking. The Partner Code is present in new contracts and is included when contracts are renewed or updated. Compliance with the principles in our code is a minimum standard of behaviour outlined in contracts. Our Business Terms of Reference, specific to Pearson supply chain contracts, set out the terms and conditions for purchase of goods and services, and are agreed prior to engaging suppliers. This provides Pearson with the power of audit and right to terminate a relationship if we find issues of non-compliance, ensuring our responsible purchasing principles are contractually enforceable. When working with schools and campuses, suppliers must have an acceptable safeguarding policy which meets or US Higher Education Courseware supply chain Print production exceeds Pearson’s own (see p45 for more Pearson does not directly manage paper We rely on third-party suppliers to print our on safeguarding). Suppliers are also subject procurement, print manufacturing, textbooks and course materials. Globally, to Pearson’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption warehousing and distribution operations we have over 200 print suppliers representing Policy (see p49 and p77) and Gifts and for our US Higher Education Courseware approximately £200m in spend. Hospitality Policy. business. These activities are outsourced In the UK, we require suppliers rated as Direct supply chain to LSC Communications, which is subject to high risk and with spend of over £100,000 to While we have a growing technology-enabled our Business Partner Code of Conduct. undertake an independent third-party audit supply chain reflecting our increasing shift to Paper sourcing before being approved as a supplier, and to digital, our traditional paper-based products Pearson has a longstanding Responsible agree to regular review audits at least once continue to be a key area of focus. Our Supply Paper Sourcing Policy that sets out our every two years. We rate suppliers as medium Chain function manages our purchases of approach to managing risks related to human or high risk based on a Book Chain tool paper for books, as well as our contracts with rights and environmental practices in our designed specifically to help publishers printers and works with distributors and direct supply chain. This policy sets out our identify labour and environmental risks in the shippers who bring our products to market. preference for paper suppliers which hold supply chain. The audits are carried out by Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification, third-party auditors and shared via the Book and we also recognise the Programme for the Chain platform. Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Our due diligence process also includes system of certification. visiting suppliers around the world to In 2019, we purchased over 100,000 tonnes assess compliance with our standards, of paper globally. To help to reduce our and to ensure suppliers address nonimpact, we have retained Chain of Custody compliance. These visits provide a valuable accreditation from the FSC in the UK, which opportunity to reinforce our commitments enables Pearson products to carry the FSC to eliminating all forms of child, forced and logo. Of the more than 12,000 tonnes of paper compulsory labour, as well as promoting we purchased in the UK, 86% was certified environmental stewardship. to an environmental standard, such as FSC or PEFC. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 25 In our UK business, we had £26m in spend Supplier diversity Sustainability governance with 46 suppliers in total. Of these, we have Our supplier diversity programme focuses The Reputation & Responsibility Committee, identified four suppliers, representing £6.6m on local, small, diverse businesses – such as a formal committee of the Board, provides in spend, as high-risk based on country of underutilised, or women-, minority-, LGBTongoing oversight, scrutiny and challenge on operation (China and Malaysia), guidance or veteran-owned. Building close partnerships matters relating to our Sustainability Strategy from the Book Chain Project and meeting our with diverse suppliers helps make us more and our corporate reputation. Learn more £100,000 materiality threshold. All four were competitive and drive innovation. In 2019, on p72 visited in 2019 and have a valid audit in place. the Global Supplier Diversity team contributed to 37 proposals with supplier diversity The Pearson Executive oversees Indirect procurement implementation of business and sustainability requirements, whose total potential Following deployment of systems in the UK, strategy. The Responsible Business contract value exceeds ~£400m. US and Canada, new supplier requests Leadership Council drives implementation are tracked and pass through audited A roadmap for the future of the strategy on behalf of the Board. It is approval actions before being confirmed for In 2019, we undertook a project with chaired by our Chief Corporate Affairs Officer onboarding into Pearson systems. Suppliers sustainability advisers, BSR, to assess our and comprises leaders from across the submit information directly and securely existing approach to human rights in our business. We updated the membership and through our platform, governed by SOX supply chain, ensure we meet global terms of reference in 2019 to oversee and control standards, where risk assessment standards and stakeholder expectations, support the integration of our updated concerns are tested across: conflict of interest, identify any gaps, and develop a roadmap sustainable business priorities. trade sanctions, sanctioned countries, to improve our approach. Based on the sustainability, physical security, diversity, Code of Conduct project’s findings, Pearson plans to improve and business continuity. spend data, facilitate better measurement The Pearson Code of Conduct underpins our Our 2020 supplier risk initiatives will focus on: and reporting of KPIs, and continue to inform values by setting out the global ethical, social a reduction in the number of ‘active’ suppliers both buyers and suppliers on human rights and environmental standards of behaviour available for the business users to purchase issues to Pearson’s standards. we expect from employees, and we have a against (therefore reducing our risk companion code for business partners. Through our Procurement Function, Pearson landscape); risk assessment of incumbent will continue to contribute to our corporate Our Code of Conduct was revised and suppliers; and improvement of Pearson’s social responsibility and sustainability targets refreshed in 2019, and the course included a supplier risk assessment enabled by by influencing our sourcing methodologies focus on raising concerns, a certification to the technology and partnerships. to promote spend with qualifying suppliers. Code and an overview of our Global Conflicts Contingent workers We are putting processes in place to: increase of Interest Policy and disclosure process. Allegis Global Solutions (AGS) is the major our diverse spend; include supplier diversity We make sure all Pearson employees are partner supporting Pearson’s relationships language in our requests for proposals; aware of our Code and confirm they with our contingent workforce population. and work with non-diverse suppliers to understand and will comply with it. In 2019, Our contingent workers frequently fill roles incorporate supplier diversity goals into we achieved our target of 100% employee such as engineers, developers, exam graders their procurement process. completion and acknowledgement of the and project managers. Code by all employees. The Code is also Governance assigned as part of the onboarding process AGS, and our other partners, help Pearson for all new Pearson employees. ensure our contingent workers receive Our strong governance structures and detailed information outlining how Pearson’s internal systems are key to managing risks Raising concerns people policies apply to them, and help to and embedding sustainability, responsibility We operate a free, confidential telephone hold contingent worker agencies accountable and ethics across our business. Key areas helpline and website for anyone who wants for ensuring that workers are informed of include our organisational risk management to raise a concern, and we have a clear Raising these policies. (see p40–50), compliance and anti-bribery Concerns and Anti-Retaliation Policy in place process (see p49), public policy (see p45) to encourage honesty and openness. Cases and tax (see p47) that pose significant risks to our business are reported to the Pearson Audit Committee with ultimate ownership by the Board. 26 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Sustainability Recognition and multi-stakeholder engagement Awards Initiatives Non-financial information statement & more information The following table outlines where the key contents requirements of the non-financial information statement (as required by sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006) can be found in this document. Please visit our website for a complete set of our environmental, social and governance performance data and information about how we are aligning with the UN Global Compact principles, Global Reporting Initiative and Carbon Disclosure Project. Reporting requirement Pearson policies and procedures Section of annual report Environmental matters Environmental Policy Our environmental impact, p22–23 Paper Purchasing Policy Employees Code of Conduct Our employees, p21–22 Human Rights Statement Raising Concerns and Anti-Retaliation Policy Health & Safety Statement Diversity & Inclusion Statement Human rights Human Rights Statement Human rights, p19 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy, p19 Modern Slavery Statement Our employees, p21–22 Safeguarding Principles Social matters Human Rights Statement Our 2030 strategy, p6 Advance equity in learning, p17 Build skills for sustainable futures, p18–19 Anti-corruption and bribery Code of Conduct Legal and compliance, p48–49 Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABC) Policy Raising Concerns and Anti-Retaliation Policy Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes Organisational risk management, p40–50 Sustainability, p16–26 Description of principal risks and impact of business activity Organisational risk management, p40–50 Description of business model Our strategic model, p10–11 Non-financial key performance indicators Sustainability, p16–26 Publicly available policies in the list above can be found at: www.pearson.com/corporate/our-policies.html Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 27 Efficacy hard to automate, like personal and social BTEC Level 3 Health and Social Care equips Efficacy is the capabilities such as communication and critical thinking, are becoming more important than ever. To equip themselves students with the specialist knowledge, practical skills and understanding they need to progress along their chosen learning and science behind to make the most of this new world of work, people must continuously grow, demonstrate career path. Learn more about BTEC on p20 how Pearson their skills and adapt their talents. In this talent-driven world, to support people Additional reports will be released later in 2020 on our Virtual Schools business, and designs learning to make the necessary progress, we must also refocus and redesign learning to support the development of key skills needed to thrive in on our US Higher Education Courseware products. All of our reports are accessible at: experiences to the future of work. www.pearson.com/corporate/efficacy-andresearch.html First, we must help people to understand impact learning what it means to be employable. Based on research with c.14,000 employers, educators, As pioneers in applying efficacy in education, we are committed to keeping on pushing the boundaries of the returns learners deserve and learners across the world into the In 2013, we made a commitment to measuring from learning experiences: guiding learners outcomes that matter most, we have our impact on some of the outcomes that through a lifetime of learning and, in doing identified the range of competencies and matter most to learners, such as achievement so, building public trust in the business skills that go into making an individual in exams. The next generation of efficacy of learning. employable. This includes the foundations, takes what we have learned and evolves our such as learning to learn, to securing levels of approach by putting a stronger focus on achievement in core academic areas like the Designing innovations for impact designing products to have a measurable STEM disciplines, to the skills needed to Aida is the world’s first AI-enabled impact on delivering employability and continuously learn throughout life in order mobile calculus tutor designed to lifelong learning outcomes as well. to remain successful over a whole career. support students to pass calculus and Although our approach is rigorous, the These are the skills needed for jobs that in doing so contribute to increasing concept underlying it is simple: we use don’t even exist yet. The skills fall into four STEM retention rates. evidence and research to design products broad categories as visualised below. To achieve this outcome, the design was and solutions to help learners achieve the Reflecting this, our aspiration to be a informed by our learning science and outcomes that matter to them. Then, we trusted guide is built on demonstrating to design expertise. Aida analyses learners’ measure the impact the use of our products learners we can help them grow, show and paper-based calculations, identifying has, publicly and transparently report on continuously evolve their talents through a incorrect steps, gives feedback and uses that impact, and use what we learn to help lifetime of learning. authentic examples to more actively learners and ourselves continuously improve. Our ongoing commitment to demonstrating engage learners and improve motivation. We aspire in our commitment to efficacy to our impact via transparent, publicly audited No matter how advanced the technology give learners a reason to believe in Pearson, efficacy reporting sets us apart from our is, our focus on efficacy keeps our product as the trusted guide to lifelong learning, as competitors. Two of the efficacy reports we development grounded in design, based they navigate a changing world of work. The are releasing this spring focus on products on decades of evidence of what works to era of one job or career for life is gone. The designed to support individuals to be enable learning, measure impact and talent economy is now driving the need for a successful in their careers: continuously improve. lifetime of learning. Automation is changing the world of work, STEM jobs are on the rise W  atson-Glaser assesses critical thinking for Learn more about Aida on p35 and in many places, jobs outnumber workers higher education placement and employee for the first time in decades. Skills that are hiring and success. Productivity competencies Transitional competencies Skills, knowledge and attributes Enable individuals to secure that make individuals productive employment and make in the workplace progress in employment Career Personal Core academic Occupational knowledge & social competencies competencies & transition competencies skills Learning to learn English language 28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Directors’ duties statement The Directors of Pearson plc – and those of all  he Board’s disclosure, Engagement with T Section 172 of the Companies Act UK companies – must act in accordance with a stakeholders (p62), which summarises: set of general duties. These duties are detailed In summary, as required by Section 172 – how Directors have engaged with of the Companies Act 2006, a director of a in the Companies Act 2006 and include in employees and had regard to employees’ company must act in the way he considers, Section 172 a duty to promote the success interests; and in good faith, would most likely promote of the company (see inset, right). – how Directors have had regard to the the success of the company for the As part of their induction at Pearson, the benefit of its shareholders. In doing this, need to foster the company’s business Directors are briefed on their duties and the director must have regard, amongst relationships with suppliers, customers they can access professional advice on these other matters, to: and others. Pearson considers its key – either through the company or, if they judge customer groups to be Learners, Educators the likely consequences of any decisions it necessary, from an independent provider. and Educational Institutions, and describes in the long term; Typically, in large and complex businesses its suppliers as Business Partners – such as Pearson, the Directors fulfil their the interests of the company’s we have categorised our engagement duties partly through a governance employees; with these groups accordingly. framework that delegates day-to-day decision-making to employees of the Group. Sustainability (p16), which describes: the need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, The Board recognises that such delegation – how stakeholders were consulted in customers and others; needs to be much more than a simple the development of our new 2030 financial authority and, throughout this Sustainability Strategy, which is ongoing the impact of the company’s operations document, we have summarised: our and is overseen by our Reputation & on the community and environment; governance framework; the values and Responsibility Committee; the company’s reputation for high behaviours expected of our employees and standards of business conduct; and – the ways in which we engage in respect of business partners, including the standards to the social, environmental and economic the need to act fairly as between which they must adhere; how we engage with issues that will influence learning; members of the company. stakeholders, including to understand and take into account their views and concerns; – initiatives through which we strive and how the Board looks to ensure that we to improve access to quality have a robust system of control and education for underserved and assurance processes in place. underrepresented groups; In this annual report, we provide examples of – the ways in which Pearson strives to be the how the Directors take into account the likely best partner we can be to customers such consequences of decisions in the long term, as learners and educators, suppliers and build relationships with stakeholders, engage communities: living our values through with employees, understand the impact of how we do business, treat people and Pearson’s operations on communities and protect the environment. the environment, and attribute importance A continued understanding of the key issues to behaving as an ethical and responsible affecting stakeholders is an integral part of business. In particular, you are encouraged the Board’s decision-making process and to read the following sections of this report the insights which the Board gains through which illustrate how the Directors, with the engagement mechanisms form an important support of the wider business, consider part of the context for all of the Board’s these matters in the course of their duties, discussions and decision-making processes. although this is not intended to be an The case study on Pearson’s recent acquisition exhaustive list as such matters are integrated of Lumerit Education (p61) provides an throughout this report: illustrative example of how the Board C  reating value for our stakeholders (p14), takes stakeholder views, and the impact which summarises our stakeholder groups, on stakeholders, into account in its how we serve and engage with them, their decision-making. key concerns and our response. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 29 Financial review In 2019, underlying sales were flat and adjusted operating profit was up 6% Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer Profit and loss statement Net interest payable was £41m, compared Cash generation to £24m in 2018. The increase is due to the In 2019, sales decreased by £260m in headline Operating cash flow was £418m in 2019 adoption of IFRS 16, which resulted in an terms to £3,869m (2018: £4,129m) with (2018: £513m) with cash conversion at 72% additional £34m of net interest payable in portfolio changes reducing sales by £347m (2018: 94%). This was impacted by the timing 2019. After excluding the impact of IFRS 16, and currency movements increasing revenue of the disposal of our US K12 Courseware there was a reduction in net interest payable by £97m. Stripping out the impact of portfolio business, a mismatch between cash and due to lower levels of net debt together with and currency movements, revenue was flat accrued incentive compensation and favourable movements in interest on tax and in underlying terms. Underlying revenue in challenging trading in US Higher Education the absence of one-off costs from the North America declined 3%, Core was up 5% Courseware. These factors more than offset a redemption of bonds. and Growth was up 4%. modest benefit from the adoption of IFRS 16. The effective tax rate on adjusted earnings in The 2019 adjusted operating profit of £581m The equivalent statutory measure, net cash 2019 was a charge of 16.5% compared to a (2018: £546m) reflects a £130m year-on-year generated from operations, was £480m in credit of 5.2% in 2018. The increase in tax benefit from restructuring, £19m benefit from 2019 compared to £547m in 2018, for the rate reflects the lower level of one-off benefits other operational factors, a benefit of £15m reasons noted above, as well as higher net in 2019 compared with 2018, including from currency movements, and a £25m restructuring payments of £111m. 2018 had provision releases, due to the expiry of benefit from the adoption of IFRS 16 Leases £25m restructuring cash inflow due to relevant statutes of limitation and the (see note 1b to the consolidated financial proceeds from the rationalisation of our reassessment of historical positions. statements) offset by £37m of portfolio property portfolio. changes, £50m of inflation, and a £67m Adjusted earnings per share of 57.8p decrease from trading. Excluding the impact (2018: 70.3p) reflects all the elements above. of currency movements and portfolio changes, underlying adjusted operating profit grew 6%. Financial summary Business performance Statutory results Headline CER Underlying Headline CER Underlying £ millions 2019 2018 growth growth growth £ millions 2019 2018 growth growth growth Sales 3,869 4,129 (6)% (9)% 0% Sales 3,869 4,129 (6)% (9)% 0% Adjusted Operating profit 275 553 operating profit 581 546 6% 4% 6% Profit for the year 266 590 Operating cash Cash generated flow 418 513 from operations 480 547 Adjusted earnings Basic earnings per share 57.8p 70.3p per share 34.0p 75.6p Dividend per share 19.5p 18.5p Net debt (1,016) (143)1 Throughout this section: a) Growth rates are stated on an underlying basis unless otherwise stated. Underlying growth rates exclude currency movements, portfolio changes and changes related to the adoption of IFRS 16. b) The ‘business performance’ measures are non-GAAP measures and reconciliations to the equivalent statutory heading under IFRS are included in the financial key performance indicators section on p201–204 1 Net debt pre-IFRS 16. Net debt adjusted for IFRS 16 in 2018 would have been £809m. 30 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Financial review Statutory results Share buyback Restructuring benefits Our statutory operating profit was £275m In January 2020, the Group commenced We expect incremental in-year benefits from in 2019, compared to £553m in 2018. a £350m share buyback programme, the 2017–2019 restructuring programme of The decrease in 2019 is largely due to the in connection with the announcement in £60m in 2020. decrease in gains on disposals, together December 2019 of the sale of its remaining Disposals with increased intangible and restructuring 25% interest in Penguin Random House. charges, which more than offset the increase As of 3 March 2020, being the latest We expect a negative impact of £55m on in adjusted operating profit. practicable date before the publication adjusted operating profit, from portfolio of this report, we have completed £105m changes, including £65m from the sale of Capital allocation of the share buyback so far. Penguin Random House. Our capital allocation policy is to maintain a Interest and tax strong balance sheet and a solid investment Businesses held for sale We expect a 2020 net interest charge of grade rating, to continue to invest in the In December 2019, the Group announced c.£50m and a tax rate of c.21%, excluding business and through acquisitions, to have the agreement to sell its remaining 25% Penguin Random House. a sustainable and progressive dividend interest in Penguin Random House to policy, and to return surplus cash to our Bertelsmann, generating net proceeds of Currency shareholders. Given the strength of the approximately $675m. In 2019, Pearson generated approximately balance sheet and, with the simplification 62% of its sales in the US, 3% in Greater China, At the end of December, our share of of our back office largely complete, this gives 5% in the Eurozone, 3% in Brazil, 3% in Canada, the assets of Penguin Random House us more scope for inorganic investment. 4% in Australia, 2% in South Africa and 2% in has been classified as held for sale on the balance sheet. India and our guidance is based on exchange Balance sheet rates at 31 December 2019. Net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.3x on a Businesses disposed of We calculate that a 5c move in the US Dollar post-IFRS 16 basis. On a post-IFRS 16 basis, Following the decision to sell the US K12 exchange rate to Sterling would impact net debt rose from £809m in 2018 to £1,016m Courseware business, the assets and liabilities adjusted EPS by around 2p to 2.5p. in 2019, reflecting lower operating free cash of that business were classified as held for flow, dividends, additional capital invested in sale on the balance sheet at the end of 2018. Adjusted performance measures Penguin Random House, the acquisitions of In March 2019, the Group completed the sale, The Group’s adjusted performance measures Smart Sparrow and Lumerit Education and resulting in a pre-tax profit on sale of £13m. are non-GAAP financial measures and outflows from the disposal of the US K12 Courseware business. are included as they are key financial 2020 outlook measures used by management to evaluate In March 2019, the Group repurchased In 2019, we delivered flat underlying revenue, performance and allocate resources to €55m of its remaining €500m Euro 1.875% achieved adjusted operating profit growth, business segments. The measures also enable notes due May 2021, to leave €195m made good progress on our simplification investors to more easily, and consistently, outstanding. The Group also refinanced its programme and laid the foundations for track the underlying operational performance revolving credit facility (RCF) in February 2019, growth. Our guidance for 2020 is for adjusted of the Group and its business segments over extending the maturity to February 2024 and operating profit between £410m and £490m time by separating out those items of income reducing the size to $1.19bn. Borrowings at and adjusted earnings per share of 38.0p to and expenditure relating to acquisition and 31 December 2019 included drawings on the 47.0p. This reflects our portfolio excluding disposal transactions, major restructuring Group’s RCF of £230m (2018: £nil). Penguin Random House, exchange rates as at programmes and certain other items 31 December 2019 and the following factors: that are also not representative of Pension plan underlying performance. Inflation and other operational factors The overall surplus on UK pension plan of Our 2020 guidance incorporates cost inflation The Group’s definition of adjusted £571m at the end of 2018 has decreased of c.£30m which reflects a lower cost base performance measures may not be to a surplus of £429m at the end of 2019. and the benefits of our simplification comparable to other similarly titled The decrease has arisen principally due to drive, other operational factors of £45m measures reported by other companies. the unfavourable impact from changes in predominantly due to the reinstatement A reconciliation of the adjusted measures discount rate assumptions. of staff incentives, as well as continued to their corresponding statutory reported figures is shown in summary below and in Dividend investment in our strategic growth areas. more detail on p201–204 In line with our policy, the Board is proposing Trading a final dividend of 13.5p (2018: 13p), an Trading is expected to impact profit between increase of 4%, which results in an overall flat and £(80)m with the decline in US Higher dividend of 19.5p (2018: 18.5p), up 5% on prior Education Courseware offset by growth in the year, and subject to shareholder approval. rest of the business. This will be payable on 7 May 2020. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 31 Adjusted operating profit Other net gains and losses that represent account of the contribution from acquisitions Adjusted operating profit includes the profits and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, and by excluding sales and profits made by operating profit from the total business joint ventures, associates and other financial businesses disposed in either 2018 or 2019. including the results of discontinued assets are excluded from adjusted operating Portfolio changes mainly relate to the sale operations when relevant. There were profit. This is because it is important to of our US K12 Courseware business in 2019 no discontinued operations in either 2018 highlight their impact on operating profit, and the sale of our WSE language teaching or 2019. A reconciliation of the statutory as reported, in the period in which the business in the first half of 2018. Acquisition measure to the adjusted measure is disposal transaction takes place, in order contribution was not significant in either shown below: to understand the underlying trend in the 2018 or 2019. performance of the Group. Other net gains In 2019, our underlying basis excludes the £ millions 2019 2018 included in operating profit of £16m in 2019 impact on adjusted operating profit of IFRS 16 Operating profit 275 553 mainly relate to the profit on sale of the US ‘Leases’. This new standard was adopted on K12 Courseware business. Other net gains of Add back: cost of major 1 January 2019 but the comparative figures for restructuring 159 102 £230m in 2018 relate to the sale of the Wall 2018 have not been restated. The impact in Street English language teaching business Add back: other net (gains) 2019 was to increase adjusted operating profit (WSE), a gain of £207m, the disposal of our and losses (16) (230) by £25m. equity interest in UTEL, the online university Add back: intangible charges 163 113 partnership in Mexico, a gain of £19m, On an underlying basis, sales were flat in 2019, Add back: impact of and various other smaller disposal items. compared to 2018, and adjusted operating GMP equalisation – 8 profit increased by 6%. Currency movements Charges relating to acquired intangibles and Adjusted operating profit 581 546 increased sales by £97m and adjusted acquisitions are also excluded from adjusted operating profit by £15m. Portfolio changes In May 2017, we announced a restructuring operating profit when relevant, as these decreased sales by £347m, and together programme, to run between 2017 and 2019, items reflect past acquisition activity and with the impact of IFRS 16 (as noted above), to drive significant cost savings. This do not necessarily reflect the current year decreased adjusted operating profit by £12m. programme began in the second half of performance of the Group. Intangible 2017 and costs incurred relate to delivery amortisation and impairment charges in Adjusted earnings per share of cost efficiencies in our Enabling Functions 2019 were £163m compared to a charge of Adjusted earnings includes adjusted and US Higher Education Courseware £113m in 2018, as although acquisition activity operating profit and adjusted finance and tax business, together with further rationalisation has reduced in recent years, there was an charges. A reconciliation to the statutory of the property and supplier portfolio. additional £65m impairment charge in 2019 profit is shown below: The restructuring costs in 2019 relate relating to acquired intangibles in the Brazil predominantly to staff redundancies, business, following a reassessment of the £ millions 2019 2018 whilst the restructuring costs in 2018 relate relative risk in that market (see also note Profit for the year 266 590 predominantly to staff redundancies and the 11 to the financial statements). Non-controlling interest (2) (2) net cost of property rationalisation, including In 2018, the impact of adjustments arising Add back: cost of major the net impact of our consolidation of the from clarification of guaranteed minimum restructuring 159 102 property footprint in London. pension (GMP) equalisation legislation in the Add back: other net gains (16) (230) These major restructuring costs are UK were excluded from adjusted operating Add back: intangible charges 163 113 analysed below: profit, as outlined below in the section on post-retirement benefits. Add back: other net finance costs 2 31 £ millions 2019 2018 Add back: impact of Further efficiency improvements Underlying growth rates GMP equalisation – 8 in Enabling Functions through Sales decreased on a headline basis by Tax benefit relating to items back office change programmes £260m, or 6%, from £4,129m in 2018 to added back (123) (65) in Human Resources, Finance £3,869m in 2019, and adjusted operating Adjusted earnings 449 547 and Technology (94) (48) profit increased by £35m, or 6%, from £546m Weighted average number of Adjusting the cost base in in 2018 to £581m in 2019. The headline basis shares (millions) 777.0 778.1 our US Higher Education simply compares the reported results for Courseware business (34) (21) 2019 with those for 2018. We also present Adjusted earnings per share 57.8p 70.3p Further rationalisation of sales and adjusted operating profit on an property, vendor and underlying basis, which exclude the effects of supplier agreements (29) (21) exchange, the effect of portfolio changes Associate restructuring (2) (12) arising from acquisitions and disposals, and the impact of adopting new accounting Total (159) (102) standards that are not retrospectively applied. Our portfolio change is calculated by taking 32 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Financial review Net finance costs classified as other net Operating cash flow Other financial information finance costs or income are excluded in the Operating cash flow is presented in order Net finance costs calculation of adjusted earnings. to align the cash flows with corresponding £ millions 2019 2018 Finance income relating to retirement benefits adjusted operating profit measures. A reconciliation to operating cash flow Net interest payable (41) (24) are excluded, as management believe the presentation does not reflect the economic from net cash generated from operations, Finance income in respect of substance of the underlying assets and the equivalent statutory measure, retirement benefits 13 11 liabilities. Finance costs relating to acquisition is shown below: Other net finance costs (15) (42) transactions are also excluded as these relate Net finance costs (43) (55) £ millions 2019 2018 to future earnouts or acquisition expenses and are not part of the underlying financing. Net cash generated Net interest payable in 2019 was £41m, from operations 480 547 compared to £24m in 2018. The increase is Foreign exchange and other gains and losses Dividends from joint ventures due to the adoption of IFRS 16, which resulted are also excluded as they represent shortand associates 64 67 in an additional £34m of net interest payable term fluctuations in market value and are in 2019. After excluding the impact of IFRS 16, Capital expenditure on property, subject to significant volatility. Other gains there was a reduction in net interest payable plant, equipment and software and losses may not be realised in due course, due to lower levels of average net debt, (including leased assets) (257) (204) as it is normally the intention to hold the together with favourable movements in Proceeds from sale of related instruments to maturity. interest on tax, and the absence of one-off property plant, equipment and In 2019, the total of these items excluded software (including disposal of costs relating to the redemption of bonds. from adjusted earnings was a charge of leased assets) 18 128 As detailed in the adjusted earnings per £2m compared to a charge of £31m in 2018. Investment income 2 – share section, finance income in respect of Finance income relating to retirement benefits Add back: costs paid/ retirement benefits, and other net finance increased from £11m in 2018 to £13m in 2019, (proceeds from) major costs are excluded from adjusted earnings. reflecting the comparative funding position restructuring projects 111 (25) of the plans at the beginning of each year. Capital risk Operating cash flow 418 513 The remainder of the decrease was largely The Group’s objectives when managing driven by a reduction in foreign exchange Operating cash flow decreased on a headline capital are: losses on unhedged cash and cash basis by £95m from £513m in 2018, to £418m to maintain a strong balance sheet and a equivalents in 2019 compared to 2018. in 2019. The decrease results from increased solid investment grade rating; investment in pre-publication assets and The adjusted income tax charge excludes other increases in net working capital, to continue to invest in the business the tax benefit or charge on items that are including the impact of reduced staff organically and through acquisitions; excluded from the profit or loss before incentives and the absence of a contribution tax. In addition, the tax benefit from tax to have a sustainable and progressive from the US K12 Courseware business, deductible goodwill and intangibles is added dividend policy; and following its disposal in the first half of the to the adjusted income tax charge, as this year. These factors more than offset a positive to return surplus cash to our shareholders benefit more accurately aligns the adjusted impact from the adoption of IFRS 16. where appropriate. tax charge with the expected rate of cash tax payments. Restructuring cash inflow of £25m in 2018 The Group is currently rated BBB (negative included proceeds from the sale of property outlook) with Standard and Poor’s and Baa2 primarily associated with the rationalisation (stable outlook) with Moody’s. of the property footprint in London and in 2019 restructuring cash outflow was £111m. The restructuring payments made in 2019, together with the impact of the adoption of IFRS 16 (see section below ‘Adoption of new accounting standards in 2019’) largely explain the reduction in provisions and other liabilities on the balance sheet when comparing 2019 and 2018. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 33 Net debt Operating tax paid in 2019 was £9m. This was Post-retirement benefits The net debt position of the Group is set impacted by a refund received in the US Pearson operates a variety of pension and out below. relating to historical periods together, with post-retirement plans. Our UK Group pension no US tax being paid in relation to 2019 as a plan has by far the largest defined benefit £ millions 2019 2018 result of the tax loss on the sale of our US K12 section. We have some smaller defined Cash and cash equivalents 437 568 Courseware business. Non-operating tax paid benefit sections in the US and Canada but, of £21m in 2019 relates to tax paid to the outside the UK, most of our companies Investment in finance leases 196 – Chinese tax authorities, following the disposal operate defined contribution plans. Derivative financial instruments 15 9 of WSE during 2018, and New York state and Bank loans and overdrafts (3) (43) city taxes paid in the US as a result of a The charge to profit in respect of worldwide Revolving credit facility (230) – settlement with the tax authorities relating to pensions and retirement benefits amounted past disposals. Deferred tax liabilities reduced to £56m in 2019 (2018: £56m) of which a Bonds (593) (672) from £136m in 2018 to £48m in 2019, mainly charge of £69m (2018: £67m) was reported Lease liabilities (838) (5) due to the generation of tax losses in the US as in adjusted operating profit and income of Net debt (1,016) (143) £13m (2018: £11m) was reported against noted above. Deferred tax assets and current The Group’s net debt increased from £143m tax liabilities remained relatively consistent other net finance costs. The small increase at the end of 2018, to £1,016m at the end of year on year. There are contingent liabilities in in the operating charge in 2019 is largely 2019. The adoption of IFRS 16 added £666m relation to tax as outlined in note 34 to the explained by the absence of material past of debt on transition, with the remainder of financial statements. service items, which in 2018 included a the increase principally due to treasury credit of £11m relating to changes in the The Group adopted IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over US post-retirement medical plan, and a charge share purchases, additional capital invested Income Tax Treatments’ on 1 January 2019, of £8m relating to guaranteed minimum in Penguin Random House and outflows resulting in a reduction of £5m in provisions pension (GMP) equalisation. from the US K12 Courseware business for uncertain tax positions. The cumulative disposal transaction, which outweighed The overall surplus on UK Group pension effect of applying this adjustment has been the normal cash inflow from operations plans of £571m at the end of 2018 has applied to retained earnings at 1 January. after taking account of interest, tax and decreased to a surplus of £429m at the end of The impact of adopting IFRIC 23 on the dividend payments. 2019. The decrease has arisen principally due income statement for 2019 was not material. Liquidity and funding to the actuarial loss noted above in the other Other comprehensive income comprehensive income section. In total, our The Group had a strong liquidity position at Included in other comprehensive income are worldwide net position in respect of pensions 31 December 2019, with over £400m of cash the net exchange differences on translation of and other post-retirement benefits decreased and a significant proportion undrawn on foreign operations. The loss on translation of from a net asset of £471m, at the end of 2018, its Revolving Credit Facility due in 2024 of £115m in 2019 compares to a gain in 2018 of to a net asset of £337m at the end of 2019. $1.19bn (at 31 December 2018, the Group had £90m. The loss in 2019 mainly arises from cash of over £500m and was undrawn on the Adoption of new accounting standards the weakness of the US dollar compared to Revolving Credit Facility). in 2019 sterling. A significant proportion of the Taxation Group’s operations are based in the US and The adoption of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ has impacted the US dollar weakened in 2019 from an both the income statement, as described The effective tax rate on adjusted earnings opening rate of £1:$1.27 to a closing rate at above, and has had an impact on certain lines in 2019 was a charge of 16.5%, compared the end of 2019 of £1:$1.32. At the end of in the balance sheet. The lease liability to an effective rate credit of 5.2% in 2018. 2018 the US dollar had strengthened from an (classified as financial liabilities – borrowings) The increase is mainly due to: the lower level opening rate of £1:$1.35 to a closing rate of brought onto the balance sheet at transition of one-off benefits present in 2019 compared £1:$1.27 and this movement was the main was £881m, with the corresponding right-ofto 2018, including the release of provisions reason for the gain in 2018. use asset (classified within property, plant and due to the expiry of relevant statutes of equipment) valued at £424m. In addition, limitation; the reassessment of historical Also included in other comprehensive income certain subleases have been reclassified as positions, as well as a one-off benefit from a in 2019 is an actuarial loss of £149m in relation finance leases resulting in an additional lease reassessment of the tax treatment of certain to retirement benefit obligations of the Group receivable (classified as other receivables) items of income and expenses. and our share of the retirement benefit of £215m being brought on balance sheet. obligations of Penguin Random House. The net impact on the balance sheet is a The reported tax charge on a statutory The loss arises from the unfavourable impact reduction of net assets of £83m, after taking basis in 2019 was a credit of £34m (14.7%), of changes in the assumptions used to value into account existing liabilities relating to compared to a credit of £92m (18.5%) in 2018. the liabilities in the plans and in particular onerous lease provisions (reducing provisions The statutory tax credit in 2019 was primarily movements in the discount rate. The value for other liabilities and charges by £101m), due to US tax losses generated on the disposal of assets was also impacted following the lease incentives, prepayments, adjustments of the US K12 Courseware business. UK plan’s purchase of insurance buy-in to tax and the net impact on associates. policies in the first half of 2019. The loss in The full impact of the adoption of this 2019 compares to an actuarial gain in 2018 standard is outlined in note 1b to the of £25m. consolidated financial statements. 34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Financial review The impact of adopting IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty In December 2019, the Group announced the over Income Tax Treatments’ had a small sale of its remaining 25% interest in Penguin impact on the current tax balance but Random House. At the end of December, our has not materially impacted the income share of the assets of Penguin Random House statement (see note 1c to the consolidated has been classified as held for sale on the financial statements). balance sheet. The impact of adopting Amendments to Acquisitions and disposals IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 has not had a material During 2019, the Group made some small impact on the financial statements (see note acquisitions for total consideration of £40m. 1d to the consolidated financial statements). There were no significant acquisitions in 2018. Dividends The main disposal in 2019 was the US K12 The dividend accounted for in our 2019 Courseware business as noted above. In 2018, financial statements totalling £147m the Group disposed of the Wall Street English represents the final dividend in respect of language teaching business (WSE), realising a 2018 (13.0p) and the interim dividend for gain of £207m, and the equity interest in UTEL, 2019 (6.0p). We are proposing a final dividend the online university partnership in Mexico, for 2019 of 13.5p bringing the total paid and realising a gain of £19m. Various other smaller payable in respect of 2019 to 19.5p. This final disposal items resulted in a net gain of 2019 dividend, which was approved by the £4m in 2018. Board in February 2020, is subject to approval Related party transactions at the forthcoming AGM and will be charged against 2020 profits. For 2019, the dividend is Transactions with related parties covered 3.0 times by adjusted earnings. are shown in note 36 of the consolidated financial statements. Businesses held for sale Post balance sheet events Following the decision to sell the US K12 Courseware business, the assets and liabilities In January 2020, the Group commenced of that business were classified as held for a £350m share buyback programme in sale on the balance sheet at the end of 2018. connection with the announcement in In March 2019, the Group completed the sale December 2019 of the sale of its remaining of its US K12 Courseware business, resulting 25% interest in Penguin Random House. in a pre-tax profit on sale of £13m. Total gross proceeds were £200m including £180m of deferred proceeds, which include the fair value of an unconditional vendor note for $225m, an entitlement to 20% of future cash flows to equity holders, and 20% of net proceeds in the event of a subsequent sale. The cash outflow in the year relating to the disposal of subsidiaries was £101m, mainly reflecting the deferral of proceeds for the US K12 Courseware business and the seasonal level of cash reflecting deferred revenue in the business at the disposal date. Tax on the disposal of the US K12 Courseware business is estimated to be a benefit of £51m. The benefit arises as the transaction gives rise to a loss for tax purposes mainly due to the differing treatment of deferred revenue disposed in the tax computation. In addition to the tax on the US K12 Courseware business there were £17m of tax credits relating to adjustments following settlement of tax relating to prior year disposals. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 35 Aida is a first in education. By using multiple types of AI to tutor students, we can teach them how to learn calculus and apply it in the real world. Milena Marinova, SVP-AI Products & Solutions CASE STUDY AIDA The biggest economic revolution of our time We can’t even find workers for the 2.4m is unfolding around us: the talent economy. unfilled STEM jobs we have now and we’ll Aida – the world’s Technology, AI and automation are shoving have to find more. all of us off a one-track career. And, there’s a major, unseen barrier standing The future of work is moving faster than in the way. Calculus. first AI-inspired any of us. The talent economy is the new patchwork of dream jobs, gigs, freelancing, Almost all STEM fields require it and almost one-third of students drop or fail it. Just calculus app and any other way we earn a living from what makes us unique. In this new talent-driven world, we’ll never catch up or leap ahead imagine a world where we could plug that leak in the STEM pipeline. We have. unless we redesign how people learn. Everything about our future hinges on Meet Aida. The world’s first AI-enabled mobile this redesign of learning. calculus tutor. Aida is a first in education. By using multiple types of AI to tutor students, It’s no longer enough to sit in a classroom and we can teach them how to learn calculus and soak in knowledge. Learning has to happen apply it in the real world. Aida gives feedback wherever you are, whenever you need it and tailored to everyone. Aida is designed based across your lifetime – tuned to the skills for on evidence of the most effective ways the job you do today and the job you don’t to teach and learn calculus. It’s a highly even know about yet. personalised learning approach for a highly Educators and schools always decided when personalised world. and how people learned. Now, people are It’s not the only answer to the STEM shortage. telling us how they want it done, personalised But Aida is a new way to teach people how to like the other content and products we all learn, and ultimately how to adapt to this new consume in a digital world. economy. It’s about redesigning learning to But this is a bigger deal than the next film create the economists, doctors, designers, someone watches or an online purchase. coders and the new jobs we haven’t even If we want to get to the new internet, or the dreamed up yet for the future of everything. In 2020, Pearson has been answer to climate change, we need more data This is an example of how we are designing named in the prestigious analysts, engineers, doctors and scientists. products to have an impact on key learning Fast Company’s Most Innovative Ten years from now the US will have half a outcomes in STEM and promoting education million more IT jobs. In 15 years, 5G will create Companies List. to advance the UN SDGs as part of our 2030 almost 22m jobs globally. Think about that. Sustainability Strategy. Learn more about Efficacy on p27 Learn more about Sustainability on p16 36 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Operating performance review North America Revenue declined 3% in underlying terms, primarily due to US Higher Education Courseware declining 12%, and Student We are also launching a direct-to-learner Pearson eText in 2020, with enhanced features. US Higher Education Courseware digital Assessment, which declined slightly. Market summary Offsetting that, we saw good growth in registrations, including eBooks, declined 2%. Good registration growth in Revel, up 9%, Our largest market includes all Virtual Schools, OPM and Professional was offset by continued market pressure 50 US states and Canada. Certification (VUE) revenue. Headline revenue in Developmental Mathematics and the decreased due to disposals, partly offset Sales planned retirement and deprioritisation by FX gains. £2,534m Adjusted operating profit declined 3% in of long-tail products. We continue to make good progress with underlying terms, due to the impact of lower Adjusted operating profit Inclusive Access signing 162 new institutions sales, inflation and other operating factors £361m in 2019, taking the total not-for-profit and partially offset by restructuring savings. public institutions served to 779. Including Headline profit was flat on last year, with the 80 longer-standing contracts with for-profit impacts on adjusted operating profit offset colleges, we now have direct relationships by the benefits of FX and IFRS 16 adoption. with over 850 institutions. SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Courseware In 2019, we served 1.8m Inclusive Access Accelerated Pathways In US Higher Education Courseware, a enrolments up from 1.4m in 2018, making up revenue decline of 12%, with print declining 9% of 2019 US Higher Education Courseware Accelerated Pathways partners with close to 30%, was partially offset by modest revenue, up 19% on 2018 on a like-for-like employers to implement educational growth in digital. In 2019, the weaker basis, excluding the 80 for-profit colleges. benefits programmes that provide our clients’ employees with lifelong learning performance was driven by a number of factors: Assessment opportunities. These solutions may include foundational education skills (including In US Student Assessment, underlying U  nbundling of premium-priced print reading, writing, English, core job and work revenue declined slightly in 2019 with and digital products for digital-only skills), pathway to a GED, college advising, continued contraction in revenue associated formats. Sales of bundle units declined accredited courses, degrees and industry with PARCC and ACT-Aspire multi-state 45% during 2019. or trade certifications. It drives our contracts and contract losses, which were sustainability objective to advance C  ampus bookstores buying less physical partially offset by new contract wins. equity by addressing many of the inventory due to changing student During 2019, Pearson won new contracts unique challenges adult learners behaviour, with over 50% of learners or signed renewals in several key incumbent without educational opportunities face. now preferring an eBook to a physical text. states including Kentucky, Maryland, Programmes are online and optimised for This trend led to eBook growth of 18% Colorado and New Jersey, as well as the mobile delivery, so employees can learn during 2019. federal NCES contract for delivering the anytime, anywhere. A mix of funding M  odest adoption share loss caused by the National Assessment of Educational Progress sources can reduce or remove the cost delivery issues due to the implementation (NAEP). Pearson also won back the testing barrier for participation. of the new ERP system in H2 2018 as well as contract in the state of Tennessee. In 2019, Accelerated Pathways grew both the reorganisation of our sales force. Automated scoring continues to be a through new clients, including Manpower, We are focused on regaining share over time competitive strength for Pearson. In 2019, and the acquisition of Lumerit Education, as we build traction from the rollout of our we scored 39m responses with AI, up 8% an ed-tech company that helps address the next wave of digital products on the Pearson from 2018. issues of college degree completion and Learning Platform, which launched in affordability. Preliminary results from September. 60% of all Revel fall subscriptions new client programmes include an average will migrate onto the Pearson Learning reduction of 89% for high-turnover Platform by the end of the year enhancing roles, saving clients in recruitment and the faculty and student experience. replacement costs, as well as increased employee engagement and confidence. Read more about Pearson’s Sustainability Strategy on p16 Advance equity in learning Build skills for sustainable futures Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 37 In Professional Certification (VUE), global test volume rose 8% to c.16.5m. Revenue in North America was up a high single-digit percentage, Core Revenue was up 5% in underlying terms and 4% in headline terms, with growth in Student Assessment and Qualifications, including the mostly driven by the IT sector with increased delivery of a new digital assessment contract demand for cloud technology certifications Market summary in Egypt, PTE Academic, OPM and Professional through Microsoft and Amazon, and volume Our international business in established Certification (VUE), all partially offset by growth in an education contract launched at and mature education markets. declines in Courseware. the end of 2018, which is now operating at its Sales Adjusted operating profit increased 58% full run rate. We signed over 40 new contracts in 2019, £838m in underlying terms and 61% in headline terms due to trading growth and including the Project Management Institute restructuring savings. Adjusted operating profit (PMI) and our renewal rate on existing contracts continues to be over 95%. £92m Courseware In Clinical Assessment, underlying revenue Courseware revenue declined moderately. declined as demand for new product only Declines in School Courseware in the UK and partially offset normal declines in products Australia offset growth in Italy. In Higher in the later stages of their lifecycle. SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Education Courseware, revenue declines in the UK and Europe more than offset growth Services BTEC in Australia. School Services (Virtual Schools) grew revenue BTEC qualifications support progression to higher or further education, Assessment 6% and served 76,000 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) students through 42 continuing full-time apprenticeships or directly into In Student Assessment and Qualifications, virtual partner schools in 28 states, up 5% on employment. Across England as a whole, revenue grew strongly, due to price and last year. 44% of white working-class students who volume increases for A levels and GCSEs and make it to higher education have at least the delivery of a new digital assessment Six new full-time, online, state-wide partner one BTEC. 48% of black British students contract in Egypt. This was partially offset by schools opened in the 2019–20 school year in accepted to higher education have at continued market declines in Apprenticeships. the states of Oregon, Washington, Tennessee, least one vocational qualification. Minnesota and California, while a contract We successfully delivered the National was exited in North Carolina. We are committed to increasing the Curriculum Test (NCT) for 2019, marking 3.8m number of BTEC registrations outside scripts, up slightly from 2018. The NCT will be Higher Education Services (including OPM the UK, particularly in markets where delivered by another provider in 2020. and Learning Studio) grew revenue 4%, vocational education is developing. due to growth in OPM, partially offset by a In Professional Certification (VUE), revenue In 2018, the Group had 33,403 registrations was up due to good growth in the DVSA test small drag from Learning Studio revenue, outside of the UK, which increased to a learning management system, which was in the UK, additional exam series added to 43,906 registrations in 2019 (an increase the ICAEW contract and good growth in the fully retired in 2019. of 31%). MOI (French driving test) which launched in In OPM, revenue grew 9%, with growth BTEC also helps to build skills for a late 2017. in course registrations of 5% and new sustainable future. Sustainability is programmes launched more than offsetting Clinical Assessment sales declined primarily embedded within 31% of BTEC in France and the Netherlands due to an programmes terminated. Our overall active qualifications across sectors, including programme count grew to 347 from 325 absence of new major product introductions. engineering, logistics, construction, health, in 2018. health and social care, science and IT. PTE Academic saw continued strong growth During 2019, we continued to optimise our in test volumes in Australia and New Zealand, We recently launched our first up 14% from 2018. This was driven by its use portfolio and reduce the number of partners sustainability-backed loan, linking to our to 25 from 35. This will allow us to shift to support visa applications to the Australian progress in increasing access to quality Department of Home Affairs, as well as towards enterprise models where we have a vocational education to learners in number of programmes with a single partner good growth in New Zealand. We recently international markets. announced the win of the UK Secure English and can benefit from economies of scale in marketing and recruitment. We are also Language Test (SELT) contract with the UK working to integrate more content and Home Office, which we expect to drive assessment services into our partnerships. future growth. Services In Higher Education Services (OPM), revenue growth was driven by course enrolment Read more about Pearson’s Sustainability growth in the UK. During the year, we also Strategy on p16 announced new OPM partnerships in Advance equity in learning Australia with the University of Adelaide and University of Wollongong. Build skills for sustainable futures 38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Operating performance review Growth Revenue grew 4% in underlying terms due to strong growth in China and good growth in Brazil and the Middle East, partially offset by Assessment Professional Certification (VUE) revenue grew well due to a large ICT infrastructure declines in South Africa. Headline revenue Market summary certification contract, and a number of new declined due to disposals. smaller contract launches in China. Emerging and developing economies Adjusted operating profit increased 24% in with investment priorities in Brazil, India, PTE Academic saw strong growth in revenue underlying terms, reflecting higher revenue South Africa, Hispano-America, China and with test volumes up 25% in India and China. together with the benefits of restructuring. the Middle East. In headline terms, adjusted operating profit Services Sales increased 7% with the impact of disposals In English Services, underlying revenue £497m more than offset by trading and restructuring savings. grew slightly in our English Language School franchise in Brazil due to new Adjusted operating profit Courseware product launches. £63m Courseware revenue was flat in underlying In School Services, underlying revenue grew slightly due to price increases and new terms, with growth in English Language Courseware in China and School Courseware product launches in our sistemas in Brazil. in the Middle East and Hispano America, In Higher Education Services, enrolments SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION offset by declines in Higher Education grew 3% at the Pearson Institute of Higher Courseware in South Africa following a Education (formerly CTI), however revenue China change in government funding. declined modestly due to changes in mix. We have taken action to assist learners as the COVID-19 epidemic has taken hold in China. As schools across China have been closed down to prevent the further spread of the illness, Pearson has made dozens of online products and courses available for free to students unable to attend school. Both students and teachers have welcomed these resources. For example, there were over 60,000 applicants to International Connections Academy and almost 200,000 people are using free AI learning resources on the Longman English Plus WeChat Platform, known as ‘Longman Xiaoying.’ Pearson owns 25% of Penguin Random House, the first truly global consumer book publishing company. Penguin Random House performed solidly with underlying revenue growth from a Penguin Random House rise in audio sales, stable print sales, and the industry’s top bestsellers, including Adjusted operating profit Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owen, £65m Becoming by Michelle Obama, and bestselling books by Margaret Atwood, Tara Westover, Lee Child, Jamie Oliver, Jeff Kinney, and Dr. Seuss. We announced the sale of the remaining Read more about Pearson’s Sustainability 25% in Penguin Random House on Strategy on p16 18 December 2019. The transaction is Advance equity in learning expected to close in H1 2020. Build skills for sustainable futures Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 39 I have the flexibility to work with others to make STEM less intimidating without sacrificing the quality of my education. Madison Kenney CASE STUDY VIRTUAL SCHOOLS Madison Kenney has a passion for STEM Efficacy research shows that Connections and wants to share that enthusiasm with Academy students like Madison can receive Online school other young female students. STEM is often the same quality of education as that intimidating and Madison has made it her offered at their local public school, while mission to work with female students to make simultaneously taking advantage of the provides STEM more approachable. To allow Madison to spend more time on this mission, her benefits offered to them by virtual schools. Pearson and Virtual Schools opportunity for mother enrolled her in Connections Academy, Pearson’s Virtual Schools programme for Pearson delivers K12 online education to students in K12. schools and students across the US and young students “I was first introduced to robotics at a Girl Scout Expo and immediately knew that internationally. Solutions include the accredited Connections Academy, an online to pursue this is what I wanted to do,” says Madison. school programme which is delivered via “Attending Connections Academy gives me full-time, online public schools. This is an the flexibility to work with others to make option for families seeking personalised passions and STEM less intimidating without sacrificing the quality of my education.” learning and a high-quality alternative to the traditional classroom. A global online achieve their private school, International Connections Madison keeps a busy schedule coaching Academy, is also available. FIRST Lego League and Seaperch, and has This is an example of how we are designing dreams earned several awards for STEM excellence, including the Prudential Spirit of Community products to have an impact on key learning Award and the President’s Volunteer Service outcomes and promoting education to Award, among others. advance the UN SDGs as part of our 2030 Read the 2018 efficacy report: Sustainability Strategy. We will release a Madison is also a full-time, dual-enrolled www.pearson.com/corporate/ new Efficacy Report on Virtual Schools later efficacy-and-research/reports/ student at Kennesaw State University, and in 2020. connections-academy.html hopes to pursue a career as a mechatronics Learn more about Efficacy on p27 engineer for NASA. Madison says, “Online Learn more about Sustainability on p16 learning helped prepare me for college as it has made me an independent and motivated learner.” 40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Organisational risk management Our risk management process Principal risks and uncertainties Coronavirus (COVID-19) is used to identify and mitigate In 2019, the Board of Directors undertook At the time of publication of our annual a robust assessment of the current report, the COVID-19 outbreak in China and our exposures and, where principal and emerging risks facing globally is an emerging risk that is being possible, turn risks into Pearson, in accordance with provision 28 of closely monitored on a day-by-day basis. business opportunities. the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code. Our primary focus is on ensuring the safety The focus of our risk management and well-being of our employees, customers Listed in the table and shown on the adjacent process, which we call ‘organisational risk and learners. We have invoked our business risk map are the most significant risks that management’, is on identifying, analysing, resilience plans to help support our customers may affect Pearson’s future. A longer list managing and mitigating risks, with our and maintain our business operations. At this of business area and company-wide risks goal to support Pearson in meeting its time, we do not believe that COVID-19 will is monitored and reviewed internally strategic and operational objectives. have a material adverse impact on Pearson’s throughout the year. The most material risks financial results. We are actively continuing to Our risk approach aligns to international are those which have a higher probability and monitor the situation. standards (e.g. COSO and ISO 31000) and significant impact on strategy, reputation or aids our continued compliance with the operations, or a financial impact greater than Mitigation and controls Financial Reporting Council’s (FRC) UK £50m, and are classed as our principal risks. Throughout all 14 principal risks, Pearson Corporate Governance Code guidance on Brexit adopts mitigation activities in the form of risk management, also enabling us to adapt internal controls, as part of regular internal The UK exited the EU on 31 January 2020. to any required changes in approach. meetings and external consultations. These Given the prolonged negotiation process include reporting to the Board, reporting to The risk reporting process is carried out during 2019, we continued our mitigation Pearson’s Executive management team, and biannually and reviewed by the Audit planning, led by a Steering Committee chaired monitoring compliance with Pearson policies, Committee and the Board. During the year, by the CFO. We worked to identify and international regulations and standards. the Audit Committee and Board conduct mitigate any potential impact on our principal deep dives into selected principal risks. risks, including supply chain and operations The following principal risks also relate (covered in the customer experience risk), to the material issues considered in the tax and data privacy, treasury, workforce Sustainability section of this report on p16: mobility and more. By virtue of that analysis products and services, testing failure, political and mitigation planning, we continue to and regulatory, information security and data believe that Brexit will not have a material privacy, customer experience, and safety adverse impact on Pearson as a whole; and security. and we have plans in place to ensure we continue with business as usual. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 41 Principal risks: status and 2019 change Net risk Indicates change Severe in 2019 Probability and impact are 11 based on residual risk, i.e. after 10 taking into account controls For more information see Impact (financial, reputational, operational) already in place and assumed principal risks and uncertainties Major 13 to be operating effectively. tables on the following pages. 2 1 3 4 6 8 9 14 5 Moderate 7 12 Minor Insignificant Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Probability Risks are categorised into four main areas: Executive responsibility Strategy and Relating to the goals that are aligned 1 Business transformation Chief Executive with and support our strategy. and change change This category is the most likely to 2 Products and services President – North American Courseware & contain ‘opportunity’ risks which are Global Product likely to have a higher risk appetite. 3 Talent Chief Human Resources Officer 4 Political and regulatory risk Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Chief Strategy Officer Operational Involving people, systems 5 Testing failure President – Global Assessment and processes. President UK & Global Online Learning 6 Safety, safeguarding and Chief Financial Officer corporate security Chief Human Resources Officer 7 Customer experience President – North American Courseware & Global Product Chief Technology and Operations Officer 8 Business resilience Chief Financial Officer General Counsel 9 Data President – North American Courseware & Global Product Chief Technology and Operations Officer Financial Involving financial planning, 10 Tax Chief Financial Officer investments, budgeting, potential losses of and exposures to Pearson’s assets. Legal and Relating to the adherence to 11 Information security and Chief Technology and Operations Officer applicable laws and regulations. data privacy General Counsel compliance Risks in this category typically 12 Intellectual property General Counsel have a very low risk appetite 13 Compliance General Counsel 14 Competition law General Counsel 42 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy and change Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 1 Business transformation and change The accelerated pace and scope D  uring 2019, planned headcount reductions were Deliver the Business Value Realisation (BVR) Plan, of our transformation initiatives completed, allowing the delivery of annualised that will continue to further stabilise operations, increase our risk to execution savings as expected of the programme. resources and existing governance models. timelines and to the business’s A range of additional transformation initiatives C  ontinue to review and make recommendations on adoption of change. were successfully completed, with further ones further optimisation programme opportunities. identified for completion in H1 2020. See the Create a key performance indicator (KPI) scorecard Audit Committee update on business to reflect stabilisation activities. transformation on p74 for more details. Progress rest of world phase of TEP. 2 Products and services Failure to successfully invest, P  roduct innovation: we made progress across B  uild on the 2019 launch of the Pearson Learning develop and deliver innovative, key markets in implementing product portfolio Platform (PLP): 60% of all Revel fall subscriptions on market-leading global products management to ensure our products are aligned PLP by the end of the year; over 100 MyLab and and services that will have the to our strategy to achieve target revenue and Mastering titles on PLP in 2021. biggest impact on learners profitability. We also made significant progress L  aunch a new Pearson eText, with an expanded and drive growth. understanding the competitive and structural catalogue and enhanced features that differentiate it threats, especially to our US Higher Education from a conventional third-party eReader. Courseware business, and made progress  ontinue efforts to embed the product lifecycle C mitigating these. framework into our decision-making processes.  roduct and investment portfolio: we improved P  se the results of the US Higher Education Courseware U visibility into how our products and services baseline survey we did in 2019 to inform and design contribute to Pearson’s overall growth, and are new ways of working. using that as an input for the future investment allocation process. We continued to build our Improve our ability to horizon scan the market and employability capabilities and further clarified customer behaviours, which will provide improved our investment priorities. trend analysis and agility to respond to trends. Competition: market share competition remained high, especially due to pricing pressure from low cost competitors, including, in US Higher Education Courseware, open educational resources (OER). The proposed Cengage & McGraw Hill merger, if it proceeds, will consolidate our two largest competitors in this market. The impact of this remains unknown. However, we believe we have the right strategy in place with our Inclusive Access (IA) programme to tackle affordability and keep ahead of the consumer trend to digital. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 43 Strategy and change Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 3 Talent Failure to attract and retain People development  ork with each Pearson Executive team member and W the talent we need and to  e continued with the development of our VP and W their teams to make progress on the 2019 actions from create the conditions in which Director levels, with the Lead to Succeed programme, the 2018 Organisational Health Index, to improve our people can perform to the which aims to support succession planning. decision-making and role clarity, as well as driving best of their ability. innovation and learning. W  e refreshed our Manager Fundamentals training across the company, with tools and resources that Roll out the ‘new employee value proposition’ programme. are shared with line managers each month. Reskill/upskill employees as teams restructure  e continued targeted learning with our internal W and new roles are created. Assess and refine learning and development platform, Pearson U, the HR global strategy. with career development workshops.  ontinue with the work under way on our recruitment C Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) marketing platform. This will help Pearson to attract and convert passive candidates to become employees W  e conducted D&I assessments and dashboard and build our brand in the technology sector. reviews with Executive team members and their leadership teams. Look to update Pearson’s remuneration philosophy to align with our five-year strategy and provide W  e continued mentoring programmes for female flexibility to adapt remuneration policies for business talent, with Board members mentoring SVP and talent needs as we continue to build on our women and Executive team members mentoring digital transformation. VP women. Employee engagement Internal teams with global employees were created to address company-wide issues (e.g. silo-busting, performance management, employee learning).  n Employee Engagement Network was created A with cross-functional, top talent employees to provide an employee voice for strategic input at Pearson.  e completed research, gathered insights, W delivered messaging workshops for the Employee Value Proposition which aims to improve recruiting outcomes and increase talent retention. We launched the Pearson Proud campaign intended to empower employees as Pearson advocates. Structure and approach  reated the SVP-Learning position reporting C to the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) which is responsible for scaling Pearson products to all employees. C  entralised HR centres of expertise that make up our employee experience under a newly created SVP-Employee Experience role.  efreshed performance management tool for R employees with quarterly check-ins that focus on feedback, development and to improve performance outcomes. 44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy and change Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 4 Political and regulatory risk Changes in governments, In our two biggest markets, the UK and the US, The Government relations team will continue to monitor policy and/or regulations progress in 2019 was as follows: and advise on: have the potential to impact In the UK, we continued to build Pearson’s Online learning legal and regulatory challenges. business models and/or position as a leader, expert and innovator in Instructional material market risks that arise when decisions across all markets. general qualifications, technical/vocational Governments mandate the use of state-produced education and assessment. instructional materials and/or content In the US, we positioned Pearson as an innovator (China, Hong Kong, South Africa and India). in the education and workforce space, among both Implications of being a US/UK company in the parties, in state capitals, on Capitol Hill and with current global geopolitical environment. the Trump administration.  e maintained fair market access through national W and state partnerships, as well as direct lobbying.  ith the bipartisan National Governors W Association, we shaped the Chair’s workforce initiative which was shared with all governors, informing state policies.  e continued to monitor trade actions and W sanctions that could impact business goals. Operational 5 Testing failure Failure to deliver tests and In 2019, there was a GCE (A level) Maths security Utilise technology, moving systems to more stable assessments (e.g. for Pearson breach which was managed as a significant and secure platforms in the cloud. Work continues to UK, Schools and VUE) and incident. We have since reviewed, analysed and ensure that any technology changes are fully factored other related contractual strengthened our security options, in conjunction into all of Pearson’s business continuity activities and requirements because of with other awarding bodies. adjustments are made to relevant certifications and operational or technology  complete review, with improvements was A regulatory frameworks. issues, resulting in negative delivered to our test fraud investigations Work with our security technology teams to publicity impacting our processes, in partnership with our key UK clients. further develop systems and partnerships towards brand and reputation. fraud detection analytic models, AI and machine  evelopment was completed for an improved D process enabling more secure access to live test learning analysis. materials for centres, rather than manual  nsure assurance will continue to extend ISO activity E provision via email or secure file transfer. across products and geographies. We will also further A  n improved VQ system monitoring was introduced mature our business continuity measures by improving and we reduced the frequency and volume of integration of Disaster Recovery (DR) and Business unconfirmed bookings (i.e. test provision failure). Continuity (BC) activities. Additional certifications are under way to further strengthen our security and A  ll School Assessment customer-facing products technology resilience. were successfully migrated to the cloud, resulting in greater scalability, reliability, efficiency  nsure that our service plans will continue to develop a E and security. technology-based solution to reduce or eliminate manual Test Publishing Quality Assurance (TPQA) processes. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 45 Operational Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 6 Safety, safeguarding and corporate security A variety of risks that can cause Health & Safety and wellbeing Health & Safety and wellbeing: harm to our people, assets and In 2019, two serious and separate incidents  ontinue to further develop the analysis of C reputation continue to evolve occurred, at the same Pearson printing facility. occupational health data to ensure proactive and as our company does. While Both highlighted the continued need by staff reactive intervention strategies are aligned for the some risk has reduced due to and managers at a local/regional level for focus promotion of employee wellbeing. outsourcing and divestiture, and improvement. Implement a global solution to report, escalate, the diverse nature of our C  ontinued to implement all outstanding audit investigate and action Health & Safety incidents people’s activities require actions, meeting or exceeding targets for (including near misses). continued focus, resource follow-up action closure. C  ontinue to focus on risk controls in high-risk activities and improvement to reduce the potential for harm. M  ental health awareness has been included in high while improving local oversight of relevant risks in impact events sessions and was extensively rolled lower-risk environments (emergency planning, out in APAC, as part of the R U OK? Campaign. ergonomics, stress and wellbeing).  e continued to monitor implementation of our W D  eliver wellbeing and mental health awareness and Health & Safety Statement, which sets out our training across North America. commitment to protecting the health, safety and welfare of all our employees and anyone else who comes into contact with our operations around the world, including our learners, customers and other partners. We also migrated from BS OHSAS 18001 to the new ISO 45001 standard covering Pearson Management Services in our UK Head Office. Safeguarding Safeguarding  here were stronger engagements across relevant T C  ontinue to develop best practice and policy in regard Pearson business lines and fresh development of to online safeguarding/harm. safeguarding policies in PIHE in South Africa and  ontinue discussions with external consultants C Pearson College London. towards ensuring compliance with best practice and  roductive conversations and future P developing legislation. knowledge was developed with the UK’s  ork towards the global implementation of the W Internet Commissioner. programme and effective support for learners.  n advisory review was undertaken with our A Continue to develop our incident reporting, analysis businesses in Brazil, which will continue to support and assurance plans. safeguarding practice in the franchise businesses, Integrate diversity into our safeguarding practices. and consider how we integrate safeguarding in our future product offerings.  t Pearson College London, we published policies A that offer advice and guidance on sexual harassment, self harm and suicide. Corporate security Corporate security There was one catastrophic incident involving Continue to identify key risks when selecting Dieter Kowalski, a Pearson IT manager, who sadly properties across the globe, and particularly for lost his life while on business travel to Colombo, higher-risk locations. Sri Lanka. Dieter was a victim of the Easter Sunday W  ork towards ‘secure by design’ in our terror attacks. new/refurbished offices. Travel security continues to grow in support of Deliver further high impact events (HIE) awareness. more travellers and new countries and cities and is W  ork with those markets which do not have a dedicated no longer limited solely to higher-risk locations. travel provider, thus reducing risk and improving our S  ecurity reviews for higher-risk locations were response capabilities. conducted in new locations. C  ontinue to develop our current intelligence and  igh impact events (HIE) awareness continued H information third-party relationships for better across key locations. sharing of the risk horizon across Pearson. 46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 7 Customer experience Failure of either our current, In 2019, our UK back to school period went well, Customer experience (or future) operations, supply with improved fulfilment rates and all Service O  nboard additional portfolios to redefine the user chain or customer support Level Agreements (SLAs) being met. In addition, experience – e.g. ITPro, Pearson eText; which will to deliver an acceptable our helpline call volumes were down. rollout in our UK higher education market. service level at any point in  e continued to see improvements in forecast W  ork with customer service teams to establish a 24/7 W the end-to-end journey; or to accuracy in the UK with the deployment and support model for learners. accelerate Pearson’s lifelong adoption of new systems. learner strategy and E  nable new commercial models e.g. Buy Now Pay W  e successfully implemented our Brexit Over Time. transformation of our higher contingency plans with our existing channel education business (direct to E  xpand the Voice of Customer (VOC) programme for partner, providing warehousing and logistics consumer business model BVR initiatives. services to UK-based customers. and online presence). Customer service and support In North America, we improved capabilities within the team and implemented improved processes. C  ontinue with core platform deployment across all lines Warehouse fulfilment rates exceeded the SLA. of business to enable modern support experiences. O  ur US Customer Experience team launched a  ontinue to work with technology on business cases for C modern digital experience for learners in the US increased efficiencies. and Canada. The new Pearson website provides C  ontinue partnering with business owners to introduce the first global experience that merges content more differentiated services to drive loyalty and growth. and commerce. C  ustomer Support teams continued to make progress in product improvement, self-help strategy and assisted support improvements.  ur focus remained on the performance and O stability of all product platforms. 8 Business resilience Failure to plan for, recover, test  irect and prolonged incident management D C  ontinue with global process owners to embed or prevent incidents involving support to key office locations following the business continuity planning within their processes. any of our products, customers Easter Sunday attack in Sri Lanka. R  espond appropriately to major incidents. Resilience and our businesses’ locations. R  esiliency visits made to workforces, landlords resources will continue to develop local, high-quality Incident management and and critical suppliers in the US, South Africa, teams and plans. technology disaster recovery India and the Philippines, to assure local E  nsure critical vendors have mature response plans plans may vary in ability/ coordinated incident and business continuity which are annually resilience-assured. comprehensiveness across readiness, including media management. C  ontinue to invest time in all critical vendors to ensure the Group. Incident response teams created where none KPIs can be met during a range of disruptions. existed in critical areas.  s of February 2020, the COVID-19 outbreak in China A  ork continued on the delivery of a Facility W is a new emerging risk to the wider economy across Manager bundled service in North America. mainland China, Hong Kong, and a growing number Improved capabilities to respond to incidents of countries around the world. We have invoked our across Pearson globally. business resilience plans to help ensure the safety C  ontinue to drive the risk message as prevention and well-being of our staff while enhancing our rather than reaction, towards a change focused ability to support our customers and maintain our on agile resilience. business operations. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 47 Operational Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 9 Data Inability to utilise our data to Defined our data governance and toolset. Introduce a governance operating model to become achieve market intelligence O  ur data orchestration programme saw a solution operational with an initial focus on the customer and and increase productivity and director assigned to commence scoping work and product, followed by employees and suppliers. efficiency, while managing future structures. Introduce a data maturity model enabling continuous market risk impacts arising improvements to be made as we progress with Initiated four work streams: from customer concerns Pearson’s digital transformation. around use of student data, – data privacy may significantly affect – data governance management of our core – data catalogue operations and achievement of our strategy objectives. – data KPIs Initiated product, customer, supplier and employee governance work streams. Financial 10 Tax Legislative change caused S  tate Aid – the Group appealed against the S  tate Aid risk – the specific next steps depend on by the OECD Base Erosion Commission’s decision and continues to work the response from HMRC and any update on the and Profit Shifting initiative, through the implications of the decision with EC legal case, and are likely to include the requirement the UK exit from the EU, or other support from external advisers. for a payment on account. However, we will continue domestic governments’ R  eputational risk – the third annual tax report to confer with external advisors to protect the initiatives, including in response has been published. Pearson has signed up to the Group’s position. to the European Commission B-Team tax principles and is actively participating T  ax legislation – work continues to mitigate the impacts State Aid decision regarding in the B-Team tax working group. of changes in the international tax environment and to the UK CFC exemption, monitor the ongoing OECD work. L  egislative changes – the Group continued to results in a significant assess and monitor proposed changes in the change to the effective tax rate, international tax framework, including proposals cash tax payments, double to address the tax challenges arising from the taxation and/or negative digitalisation of the economy. reputational impact. 48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Principal risks and uncertainties Legal and compliance Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 11 Information security and data privacy We have from time to time Information security Information security experienced, and may continue F  or our people, refreshed security awareness O  ur people will have access to role-based security to experience in the future, training and policies were launched to ensure all training and resources to further influence our security breaches of our employees understand their responsibilities for security culture. systems despite our best securing information.  e will complete roll-out of enhanced laptop and W efforts to prevent them.  e enhanced account access controls through W mobile security controls, to track best practices. We also risk failure to comply Multi Factor Authentication and Privilege Information Security resources, tooling and practices with data privacy regulations User Management. will continue to be embedded in our learning, enterprise and standards. The above could result in damage to the Pearson continued to evolve our security and infrastructure platforms to ensure comprehensive customer experience, our controls to enable IT simplification and other security by design. reputation, and a breach of transformation programmes. We will enhance our ability to detect and respond regulations and financial loss. to potential security incidents through development of automated security tools in our Security Operations Centre. Data privacy Data privacy In 2019, we put plans in place to ensure that we G  lobally assess new laws and regulations coming into were appropriately prepared for the California force and prepare for their implementation. Consumer Privacy Act, including updates to privacy  xpand scope of processes to address new user/data E notices, execution of relevant vendor terms, subject right requirements in additional jurisdictions. implementation of processes to respond to user W  ork with product teams to review and update right requests and extensive training and guidance. retention schedules.  eld privacy summits with key product and tech H  ontinue to engage with relevant teams to drive privacy C teams focused on embedding privacy by design. by design in product development. Notified affected customers of unauthorised access to school and university AIMSweb 1.0 accounts. See www.pearson.com/news-and-research/ announcements/2019/07/pearson-customernotification.html 12 Intellectual property Failure to adequately manage,  ontinued to reduce our multiple brand identities, C Continue 2019 activities with focus on improving procure, protect and/or enforce streamline and strengthen Pearson’s brand IP practices and governance across growth geographies intellectual property rights and patent key strategic technology assets and reorganised product groups. (including trademarks, patents, (PLP, Aida, etc).  onitor increasing risks posed by local legislation and M trade secrets and copyright)  xpanded internal governance and best practices E global treaties aimed at reducing copyright protection in our brands, content and to ensure effective rights management and of educational content and partner with local technology may impair the mitigation of infringement risks across IP. associations to resist these policy shifts. value of our core assets, T  argeted IP enforcement against key third party or reduce profits. infringers of Pearson copyright (piracy), brands and patents. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 49 Legal and compliance Risk description 2019 activity 2020 plans 13 Compliance Failure to effectively manage  ompleted the rollout of a third-party due diligence C F  ocus on sanctions compliance best practice in 2020 in risks associated with compliance programme globally and over 32,000 third parties light of the 2019 US Department of Treasury guidance. (principally ABC and sanctions have undergone ABC and sanctions due diligence.  ontinue ABC risk assessments to monitor C risk), including failure to vet C  reated and launched a learning course for thirdimplementations of our ABC and sanctions compliance third parties, resulting in party due diligence in the UK, US and Canada. This programme policies and procedures, as well as to reputational harm, Anti-Bribery will be rolled out to the rest of the world in 2020. identify areas of continuous improvement. and Corruption (ABC) liability,  ur annual Code of Conduct rollout achieved O  valuate a prospective interactive Code of Conduct, E or sanctions violations. 100% completion in record time, and we for potential launch in 2021. implemented a global conflict of interest policy Finalise any legacy third-party due diligence efforts. as part of that launch.  e launched our SpeakUp campaign in certain W key markets, and incorporated it into the Code of Conduct. As a result, reports into the PearsonEthics.com portal have increased by 69%. 14 Competition law Failure to comply with antitrust  ontinued holding training and refresher sessions C  evelop our approach to industry associations and D and competition legislation for our employees. information-exchange, which will include work on could result in costly legal F  ormed a working group in the Lawyers Network, specific training and monitoring levels of awareness. proceedings and fines of dedicated to performing an in-depth assessment  ontinue efforts on resale price maintenance with the C up to 10% of global revenue; on Pearson employees involved in industry working group to assess risk and issue other financial consequences association groups. recommendations. such as class actions, S  et up a working group to assess on resale price Raise awareness via the efforts of our Antitrust damages, void contracts; maintenance risk in all countries where Pearson is Lawyers Network. and could adversely impact active, to match the recent trend of enforcers to C  onvey and encourage compliance measures to all our reputation. target this type of infringement. teams, as part of our antitrust compliance programme, Launched eLearning modules on as recognised by enforcers. information-exchange risk. 50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk assessment of prospects and viability  irtual Schools grows, driven by increased V f ailure to accelerate our digital This section should be read together with the enrolments in new and existing schools. transformation in the wider full viability statement on p107 Pearson Group; o  ther growth businesses, including Pearson’s principal risks and our ability Professional Certification (VUE) and  ur growth businesses including OPM o to manage them as outlined in this section English show good growth. and Virtual Schools do not deliver are linked to our viability as a company. despite increased investment; and t he remaining Pearson business shows These risks have therefore been taken modest growth. t he Group is required to make significant into account when preparing the cash tax payments in respect of a negative viability statement. o  ur 2017-2019 cost efficiency programme is ruling on UK CFC exemption (EU State Aid). completed and additional cost savings are The Board assessed the prospects of the Other contingencies are not expected to achieved in 2020. company over a three-year period, longer crystallise in the period to December 2022. than the minimum 12 months for the annual  ur investment in the product technology o The Board also stress-tested the impact going concern review. The three-year period platform accelerates the shift to digital and on our liquidity of all the principal risks corresponds with Pearson’s strategic planning enhances courseware service capabilities. occurring together. Although this is not process and represents the time over which investment continues in our growth regarded as a plausible scenario, the test the company can reasonably predict market businesses and the Pearson Brand in showed that the company would still have dynamics and the likely impact of additions order to drive growth. liquid resources subject to a limited number to the product portfolio. of management actions. our stake in Penguin Random House The Board discusses the company’s three year is sold and no additional share of profits The Board’s confirmation of Pearson’s viability plan on an annual basis taking account of a are recorded. for the three years to 2022, based on this range of factors including market conditions, assessment, is included alongside the going the principal risks to the Group above, In assessing the company’s viability for the concern statement on p107 product and capital investment levels as three years to December 2022, the Board well as available funding. Pearson’s strategic analysed a variety of downside scenarios, model and businesses are discussed in including a scenario where the company is more detail on p10–13 impacted by all principal risks from 2020. The primary modelling overlaid a ‘severe but The key assumptions which underpin our plausible’ downside scenario onto the base three-year plan to December 2022 are case three-year plan for the Group, focusing as follows: on the impact of the following assumptions t here are further declines in enrolments and key risks: and other downwards pressure in the t he benefits of our 2017–2019 cost efficiency US Higher Education Courseware market. programme are not sustainable; OPM grows, driven by global enrolment f urther declines in US Higher Education in undergraduate and postgraduate Courseware, with digital growth failing to online courses. take hold; Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 51 Governance report In this section Corporate governance Directors’ remuneration report 52 Letter from the Chair 84 Remuneration overview 54 Board of Directors 88 2019 remuneration report 57 Pearson Executive management 97 2020 Remuneration Policy 58 Corporate governance review 68 Nomination & Governance Committee report Additional disclosures 72 Reputation & Responsibility Committee report 107 Report of the Directors 74 Audit Committee report 112 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 82 Risk governance and control 52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Letter from the Chair The Board regularly receives a dashboard which allows Directors Chair to monitor progress on Pearson’s financial and strategic priorities, Sidney Taurel enabled by critical discussion of these matters at each Board meeting and supported by agreed indicators and milestones which the Board and management have identified as key measures of performance. Through this, we maintain oversight of digital transformation initiatives such as the Pearson Learning Platform, growing market opportunities such as online learning, and simplification programmes such as The Enabling Programme and Business Value Realisation. During the year, the Board considered Pearson’s portfolio strategy, with the aim of ensuring that Pearson focuses on retaining or acquiring Dear shareholders, businesses of which it is the best owner. These discussions enabled the As I have said elsewhere in this report, 2019 has been a significant year Board to identify opportunities for inorganic growth, resulting in the of change for Pearson, and the Board’s role in laying the foundations acquisition of Lumerit Education, a US-based ed-tech company, as part for sustainable, profitable growth is critical. As a Board, we continue of our Accelerated Pathways business, and Smart Sparrow, a small to organise our work around five major themes where we believe ed-tech company which specialises in the creation of rich, interactive we can add value: strategy, performance, leadership and people, content – Pearson’s first acquisitions in five years. Our portfolio governance and risk, and stakeholder engagement. discussions also led to the agreement to dispose of our remaining The 2018 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code) 25% stake in Penguin Random House, to our partner in that venture, came into effect for Pearson at the start of 2019. Building upon Bertelsmann – a transaction which is expected to complete in the first the solid preparatory work we had undertaken for the new Code half of 2020. Taking account of the expected proceeds from this during 2018, the Nomination & Governance Committee steered the disposal, and bearing in mind Pearson’s capital allocation policy, implementation of various new or revised practices at Board level to the Board agreed to return £350m of capital to shareholders by reflect changes in the external governance landscape. The Board commencing a share buyback programme in January 2020. considers that Pearson has a strong corporate governance framework The Board continues to focus on engendering a corporate culture that in place but nevertheless we recognised that the new Code presented a is inclusive, innovative and meritocratic, and on ensuring that this timely opportunity to review and benchmark our approach to ensure aligns with the company’s purpose, values and strategy. In doing so, that we remain committed to the highest standards of governance. all Directors are committed to acting with integrity and leading by You can read more about our corporate governance framework, example. This report illustrates how the Board has monitored processes and activities during 2019 on the pages that follow. Pearson’s culture throughout the year, including through the launch Pearson recognises the increasing focus on the importance of all of our Employee Engagement Network and the implementation of stakeholders in running a sustainable company – a view taken not just successful talent initiatives, as well as considering the results of our by regulators but by global business leaders, investor communities latest organisational health survey and discussing the actions which and society. Engaging with, and understanding the views of, our management planned in response. stakeholders is imperative to developing and delivering educational products which meet the needs of learners, educators, governments Composition, succession and evaluation and employers. As a Board, we aim to incorporate opportunities to Crucial to successful delivery of our strategy is attracting and retaining meet stakeholder groups whenever our schedule permits, and our strong, diverse talent. During the year, the Board discussed talent and Reputation and Responsibility Committee oversees Pearson’s wider succession planning including consideration of succession plans for the stakeholder engagement activity on our behalf. You can read more Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and all members of the Pearson about the Board’s engagement with stakeholders on p62 and about Executive. We also considered the wider pool of talent in our senior the importance of stakeholders to our business as a whole on p14 leadership group, and the themes of talent, succession, Diversity & Inclusion form a continuing thread throughout the Board’s and Board leadership and company purpose Committees’ sessions. Over the past several years, the Board’s focus has been on Pearson’s Succession planning is a key responsibility for the Board, supported by three strategic priorities – accelerating the digital transformation of the Nomination & Governance Committee, and effective executive our traditional courseware and assessment businesses; growing our succession planning is key to ensuring continuity within the business. ‘structural growth’ opportunities – exciting businesses such as Virtual In December 2019, Pearson’s Chief Executive, John Fallon, announced Schools, OPM, English and Pearson VUE; and becoming a simpler, his intention to retire from the company during the coming year after more efficient and sustainable business. As we reach the end of our seven years as Chief Executive and 22 years in total serving Pearson. simplification programme, we have now created the foundations to As Chair, I routinely consider the matter of Chief Executive succession become a platform-based company well placed to succeed in the and it was a frequent theme of my discussions with Non-Executive digital age. As such, our strategy is now evolving, building on the Directors during the year, recognising the length of Mr Fallon’s tenure work we have done over the last few years and driving our efforts in the role. When John advised the Board of his intentions, I accelerated to be a learner-centric company focused on employability and the succession process promptly with the assistance of the Nomination lifelong learning. & Governance Committee, and Committee members and I discuss developments on a regular basis as our search and interview process moves forward. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 53 In January 2020, Pearson’s CFO, Coram Williams, announced his Remuneration intention to step down from the Board and leave the company. The Board and I are delighted that Pearson’s Deputy CFO, In 2019, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed and updated Sally Johnson, has agreed to take on the position of CFO, and Pearson’s remuneration philosophy and developed a set of principles shareholders will be invited to vote on Sally’s appointment to the to underpin its updated remuneration policy which will be put to Board at the AGM on 24 April, at which point Coram will step down shareholder vote at the 2020 AGM. These principles will inform how from the Board. Pearson develops remuneration strategy for the whole organisation and give the business flexibility to deliver on its strategy and digital Pearson has a fully engaged Board, including a strong Non-Executive transformation. Pearson’s current approach to Executive remuneration team with a breadth of experience and perspectives. We were pleased is explained in more detail in the remuneration section of this report to welcome Sherry Coutu and Graeme Pitkethly to the Pearson Board, on p84 following their appointments as Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 May 2019. Sherry’s experience in building fast-growth, Conclusion entrepreneurial businesses, focused on technology and education, and Graeme’s financial expertise, global overview and deep I hope this report clearly sets out how your company is run, and how understanding of consumer behaviour have further strengthened we align governance and our Board agenda with the strategic direction our capabilities in these areas, and I am pleased to confirm that each of Pearson. We always welcome questions or comments from is already making a valuable contribution to our deliberations as a shareholders, either via our website (www.pearson.com) or in Board and to the Committees which they have joined. person at our AGM. In the coming year, we will say goodbye to Josh Lewis, a Non-Executive Director of Pearson since 2011, who intends to step down from the Board at the forthcoming AGM in April 2020, in line with our normal practice for Non-Executive Directors to remain on the Board for a Sidney Taurel maximum of nine years. The Board joins me in thanking both Chair Coram and Josh for their commitment and contributions to Pearson during these years of change for the company. The 2019 Board evaluation, which was led by our Senior Independent Director, Vivienne Cox, found the Board to be well-functioning, with a good quality of relationships between members of the Board and an appropriate level of challenge and support provided to management. There was recognition by the Board of how much has been achieved The UK Corporate Governance Code by Pearson and its employees in recent years, and of the energy and The principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code effort which this journey has required from all concerned. More detail (the Code) emphasise the value of good corporate governance on our 2019 Board evaluation can be found on p66. Progress on to the long-term sustainable success of listed companies. recommendations arising from our annual Board evaluation is These principles, and their supporting provisions, cover five reported at each Nomination & Governance Committee meeting broad themes and the Pearson Board is responsible for ensuring until such recommendations are complete or embedded to the that the Group has in place appropriate frameworks to comply Committee’s satisfaction. with the Code’s requirements. Audit, risk and internal control The five themes are covered in particular on the following pages of the Governance report, with additional information contained in The Board of Directors is accountable for Pearson’s successes the Strategic report. and addressing its challenges. We aim to communicate to you in a transparent manner the steps we have taken to ensure that  oard leadership and company purpose; Division of B we have a clear oversight of the business and the work we have responsibilities; and Composition, succession and undertaken in respect of Pearson’s strategy throughout the year. evaluation on p54–73 Our Audit Committee, led by Tim Score, plays a key role in monitoring Audit, risk and internal control on p74–83 and evaluating our compliance and risk management processes, providing independent oversight of our external audit and internal Remuneration on p84–106 control programmes, accounting policies and business transformation This year, we are reporting against the 2018 edition of the Code. projects, and in assisting the Board in reporting in a fair, balanced and The Board believes that during 2019 the company was in full understandable manner to our shareholders. compliance with all applicable principles and provisions of the Code, save that as noted on p87 the Company continues to work to align pension contributions for Executive Directors to those available to the workforce. This Governance report and the Strategic report set out how Pearson has applied the principles of the Code throughout the year. The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk and we encourage readers to view our compliance schedule on the company website at www.pearson.com/governance. 54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Board of Directors Pearson Board members bring a Key to Committees Chair wide range of experience, A Audit skills and backgrounds which N Nomination & Governance complement our strategy. All Board RR Reputation & Responsibility members have strong leadership R Remuneration experience at global businesses Committee chair Current notable commitments reflect other and institutions and, as a group, listed company directorships and full-time or Sidney Taurel Chair their experience covers: executive roles. aged 71, appointed 1 January 2016 N R Sidney has over 45 years of experience in business b  usiness strategy and governance and finance, and is currently a Director of IBM innovation and disruption Corporation, where he also serves on the e ducation directors and corporate governance committee. digital and technology Sidney is an advisory board member at talent, people and culture pharmaceutical firm Almirall. He was Chief Executive Officer of global pharmaceutical firm finance and investment Eli Lilly and Company from 1998 until 2008, sustainability and environmental matters Chairman from 1999 until 2008, and has been marketing, brand and media Chairman Emeritus since 2009. He was also a government, international and Director at McGraw Hill Financial, Inc., a role regulatory affairs. which he held from 1996 until April 2016 and at Our Board members’ biographies illustrate ITT Industries from 1996 to 2001. In 2002, Sidney the contribution each Director makes to the received three US presidential appointments to: Board by way of their individual experience. the Homeland Security Advisory Council, the President’s Export Council and the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations, and is an officer of the French Legion of Honour. Current notable commitments: IBM Corporation (Non-Executive Director) Executive Directors Executive Director-elect John Fallon Chief Executive Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer Sally Johnson aged 57, appointed 3 October 2012 aged 46, appointed 1 August 2015 Chief Financial Officer-elect John became Pearson’s Chief Executive on Coram joined Pearson in 2003 and has held a aged 46, to be appointed 24 April 2020 1 January 2013. Since 2008, he had been number of senior positions including Finance Sally joined Pearson in 2000, and has held responsible for the company’s education and Operations Director for Pearson’s English various finance and operations roles across businesses outside North America and a language teaching business in Europe, Middle The Penguin Group, the education business member of the Pearson management committee. East & Africa, Interim President of Pearson and at a corporate level. She brings to the He joined Pearson in 1997 as Director of Education Italia and Head of Financial Planning Board extensive commercial and strategic Communications and was appointed President and Analysis for Pearson. In 2008, Coram became finance experience as well as transformation, of Pearson Inc. in 2000. In 2003, he was appointed CFO of The Penguin Group and was latterly treasury, tax, risk management, business and CEO of Pearson’s educational publishing appointed CFO of Penguin Random House in financial operations, investor relations and businesses for Europe, Middle East & Africa. 2013, where he oversaw the integration of the M&A expertise. She has held various senior Prior to joining Pearson, John was Director of two businesses. Coram trained at Arthur level roles across the business, most recently Corporate Affairs at Powergen plc and was also a Andersen, and subsequently worked in both the as Deputy CFO of Pearson. Sally is a member member of the company’s executive committee. auditing and consulting practices of the firm. of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Earlier in his career, John held senior public He is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman in England and Wales and trained at policy and communications roles in UK local of the audit committee for the Guardian PricewaterhouseCoopers. She was also government. John is also President of the London Media Group. a Trustee for the Pearson Pension Plan Chamber of Commerce & Industry (LCCI). Coram will be stepping down from the Board and from 2012 to 2018. John has announced his intention to retire from his role as Chief Financial Officer at the Annual Pearson during 2020. General Meeting on 24 April 2020. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 55 Non-Executive Directors Dame Elizabeth Corley, DBE Sherry Coutu, CBE Non-Executive Director Vivienne Cox, CBE Non-Executive Director A N R aged 56, appointed 1 May 2019 N R Senior Independent Director A N RR aged 63, appointed 1 May 2014 Sherry has extensive experience in the aged 60, appointed 1 January 2012 Elizabeth has extensive experience in the financial technology industry. She is the Chairman of Vivienne has wide experience in energy, natural services industry having been CEO of Allianz Founders4Schools and founder of the Scaleup resources and business innovation. She worked Global Investors, initially for Europe then globally, Institute. Previously, she was CEO of Interactive for BP plc for 28 years in global roles including from 2005 to 2016, and was a senior adviser to Investor International plc, served on the board of Executive Vice President and Chief Executive of the firm until the end of December 2019. She was Bloomberg New Energy Finance and the London BP’s gas, power and renewables business and previously at Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Stock Exchange plc. In education, she was SID its alternative energy unit. She is Chair of the and Coopers & Lybrand. Elizabeth is a Nonand Remuneration Committee Chair of RM plc, supervisory board of Vallourec S.A., a leader Executive Director of BAE Systems plc and Morgan on the board of Cambridge University, Cambridge in the seamless steel pipe markets, and a Stanley Inc. Elizabeth is active in representing the Assessment and Cambridge University Press, Non-Executive Director at pharmaceutical investment industry and developing standards and Chesterton Community College. Sherry has company GlaxoSmithKline plc. She serves as within it. She is a member of the Committee of started and or invested in over 60 technology Chair of the Rosalind Franklin Institute and 200. She was appointed Dame Commander of businesses and served on the boards of Zoopla Vice Chair of the Saïd Business School (part of the Order of the British Empire in the Queen’s plc, Raspberry Pi, NESTA, and the Advisory boards Oxford University). She was appointed Birthday Honours in 2019 for her services to of the National Gallery, Royal Society and Linkedin. Commander of the British Empire in the the economy and financial services. She was appointed Commander of the British 2016 New Year Honours for her services to Current notable commitments: BAE Systems plc Empire in the 2013 New Year Honours for her the economy and sustainability. (Non-Executive Director), Morgan Stanley Inc. services to entrepreneurship. Current notable commitments: GlaxoSmithKline (Non-Executive Director) plc (Non-Executive Director), Vallourec S.A. (Chair of the supervisory board) Josh Lewis Non-Executive Director Linda Lorimer Non-Executive Director Michael Lynton Non-Executive Director aged 57, appointed 1 March 2011 N R aged 67, appointed 1 July 2013 A RR aged 60, appointed 1 February 2018 A RR Josh’s experience spans finance, education Linda has spent almost 40 years serving higher Michael served as CEO of Sony Entertainment and the development of digital enterprises. education. She retired from Yale in 2016 after from 2012 until 2017, overseeing Sony’s global He is founder of Salmon River Capital LLC, 34 years at the university where she served in an entertainment businesses. He was also Chairman a New York-based private equity/venture array of senior positions including Vice President and CEO of Sony Pictures Entertainment from capital firm focused on technology-enabled for Global & Strategic Initiatives. She oversaw 2004. Prior to that, he held senior roles within businesses in education, financial services and the development of Yale’s burgeoning online Time Warner and AOL, and earlier served as other sectors, through which he has taken on education division and the expansion of Yale’s Chairman and CEO of Penguin Group where the role of Non-Executive Director of several international programmes and centres. he extended the Penguin brand to music and enterprises. Over a 25-year career in active, During her tenure, she was responsible for the internet. Michael is Chairman of Snap, Inc., principal investing, he has been involved in a many administrative services, ranging from Yale’s Schrödinger, Inc. and Warner Music, and broad range of successful companies, including public communications and alumni relations to currently serves on the boards of IEX and several pioneering enterprises in the education sustainability, human resources and the university Ares Management Corporation LLC. sector. In addition, he has long been active in press. She also served on the boards of several Current notable commitments: the non-profit education sector. public companies, including as Presiding Director Ares Management Corporation LLC Current notable commitments: Salmon River of the McGraw-Hill companies. Linda is a member (Non-Executive Director), Snap, Inc. (Chairman), Capital LLC (Founder & Managing Principal) of the board of Yale New Haven Hospital, where Schrödinger, Inc. (Chairman) she chairs the nominating and governance committee and is a trustee of Hollins University. She also remains on several consequential advisory committees at Yale University. 56 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors continued Graeme Pitkethly Non-Executive Director Tim Score Non-Executive Director Lincoln Wallen Non-Executive Director aged 53, appointed 1 May 2019 A RR aged 59, appointed 1 January 2015 A N R aged 59, appointed 1 January 2016 A RR Graeme joined Unilever in 2002 and, prior Tim has extensive experience of the technology Lincoln has extensive experience in the to being appointed CFO and Board member, sector in both developed and emerging markets, technology and media industries, and is currently was responsible for Unilever’s UK and Ireland having served as Chief Financial Officer of ARM CTO of Improbable, a technology start-up business. Previously, he had held a number of Holdings plc, the world’s leading semiconductor supplying next-generation cloud hosting and senior financial and commercial roles within IP company, for 13 years. He is an experienced networking services to the video game industry. Unilever and spent the earlier part of his non-executive director and serves as Chairman Lincoln was CEO of DWA Nova, a software-as-acareer in senior corporate finance roles in the of The British Land Company plc, a role to which service company spun out of DreamWorks telecommunications industry. Graeme served he was appointed in July 2019, a non-executive Animation Studios in Los Angeles, a position as Vice President of Financial Planning and director of HM Treasury, and a Trustee of the he held until 2017. He worked at DreamWorks Vice President of Corporate Development at National Theatre. He served on the board of Animation for nine years in a variety of leadership FLAG Telecom and started his career at National Express Group plc from 2005 to 2014, roles including Chief Technology Officer and Head PricewaterhouseCoopers. Graeme is a Vice Chair including time as interim Chairman and six years of Animation Technology. He was formerly CTO at of the Task Force on Climate Related Financial as the Senior Independent Director. Earlier in his Electronic Arts Mobile, leading their entry into the Disclosures and is a Chartered Accountant. career Tim held senior finance roles with Rebus mobile gaming business internationally. Lincoln is Current notable commitments: Unilever plc and Group, William Baird, LucasVarity plc and BTR plc. a Non-Executive Director of the Smith Institute for Unilever NV (Chief Financial Officer) Current notable commitments: The British Land Industrial Mathematics and Systems Engineering. Company plc (Chairman) His early career involved 20 years of professional IT and mathematics research, including as a reader in Computer Science at Oxford. Current notable commitments: Improbable (Chief Technology Officer) Governance at Pearson Board of Directors Pearson Executive Management (PEM) PEM consists of John Fallon (Chief Executive) and his Audit Appraises our financial management and direct reports. They are the executive leadership group Committee reporting and assesses the integrity of our for Pearson, responsible for delivering Pearson’s accounting procedures and financial control. strategy under clearly defined accountabilities and in line with agreed governance and processes. Nomination Reviews corporate governance matters, Chief Executive & Governance including Code compliance and Board Chief Financial Officer Committee evaluation, considers the appointment of new Directors, Board experience and diversity, and Chief Technology & Operations Officer reviews Board induction and succession plans. Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Strategy Officer Remuneration Determines the remuneration and benefits President – UK & Global Online Learning Committee of the Executive Directors and oversees remuneration arrangements for the President – International Pearson Executive. President – Global Assessment President – North American Courseware & Global Product General Counsel & Chief Legal Officer Reputation & Considers the company’s impact on society and Responsibility the communities in which Pearson operates, Committee including to ensure that strategies are in place to manage and improve Pearson’s reputation. see opposite FLOW OF INFORMATION Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 57 Pearson Executive Management Tim Bozik President – North American Courseware Rod Bristow President – UK & Jonathan Chocqueel-Mangan & Global Product Global Online Learning Chief Strategy Officer Tim Bozik has extensive experience in product Rod is a Trustee for the Education and Employers Jonathan was formerly Chief Strategy and development and higher education. Tim joined Taskforce, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, Transformation Officer at Kantar Consumer Pearson in 1983 as a sales representative and and Governor for Harlow College and the BMAT Insights. Jonathan has professional qualifications has since held leadership roles in product and multi-academy trust. in Consulting and Coaching for Change from the general management. Saïd Business School and a Doctor of Business Administration in Organisational Behaviour from the University of Surrey. Gio Giovannelli President – International Albert Hitchcock Chief Technology & Deirdre Latour Chief Corporate Affairs Officer Gio was previously CEO of Grupo Multi, which was Operations Officer Deirdre has been Chief Corporate Affairs Officer acquired by Pearson in 2013. He has also held Albert has been Chief Technology & Operations since January 2019. She brings over 20 years of three other CEO positions in Brazil, across Officer since March 2014. Previously, Albert was experience in corporate communications and different sectors. Gio is a former board member Group CIO at Vodafone and prior to this was issues management. Previously, Deirdre was the of Natura and of CVC Viagens, both listed in the Global CIO at Nortel Networks. Albert is a Chief Communications Officer for GE and worked São Paulo Stock Exchange. Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the for the global public relations firm Edelman. Institute of Engineering & Technology. Bjarne Tellmann General Counsel & Anna Vikström Persson Chief Human Bob Whelan President – Global Assessment Chief Legal Officer Resources Officer Bob has significant expertise in assessment and Bjarne previously worked across Europe, Asia and Anna has been Chief Human Resources Officer has driven Pearson’s growth as a global leader the US in various capacities with The Coca-Cola since February 2018. She has over 20 years of in computer-based assessments since 2000. Company, most recently as Associate General international HR experience. Previously, Anna Bob leads Pearson’s combined assessment Counsel. He has also held legal positions at served as EVP & Head of Group Human Resources businesses including US Student Assessment, Kimberly-Clark and the law firms of Sullivan & for Sandvik, and similarly for SSAB. She was also Clinical Assessment, as well as Pearson VUE. Cromwell LLP and White & Case LLP. VP, HR & Organisation for Ericsson. 58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Corporate governance review Additionally, in response to Provision 15 of the Code, Pearson has Board of Directors developed internal guidance to be taken into account when Composition of the Board As at the date of this report, the Board considering changes to a Director’s commitments, or when consists of the Chair, Sidney Taurel, two Executive Directors: the Chief appointing a new Director, as well as formalising the Board Executive, John Fallon, and CFO, Coram Williams and nine independent approval process for such matters. Non-Executive Directors. Sherry Coutu and Graeme Pitkethly were Once notified to the company, any potential conflicts and appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 1 May 2019. commitments are considered for authorisation by the Board at its The Chair is primarily responsible for the leadership of the Board and next scheduled meeting or, where necessary in the interests of ensuring its effectiveness. He ensures that the Board upholds and timeliness, by a Committee comprising the Chair, Senior Independent promotes the highest standards of corporate governance, setting the Director and Company Secretary. In particular, the Board or Committee Board’s agenda and encouraging open, constructive debate of all considers the type of role, expected time commitment and any impact agenda items for effective decision-making. He regularly meets which this may have on the Director’s duties to Pearson, as well as the Chief Executive to stay informed and provide advice. He also any relationships between Pearson and the external organisation. ensures that shareholders’ views are communicated to the Board. The interested Director is not permitted to vote, or be counted in the quorum, for any resolution relating to his/her commitments, conflict Chair’s significant commitments There were no changes to the or potential conflict. The Board reviews any authorisations granted on Chair’s significant commitments during 2019. an annual basis. Independence of Chair In accordance with the UK Corporate During 2019, the Board approved two new significant commitments Governance Code (the Code), Sidney Taurel was considered to be for existing Directors. Firstly, the appointment of Lincoln Wallen independent upon his appointment as Chair on 1 January 2016. as Chief Technology Officer of Improbable, a technology start-up The Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management company. The Board was of the opinion that this additional of the business and for the development and implementation of appointment was acceptable as the time commitment expected the company’s strategy as agreed by the Board and management. of Mr Wallen in his new role would be no greater than his previous He is responsible for developing operational proposals and policies executive role at the time he joined the Pearson Board. Secondly, the for approval by the Board, he promotes Pearson’s culture and appointment of Tim Score as Chairman of The British Land Company standards, and is the main representative of the company to its plc (British Land). The Board was of the opinion that this appointment external stakeholders. was acceptable as Mr Score holds no other directorships of listed companies apart from Pearson and British Land, therefore it was The Senior Independent Director’s role includes meeting regularly deemed that the additional time commitment would not impact on with the Chair and Chief Executive to discuss specific issues, as well as Mr Score’s duties to Pearson. Additionally, in the cases of both being available to shareholders generally should they have concerns Mr Wallen and Mr Score, the Board believes that the experience gained that have not been addressed through the normal channels. She also by Directors through their other commitments can bring valuable leads the evaluation of the Chair on behalf of the other Directors. perspectives to the Pearson Board. There were no other new Division of responsibilities There is a defined split of responsibilities commitments of Directors during 2019 which the Board considered between the Chair and the executive leadership of Pearson. The roles to be significant in nature. and responsibilities of the Chair, Chief Executive and the Senior Early in 2020, Michael Lynton informed the Chair that two of the Independent Director are clearly defined, set out in writing and companies in which he holds non-executive positions intended to list reviewed and agreed by the Board on an annual basis. These can be during the course of the year, namely Schrödinger and Warner Music. found on the company website at www.pearson.com/governance. Once those companies are listed, Mr Lynton would then be serving Independence of Directors All of the Non-Executive Directors who on five listed company boards. Mindful of Pearson’s own internal served during 2019 were considered by the Board to be independent guidance, and shareholder sentiment in relation to Directors’ for the purposes of the Code. The Board reviews the independence of commitments, Mr Lynton and the Chair have agreed to review this each of the Non-Executive Directors annually. This includes reviewing situation over the course of 2020, once there is absolute clarity their external appointments and any potential conflicts of interest as regarding Mr Lynton’s future intentions. To date there has been well as assessing their individual circumstances in order to ensure that no impact on Mr Lynton’s ability to commit to the Pearson Board, there are no relationships or matters likely to affect their judgement. and he has demonstrated a full attendance record at Pearson since In addition to this review, each of the Non-Executive Directors is asked his appointment in 2018. annually to complete an independence questionnaire to satisfy It should be noted that, should this position not change during the requirements arising from Pearson’s US listing and the Code. course of 2020, Mr Lynton has agreed with the Chair that he will not Directors’ commitments and conflicts of interest Under the Companies stand for re-election to the Pearson Board at the 2021 AGM. Act 2006 (the Act), the Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the company. The company’s Articles of Association The role and business of the Board allow the Directors to authorise conflicts of interest. The company has The Board is deeply engaged in developing and measuring the an established procedure to identify actual and potential conflicts of company’s long-term strategy, performance, culture and values. interest, including all directorships or other appointments to, or We believe that it adds a valuable and diverse set of external relationships with, companies which are not part of the Pearson Group perspectives and that robust, open debate about significant business and which could give rise to actual or potential conflicts of interest. issues brings an additional discipline to major decisions. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 59 The key responsibilities of the Board include: The Directors recognise their duties towards the shareholders and other stakeholders of the company as set out in Section 172 of the Act, overall leadership of the company and setting the company’s and a continued understanding of the key issues affecting stakeholders values and standards, including monitoring culture is an integral part of the Board’s decision-making process. You can read d  etermining the company’s strategy in consultation with more on the pages that follow about the Board’s engagement with management, reviewing performance against it and overseeing stakeholders and an illustrative example of how it takes stakeholder management execution thereof views into account in its decision-making. m  ajor changes to the company’s corporate, capital, management Board meetings and control structures The Board held seven scheduled meetings in 2019, with discussions a  pproval of all transactions or financial commitments in excess of and debates focused on the key strategic issues facing the company. the authority limits delegated to the Chief Executive and other Major items covered by the Board in 2019 are shown in the table on Executive management p60. In addition to its scheduled meetings, the Board meets in person assessment of management performance and Board and or by telephone as necessary to consider matters of a time-sensitive Executive succession planning. nature. There were two such meetings in 2019 to allow the Board to consider matters relating to business performance and acquisition A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Board’s decision and and disposal opportunities. approval is available on our website, at www.pearson.com/governance. October, North America At a two-day meeting in October, the Board Culture, purpose and values and Pearson Executive reviewed Pearson’s digital transformation journey towards a single set of global platforms and the alignment Pearson’s core values – to be brave, imaginative, decent and of these initiatives with the long-term company strategy. The Board accountable – go to the heart of our purpose: to help people make reviewed the Pearson Learning Platform (PLP) and discussed and progress in their lives and careers, and the Board and employees are agreed ways in which to accelerate the release of new products on the committed to demonstrating these characteristics throughout their platform. They also considered the ways in which Pearson’s technology work and deliberations. The Board endorses Pearson’s culture and platform strategy would enable innovation through the ongoing of innovation, fostering talent and inclusivity at all levels and development of the PLP while keeping learner experience and demonstrated this during the year by engaging with employees from requirements at the centre of the plan. across Pearson through a variety of in-person and virtual events. The Board monitors the culture and organisational health of the Two stakeholder panel sessions allowed the Board to hear directly company with the assistance of its Committees, including through from authors, educators and learners about their experiences of digital regular updates from the Chief Human Resources Officer on talent, teaching and learning in schools and higher education. You can read D&I and Pearson’s values as well as considering Group-wide more about the Board’s engagement with these stakeholders on programmes such as Code of Conduct, compliance, Health & Safety, p62–63. The Board also attended an event with new and emerging and training initiatives. Building on discussions during 2019 and with talent, particularly employees with digital and technology skills, the help of the Chief Human Resources Officer, we aim to introduce a engaged with new members of Pearson’s senior leadership team who dashboard drawing together key cultural indicators from across the have enhanced our skills and expertise in digital platforms and AI, Group, which will add quantitative metrics to augment the Board’s and gained valuable insights into employees’ views on Pearson’s existing oversight of culture and organisational health. current challenges and opportunities through a session facilitated by HR and Talent leadership. Strategic planning and decision-making December, North America At a three-day meeting in December, the The Board spends considerable time in assessing that any proposed Board and the Pearson Executive were joined by members of the transaction aligns with the strategy and future prospects for the Global Online Learning leadership team who provided an overview business. In addition, an annual strategy session enhances the Board’s of the global business. The Board took a deeper dive into the OPM decision-making in shaping the company’s strategic and financial plans. and Virtual Schools businesses, considering areas such as: The Board and Committees receive timely, regular and necessary  trategic plans and potential growth opportunities for OPM and S financial, management and other information to fulfil their duties. Virtual Schools Comprehensive meeting papers are circulated to the Board and  he customer-focused culture of the Virtual Schools business, and T Committee members at least one week in advance of each meeting transformation programmes in respect of Virtual Schools technology and the Board receives a regular dashboard and key milestones report and curriculum which would be delivered in the coming year and regular updates from the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer. In addition to meeting papers, a library of current and historical K  ey points of differentiation between Connections Academy, our corporate information is made available to Directors electronically to Virtual Schools business, and traditional ‘bricks and mortar’ schools support the Board’s decision-making process. The Directors can obtain  xamples of OPM partnerships in action such as Arizona State E independent professional advice, at the company’s expense, in the University, Northeastern University and the University of Adelaide performance of their duties. All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, whose appointment and The Board also participated in a tour of the facilities to see the removal is a matter reserved for the full Board. OPM business in action and to meet with employees. 60 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Corporate governance review There was a high level of attendance by the Directors at Board and Board attendance Committee meetings in 2019 as shown in the table below and in the Directors are expected to attend all Board and Committee meetings Committee reports that follow: but in certain exceptional circumstances, such as due to pre-existing Board meetings attended business or personal commitments, it is recognised that Directors Chair may be unable to attend. In these circumstances, the Directors receive relevant papers and, where possible, will communicate any comments Sidney Taurel 9/9 and observations in advance of the meeting for raising as appropriate Executive Directors during the meeting. They are updated on any developments after John Fallon 9/9 the meeting by the Chair of the Board or Committee, as appropriate. Individuals’ attendance at Board and Committee meetings is Coram Williams 9/9 considered, as necessary, as part of the formal review of Board meetings attended their performance. Non-Executive Directors In appointing Graeme Pitkethly as a Non-Executive Director during Elizabeth Corley1 8/9 2019, the Board noted that, due to Mr Pitkethly’s external commitment as Chief Financial Officer of Unilever, there was expected to be a Sherry Coutu2 6/6 transitional period of approximately two years following Mr Pitkethly’s Vivienne Cox 9/9 appointment in which there may be a small number of meeting date Josh Lewis 9/9 conflicts due to the pre-existing corporate calendars of Pearson and Unilever. The Directors were of the view that Mr Pitkethly was a strong Linda Lorimer 9/9 addition to the Board and approved this transitional arrangement. Michael Lynton 9/9 Mr Pitkethly has worked closely with the Chair and Company Graeme Pitkethly3 5/6 Secretary to minimise the impact of any overlapping dates. Tim Score 9/9 Lincoln Wallen 9/9 1 Unable to attend one meeting due to an external commitment. Ahead of the meeting, Mrs Corley communicated her comments on the business of the Board to the Chair. 2 Ms Coutu joined the Board on 1 May 2019. 3 Mr Pitkethly joined the Board on 1 May 2019. Unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment as noted above. Ahead of the meeting, Mr Pitkethly communicated his comments on the business of the Board to the Chair. Board meeting focus during 2019 Strategy Performance Leadership & people Governance & risk Shareholder U  S Higher Education 2  018 preliminary  alent and succession T  egal and regulatory L  pproval of division A engagement Courseware results and annual planning compliance including of responsibilities Investor relations  PM and Global O report and accounts  ulture, values and C UK Corporate between Chair and strategy and share Online Learning Interim results and organisational health Governance Code, Chief Executive price performance trading updates Companies Act and A  nnual review of  ajor shareholders M A  cquisitions of Chief Executive’s goals listing obligations conflicts of interest and share register Lumerit Education  egular dashboard R E  mployee Engagement and certain assets of and milestone reports Regular Brexit updates  pproval of Committee A analysis Network feedback Smart Sparrow O  versight of 2019 S  hareholder activism terms of reference  hareholder issues S E  vents with senior D  isposal of US K12 operating plan and and defence planning Tax update and voting management and Courseware business goals, and preparation facilitated talent O  rganisational risk and Feedback from  isposal of stake in D for 2020 breakfasts resilience review Chair and Executive Penguin Random F  inal and interim A  pproval of income Director meetings  eceptions with R House and use dividend proposals statement and going with shareholders employees in of proceeds US and UK concern and viability  ocus on F Capital allocation Board evaluation forthcoming AGM Read more on employee Interactive product engagement on p62 demonstrations  roduct, technology P and operations strategies  perating and O strategic plan discussions D  igital advisory network Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 61 The Committees focus on their own areas of expertise, enabling Board Committees the Board meetings to focus on strategy, performance, leadership The Board has established four formal Committees: Audit, Nomination and people, governance and risk, and stakeholder engagement, & Governance, Remuneration, and Reputation & Responsibility. thereby making the best use of the Board’s time together as a whole. The Chairs and members of these Committees are appointed by the The Committee Chairs report to the full Board at each Board meeting Board on the recommendation (where appropriate) of the Nomination immediately following their sessions, ensuring a good communication & Governance Committee and in consultation with each relevant flow while retaining the ability to escalate items to the full Board’s Committee Chair. In addition to these formal Board Committees, agenda if appropriate. the Standing Committee also operates with Board-level input. Standing Committee Learn more about Pearson’s governance structure on p56 A Standing Committee of the Board is established to approve certain More Committee information: operational and ordinary course of business items such as banking matters, guarantees, intra-Group transactions and to make routine Audit Committee p74 approvals relating to employee share plans. Nomination & Governance Committee p68 The Committee has written terms of reference, reviewed and approved Remuneration Committee p84 each year, which clearly set out its authority and duties. These can be Reputation & Responsibility Committee p72 found on the company website at www.pearson.com/governance. Board decision-making – Acquisition of Lumerit Education This case study on Pearson’s recent acquisition of Lumerit the Board also considered developing the capability in-house, Education provides an illustrative example of how the Board deciding against that option due to the expected time to complete. has regard to relevant stakeholders and their interests in its Through the decision-making process, the Board considered the decision-making processes. impact on its key stakeholders, including: In October 2019, Pearson announced the acquisition of Employers: The Board noted the potential role for Pearson as a Lumerit Education, an ed-tech company that leverages technology ‘matchmaker’, leveraging our experience to provide educational to provide students with a customised path to earn up to options to organisations looking to recruit, retain, upskill and three-quarters of their degree online and outside of a traditional re-skill their employee base. Lumerit Education’s offering college. It aims to address the rising problem of the lack of ensures better utilisation of costs already allocated to tuition affordability of a degree, while trying to increase flexibility and reimbursement programmes, improves employee retention, reduce the time commitment required to complete a degree. course completion and helps to upskill employees. Its clients include private-pay consumer students as well as corporations providing tuition assistance programmes for their Learners: Lumerit Education’s offering provides learners with employees. Lumerit Education uses data and analytics to match flexibility, helping them find the most efficient way to earn a learner profiles to academic programmes to enable more people degree. The acquisition will enable Pearson to apply its expertise to prosper in their lives through learning. Pearson viewed the in courseware to the delivery of general education and gateway acquisition of Lumerit Education as an opportunity to strengthen courses and to make an impact on student learning outcomes. and develop its strategic focus on employability and lifelong Educational Institutions and Educators: The ability to offer learning. With this acquisition, we will use the Lumerit Education on-demand courses through Lumerit Education’s ‘Global Digital technology to accelerate the growth of our Accelerated Pathways Classroom’ provides educational institutions and educators with business, making education more affordable and accessible in the ability to offer any of the classes, at any time. The technology all phases of life. Lumerit Education works with employers to also allows partners access to a funnel of transfer students who deliver education programs that improve employees’ skills and want to complete their degree. knowledge, building a workforce that’s more competitive, engaged, and prepared for the future of work. As Pearson’s first Employees: The Board considered the current employees of acquisition for five years, Lumerit Education was an important Lumerit Education in their deliberations, including how best to milestone. The Board focussed on there being a strong strategic preserve the culture and sense of energy that the strong rationale, clear integration plans and achievable synergies. Lumerit Education leadership team had created and minimise the disruption to them while integrating the Lumerit Education As part of the consideration process for this acquisition, the Board team into the wider Pearson culture. received detailed updates from management, prepared by the internal advisory team (with key input from the business and Shareholders: In evaluating the acquisition prospect, the Board external advisers) setting out the matters for evaluation, which considered the alignment of Lumerit Education with Pearson’s included the anticipated synergies, due diligence findings, strategy, ensuring that it was a good fit and would bring synergies valuation and return impacts, stakeholder considerations and to the business. detailed post-acquisition integration plans. In its deliberations, 62 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Corporate governance review Pearson management and the wider workforce. As required by Engagement with stakeholders the Code, the Board ensures that Pearson engages effectively with, A strong understanding of our stakeholders and their views is and encourages participation from, its key stakeholders. The Board integral to Pearson’s strategic planning process, and the Board’s maintains its oversight through a variety of direct and indirect strategy sessions are informed by the views and needs of a wide mechanisms as illustrated below and the Reputation & Responsibility range of stakeholders including customers (such as learners Committee monitors the Group’s stakeholder engagement framework. and educational institutions), technology companies, authors, The key activities undertaken by the Board or by individual Directors in shareholders, members of our Digital Advisory Network, relation to stakeholder matters are set out below. Learners Employees Shareholders  earson helps millions of learners P Our purpose-driven employees T  he Chair, Executive Directors and  earson has a broad range of P across the world to progress across are key to the sustainable success Non-Executive Director, Michael investors who entrust their capital all stages of learning. of Pearson. Lynton, attended the Pearson with us and for whom we aim to Leadership Summit held in deliver long-term sustainable value D  uring the year, the Board met a  earson has in place a wellP Brooklyn, New York. This event while recognising their diverse panel of US higher education established range of mechanisms brought together senior leaders range of views. Campus Ambassadors who to engage with employees, from across Pearson, who engaged provided a learner’s perspective including town hall meetings, T  he Chair and Executive Directors, with industry thought leaders and on higher education, including virtual global conversations, supported by the Company external speakers, and focused on course materials, print employee resource groups, Secretary and Investor Relations on maximising the opportunities versus digital, technology and employee engagement and team, meet regularly with of digital transformation, and employability. organisational health surveys. institutional investors to discuss becoming a learning organisation, T  he Board receives new product The Board has a variety of the business and to respond to any building our talent and culture demonstrations, including Aida opportunities to engage both concerns they may have, and the and fostering diversity. The Chief during 2019, to understand formally and informally with the Chair ensures that the Board is Executive also attended the annual first-hand the benefit of such workforce during events such as kept informed of investors’ and North America Higher Education products to learners. Board site visits and talent advisers’ views on strategy and Sales Conference where he breakfasts. In the spirit of the corporate governance.  he Pearson Learning Platform T engaged with sales and customerCode’s focus on stakeholder In February 2020, Pearson hosted an (PLP), a key customer and learnerfacing representatives from across engagement, an Employee event for our top five shareholders to facing element of the digital the North American business. Engagement Network was meet Board members and discuss transformation programme,  ou can read more about talent Y established in early 2019 as aspects of Pearson’s strategy, was considered by the Board and and succession planning on p65 an additional means for the Board product pipeline and governance Committees regularly throughout to hear directly from employees. framework. In attendance from the the year from strategic, operational See more on p64 Board were: the Chair, Sidney Taurel; and risk perspectives, including considering learner and educator D  uring the year, Pearson held two Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration impact and requirements. gatherings of its Female & Diverse and Nomination & Governance Executive Leadership Forum, Committees; Non-Executive Director,  he Board considered the evolving T hosted by Sidney Taurel in London Michael Lynton; and members of brand strategy through a lens of and John Fallon in New York. senior management. robust reputational research The events were attended by C  ommittee Chairs are available to which included the views of 2,000 external speakers as well as meet with major shareholders learners and educators in the internal and external talent to raise should they so wish, and undertake US and UK. awareness of Pearson’s purpose direct engagement in respect of  he Reputation and Responsibility T and career opportunities, and to significant matters within their Committee considered Pearson’s highlight the Group’s commitment remit, such as remuneration. response to a security breach to talent development, D&I. of a UK A level Mathematics  oard members meet informally B Non-Executive Directors examination and the lessons with shareholders after the AGM Elizabeth Corley and Linda Lorimer learned, including the engagement and respond to shareholder also attended. with learners, parents, schools, queries and requests as necessary regulators and media. throughout the year. B  oard Committees consider shareholder views on environmental, social and governance (ESG) and remuneration matters, as required.  t each Board meeting, the A Directors consider commentary from advisers on major shareholders’ positions and Pearson’s share price. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 63 The insights which the Board gains into the views of its stakeholders through mechanisms such as those set out below form an important part of the context for all of the Board’s discussions and decisionmaking processes. More information on Pearson’s key stakeholders, including their areas of concern and our response, is set out in the Strategic report on p14. Further information on how the Directors discharge their duties under s172 of the Act is available on p28 Educational institutions Employers Government and Business Partners and educators Regulators  earson engages with teachers, P P  earson works with employers, P  earson partners with F  rom vendors to suppliers, channel instructors and educators across trade associations and industry governments (local, state, federal, partners to our authors, Pearson all stages of education. bodies to meet the demands of the national) to ensure learners have has a broad range of partners workforce and equip learners with access to high-quality instruction, across our global business. A  t its October meeting, the Board the skills they need to thrive. materials and assessments linked met a panel of authors and  he Chief Executive and the T to beneficial outcomes, including educators who provided  he Chief Executive regularly T Executive management team building workforce skills. insights into the challenges and meets with and listens to attended the annual supplier opportunities they face with digital employers around the world Engagement with statutory summit and meet regularly with teaching and learning in schools including at the Pearson bodies such as listing authorities key global suppliers and ensure and higher education. Participants Leadership Forum in the US and financial regulators is key smooth flow of information to discussed the importance of highwhere leaders in higher education, to doing business as a listed Board level on material issues or quality digital content, assessment business and government came global company. concerns arising. and tools and the need for access together to network, share insights T  he Chief Executive meets T  hroughout the year, the Audit to a high-quality career-focused and explore how technology is regularly with government Committee had oversight of education. This session enabled creating opportunities for bold representatives and regulators programmes such as: The Enabling the Board to explore the issues change. Sessions included: around the world. In 2019 he met Programme and PLP (each posed by educators and to ‘Preparing students for with, among others, the Chinese involving technology providers consider how Pearson’s strategy employment and partnering to Ministry of Human Resources and and suppliers); Internal Audit and would enable the Group to be support workforce needs’; and Social Security (MOHRSS), the UK Control’s Centre of Excellence part of the solution. ‘The demand for lifelong learning’. Department for International (including controls and audits at The Board monitors brand  mployers are strategically E Trade in China, the Deputy British delivery partners’ service centres); tracker insights including material to our business, and the High Commissioner in India, the and Pearson’s third-party antisatisfaction scores. case study on p61 illustrates Governor of São Paulo, the bribery and corruption due  he Chief Executive engages T how the Directors discharged Canadian Minister of Immigration, diligence programme. personally with high-level educator their duties under Section 172 Refugees, and Citizenship, and  he Reputation & Responsibility T and teacher contacts whose views of the Companies Act when White House officials who lead Committee has oversight of inform operating and strategic considering the decision to workforce and education policy, Pearson’s supply chain including plans, products, technology and acquire Lumerit Education. including the Deputy Assistant strategic supplier partnerships operations strategies. Secretary, Employment and and supply chain risk. Training Administration,  he Board held a joint session T US Department of Labor. with Pearson’s Digital Advisory Network – a group of external thought leaders who are partnering with us as we navigate the digital transformation and look to maximise opportunities that this brings. 64 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Corporate governance review Employee Engagement Network Pearson uses a wide range of effective mechanisms to enable The Network met twice in 2019. Prior to its first meeting, a survey the Board to keep a finger on the pulse of the organisation and was distributed to Network members to gauge views on topics employees’ views on Pearson’s strategy, communications, for conversation. The first meeting set out the background and compensation and benefits, and the senior leadership team purpose of the Network, considered the results of the last overall. In the spirit of the Code, Pearson has introduced an organisational health survey as well as hearing a case study additional mechanism – an Employee Engagement Network – from the head of our Virtual Schools business – a high performer which is a hybrid of two methods suggested by the Code, in the survey. Members also discussed broad topics of interest consisting of a designated Non-Executive Director engaging with a for further discussion. panel of employee representatives. The Board considers this Following consultation with Network members, a new format method of engagement to be effective as it provides a means for subsequent meetings was proposed and approved by the for the Board to hear directly from employees as well as creating Nomination & Governance Committee. This saw the adoption an opportunity to gain additional insight on how to enhance of a single focus area for discussion, a pre-meeting briefing and a employee satisfaction and work effectiveness within Pearson request for employee representatives to seek feedback and and help engage and retain high performers. perspectives on the issue from colleagues. Employee representatives were selected from across Pearson During the second meeting, the Network members participated reflecting geographical, generational, operational and cultural in a facilitated exercise, the outputs of which were shared with diversity as well as length of service. The designated Board Ms Cox and Mr Fallon. They recognised employees’ desire for representative participating in the Network is Vivienne Cox, learning and development opportunities, building a culture of Non-Executive Director, who updates the Board on matters learning throughout Pearson, which has resulted in the Groupdiscussed with employees following each Network meeting. wide introduction of a learning ‘time budget’ for each employee to The Chief Executive and Chief Human Resources Officer also devote to their own learning and career development activities. attend meetings. The induction programmes for Sherry Coutu and Graeme Pitkethly, Directors’ training and induction our most recently appointed Non-Executive Directors, took place in All Directors receive training in the form of presentations about the 2019. A tailored and bespoke induction programme was designed company’s operations, through Board meetings held at operational for each of them and included meetings with other Board members, locations and by encouraging the Directors to visit local facilities business area familiarisation with members of the Pearson Executive, and management as and when their schedule allows, including if and a briefing on Directors’ legal duties and governance obligations. they are travelling to a country or region on non-Pearson business. Additionally, Sherry and Graeme each participated in sessions relating The Company Secretary and General Counsel, in conjunction with to their individual areas of interest as well as topics which were Pearson’s advisers, monitor legal and governance developments pertinent to the Committees which they have joined. The Company and update the Board on such matters as agreed with the Chair. Secretary sought Sherry and Graeme’s feedback following completion Our Directors can also make use of external courses. of their induction programmes, both of whom were positive about the benefits of the programme. During 2019, the Directors participated in a deep dive into information security and data privacy, enhancing their understanding of recent developments within Pearson from a technology and process perspective as well as considering cyber risk and other external factors affecting the company and the wider business landscape. The Directors receive a significant bespoke induction programme and a range of information about Pearson when they join the Board. This includes background information on Pearson and details of Board procedures, Directors’ responsibilities and various governance-related issues, including procedures for dealing in Pearson shares and their legal obligations as Directors. The induction also typically includes a series of meetings with members of the Board, external legal advisers and brokers, the Pearson Executive and senior management, presentations regarding the business from senior executives, and a briefing on Pearson’s investor relations programme. The induction framework is reviewed by the Nomination & Governance Committee in advance of any Director onboarding. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 65 As well as Board and Executive management succession, the Board Succession planning and talent also oversees our leadership pipeline. In October, the Board’s The Board considers oversight of succession planning as one of its discussions on talent and culture, including a succession planning prime responsibilities, assisted by the Nomination & Governance session focused on the executive pipeline from which the future Committee. The company has formal contingency plans in place for leaders of Pearson were likely to emerge, both at PEM level and for the temporary absence of the Chief Executive for health or other other key roles. A diverse pipeline of ‘ready now’ and ‘ready later’ reasons. The matter of Chief Executive succession is a standing item for emerging talent has been identified, and plans are put in place to discussion and review by the Chair and the Board on an annual basis; accelerate their development and path to succession where possible, however, recognising Mr Fallon’s seven-year tenure as Chief Executive, including through measures such as participating in Board and the Chair led discussions on Chief Executive succession at each of the Committee meetings, mentoring by Non-Executive Directors, Non-Executive sessions during 2019. and by encouraging and enabling individuals to take on external non-executive roles in order to increase their exposure to new Succession planning for the Board as a whole and for the role of Chair areas of business. The company also has targeted development is considered annually by the full Board and on an ongoing basis by programmes for high-potential talent, mentorship programmes the Nomination & Governance Committee, with the Chair and Senior for senior women leaders, as well as a Manager Fundamentals Independent Director also discussing Committee Chair succession programme for middle management. planning on a regular basis. There is regular discussion and oversight by the Board of succession planning for key positions at Executive management level. The Executive team has a key role to play in both our strategic planning process and in succession planning and fostering the culture of D&I required to continue to deliver on our strategy. Succession planning for Executive Directors In late 2019, the Chief Executive, John Fallon, announced his In early 2020, the Chief Financial Officer, Coram Williams, intention to retire from Pearson during 2020. The Chair, announced his intention to step down from the Board and leave Sidney Taurel, keeps the matter of Chief Executive succession Pearson. Accordingly, the Board activated its executive succession under regular consideration and accelerated the search process plans which had identified Sally Johnson, current Deputy CFO, as a following this announcement. The Board has a clear sense of ‘ready now’ candidate to succeed Coram as Chief Financial Officer. the attributes which it is looking for in the new Chief Executive – Mr Taurel and Ms Cox, Senior Independent Director and Chair of these include, but are not limited to, having demonstrable the Nomination & Governance Committee, led discussions on experience in corporate transformation, digital experience, behalf of the Board which resulted in the recommendation of a global view, and an ability to nurture a strong and healthy Ms Johnson as CFO-elect, a matter which the Board approved in organisational culture. The Board recognises the challenge in principle in January 2020. Pearson has subsequently announced securing all of these attributes in one individual, but is confident that Ms Johnson will join the Board and assume the position of with the progress made to date in the search process and will Chief Financial Officer at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM update shareholders at the appropriate time. on 24 April 2020 (subject to being elected by shareholders at the AGM), with Mr Williams stepping down from the Board at that time. You can read Ms Johnson’s biography on p54 66 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Corporate governance review The Company Secretary invited all members of the Pearson Executive Board evaluation to provide their views on these topics by way of a questionnaire prior The Board operates a three-yearly evaluation cycle which to the Directors’ individual interviews. The findings from this exercise employs a variety of methodologies to ensure the most effective involving the Pearson Executive were analysed with the assistance of evaluation outcomes. an external advisory firm, Lintstock,1 and shared with the Senior Three-yearly evaluation cycle Independent Director in advance of her conversations with Board Last members to allow for the Executive’s opinions to be taken into account Year Methodology undertaken during the process. In-depth evaluation, externally facilitated 2017 The Nomination & Governance Committee reviewed the findings 1 from the Board evaluation with the full Board at its meeting in December 2019. The Committee will develop an action plan to address areas for improvement and will monitor progress during the year. Questionnaire, tailored to specific needs 2018 Key findings included: 2 of the business a  high overall level of satisfaction with the functioning of the Board, the competence and capabilities of the Directors, and the quality of relationships between Chair, Non-Executive Directors Internally facilitated interview, to be led 2019 and the Executive 3 by the Chair, Senior Independent Director and/or Company Secretary as appropriate t he level of support and challenge provided by the Board to management was generally viewed to be of an appropriate and balanced level The Nomination & Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the evaluation process on behalf of the Board and it p  ositive views in relation to the performance of the Committees spent time during the year scoping the process and themes for the including the volume and importance of work which they undertake 2019 evaluation, with Committee members being invited to suggest on behalf of the Board particular questions or items for discussion. t he composition and size of the Board was considered to be In line with the framework agreed by the Committee, the Senior appropriate, with a good balance of skills and capabilities. Board Independent Director held one-to-one conversations with each members noted that consideration should be given to agreeing member of the Board during October 2019. Discussion areas the skills profile for any new Non-Executive Directors as part of covered during the individual interviews included matters which ongoing succession planning for the Board. are important to Pearson in particular, as well as those items laid The main areas identified by the Board for continued focus during down in the Code, including: 2020 were: t he Board’s understanding of markets, products and stakeholders, r efinement of the strategy, in particular continuing to develop the the quality of the information provided and discussion time to framework supporting lifelong learning and employability and facilitate this ensuring clear and tight articulation of the strategy  earson’s strategy, including its articulation and strategic process, P t he Board’s monitoring and challenge of the digital transformation, and the quality of the Board’s discussions on strategy including scrutiny of progression metrics and oversight of the t he functioning of the Board, including composition, competencies, continued rollout of digital products diversity and agendas an awareness of the risk of transformation fatigue within r elationships between the Board and senior leaders, and between the organisation members of the Board itself a  n ongoing focus on customers, including appropriate market and succession planning for Executive Directors and other senior leaders behavioural insights to facilitate the right level of scrutiny and challenge by the Board. the Board’s monitoring of organisational culture and behaviours In addition, a number of actions were taken during the year in response  nderstanding of risks facing the company, including probability u to findings arising from the 2018 externally facilitated Board evaluation and mitigation process. You can read more about progress on these in the table concerns and areas for improvement. opposite. The Board has confirmed that these items were addressed to its satisfaction, with recommendations having been put into practice or a clear action plan identified for each. Further, the Chair meets regularly with the Non-Executive Directors as a whole and these sessions include reciprocal feedback on the functioning of the Board to augment the formal Board evaluation process. 1 Lintstock’s involvement with the Pearson Group is limited to matters led by the Company Secretary’s office, namely to assist with tools and market insights in respect of listed company governance practices and obligations. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 67 Individual evaluation Committee evaluation In addition to the evaluation of the Board as a whole, Executive All Committees undertake an annual evaluation process to review their Directors are evaluated each year on their overall performance performance and effectiveness. For 2019, the Committee evaluation against goals agreed by the Board, and in respect of personal process formed part of the wider Board evaluation led by the Senior objectives under the company’s annual incentive plan. These goals Independent Director, and the findings from this were considered by and objectives are linked to the key metrics for the company, including the Board as a whole in December 2019. Read more on this in the both financial and strategic objectives as well as goals linked to culture, Committee reports on the pages that follow. talent and brand. Progress against each of these metrics is reviewed by the Board on a regular basis, as part of a dashboard of KPIs. The Chair leads a formal individual evaluation of each Non-Executive Director every other year and encourages open channels of communication between Directors and the Chair on an ongoing basis. In the Board’s opinion, these ongoing lines of communication, combined with a Group-wide culture which allows and encourages feedback at any time, provide the most effective means for evaluation. In assessing the contribution of each Non-Executive Director, the Chair has confirmed that each continues to make a significant contribution to the business and deliberations of the Board. The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also conduct an annual review of the Chair’s performance, with the Senior Independent Director providing feedback from this review to the Chair. Progress on findings of 2018 evaluation Finding Response/action taken Ongoing development and There is acknowledgement by longer-serving members of the Board of the significant progress that has been articulation of the strategy made on development of the strategy, particularly in respect of the articulation of the five-year strategic vision. Refinement and articulation of the strategy will be a continued area of focus throughout 2020, and the Board is mindful of the need to balance the thinking on the long term with execution of short-term goals in a challenging environment for certain parts of the business. Board succession planning Two new Non-Executive Directors, Sherry Coutu and Graeme Pitkethly, joined the Board in 2019. Succession planning for Non-Executives, including for the Committee Chair and Senior Independent Director roles, will be a continued focus in 2020. This will include a skills mapping process to enable the Board to design a candidate profile for future Non-Executive Directors in preparation for retirements in the coming years. Leadership development and Executive talent and succession planning are regular items on the Board’s agenda, with two such sessions succession planning below taking place during the year, augmented by networking and mentoring programmes involving the Board and Board level senior leaders. Read more about succession planning on p65 Continue to enhance Board’s In early 2019, the Board considered results of the latest employee engagement survey, and it receives periodic oversight of culture updates on employee engagement from the designated Non-Executive Director, Vivienne Cox. The Nomination & Governance Committee discussed in detail the Code’s requirement for the Board to monitor culture, and how best to achieve this, which led to a session on talent, culture and values at the Board’s October meeting. The Board and its Committees also receive information which provides insights into organisational culture, such as compliance and talent metrics, and has a variety of opportunities to see the culture in action at events throughout the year. Culture will remain an area of focus during 2020 as the Board is mindful of the potential effects of business transformation on organisational culture. Continue to consider the During the year, the Board received updates on the competitive landscape and discussed customer trends competitive landscape and during its regular sessions on the US Higher Education Courseware business, as well as meeting in person customer views with learner and educator representatives. In December, as part of its site visit to the Online Program Management business in the US, the Board considered the competitive landscape for that sector. Additionally, the Board’s milestones dashboard contains metrics regarding Pearson’s performance in the markets in which the company operates, and the competitive landscape is a factor considered in any proposals relating to acquisitions or disposals. Board’s understanding of risk Risk deep dives take place at each Audit Committee meeting on key risk areas, supplemented by Reputation & Responsibility Committee oversight of certain risks. The Board retains oversight of the organisational risk management process, with support from the Audit Committee, and during the year the full Board held a deep dive into data privacy and information security, considering the external landscape and Pearson’s frameworks to address these risks. 68 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Nomination & Governance Committee report Role and business of the Committee Committee Chair Vivienne Cox The Committee monitors the composition and balance of the Board and of its Committees, identifying and recommending to the Board Members the appointment of new Directors and/or Committee members. Elizabeth Corley, Sherry Coutu, Vivienne Cox, Josh Lewis, The Committee has oversight of the company’s compliance with, Tim Score and Sidney Taurel and approach to, all applicable regulation and guidance related to corporate governance matters. The Committee also oversees talent and succession plans for senior roles. Following the appointment of Sherry Coutu to the Committee on Committee responsibilities include: 1 July 2019, the Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chair of the Board. The Chief Executive and other Appointments senior management, including the Chief Human Resources Officer, Identifying and nominating candidates for Board vacancies. attend Committee meetings by invitation. Balance Areas of focus during 2019 Ensuring that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate Throughout 2019, a major area of focus for the Committee was the balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge consideration of the newly effective UK Corporate Governance Code, to operate effectively. in particular to ensure that the agreed revisions to Pearson’s governance framework were working effectively following Succession implementation. As part of this, the Committee received a status tracker on a regular basis to enable it to consider the appropriateness Reviewing the company’s leadership needs with a view to and maturity of various elements of the framework. Notable items ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete which the Committee discussed as part of its oversight role included: in the marketplace. implementation of the new Employee Engagement Network Governance (see p64) Reviewing and overseeing Pearson’s corporate governance framework,  n internal guidance framework relating to Directors’ external a Board evaluation and training plans, and Board Diversity Policy. commitments (see p58) Terms of reference ways in which to facilitate further engagement by investors with the Board The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out its authority and duties. These are reviewed annually and can be the Board’s monitoring and understanding of organisational found on the company website at www.pearson.com/governance. culture and values. Committee attendance At its February meeting, the Committee considered the induction Attendance by Directors at Nomination & Governance Committee framework for potential new Board members, in addition to meetings throughout 2019: reviewing the company’s standard form letter of appointment for Non-Executive Directors. Meetings attended Elizabeth Corley1 3/4 Other areas of focus for the Committee during the year included preparation for and oversight of the annual Board evaluation process, Sherry Coutu2 2/2 recommendation of revisions to the membership of Board Committees Vivienne Cox 4/4 in response to the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors, Josh Lewis 4/4 and review of the Board Diversity Policy and adoption of revised accompanying objectives. The Committee also received periodic Tim Score 4/4 updates from the Chief Human Resources Officer and members Sidney Taurel 4/4 of the D&I team in respect of D&I initiatives across the business – 1 Unable to attend one meeting due to an external commitment. Ahead of the see p22 for further detail. meeting, Mrs Corley communicated her comments on the business of the Committee to the Chair. Board search 2 Ms Coutu joined the Committee on 1 July 2019. A key element of the Committee’s remit is to lead the process for Board appointments in line with appropriate succession plans. The Committee has defined a set of specific criteria for potential new Non-Executive Directors, in particular giving consideration to the skills, experience and knowledge required in any candidates. Pearson expects all Non-Executive Directors to demonstrate the highest level of integrity and credibility, independence of judgement, maturity, collegiality, a high interest in education and the commitment to devote the necessary time. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 69 In its most recent search, the Committee agreed that it was particularly interested to identify candidates who would complement its current Nomination & Governance Committee skill set, ideally bringing a combination of global executive experience, meeting focus during 2019 financial background and UK listed company expertise. Taking into account the agreed person specification, the Committee Appointments engaged Russell Reynolds Associates in 2018 to commence a search process for new Non-Executive Directors. This process continued into S  earch for two new Non-Executive Directors, resulting in early 2019 and, in line with the objectives of the Board’s Diversity Policy, appointments of Sherry Coutu and Graeme Pitkethly the Committee, led by Ms Cox, worked closely with Russell Reynolds Directors’ commitments guidance framework Associates to ensure that the list of candidates reflected diversity of gender and ethnicity as well as diversity in its broadest sense. Balance Following consideration by the Committee of a shortlist of candidates, Membership of Board Committees including their current commitments, skills and previous experience, D&I initiatives at Pearson and bearing in mind the Pearson culture, the search process Review and approval of Board Diversity Policy and culminated in the appointments of Sherry Coutu and Graeme accompanying objectives Pitkethly as Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 May 2019. At the end of 2019, reflecting the announcement by John Fallon of his Succession intention to retire from the Pearson Board, the Committee commenced Executive and Non-Executive Director succession planning a search process for a new Chief Executive, putting into practice the Chief Executive succession plans which are reviewed by the Board on Induction outline for new Directors an annual basis. This search process, in which both internal and external candidates are under consideration, is being led by the Governance Chair of the Board, Sidney Taurel, with support from Ms Cox and Board evaluation preparation and findings other Board members as well as the Chief Human Resources Officer. Compliance with UK Corporate Governance Code Pearson is being assisted in the external element of this search process by Russell Reynolds Associates (search activity) and Jan Hall Consulting Oversight of development of the Employee Engagement Network Limited (trading as ‘No. 4’) (advisory activity). You can read more about Schedule and length of meetings Succession planning for Executive Directors on p65 Approval of Committee terms of reference In addition to the Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive search processes, Russell Reynolds Associates undertakes broader executive search activity for the Group, and is a signatory to the Voluntary Code Committee aims for 2020 of Conduct for Executive Search Firms. Jan Hall Consulting Limited has no other current connection to Pearson. In 2020, the Committee will continue to pay attention to the principles and provisions of the Code, giving consideration to areas in which there Committee evaluation may be scope to go above and beyond Pearson’s current governance arrangements in ensuring a world-class corporate governance The Committee undertook an annual evaluation to review its own framework. Building on discussions during 2019, we will continue to performance and effectiveness. The process was undertaken as part monitor Pearson’s organisational culture and, with the help of the of the wider Board evaluation process and sought views from the Chief Human Resources Officer, we aim to introduce a dashboard Board and Company Secretary on matters including Committee drawing together key cultural indicators from across the Group, which roles and responsibilities, quality and timeliness of meeting materials, will add quantitative metrics to augment the Board’s existing oversight opportunity for discussion and debate, dialogue with management of culture and organisational health. We will also hold updates on D&I and access to independent advice. and talent and succession. As part of these sessions we will consider The Committee was considered to have operated effectively the Board D&I policy and wider initiatives in place across Pearson, such throughout 2019 with a clear agenda and effective leadership, and as Valuable 500 and mentoring programmes, and we will review the there was recognition of the volume of work which the Committee had format of the Employee Engagement Network after its first complete undertaken during the year. In response to the findings of the 2018 year of operation. Additionally, the Committee will oversee the Board evaluation, the Committee gave consideration to the processes relating evaluation process which, for 2020, will be externally-facilitated. to Non-Executive Director search activity, as a result of which the Committee agreed an interview framework for candidates which would encourage openness and communication between potential candidates and existing Board members. Vivienne Cox Chair of Nomination & Governance Committee 70 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Nomination & Governance Committee report The Committee also ensures that appointments are made on merit Board diversity and relevant experience, while taking into account the broadest The commercial benefits of having a diverse Board are well definition of diversity. In the recent Non-Executive Director search established. At Pearson, we believe that diversity of all types on the process, the Committee encouraged the retained search firm to place Board makes us a better business by enabling enhanced commercial an emphasis on putting forward candidates who would enhance the results and also that inclusive leadership for the company leads to overall diversity of the Board. better decision-making. It also reflects an overt commitment to The gender diversity of the Board was 33% female representation as finding and retaining the best, most diverse talent. at 31 December 2019 (2018: 30%), achieving the recommendations The Board embraces the Code’s underlying principles with regard to suggested by the Hampton-Alexander Review aimed at having at least Board balance and diversity, including in respect of ethnicity, gender 33% female representation on the Board by 2020. We are committed to and age. The objectives set out in the Board’s Diversity Policy and our maintaining female representation on our Board at or in excess of this progress towards these objectives are shown in the table below. The level. Pearson also satisfies the recommendation in the Parker Review Committee ensures that the Directors of Pearson demonstrate a broad that at least one Director should be from an ethnic minority balance of skills, background and experience, to support Pearson’s background ahead of the 2021 target date. strategic development and reflect the global nature of our business. Board D&I objectives The Committee has agreed the following objectives on behalf of the Board, which were reviewed and updated during the year, to support the Board D&I Policy: Objectives Progress We will strive to maintain a Board composition of: 33% female Directors achieved. at least 33% female Directors B  oard includes one Director who identifies as at least one Director of colour. Mixed – White & Black Caribbean. All Board appointments will be made on merit, in the context Rigorous process used during recent search for Sherry Coutu and of the skills and relevant experience that are needed for the Graeme Pitkethly who each have relevant experience and skills. Board to oversee Pearson’s strategic development and that reflect the global nature of our business. The Board will continue to incorporate a focus on a  ussell Reynolds Associates assisted Pearson with the recent Non-Executive R diverse pipeline in its succession and appointment Director search process and are engaged on the external element of the planning including to prioritise the use of search firms Chief Executive search. Russell Reynolds Associates are a signatory to the which adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Voluntary Code. Search Firms (the Voluntary Code) when seeking to make Board-level appointments The Board will continue to adopt best practice, as appropriate,  he recommendations of the Davies Review, Hampton-Alexander Review T in response to the Davies Review, the Hampton-Alexander and Parker Review in respect of gender and ethnic diversity have been noted Review and the Parker Review. by the Board. The Board will consider its composition and diversity as These matters were considered in the 2019 evaluation process. part of its consideration of effectiveness in the Board evaluation review process Where appropriate, we will assist with the development and  oard mentoring scheme of senior leadership talent ongoing B support of initiatives that promote all forms of D&I in the throughout 2019. Board, Pearson Executive and our senior management.  oard members participated in Pearson’s Female & Diverse Executive B Leadership Forum events held in London and New York, developed in direct response to a suggestion by the Nomination & Governance Committee. We will review and report on our progress in line with the policy  he Nomination & Governance Committee reviewed the Board’s Diversity T and our objectives in the annual report, including providing Policy and accompanying objectives during the year, as well as developments details of initiatives to promote D&I in the Board, Pearson on diversity in the external landscape. Executive and our senior management. We will continue to make key D&I information, about the This information is included in the annual report. Board, senior management and our wider employee population, available in the annual report, and aim for ongoing transparency in this area in line with best practice. Target achieved New target Changed target Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 71 During the year, the Committee received a detailed progress update Gender balance of Board Ethnicity on the company’s D&I strategic approach, framework, governance and measurement models and priority areas. The Board also received an update on a new internal mentoring scheme and participated in the programme whereby each Director was paired with a high-potential Senior Vice President female leader at Pearson. This launched at the end of 2018 and ran throughout 2019. Diversity and talent in Executive pipeline Our Code of Conduct sets out our global standards and responsibilities Male 8 White 11 with regard to D&I at all employee levels, including the Pearson Female 4 Mixed 1 Executive, and covers many aspects, including gender, age, ethnicity, Mixed – White & Black Caribbean (1) disability and sexual orientation. This is underpinned by a global White – English/Welsh/Scottish/ statement on D&I along with country and business-specific policies. Northern Irish/British (7) A new Global D&I Council launched in early 2019 chaired by Chief White – Any other White background (4) Executive, John Fallon. This comprises around 30 members representing employee resource groups, business leaders as well as allies and advocates. For more information on the company’s approach to D&I, please see p22 in the Sustainability section. Nationality of Directors Tenure on the Board for Chair and We are a founder member of the 30% Club and the Chief Executive has also signed a personal commitment to set an aspirational target of Non-Executive Directors at least 30% women in Pearson’s senior management team by 2020. On our Executive team, there are currently two women out of nine members (22%) – this excludes the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer who are counted in the Board’s metric (2018: 20%). As of 31 December 2019, the number of women forming part of the senior management team, i.e. the Pearson Executive and their direct reports, including the Company Secretary, as required by the Code, is 34 women representing 34% of that group (2018: 31%). US 3 Under 3 years 3 We believe that we have a multi-pronged plan in place to build our UK 8 3–6 years 4 pipeline of women in leadership and senior management positions, Canada 1 Over 6 years 3 and the Board and Committee will carefully monitor their development, and the development of all key talent. All information correct as at 31 December 2018. 72 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Reputation & Responsibility Committee report Reputation & Responsibility Committee role Committee Chair Linda Lorimer The Committee forms an important part of the Board’s governance structure. It works to advance and assess Pearson’s reputation across Members the range of its stakeholders and to maximise the company’s positive Vivienne Cox, Linda Lorimer, impact on society and the communities where we work and serve. Michael Lynton, Graeme Pitkethly and Lincoln Wallen The Committee’s remit covers issues and initiatives relating to the company’s reputation and its civic responsibilities. These include those matters that are material to Pearson’s stakeholders and the company’s long-term sustainability, as well as a regular review of those incidents Committee responsibilities include: that could adversely affect the company’s reputation. We promote Pearson’s sustainability plan and assess the progress in advancing Reputation its tenets. The Committee works in alignment with the company’s Responsible Business Leadership Council, which comprises senior Pearson’s reputation among major stakeholders, including governments, leaders from across the business. investors, employees, customers, learners and the education community. Read more about Sustainability on p16 Risk Changes to the Committee Oversight of Pearson’s approach to reputational risk, and ensuring that clear roles have been assigned for the management of the reputation Graeme Pitkethly, who joined the Board in May 2019, was appointed dimension of risks identified. to the Reputation & Responsibility Committee on 1 July 2019. Graeme brings valuable experience in sustainability practice and Sustainability consumer behaviour from his time at Unilever, as well as a strong understanding of best practice in external reporting on sustainability Oversight of 2020 sustainability plan and performance against and climate change due to his role as Vice Chair of the Task Force on sustainability goals and commitments. Climate-related Financial Disclosures. I look forward to working closely with him on the Committee; he is already adding important insights. Brand & culture Management of the Pearson brand to ensure that its value and reputation Areas of focus during 2019 are maintained and enhanced. Pearson’s approach to monitoring The Committee conducts in-depth reviews of issues that are important and supporting the values and desired behaviours that form our to the sustainability of our business and our reputation. Key issues, corporate culture. which are monitored by the Committee and discussed either by the Board or one of its Committees, include: Ethics 1. competitiveness of digital products Ethical business standards, including Pearson’s approach to issues relevant to its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen. 2. data privacy and information security 3. security, Health & Safety Strategy 4. corporate governance Strategies, policies and communication plans related to reputation and responsibility issues and the people and processes that are in place to 5. economic empowerment manage, anticipate and adapt to them. 6. access to education Terms of reference 7. affordability of products/services The Committee has written terms of reference that clearly set out its authority and duties. These are reviewed annually and can be 8. 21st-century skills found on the company at website www.pearson.com/governance. 9. greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. Committee attendance In the first year of the Code’s stakeholder engagement requirements, Attendance by Directors at Reputation & Responsibility Committee we helped to scope and monitor the company’s framework for meetings throughout 2019: gathering and responding to stakeholder views (see p14). Learners are a key stakeholder for Pearson, and we held in-depth discussions into Meetings attended privacy and ethical issues related to learners’ data. The Committee also Vivienne Cox 4/4 reviewed Pearson’s planned standard for learner data management, Linda Lorimer 4/4 which will shape the company’s use of AI technology and personal Michael Lynton 4/4 data collection. Graeme Pitkethly1 3/3 In October, the Committee considered plans for Pearson’s 2030 Sustainability Strategy and carbon reduction targets. In particular, Lincoln Wallen 4/4 we discussed the three main pillars for the 2030 plan that had been 1 Appointed to the Committee on 1 July 2019. identified through extensive stakeholder engagement and materiality mapping, namely: advance equity in learning; build skills for sustainable futures; and lead by example through initiatives for Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 73 advancing such areas as human rights and the environment. Committee aims for 2020 Committee members offered guidance regarding potential goals for each of the three pillars and the timeline for the strategy, and Over the next year, we will continue to focus on data privacy from the considered the integration of sustainability within Pearson’s business perspective of the learner and continue to monitor the advancement of model with reference to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. our brand strategy as well as Pearson’s approach to reputational risk. During 2019, the Committee also reviewed proposed public statements We will continue to explore Pearson’s material sustainability issues on modern slavery and considered Pearson’s broader human rights (e.g. 21st-century skills and climate change), monitor progress on strategy, both of which are important to Pearson’s values and the supply chain risk, engage in the next phase of development of our 2030 delivery of its sustainability plan. We also considered incidents of Sustainability Strategy (focusing on the goals and KPIs to underpin reputational note, including those which had received coverage successful delivery of the strategy). The Committee will also examine through traditional or social media such as Pearson’s response to the results of our global learner survey and investor priorities and the security breach of a UK A level Maths exam paper and the opportunities in the environmental, social and governance (ESG) space. company’s subsequent engagement with learners, schools and the exam regulator. Pearson’s brand strategy was another important area of focus during Linda Lorimer the year for the Committee. The brand strategy was informed by Chair of Reputation & Responsibility Committee reputational research insights from a study of learners, educators and members of the public across the US and UK. The Committee also spent time with the Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, who had joined Pearson at the start of 2019, in order to understand her priorities. We also examined progress on supply chain risk and, as every year, delved into the areas of health, safety and safeguarding, which are Reputation & Responsibility Committee principal risks for Pearson. The Committee also reviewed Pearson’s meeting focus during 2019 efficacy programme and discussed future plans for continued integration of efficacy findings into our product development cycle. Read more about Efficacy on p27 Reputation Supply chain and third-party risk management Committee evaluation Issues and incidents reports In 2019, the Committee evaluation formed part of the wider Board Reputation research evaluation process led by Senior Independent Director, Vivienne Cox. Editorial Policy – progress report She sought views from all members of the Board and the Company Secretary through a series of one-to-one interviews. The evaluation found that Directors were pleased with the functioning of the Risk Committee, recognising the Chair for the manner in which the Safeguarding Committee’s work is cogently reported to the Board. The Directors Health & Safety commented that the work of the Committee is becoming ever more important and closely linked to strategy, and that it was necessary to Sustainability ensure sufficient time during the year to cover the growing roster of matters within its remit. Particular areas highlighted by the Directors 2030 Sustainability Strategy for continued focus during the coming year were privacy and data Greenhouse gas emissions and carbon reduction targets management and the development of the brand in support of the strategy. Brand & culture Progress on findings of 2018 evaluation Brand strategy The responses to the 2018 evaluation, which was conducted by way of Efficacy update and future plans a questionnaire to Committee members and key internal stakeholders, highlighted that: Ethics t he Committee has matured, with increasing focus on strategically Human Rights Policy material issues. The development of the 2030 Sustainability Strategy Modern Slavery Act statement will only make the Committee’s work more valuable. t he introduction of private sessions as part of each meeting, Strategy similar to Audit and Remuneration Committees, was recommended. Learner data They have proven to be beneficial and enable Committee members Artificial intelligence to discuss and agree on key issues to take forward with management. These sessions will be continued as a regular part of each Committee meeting over the coming year. Governance Committee terms of reference Stakeholder engagement framework 74 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Audit Committee report Audit Committee role Committee Chair Tim Score The Committee has been established by the Board primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting, financial reporting, internal Members control and risk management processes of the company and the audit Elizabeth Corley, Vivienne Cox, of the financial statements of the company. As a Committee, we are Linda Lorimer, Michael Lynton, responsible for assisting the Board’s oversight of the quality and Graeme Pitkethly, integrity of the company’s external financial reporting and statements Tim Score and Lincoln Wallen and the company’s accounting policies and practices. Pearson’s SVP-Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance has a dual reporting Committee responsibilities include: line to the Chief Financial Officer and to me, and external auditors have direct access to the Committee to raise any matters of concern and to Reporting report on the results of work directed by the Committee. As Audit Committee Chair, I report to the full Board at every Board meeting The quality and integrity of financial reporting and statements and immediately following a Committee meeting. I also work closely with related disclosure. the CFO and senior financial management outside the formal meeting schedule to ensure robust oversight and challenge in relation to Policy financial control and risk management. Group policies, including accounting policies and practices. Audit Committee composition External audit Following his appointment to the Board in May 2019, Graeme Pitkethly External audit, including the appointment, qualification, was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 July 2019. Graeme’s independence and performance of the external auditor. leadership experience in complex global businesses, as well as his background as a Chartered Accountant and in-depth knowledge of Internal audit, risk & internal control financial and operational matters, will complement the Committee’s existing skill set, and I look forward to working closely with him. Risk management systems and the internal control environment Following Graeme’s appointment, the Committee comprises seven including oversight of the work of the internal audit function. independent Non-Executive Directors. As a Committee, we have a good balance of skills and knowledge with competence and experience Compliance & governance covering all aspects of the sectors in which Pearson operates – Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements in relation to education, digital and services – and our key geographic markets. financial reporting and accounting matters. Fair, balanced and understandable reporting Terms of reference We are mindful of the Code’s principle N relating to fair, balanced and The Committee has written terms of reference which clearly set out understandable reporting and we build sufficient time into our annual its authority and duties. These are reviewed annually and can be report timetable to ensure that the full Board receives sufficient found on the company website at www.pearson.com/governance. opportunity to review, consider and comment on the report as it Committee attendance progresses. Learn more about fair, balanced and understandable Attendance by Directors at Audit Committee meetings reporting on p110 throughout 2019: Risk assessment, assurance and integrity Meetings attended A key role of the Committee is to provide oversight and reassurance Elizabeth Corley1 3/4 to the Board with regard to the integrity of the company’s financial Vivienne Cox 4/4 reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the Linda Lorimer 4/4 identification, assessment and reporting of risk. During 2019, we conducted a number of deep dives into selected principal Michael Lynton 4/4 risks, and the key risks on which the Committee focused throughout Graeme Pitkethly2 2/2 the year are set out below. Learn more about principal risks and Tim Score 4/4 uncertainties on p40 Lincoln Wallen 4/4 Business transformation 1 Part-attendance at one meeting due to an external commitment – Ongoing business transformation and change is one of Pearson’s this is formally recorded as an absence. key risks and opportunities, and The Enabling Programme (TEP) 2 Appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 July 2019. is an important operational simplification project covering Pearson’s key enterprise resource planning technology and processes, including financial, operations and HR systems and processes. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 75 The Committee has received an update at each meeting during the in the second half of the year, monitoring the progress of the business planning and implementation phases of TEP, engaging with the senior value realisation (BVR) programme. Following TEP deployment in management team leading the programme. The primary areas of focus the UK and US, management took the decision to review the live for the Committee in 2019 were: environment in order to: (i) identify continuous improvement opportunities; and (ii) explore areas of the deployment where in the first half of the year, oversight of the implementation of finance, further integration was required, with the overall aim of BVR being to procurement, e-commerce and supply chain systems to: (i) the assess how best to leverage business value from TEP and integrated remainder of our North American business which had been operating release investments. As part of the Committee’s regular deep dives, on legacy systems; and (ii) the Assessments business, including Committee members were updated on the ways in which processes Clinical and VUE. In particular, the Committee considered the had been considered from an employee, customer and data preparatory steps from technology, employee and customer quality perspective, resulting in opportunities being identified for perspectives, progress on system integration and testing, and status improvements in areas such as data quality and end-to-end delivery. of key readiness milestones in advance of the implementation The Committee then considered the progress made in those areas,  reparations for the Rest of World phase of TEP which will see most p noting that attention was now turning to prevention and remaining markets outside of Pearson’s UK and US business move to maintenance of those data assets. the new systems and processes Audit Committee meeting focus during 2019 Reporting Accounting and technical updates Review of interim results and trading updates Impact of legal claims and regulatory issues on financial reporting  orm 20-F and related disclosures, including annual Sarbanes-Oxley F Fair, balanced and understandable, going concern and viability statements Act section 404 attestation of financial reporting internal controls 2  018 annual report and accounts: preliminary announcement, Significant issues reporting financial statements and income statement Analysis supporting viability statement Policy Accounting matters and Group accounting policies Treasury policy and reporting Annual review and approval of external auditors’ policy T  ax strategy, including an update on EU state aid and impact of US tax reforms External audit Provision of non-audit services by PwC Confirmation of auditor independence Receipt of external auditors’ report on Form 20-F and year-end audit 2019 external audit plan Report on half-year procedures Remuneration and engagement letter of external auditors Reappointment of external auditors Review opinion on interim results Review of the effectiveness of external auditors Internal audit, risk & internal control Internal audit activity reports and review of key findings Oversight of The Enabling Programme Organisational risk management R  isk deep dives: information and cyber-security; data privacy; 2020 internal audit plan treasury and insurance; anti-bribery and corruption (ABC); tax; business resilience  ssessment of the effectiveness of internal audit function, A internal control environment and risk management systems  versight of the programme to develop the O Pearson Learning Platform Controls Centre of Excellence updates Compliance & governance Fraud, whistleblowing reports and compliance investigations Audit Committee, Verification Committee and internal audit Schedule of authorities function terms of reference C  ompliance with accounting and audit-related aspects of the Audit Committee evaluation UK Corporate Governance Code 76 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Audit Committee report Alongside TEP, Pearson has moved to a shared services model for T  he establishment of standards and methods to ensure Pearson delivery of certain Finance and HR processes, and the Committee products are designed to protect learners’ data and to ensure considered regularly the work undertaken by the Controls Centre of products continue to function if attacked Excellence team. The external auditors, PwC, updated the Committee The Committee considered in particular the ways in which the at each meeting on the work that they had conducted in respect of architecture of the PLP and ways of working in its design and testing controls, and they shared perspectives on strategic development aim to greatly increase the inherent platform security opportunities to further enhance the controls framework. as well as the many ‘digital native’ security features which have been Data privacy and Information security built into PLP. Separately, the Chief Information Security Officer noted Pearson considers data privacy and information security as that the decommissioning of certain legacy systems was a particular principal risks reflecting a business model which is increasingly area of focus in reducing the level of risk attached to Pearson’s based around digital products. In 2019, the Chief Privacy Officer and information security programme. Chief Information Security Officer reported on both topics to the Committee, and the Board as a whole, recognising the increasing Audit Committee meetings and activities importance of cyber-risk to modern businesses. At every meeting, the Committee considered reports on the activities of the internal audit and compliance functions, including the results of As part of the report, the Committee reviewed Pearson’s readiness internal audits, risk reviews, project assurance reviews and fraud and for the California Consumer Privacy Act (which came into effect whistleblowing reports. The Committee also monitored the company’s at the start of 2020), and an overview of privacy laws which would financial reporting and risk management procedures, reviewed the soon be introduced in other jurisdictions in which Pearson operates. services provided by PwC and considered any significant legal claims Key aspects of Pearson’s data privacy programme were also and regulatory issues in the context of their impact on financial considered, including: reporting, each on a regular basis. t he principles and priorities underpinning Pearson’s multi-year During the year, the Committee also discussed the finance and data privacy strategy IT controls environment at each meeting, including Sarbanes-Oxley t he emphasis on ‘privacy by design’ in the development of new testing and scope, updates on prior year items, and the ongoing Pearson products and platforms transformation of the Group-wide controls framework which is evolving in support of Pearson’s Global Business Services model. t he advancement of processes to respond to user/data subject requests, including the rights to access, correct and delete data In addition to the risk deep dives described above, the Committee also conducted deep dives into business resilience and crisis management, the review and enhancement of the data privacy treasury, tax, and anti-bribery and corruption. In February 2020, the governance structure Committee considered the 2019 annual report and accounts, including In addition, an update on the AimsWeb 1.0 security incident the preliminary results announcement, financial statements, strategic was provided. report and Directors’ report. The information security report allowed the Committee to consider View the key activities of the Audit Committee on p75 the progress made in recent years. In considering the current status of the information security programme, the Committee noted the Internal audit evaluation frameworks which had been put in place in respect of: The International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing (the Standards) require an independent external assessment fundamental and proactive user, network and cloud security of internal audit to be conducted at least once every five years by a building blocks which limit outsider access to critical information qualified, independent assessor or assessment team from outside p  latforms and processes which control least-privilege access to the organisation. At its December meeting, the Audit Committee various IT systems considered the findings of an external quality assessment of internal audit, facilitated by Protiviti. The objectives of the review were to assess P  earson’s ability to react as quickly as possible to a detected event, conformance with the Standards; to assess the effectiveness of thereby aiming to reduce the window of vulnerability internal audit within the context of its mandate and stakeholder Tools and processes to help the business assess and manage expectations; and to provide recommendations to internal audit on risk, set standards and measure compliance with internal and improvement opportunities and emerging practices. The assessment external requirements Members All of the Audit Committee members are independent having recent and relevant financial experience, and is an Non-Executive Directors and have financial and/or related Associate Chartered Accountant. Until July 2019, he also served business experience due to the senior positions they hold or as Audit Committee Chair for The British Land Company plc. have held in other listed or publicly traded companies and/or The qualifications and relevant experience of the other Committee similar large organisations. Tim Score, Chair of the Committee members are detailed on p54–56 since April 2015, is the company’s designated financial expert, Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 77 was conducted by: interviewing key stakeholders of the internal Suggestions arising from the 2018 process, and the progress which audit function including the Committee Chair, members of the has been made on these, include: Pearson Executive, and senior financial, legal and operational invite a wider range of business leaders to Committee meetings, management; reviewing a sample of internal audit files and other enabling leaders to engage in Board-level discussions, as well as functional documentation including the audit universe and plan; facilitating a greater understanding of the Committee’s role in the and interviewing members of the internal audit function. wider business – the Committee has embraced this suggestion, The findings indicated an effective internal audit function that with a number of leaders and senior managers (typically one or two conforms to the IIA’s International Standards. One conformance levels below the Pearson Executive) leading sessions such as risk gap was identified – the requirement to have an external quality deep dives, internal control and process updates and financial review assessment every five years – which was addressed by the review matters. The Committee also invited Pearson’s Local Compliance itself taking place. Opportunities for improvement were also noted, Counsel of the year to lead a session on compliance and ABC largely related to the quality of supporting documentation. Based on achievements in Pearson’s Brazilian business the findings of the external review, and on its own ongoing assessment a  s progress continues to be made with the implementation of TEP of the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the Committee is of and transformation of Pearson, consider a review to confirm that the opinion that the quality, experience and expertise of the function is Pearson has maximised the opportunity to strengthen the control appropriate for the business. environment and better manage risk – progress on TEP and the Additional meeting attendees associated BVR programme was a regular item for discussion for In addition to the Committee members, advisers and executives the Committee throughout the year and will continue to be from across the business also attended meetings during the year. considered as transformation initiatives continue during 2020. This gives the Committee direct contact with key leadership. Read more detail on the risk deep dive overview on p74 The Chair and Chief Executive each attend at least one meeting per year, and the Chief Executive also attends for discussion of matters Internal audit with an operational and customer focus such as the ongoing The internal audit function is responsible for providing independent transformation and digital initiatives. The Committee also meets assurance to management and the Audit Committee on the design regularly in private with the external auditors; SVP-Internal Audit, and effectiveness of internal controls, to mitigate strategic, financial, Risk and Compliance; and VP-Internal Audit. operational and compliance risks. The SVP-Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance reports formally to the Chair of the Audit Committee and Audit Committee training the CFO, with a reporting line to the General Counsel on compliance The Committee receives technical updates at each meeting, matters. The VP-Internal Audit, responsible for the day-to-day including on matters such as accounting standards and the audit operations of internal audit and execution of the annual audit plan, and governance landscape, as well as specific or personal training as also reports formally to the Chair of the Audit Committee and the appropriate. In 2019, the Committee and other members of the SVP-Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance. Board and management participated in a training session covering: The internal audit mandate and plan are approved annually by the the reviews of the audit market and regulatory landscape Audit Committee. Progress and changes to the plan are also reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee throughout the year. The corporate reporting and governance matters internal audit plan is aligned to our greatest areas of risk, as identified a technical update on IFRS 16 (Leases). by the ERM process, and the Audit Committee considers issues and risks arising from internal audits. Management action plans to improve Committee members also meet with local management on a periodic internal controls and to mitigate risks, or both, are agreed with the basis, such as when travelling for overseas Board meetings, in order to business area after each audit. Formal management self-assessments gain a better understanding of how Pearson’s policies are embedded allow internal audit to monitor progress in implementing action in operations. plans, agreed as part of audits, to resolve any control deficiencies identified. Internal audit will request and assess evidence of action Committee evaluation plan implementation and may re-test controls if necessary. Progress of In 2019, the Committee evaluation formed part of the wider Board management action plans is reported to the Audit Committee at each evaluation process led by Senior Independent Director, Vivienne Cox, meeting. Internal audit has a formal collaboration process in place which sought views from all members of the Board and the Company with the external auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal Secretary through a series of one-to-one interviews. The evaluation controls. Regular reports on the findings and emerging themes found that Directors were pleased with the functioning of the identified through internal audits are provided to Executive Committee, and they recognised the Chair for the quality of the management and, via the Audit Committee, to the Board. work conducted by the Committee and the manner in which this is The SVP-Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance oversees compliance with reported to the Board. our Code of Conduct and works with senior legal and HR personnel to Progress on findings of 2018 evaluation investigate any reported incidents, including ethical, corruption and fraud allegations. The Audit Committee is provided with an update of The responses to the 2018 evaluation found an effective and all significant matters received through our whistleblowing reporting well-functioning Audit Committee, which uses its time well and system and, on behalf of the Board , considers an annual review of the has an appropriate focus on the key issues. effectiveness of this system. The Pearson anti-bribery and corruption programme provides the framework to support our compliance with various anti-bribery and corruption regulations such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Audit Committee report In last year’s annual report, the Committee reiterated its expectation External audit that an audit tender process would commence in 2022, taking into Oversight of external auditors account the significant level of business change being experienced by the Group – including through The Enabling Programme (TEP) – The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board and the focus that would be required by finance and management in respect of the appointment and compensation of the external teams to conduct the tender process, and any resulting auditor auditors. This recommendation is made by the Committee after transition, thoroughly and effectively. As indicated however, the considering the external auditors’ performance during the year, Committee, with the support of management, has kept under review reviewing external auditor fees, conducting an effectiveness review, whether this timing remains appropriate in the light of business and confirming the independence, objectivity, qualifications and developments. With TEP implementation and finance transformation experience of the external auditors. in the UK and North America now complete, and more than 80% of The Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of Pearson’s business in revenue terms having now transitioned to new the external auditors during 2019, as it does every year, and remains systems and processes, the Committee has revisited the matter. satisfied that the auditors provide effective independent challenge As a result, at its meeting in February 2020, the Committee decided to management. The external auditors’ review was conducted by to proceed with an audit tender during 2020, which will commence distributing a questionnaire to key audit stakeholders, including with issuing a Request for Proposal (RFP) in April 2020, with a view to members of the Audit Committee; CFO; Deputy CFO; SVP-Internal changing audit firm for the financial year ending 31 December 2021. Audit, Risk and Compliance; SVP-Finance for each business area; In making this decision, the Committee noted that finance and and other heads of corporate functions. Overall, responses to the management teams believe they have the capacity to support a questionnaire were positive, indicating an effective and independent tender and change in auditor, leveraging changes from the finance external audit process. The main area identified as presenting an transformation programme. Although TEP and the finance opportunity for possible improvement related to coordination transformation are yet to be implemented in Pearson’s remaining between PwC and the Pearson team, namely ensuring clear and International markets, the majority of Group audit scope sits within timely communication in respect of requirements and deliverables. North America and the UK and it is felt manageable by the Committee, The Committee will continue to review the performance of the external management and the finance function to onboard a new auditor at a auditors on an annual basis and will consider their independence and time of change in those smaller International markets. objectivity, taking account of all appropriate guidelines. There are no In discussing its preferred approach to the tender process, the contractual obligations restricting the Committee’s choice of external Committee has had regard to the detailed timeline, governance auditors. The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner framework (including confirmation of the working group that will responsible for the Pearson audit every five years and the current lead lead the process), selection criteria and the degree of involvement audit partner, Giles Hannam, rotated onto the Pearson audit at the by all Committee members in the various stages of the process. beginning of 2018. The Committee has also given consideration to the Chief Financial AQR Review of the external audit Officer transition process which will take place during 2020 and has During the year, the FRC’s Audit Quality Review (AQR) team selected determined, with the agreement of the incoming CFO, Sally Johnson, for review PwC’s audit of the Group’s 2018 financial statements as that the proposed timeline achieves the optimal balance between part of its 2019 annual inspection of audit firms. On completion of its business priorities and internal capacity while also allowing for the review, the AQR team wrote to the Committee Chair and provided a new senior finance team to ensure a rigorous and comprehensive copy of its final report. The Committee discussed the findings of the audit tender process. review with PwC at its February 2020 meeting, in particular focusing on Following the upcoming audit tender, Pearson will adopt a policy of those areas of the external audit procedures that had been identified putting the audit contract out to tender at least every ten years, as requiring improvement. The Committee was satisfied that PwC had as required. The Committee will continue to pay close attention to taken all necessary actions to address the AQR findings in the audit of developments in the audit landscape in response to: the findings of the Group’s 2019 financial statements. Sir Donald Brydon’s independent review into the quality and Audit tendering and rotation effectiveness of audit; and the outcome of the BEIS consultations on the recommendations made (i) by Sir John Kingman in his Pearson’s last audit tender was in respect of the 1996 year end independent review of the FRC, and (ii) by the CMA in its market and resulted in the appointment of Price Waterhouse as auditors. study into the statutory audit market, and will take these into Developments at an EU level regarding mandatory audit rotation for account as and when appropriate. listed companies have changed the UK landscape on audit tendering and rotation. EU regulations and the 2014 Order by the UK Competition Compliance with the CMA Order and Markets Authority (CMA) impose mandatory tendering and Pearson confirms that it was in compliance with the provisions rotation requirements, with Pearson required to appoint a new of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market auditor no later than for the 2024 financial year end. Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 during the financial year ended 31 December 2019. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 79 Review of the external audit The auditors also reported to the Committee the unadjusted During the year, the Committee discussed the planning, conduct and misstatements that they had found in the course of their work, which conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded. were immaterial, and the Committee confirmed that there were no material items remaining unadjusted in these financial statements. At its July 2019 meeting, the Committee discussed and approved the external audit plan and reviewed the key risks of misstatement of Auditors’ independence Pearson’s financial statements. The external auditors provided an In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC is governed by our update at the December 2019 Committee meeting, having concluded policy on external auditors, which is reviewed and approved annually that their analysis of significant and elevated risks remained the same. by the Audit Committee. The policy establishes procedures to ensure The table on p80–81 sets out the significant issues considered by that the auditors’ independence is not compromised, as well as the Committee together with details of how these items have been defining those non-audit services that PwC may or may not provide addressed. The Committee discussed these issues with the auditors to Pearson. These allowable services are in accordance with relevant at the time of their review of the half-year interim financial statements UK and US legislation. The policy takes into account certain voluntary in July 2019 and again at the conclusion of their audit of the financial commitments by PwC regarding independence and applies to all statements for the full year in February 2020. Pearson businesses globally, including associate companies. All the significant issues were also areas of focus for the auditors. The Audit Committee approves all audit and non-audit services Learn more in the Independent auditor’s report on p114 provided by PwC. Our policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit services reflects the restriction on the use of pre-approval In December 2019, the Committee discussed with the auditors the in the 2016 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and, accordingly, status of their work, focusing in particular on internal controls and all non-audit services, irrespective of value, are required to be Sarbanes-Oxley testing. approved by the Audit Committee. In particular, we expressly As the auditors concluded their audit, they explained to the prohibit the provision of certain tax, HR and other services by the Committee: external auditor. We review non-audit services on a case-by-case basis, including reviewing the ongoing effectiveness and T  he work they had conducted over revenue, including over appropriateness of our policy. long-term revenue contracts and judgements in relation to provisions for returns The Audit Committee receives regular reports summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditors. During 2019, Pearson spent T  heir work in evaluating management’s goodwill impairment £0.7m less on non-audit fees with PwC compared with 2018, due to the exercise, on a value-in-use basis, including assessing assumptions absence of a requirement for the audit of disposals and a reduction around CGU identification, goodwill reallocation, operating cash in fees associated with the audit of efficacy reporting. For 2019, flow forecasts, the appropriateness of the inclusion of restructuring non-audit fees represented 6% of external audit fees (17% in 2018). cost savings, perpetuity growth rates and discount rates For all non-audit work in 2019, PwC was selected only after T  he work performed over the nature and presentation of non-trading consideration that it was best able to provide the services we required items, focusing on subjective judgements and the transparency with at a reasonable fee and within the terms of our policy on external which related adjusted measures are presented auditors. Where PwC is selected to provide audit-related services, T  he work they had done to audit the provisioning levels in we take into account its existing knowledge and experience of Pearson. respect of potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions Where appropriate, services were tendered prior to a decision being and related disclosures made as to whether to award work to the auditors.  heir evaluation of the recoverability of investments in digital T Significant non-audit work performed by PwC during 2019 included: platforms and pre-publication assets audit of Pearson’s efficacy programme  heir work over the completed disposal of the US K12 T provision of comfort letters for potential bond issues Courseware business controls assurance related to non-financial controls T  he results of their controls testing for Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 reporting purposes and in support of their financial half-year review of interim financial statements. statements audit A full statement of the fees for audit and non-audit services is provided  he results of their work over the company’s going concern and T in note 4 to the financial statements on p145 viability statement reports  heir work over finance transformation related to the continued T roll-out of TEP and the organisational change resulting from implementing the target operating model Tim Score Their work in relation to the adoption of IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 Chair of Audit Committee Their work in relation to other matters which are not classified as key audit matters, but may give rise to additional disclosure requirements e.g. pensions. 80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Audit Committee report Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee Issue Action taken by Audit Committee Outcome Impairment reviews Pearson carries significant goodwill The Committee monitored the Group’s plans and forecasts Revised CGUs confirmed and goodwill and other intangible asset balances. during the year to determine if there were impairment triggers allocations agreed. Annual impairment There is judgement exercised in the and considered the results of the Group’s annual goodwill review finalised with confirmation of identification of cash-generating units impairment review including the revision to CGUs and the related sufficient headroom in each of the (CGUs) and the process of allocating reallocation of goodwill driven by organisation changes and CGUs with the exception of Brazil, goodwill to CGUs and aggregate CGUs systems consolidation. Key assumptions – including cash flows where a £65m impairment to acquired and in the assumptions underlying derived from strategic and operating plans that include longerintangible assets was made to align the the impairment review. Pearson has term plans for the OPM business, long-term growth rates and carrying values with the value in use. made significant impairments to the weighted average cost of capital – were reviewed and goodwill across a variety of its challenged. The Committee considered the sensitivities to businesses in recent years. changes in assumptions and the adequacy of disclosures required by IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’ in relation to the Group’s CGUs, noting that certain CGUs still remain sensitive to assumption changes after a number of impairments in recent years. Leases and IFRS 16 Pearson adopted IFRS 16 in respect of The Committee continued to monitor progress on the IFRS 16 lease The Committee reviewed the impact its lease portfolio in 2019. The Group conversion process. This included review of the implementation of adopting the new standard on the has a significant number of property of the transition options taken and the quantification of the impact, financial statements, key performance leases and several other low-value including sensitivities relating to the selection of appropriate indicators, banking covenants and vehicle and equipment leases. The discount rates. The impact of the change was also considered in future strategy and approved the implementation of the standard has the light of banking arrangements, strategic plans and the transition options taken, discount resulted in the recognition of right-ofreporting of cash flow and net debt. In addition, the Committee rates applied, and disclosures made. use assets and sublease investments reviewed the new policies and lease disclosures presented in the and corresponding lease liabilities on interim report and in this report. the balance sheet for the first time. Disposal transactions The Group finalised the sale of its The Committee reviewed the accounting for the disposal of the The Committee determined that US K12 Courseware business and US K12 Courseware business with specific focus on the fair value disposal accounting had been announced the sale of its remaining of non-cash proceeds in the form of loans and an earn-out. appropriately recorded and that the stake in Penguin Random House. The Committee also reviewed tax assumptions relating to the fair value of proceeds reflected its disposal transaction. The implications for the treatment of understanding of the disposal Penguin Random House as held for sale were noted. transaction and future expectations for cash flow. The Committee also agreed that the criteria for held for sale treatment in respect of the Penguin Random House interest had been met. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 81 Issue Action taken by Audit Committee Outcome Restructuring The restructuring programme The Committee continued to review progress on the restructuring The Committee confirmed that the announced in 2017 was in its final programme and considered the judgements required in assumptions underlying the timing year of implementation in 2019. accounting for the costs of redundancy and asset impairment, of cost recognition were reasonable Costs incurred in 2019 were mainly mainly in respect of the Group’s North America operations and and that the accounting and disclosure related to redundancies and asset enabling functions. In particular, in 2019, the Committee reviewed for the restructuring programme impairments. There are several the impact of restructuring on technology and content assets were appropriate. accounting judgements to be and the implications of initiatives to drive cost-efficiencies on made regarding categorisation strategic partnerships. and timing of cost recognition. Returns The determination of appropriate The Committee considered returns provisioning for the Assumptions underlying the returns provisions for product returns requires US Higher Education Courseware business and reviewed the reserve methodology were reviewed a significant amount of judgement methodology for establishing provisions. and challenged. and, in the light of recent volatility in The Committee were particularly interested to understand the returns in the US Higher Education impact of the new digital first strategy in North America on Courseware business, the Committee estimates associated with returns and stock obsolescence. continued to review returns data and our policy on providing for returns. Tax The impact of tax legislation changes The Committee considered various developments during the year, The Committee was satisfied with including US tax reform, EU state including the internal refinancing of the Group’s US operations Pearson’s approach to managing the aid, proposed digital services tax, which completed in June, US tax reform, tax authority audit activity impact of tax legislation changes and the trend for increased tax in Brazil and the EU state aid case. agreed with the views of management transparency, and provision levels. The outcome of the refinancing combined with provision regarding tax provisioning levels. releases reduced the 2019 adjusted tax rate. The 2019 adjusted tax rate is higher than the prior year due to several one-off benefits occurring in 2018. This was reported to the Committee at the December meeting. The Committee considered an update on Pearson’s involvement endorsing the B-Team Responsible Tax Principles initiative. The Chair of the Committee approved the third report on tax strategy prior to its publication in November 2019. 82 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Risk governance and control T  he internal audit team provides independent assurance on Control environment the adequacy of the risk management arrangements in place. The Board has overall responsibility for Pearson’s systems of internal The internal audit plan is aligned to identified Pearson-wide risks control and risk management, which are designed to manage, and it presents issues and risks arising from internal audits at each and where possible mitigate, the risks facing Pearson, safeguard Audit Committee meeting. assets and provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against The involvement of the Board and Audit Committee in the design, material financial misstatement or loss. The Board confirms that it implementation, identification, monitoring and review of risks has conducted a review of the effectiveness of Pearson’s systems of (including setting risk appetite and reviewing how risk is being risk management and internal control in accordance with provision embedded in our culture) is outlined in more detail in the 29 of the Code and the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal organisational risk management section on p40 Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting (FRC Guidance). The Board confirms these systems operated satisfactorily throughout Financial management and reporting the year and to the date of this report, and no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review process. There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the The Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the Board. Monthly financial information, including trading results, effectiveness of the company’s risk management and internal control balance sheets, cash flow statements, capital expenditures and systems to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee oversees a indebtedness, is reported against the corresponding figures for the risk-based internal audit programme, including periodic audits of the plan and prior years, with corrective action outlined by the appropriate risk processes across the organisation. It provides assurance on the senior Executive. Pearson’s senior management meets regularly with management of risk (including risk deep dives, as described on p74), business area management to review their business and financial and receives reports on the efficiency and effectiveness of internal performance against plan and forecast. Major risks relevant to each controls. You can read more about Pearson’s internal audit function business area as well as performance against the stated financial and on p77. Each business area maintains internal controls and procedures strategic objectives are reviewed in these meetings. appropriate to its structure, business environment and risk assessment, while complying with company-wide policies, There is an ongoing process to monitor the risks and effectiveness of standards and guidelines. controls in relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, including the related information systems. This includes up-to-date Internal control and risk management Pearson financial policies, formal requirements for finance to certify that they have been in compliance with policies and that the control Our internal controls and risk oversight are monitored and continually environment has been maintained throughout the year, consolidation improved to ensure their compliance with FRC Guidance. reviews and analysis of material variances, finance technical reviews, The Board is ultimately accountable for effective risk management in and review and sign-off by senior finance managers. The Group finance Pearson and determines our strategic approach to risk. It confirms function also monitors and assesses these processes and controls our organisational risk management framework as well as our risk through finance and technology compliance functions and a Controls appetite targets. Twice yearly it receives and reviews reports on Steering Committee comprising cross-functional experts. the status of the top Group-wide risks. It is supported in the These controls include those over external financial reporting which following ways: are documented and tested in accordance with the applicable t he Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing internal controls regulatory requirements, including section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley within Pearson which includes determining the risk appetite Act, which is relevant to our US listing. One key control in this area is (recommended by Pearson Executive management), reviewing the Verification Committee, which submits reports to the Audit and commenting upon key risks, and ensuring that risk Committee. This Committee is chaired by the SVP-Internal Audit, management is effective. Risk and Compliance, and members include the Chief Financial Officer and/or their deputy, the Deputy General Counsel, SVP-Investor P  earson’s Executive and leadership teams are responsible for Relations and the Company Secretary as well as senior members of identifying and mitigating principal risks. financial management. The primary responsibility of this Committee leaders and managers at all levels in Pearson are responsible is to review Pearson’s public reporting and disclosures to ensure that for managing risk in their area of responsibility, including the information provided to shareholders is complete, accurate and identification, assessment and treatment of risk. compliant with all applicable legislation and listing regulations. In addition, our separate Market Disclosure Committee is responsible t he Organisational Risk and Resilience team owns the overall for considering potential inside information and its treatment in risk management framework for the company and facilitates accordance with the EU Market Abuse Regulation. The effectiveness of consolidated reporting on risk. key financial controls is subject to management review and selfcertification and independent evaluation by the external auditors. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 83 Treasury management The treasury department operates within policies approved by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, and treasury transactions and procedures are subject to regular internal audit. Major transactions are authorised outside the department at the requisite level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties. Frequent reports are made to the Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Regular reports are prepared for the Audit Committee and the Board and an annual risk review meeting takes place between the Treasurer and Audit Committee. The Treasury Policy is described in more detail in note 19 to the financial statements on p165 Insurance Pearson reviews its risk financing options regularly to determine how the company’s insurable risk exposures are managed and protected. Pearson purchases comprehensive insurance cover and annually reviews coverage, insurers and premium spend, ensuring the programme is fit for purpose and cost-effective. Pearson’s insurance subsidiary, Spear Insurance Company Limited, is used to leverage Pearson’s risk retention capability and to achieve a balance between retaining insurance risk and transferring it to external insurers. Tax The Board has delegated responsibility for the integrity of financial reporting and risk management to the Audit Committee. This includes setting tax strategy and monitoring tax risk. The Tax Department reports at least annually to the Audit Committee. Regular updates are provided to the Deputy CFO and the CFO throughout the year. 84 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Directors’ remuneration report Dear shareholders, Committee Chair Over the last year, the Committee has been undertaking a thorough Elizabeth Corley review of its remuneration principles and Directors’ Remuneration Members Policy to ensure that they enable us to achieve the company’s purpose Elizabeth Corley, Sherry Coutu, of helping people make progress in their lives through learning and Josh Lewis, Tim Score and support the execution of the goal of generating long-term sustainable Sidney Taurel value for our shareholders. To deliver on Pearson’s purpose and strategy we need a strong global management team. Pearson competes for talent and key skills in an increasingly demanding marketplace and needs to attract and retain Key messages from the Remuneration Committee high-calibre executives, and incentivise them to deliver results and 2019 incentive outcomes reflect the headwinds the company progress against our strategy, in line with the shareholder experience. faced during the year, whilst recognising that Pearson is on track to The Committee considers that our revised principles of remuneration deliver ahead of target for cost savings and is growing revenue in 76% and Policy achieve this aim. of the company, whilst also becoming a leaner, more efficient and Our remuneration principles are described on p97 digitally-focused business. As a result, there will be no payout under the AIP for 2019 and a 33% payout under the 2017 LTIP vesting in 2020. Changes have been made to our Policy to reflect  e have reassessed our Remuneration Policy, following a W best practice fundamental review of remuneration principles to ensure it supports our purpose and strategy throughout the company. The Committee rigorously re-evaluated the current remuneration framework from first principles as part of our review of Policy. Changes have been made to align further the Remuneration Policy Having done so, we believe that the current remuneration framework with the principles of remuneration, the 2018 UK Corporate of annual incentive plan (AIP) plus Long-term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Governance Code and shareholders’ guidance. continues to support the execution of Pearson’s strategy.  he Committee reviewed the remuneration implications of T The Committee will, however, continue to keep its approach to leadership changes to the Board and senior management, and the remuneration arrangements under review to ensure that it remains appointment terms of the new CFO. effective as we transition the leadership team and as Pearson’s strategy continues to evolve. There will be no salary increases for incumbent Executive Directors in 2020. Notwithstanding that the broad framework remains the same, the Committee has made changes to some elements of its Remuneration W  e have decided to maintain a significant discount to LTIP award Policy and its implementation to simplify the approach, to reflect the levels in light of share price performance. 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and evolving best practice,  he Committee remains focused on ensuring the remuneration T and to align better with business objectives over the long-term. arrangements in place for the broader employee population remain Changes to Policy include: consistent with the need to attract the right talent for a digital future. In order to align with shareholder expectations, the AIP paid Terms of reference for ‘on target’ performance will be no more than 50% of the The Committee’s terms of reference are in line with the 2018 UK maximum potential. This results in a reduction in target AIP Corporate Governance Code and are available on the Governance page opportunity for the Chief Executive from 100% of salary to 90% of the company’s website at www.pearson.com/investors/governance. of salary with no change to the maximum opportunity. A summary of the Committee’s responsibilities is shown on p96 Under our Policy, the maximum LTIP opportunity has been Board Committee attendance reduced to 350% of salary (previously 400% of salary in normal circumstances, up to 500% of salary in exceptional circumstances), The following table shows attendance by Directors at Committee in order to simplify the approach and to bring it more closely in meetings throughout 2019: line with how we have been applying the policy over the last three Remuneration years. The intention is that annual LTIP opportunity will remain Elizabeth Corley 7/7 below this level. Sherry Coutu1 3/3  urrently, the LTIP holding period is structured so that, following C Josh Lewis 7/7 the three-year performance period, 75% of any vested shares are Tim Score 7/7 released with the net award subject to a mandatory sales restriction Sidney Taurel 7/7 for a further two years. The vesting of the remaining 25% of the shares is subject to continued employment over the same period. 1 Sherry Coutu joined the committee on 1 July 2019 and has attended all Committee meetings since her appointment. In order to simplify the approach and to align with market practice, 100% of the LTIP award (for awards made from 2020 onwards) In this section will be subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the three-year performance period (i.e. five years from award). Part 1: Remuneration overview p84 Part 2: 2019 remuneration report p88 (and 106) Part 3: 2020 Remuneration Policy p97 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 85 From 2018, we lowered the pension opportunity such that new On 16 January 2020, we announced that Coram Williams will be leaving appointments are eligible to receive pension contributions of up the company and Sally Johnson, currently Deputy CFO, will succeed to 16% of pensionable salary or a cash allowance of up to 16% of him as CFO. It has since been confirmed that Coram Williams will step salary. This is in line with the maximum company contribution as a down at the AGM on 24 April 2020 and Sally Johnson will be appointed percentage of salary that UK employees are eligible to receive. as CFO and as an Executive Director on this date. This provision will be incorporated into our new Policy. Coram Williams will not be eligible for AIP and LTIP in respect of 2020 In light of evolving shareholder expectations and market practice, and he will forfeit any unvested LTIP awards on departure. His salary we have strengthened our existing post-employment shareholding will continue at £539,500 per annum until he steps down. His pension guideline (implemented in 2017) such that Executive Directors are and other benefits remain unchanged. He will receive no payment in expected to retain their current guideline (300% of salary for the relation to loss of office. Chief Executive and 200% of salary for the CFO) for two years Sally Johnson’s salary will be £515,000 per annum. Her maximum following stepping down as an Executive Director. AIP opportunity will be 170% of salary and her LTIP award will have a Performance measures for 2020 face value of 245% of salary (which is the same award opportunity as for Coram Williams in 2017, 2018 and 2019), reflecting the previous The Committee is proposing some minor changes to performance discounts to LTIP awards in light of share price performance. measures for the AIP and LTIP. The Committee believes that a further reduction in the CFO-elect’s The AIP will continue to be based on a mix of adjusted operating profit, award level is not appropriate, beyond the discount already applied. sales, operating cash flow and strategic objectives. The weightings This discount was set at a time when the share price was comparable of operating profit and sales have been changed to 30% on each to the current share price and the Committee considers that alignment (previously 40% on operating profit and 20% on sales). This change is between management and shareholders would be better supported to reflect that Pearson is focusing on delivering value for shareholders by maintaining her level of grant at 245% of salary in 2020. through top-line growth as well as through operational efficiencies and Sally Johnson is a member of the Pearson Pension Plan and will to strengthen further alignment with this objective. The remaining 40% continue to accrue pension at a rate of 1/60th of pensionable salary of AIP opportunity will be equally weighted on operating cash flow and per annum, restricted to the plan earnings cap, in line with other strategic objectives which will be aligned with our corporate goals. participants in the Plan. The LTIP will continue to be based on adjusted EPS, ROIC and relative TSR vs. FTSE 100 (measures equally weighted). We have previously Incentive outcomes for 2019 reflect a challenging year communicated that the Committee believes net ROIC is a fairer Pearson as a whole was able to match prior year underlying sales for assessment of management’s performance in generating shareholder the first time since 2014 because the broader 76% of Pearson grew returns on the capital currently invested in the business, but that this by 4% in aggregate, demonstrating that Pearson is starting to see the metric would only be introduced after the company had tracked it returns from the strategy of investment in growth businesses and the for a number of years. Net ROIC has now been used as a key metric in evolution towards a simpler, more sustainable business. This progress Board reporting and reported as a KPI since Pearson’s 2017 strategic was, however, offset by an underlying decline in the US Higher report; therefore, going forward, we will measure net ROIC rather than Education Courseware business where sales from print textbooks gross ROIC for the purposes of the LTIP. The Committee’s intention is reduced more rapidly than anticipated. Pearson delivered Group to operate net ROIC such that any payouts reflect the underlying adjusted operating profit of £581m, an increase of 6% on 2018. performance of the new management team by measuring return on capital excluding existing impairments on legacy acquisitions only. Despite strong progress against strategic objectives, financial If the management team impairs an asset within the performance performance did not meet the threshold required to result in a period, the final calculation of the outcome under the LTIP will be payment under the AIP and therefore there will be no bonus payment adjusted to ensure it does not benefit the outcome. for the Executive Directors in respect of 2019. The Committee carefully considered the impact of no payout on talent and retention across the Leadership changes company, and agreed with management that to have no payout at all would not be a fair reflection of the progress that was made across the On 18 December 2019, we announced that our Chief Executive, company. As such, the Committee approved discretionary funding for John Fallon, will retire in 2020 once a successor has been appointed. employees, excluding the Executive Directors. John Fallon will remain eligible to participate in the AIP for 2020 on a pro-rata basis. He will not receive an LTIP award in respect of 2020 LTIP awards granted in 2017 were based on adjusted EPS, gross ROIC and his salary will remain at £817,400 per annum. His benefits also and relative TSR performance. Adjusted EPS for 2019 was 57.8p which remain unchanged. was between threshold and target, resulting in 39% of this portion of the award vesting. ROIC for 2019 was 5.2% which is again between The Committee reviewed the approach to the Chief Executive’s pension threshold and target, resulting in 57% of this portion of the award in light of shareholder views and best practice, and agreed with him vesting. TSR performance is below median and therefore no portion that his pension allowance would be reduced on a phased basis over of this award vested. Overall, therefore, performance resulted in 32.7% the next three years to bring it into line with the UK workforce at 16% of the 2017 LTIP award vesting. of salary. Notwithstanding his planned retirement, John Fallon’s cash pension allowance has been reduced by 3 percentage points to 23% of salary as the first step on this planned phased reduction. 86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Directors’ remuneration report The Committee very carefully considered the vesting outcome in the The Committee consulted with shareholders regarding the changes context of the shareholder experience, the progress made against to Policy and its implementation for 2020; the final proposals the delivery of our strategic initiatives and sustainable efficiency reflect feedback from shareholders. Continuing conversations with measures, as well as achievements in innovation, people, culture shareholders have been invaluable and we thank shareholders for and sustainability agendas. Despite the challenges the company has the time they have spent with us in shaping our approach. I look faced over the last year in US Higher Education Courseware, the forward to receiving your support at the AGM in relation to our Committee concluded that the vesting outcome was a fair reflection of Directors’ Remuneration Policy and our remuneration report. the performance the company has achieved over the last three years and the progress against the strategic objectives and therefore it was not necessary to exercise discretion to adjust the vesting outcome. In doing so, we also considered that the LTIP targets were set with considerable stretch after extensive shareholder consultation. Elizabeth Corley Chair of Remuneration Committee 6 March 2020 Remuneration framework Remuneration Policy development and alignment to remuneration principles and company strategy Our remuneration principles and Directors’ Remuneration Policy – We carry out a robust target-setting process each year, have been developed to support our purpose and strategy taking into account Pearson’s strategic plan, as well as throughout the company. analyst expectations to reflect market expectations, resulting in stretching yet achievable targets for the AIP and LTIP. The Committee’s review of our remuneration philosophy and Directors’ Remuneration Policy focused on ensuring that the – Maximum awards under the AIP and LTIP are capped and the company was equipped to achieve its purpose of helping people maximums are disclosed in our Policy. make progress in their lives through learning, and supports the – When determining payouts under each plan, the Committee execution of the goal of generating long-term sustainable discusses if the outcome is reflective of overall company value for shareholders. Throughout the process, we had performance and shareholder experience over the period due regard for the 2018 Corporate Governance Code, wider and, if not, has discretion to alter plan outcomes up or down. workforce remuneration and emerging best practice in relation to Executive Director remuneration. The Committee is mindful of reputational and other risks when determining Remuneration Policy and outcomes for Executive P  earson developed a company-wide set of remuneration Directors and senior management. The company also has principles to govern how people are rewarded. The principles safeguards in place, such as clawback and malus and a two-year have been developed to ensure alignment to company culture, holding period on the LTIP, as well as robust shareholding and the ability to attract and reward the right talent to enable the guidelines including post-employment which have been company’s digital future, whilst recognising that remuneration is further strengthened this year. one part of the broader employee value proposition at Pearson. These principles were used to shape the development of our  efore signing off the remuneration report and Remuneration B 2020 Executive Directors’ Remuneration Policy. Policy, the Committee reviewed drafts of the report and provided input to clarify our disclosure. We also undertook consultation The Committee has taken steps to simplify our Policy with our top 20 shareholders, who represent 74% of our share and its implementation to ensure that it is clearly aligned to capital, giving early sight to our Policy changes and to inform our company strategy, including re-weighting measures in the AIP, final conclusions. aligning on target opportunities and consolidating maximum LTIP opportunity. In 2019, Pearson developed remuneration principles that govern the whole organisation. We have evolved our Remuneration Policy In addition, the committee has reviewed quantum under incentive to match the following updated remuneration principles, which are plans and reduced the Chief Executive target AIP opportunity to described on p97 90% of salary and the maximum LTIP award limit to 350% of salary – removing the exceptional maximum limit. Aligned to longer-term strategy O  ur remuneration framework and outcomes are designed to Pay for performance be aligned with performance achieved: Market competitive – Performance measures selected for the AIP and LTIP are key to Targeted differentiation achieving strategic objectives. This year, we have made some changes to performance measures to ensure they continue to Tailored incentivise the right management behaviours and goals. Remuneration is one part of the employee value proposition at Pearson Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 87 Summary of key Policy changes for 2020 A summary of the material changes to be introduced in the 2020 Policy is provided below, more detail can be found in the notes to the Policy table on p102. The full future policy table is on p98–101 Element Overview of changes Description Annual  arget AIP will be no T In order to align with shareholder expectations, the AIP paid for ‘on target’ performance will be no incentive plan more than 50% of more than 50% of the maximum potential. This results in a reduction in target AIP opportunity for the AIP maximum Chief Executive from 100% of salary to 90% of salary, with no change to the maximum opportunity. Long-term R  eduction in exceptional Under current policy, LTIP awards of up to 400% of salary may be made in normal circumstances, incentive plan maximum for LTIP awards with awards of up to 500% of salary in exceptional circumstances. LTIP In order to simplify the approach and to bring it more closely in line with how we have been applying the policy over the last three years, the award level limit under the LTIP will be reduced to be up to a maximum of 350% of base salary. S  implification of the Currently, the LTIP holding period is structured so that, following the three-year performance period, structure of the LTIP 75% of any vested shares are released but subject to a mandatory sales restriction (other than shares holding period used to settle tax) for a further two years. The vesting of the remaining 25% of the shares is subject to continued employment over the same period. In order to simplify the approach and to align with market practice, 100% of the LTIP award (for 2020 onwards) will be subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the three-year performance period (i.e. five years from award). During this period the awards will not be forfeitable for cessation of employment other than via clawback, e.g. in the case of gross misconduct. Retirement Pension alignment with From 2018, we lowered the pension opportunity such that new appointments are eligible to receive benefits wider employee population pension contributions of up to 16% of pensionable salary or a cash allowance of up to 16% of salary, R over the life of the policy in line with the maximum company contribution as a percentage of salary that UK employees who are over 45 are eligible to receive. Where an individual appointed to the Board is already a member of the Pearson Pension Plan (our defined benefit plan) then they will continue to be eligible to participate in the Plan on a consistent basis with other employees in the Plan. In October 2017, the Chief Executive reached the maximum service accrual under the Pearson Pension Plan as he had over 20 years of service. He therefore receives no further service-related benefits under this Plan but continued to receive a taxable cash supplement of 26% of base salary, in lieu of the previous FURBS arrangement. The Committee reviewed the approach to the Chief Executive’s pension in light of shareholder views and best practice and agreed with the Chief Executive that his pension allowance would be reduced on a phased basis over the next three years to bring it in line with the UK workforce of 16% of salary. Notwithstanding his planned retirement, John Fallon’s cash pension allowance has been reduced by 3% to 23% of salary as the first step on this planned phased reduction. Shareholding Strengthening Pearson was one of the first companies to introduce a post-retirement shareholding guideline as part guidelines post-employment of the review undertaken in 2017, such that Executive Directors are required to retain half of their SG shareholding guidelines shareholding guideline for a period of two years post-retirement. In light of evolving shareholder expectations and market practice in this area, we have strengthened the post-employment shareholding guideline in place so that Executive Directors are required to retain their current guideline (300% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for the CFO) for a period of two years following stepping down as an Executive Director. 88 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2019 remuneration report Certain parts of this report have been audited as required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 as amended. Those tables which have been subject to audit are marked with an asterisk. Single total figure of remuneration and prior year comparison* Total aggregate emoluments for Executive and Non-Executive Directors were £3.825m in 2019. These emoluments are included within the total employee benefit expense in note 5 to the financial statements (p146) Executive Directors The remuneration received by Executive Directors in respect of the financial years ended 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 is set out below. Executive Director ‘single figure’ remuneration John Fallon Coram Williams Element of remuneration £000s 2019 2018 2019 2018 B Base salary 813 795 537 525 A&B Allowances and benefits 30 43 8 14 R Retirement benefits 211 206 62 54 Total fixed pay 1,054 1,044 607 593 AIP Annual incentives – 644 – 401 LTIP Long-term incentives 803 1,406 – 815 Total variable pay 803 2,050 – 1,216 Total remuneration 1,857 3,094 607 1,809 Notes to single figure table* B Base salary LTIP Long-term incentives The base salary shown in the single figure table reflects salary paid in The single figure of remuneration for 2019 includes the vesting of the financial year. the 2017 LTIP award, which was subject to performance conditions assessed to 31 December 2019. For more detail on performance A&B Allowances and benefits metrics and performance against targets, see p90. The values of vested The breakdown of benefits is as follows for 2019: 2017 LTIP awards included in the figures for total remuneration have been calculated using a three-month average share price to year end John Coram £000s Fallon Williams of 671.0p and do not reflect any dividends accrued on those shares. Travel 28 5 The share price on the date of grant of 11 September 2017 was 586.0p. Health 2 3 The share price used to value the LTIP for single figure purpose of 671.0p represents an increase of 85p per share. The proportion of the 2017 LTIP Travel benefits comprise car allowance, shared use of a company car value disclosed in the single figure attributable to share price growth and driver for business purposes, and reimbursements of a taxable for the Chief Executive was therefore £101,730. The Remuneration nature resulting from business travel and engagements. Health Committee did not exercise discretion in respect of the share price benefits comprise healthcare, health assessment and gym subsidy. appreciation. Coram Williams will leave the company at the AGM, In addition to the above benefits and allowances, Executive Directors before the 2017 LTIP vests, and therefore his award will lapse in full. may also participate in company benefit or policy arrangements that have no taxable value and/or are available to all other employees in The single figure of remuneration for 2018 includes the vesting of the same location. the 2016 LTIP award. The value of the award has been updated to reflect the dividends accrued and the share price on the date of vest R Retirement benefits (3 May 2019) of 813.7p. Further detail on retirement benefits is set out later in this report. The value of the 2016 award previously disclosed in the 2018 AIP Annual incentives remuneration report was estimated to be £1,454,000 for the Chief Executive and £843,000 for the CFO, based on a three-month The 2019 AIP for the Executive Directors was based on a mix of financial average share price of 904.0p and did not reflect any dividends (80% weighting) and strategic measures (20% weighting). The 2019 accrued on those shares. award resulted in a nil payout for both the Chief Executive and CFO. For more detail on performance metrics and performance against The 2016 LTIP awards which vested on 3 May 2019 were granted targets in 2019, see overleaf. on 3 May 2016 when the share price was 805.0p. Between the date of grant and the vesting date, the share price had increased to 813.7p which equated to an increase in value of each vesting share of 8.7p. The proportion of the 2016 LTIP value disclosed in the single figure attributable to share price growth was therefore £13,995 for the Chief Executive and £8,112 for the CFO. The Remuneration Committee did not exercise discretion in respect of the share price appreciation. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 89 AIP Executive Directors’ annual incentive payments for 2019* The following table summarises the performance targets and performance against these targets for the 2019 award which resulted in a nil payout for both the Chief Executive and CFO. Overall outcome Performance range Payout % of max bonus Performance measure % of total Threshold Target Max Actual results opportunity Adjusted operating profit 40% £588m £612m £671m £581m 0% Sales 20% £3,902m £3,976m £4,050m £3,869m 0% Operating cash flow 20% £401m £434m £492m £307m 0% Strategic measures 20% See below 0% 100% 0% Note 1: Operating cash flow is measured post-restructuring. Operating cash flow pre-restructuring is £418m. Note 2: See below for performance against strategic measures. Note 3: The outcomes under all measures have been reviewed by internal audit. Performance against strategic measures The targets (and outcomes) for performance against each of the strategic measures are shown in the table and supporting narrative below: % of total Strategic priority Measure funding Threshold Target Max Outcome Gain share Growth in digital and 5% 62.5% 63% 64.0% Digital and digitally-enabled sales increased through digitally-enabled sales as a (+0.5% on (+1% on (+2% on to 66.3% of total revenues in 2019 vs 62% digital proportion of revenues 2018 result) 2018 result) 2018 result) in 2018. transformation Digital platforms – 5% Critical Critical All milestones Aida app and Revel both launched and delivery of key 2019 milestones milestones and and deliverables available for commercial use. milestones related to on track key deliverables on track Progress made against other milestones AI app and Revel pilots on track has resulted in an accelerated innovative product roadmap, which will drive cumulative incremental value at a lower cost than the original plan over future years. Growing Invest in growing 5% +5% revenue +7.5% revenue +10% revenue Our growth businesses – Pearson VUE, market market opportunities – growth growth growth Virtual Schools, OPM and PTE Academic – opportunities total revenue growth grew by 8% in revenue. These growth businesses will continue to grow in 2020, as we invest in new forms of online education, in better, smarter, online assessments, in new AI-inspired direct-to learner apps, and in shifting Pearson’s focus to link education and employability with the workplace. Becoming The Enabling Programme 5% Critical Critical All milestones Good progress was made against the simpler, more (TEP) – linked to key milestones milestones and deliverables business value realisation plan but further efficient and deliverables/milestones on track and key on track work is still needed to sustain fixes and sustainable including (successful) deliverables overcome more complicated issues. deployment of Wave 3 on track Wave 3 was deployed successfully. Release, progress on RoW and Red Amber Green (RAG) status of value realisation plan Due to significant progress against strategic goals in 2019, an above target result was achieved under these measures. However, as the financial underpin was not met therefore there will not be a payout under the strategic measures for 2019. 90 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2019 remuneration report Executive Directors’ Long-Term Incentive Plan award vesting for 2019* In September 2017, the Executive Directors were made awards under the LTIP which vest in May 2020 based on performance the business delivered over the three-year period from 2017 to 2019. The target ranges were set following extensive consultation with our major shareholders in 2017, and took into account internal and external expectations of performance when the awards were made. The level of awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017 was reduced by approximately 30% to 275% of salary for the Chief Executive and 245% of salary for the CFO to reflect the decline in share price at the time. The level of payout at threshold performance was also reduced under the adjusted EPS and ROIC measures. The overall outcome based on performance achieved against targets is 32.7% of the maximum awards. However, Coram Williams will leave the company at the AGM, before the 2017 LTIP vests, and therefore his award will lapse in full. The targets and performance against these targets are as follows: Performance range Vesting Payout at Payout at Payout at % % of total Performance measure % of total Threshold Target Maximum threshold target maximum Actual achievement award Adjusted EPS 40% 55p 62p 75p 15% 75% 100% 57.8p 39% 15.6% ROIC 30% 4.5% 5.5% 7.5% 15% 75% 100% 5.2% 57% 17.1% Upper Relative TSR 30% Median N/A quartile 25% N/A 100% 72 out of 95 0% 0% 100% Total 32.7% Relative TSR was measured against the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the start of the performance period. The Committee very carefully considered the vesting outcome in the context of financial performance, the shareholder experience, progress against the delivery of strategic initiatives including the business transformation and sustainable cost reduction delivered by the simplification programme, as well as reviews of talent, diversity, culture, customer experience and sustainability agendas. The Committee considered whether there had been a significant negative event (such as an ESG event) which would warrant an adjustment. Notwithstanding the challenges the company has faced over the last year in the US Higher Education Courseware business, the Committee concluded that the vesting outcome was a fair reflection of the progress the company has made over the last three financial years. No discretion was therefore exercised to adjust the vesting outcome. Overall, the Committee considers that the Remuneration Policy has operated as it intended during 2019 and that the pay outcomes are aligned with the experience of shareholders and other stakeholders over the relevant performance period. LTIP Long-term incentives awarded in 2019* The following LTIP awards were granted during the year: Value for threshold Face value performance Director Date of award Vesting date Number of shares Face value (% of base salary) (% of maximum)1 Performance Period John Fallon 1 May 2019 1 May 2022 271,000 £2,249,842 275% 18.3% 1 Jan 19–31 Dec 21 Coram Williams2 1 May 2019 1 May 2022 159,000 £1,320,018 245% 18.3% 1 Jan 19–31 Dec 21 1 Under the adjusted EPS and ROIC elements, 15% vests for threshold performance; under the TSR element, 25% vests for threshold performance. This is the weighted average of vesting for threshold. 2 Coram Williams will leave the company at the AGM therefore his award will lapse in full. Face value was determined using a share price of 830.2p (previous trading day closing price as at the date of grant). Any shares vesting based on performance will be subject to an additional two-year holding period to 1 May 2024. Details of the performance targets for the 2019 long-term incentive awards are set out in the tables below: Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) (one-third) Return on invested capital (ROIC) (one-third) Relative total shareholder return (TSR) (one-third) Vesting schedule Adjusted EPS Vesting schedule Adjusted ROIC Vesting schedule Ranked position vs (% max) for FY21 (% max) for FY21 (% max) FTSE 100 15% 65p 15% 5% 25% Median 65% 70p 65% 6% – – 100% 80p or above 100% 9% or above 100% Upper quartile Note 1: Straight-line vesting will occur in between the points shown, with no vesting for performance below threshold. Note 2: Pearson’s TSR performance is measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index over the performance period. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 91 Performance targets for outstanding awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) The details of 2017 and 2018 LTIP awards and their performance conditions under the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) are set out in the following table. Share price on date of Vesting Performance Performance Payout at Payout at Date of award award date measures Weighting period threshold Payout at target maximum 8 May 2018 893.6p 1 May Adjusted EPS One-third FY 2020 15% for EPS 65p 65% for EPS of 68p 100% for EPS 80p 2021 ROIC One-third FY 2020 15% for ROIC of 5% 65% for ROIC of 6% 100% for ROIC of 8% Relative TSR One-third 1 Jan 2018 to 31 Dec 2020 25% at median – 100% at upper quartile 11 September 586.0p 1 May Adjusted EPS 40% FY 2019 15% for EPS 55p 75% for EPS of 62p 100% for EPS 75p 2017 2020 ROIC 30% FY 2019 15% for ROIC of 4.5% 75% for ROIC of 5.5% 100% for ROIC of 7.5% Relative TSR 30% 1 Jan 2017 to 31 Dec 2019 25% at median – 100% at upper quartile R Executive Directors’ retirement benefits and entitlements* Details of the Directors’ pension entitlements and pension-related benefits during the year are as follows: Value of defined benefit Other allowances in Total annual Accrued pension over the period lieu of pension value in 2019 at 31 Dec 19 Director £000s £000s £000s £000s John Fallon – 211 211 106 Coram Williams 62 – 62 40 Note 1: The accrued pension at 31 December 2019 is the deferred annual pension to which the member would be entitled on ceasing pensionable service on 31 December 2019. It relates to the pension payable from the UK Plan. Normal retirement age is 62. Note 2: The value of defined benefit over the period comprises the defined benefit input value, less inflation, less individual contribution. Note 3: Other allowances in lieu of pension represent the cash allowances paid in lieu of the previous FURBS arrangements. Note 4: Total annual value is the sum of the previous two columns and is disclosed in the single figure of remuneration table. Plans John Fallon – The Pearson Pension Plan The Committee reviewed the approach to the Chief Executive’s pension John Fallon attained the maximum service accrual for this benefit when in light of shareholder views and best practice, and agreed with John he reached 20 years’ service in October 2017. With effect from this date, Fallon that his pension allowance would be reduced on a phased basis he had accrued a benefit of two-thirds of his final pensionable salary over the next three years to bring it in line with the UK workforce at 16% and no further service-related benefits can accrue under the Plan. of salary. Notwithstanding his planned retirement, John Fallon’s cash Based on the 2019/20 earnings cap of £166,200, he will have accrued a pension allowance has been reduced by 3 percentage points to 23% pension of £105,884 per annum at this time. When the earnings cap of salary as the first step on this planned phased reduction. under the Plan rules is increased in the future in line with increases Coram Williams – The Pearson Pension Plan in the UK retail price index, his final salary pension benefit will Accrual rate of 1/60th of pensionable salary per annum, restricted increase accordingly. to the Plan earnings cap (£166,200 per annum in 2019/20), with In addition, he received a taxable and non-pensionable cash continuous service with a service gap. There are no enhanced early supplement (of 26% of salary) in lieu of the previous FURBS retirement benefits. arrangement. During 2019, John Fallon received the pension supplement of 26% of salary. There are no enhanced early retirement benefits. 92 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2019 remuneration report SG Directors’ interests in shares and value of shareholdings* Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are expected to build up a substantial shareholding In light of evolving shareholder expectations and market practice, in the company in line with the policy of encouraging widespread we have strengthened our existing post-employment shareholding employee share ownership and to align further the interests of guideline (implemented in 2017) such that Executive Directors are Executive Directors and shareholders. The target holding is 300% expected to retain their current guideline (300% of salary for the of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for the Chief CEO and 200% of salary for the CFO) for two years following stepping Financial Officer. Shares that count towards these guidelines include down as an Executive Director. This guideline does not apply to shares any shares held unencumbered by an Executive Director, their purchased by the Director. spouse and/or dependent children plus any shares vested but held The shareholding guidelines do not apply to the Chair and pending release under a share plan. Executive Directors have five Non-Executive Directors. However, a minimum of 25% of the years from the date of appointment to reach the guideline. Once Non-Executive Directors’ basic fee is paid in Pearson shares that the guideline has been met, it is not re-tested, other than when the Non-Executive Directors have committed to retain for the shares are sold. period of their directorships. Directors’ interests The share interests of the Directors and their connected persons are as follows: Current Conditional Conditional Total number of shareholding shares subject to shares subject to ordinary and (ordinary shares) performance at employment only conditional shares Guideline Director at 31 Dec 19 31 Dec 19 at 31 Dec 19 at 31 Dec 19 (% salary) Guideline met? Chair Sidney Taurel 103,224 – – – – – Executive Directors John Fallon 397,313 883,000 40,215 1,320,528 300% Yes (see note 8) Coram Williams 56,108 519,000 23,310 598,418 200% n/a (see note 6) Non-Executive Directors Elizabeth Corley 22,028 – – – – – Sherry Coutu 3,175 – – – – – Vivienne Cox 7,430 – – – – – Josh Lewis 14,200 – – – – – Linda Lorimer 11,040 – – – – – Michael Lynton 8,535 – – – – – Graeme Pitkethly 785 – – – – – Tim Score 37,893 – – – – – Lincoln Wallen 8,607 – – – – – Note 1: The current value of the Executive Directors’ shareholdings is based on Note 5: Conditional shares subject to employment only means unvested shares the closing market value of Pearson shares of 582.0p on 25 February 2020 against which are subject to a holding period and continued employment. The shares base salaries at 31 December 2019. shown are in relation to the 2016 LTIP and will be released in May 2021. Note 2: Ordinary shares include both ordinary shares listed on the London Note 6: Coram Williams has five years from the date of his appointment as an Stock Exchange and American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) listed on the New Executive Director on 1 August 2015 to reach the shareholding guideline. York Stock Exchange. The figures include both shares and ADRs acquired by Coram Williams is due to step down from the Board at the AGM on 24 April 2020. individuals under the long-term incentive plan and any legacy share plans Note 7: There have been no changes in the interests of any Director between they might have participated in. 31 December 2019 and 26 February 2020, being the latest practicable date prior Note 3: Conditional shares subject to performance means unvested shares to the publication of this report. which remain subject to performance conditions and continuing employment Note 8: John Fallon has met the shareholding guideline. However, as a result of the for a pre-defined period. This includes the LTIP awards granted in 2017, 2018 and decrease in share price, the current value of his shareholding is less than 300% of 2019; details of the performance period, measures and targets can be found on salary. He has not sold any shares during 2019 and the number of ordinary shares p90 and p91 held has increased from 326,784 at 31 December 2018. Note 4: The performance targets for the 2017 award were partially met and therefore 32.7% of this award will vest on 1 May 2020 and the remaining portion will lapse for John Fallon. Vested shares will be subject to an additional two-year holding period to 2 May 2022. Coram Williams will leave the company at the AGM, before the 2017 LTIP vests, and therefore his award will lapse in full. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 93 Chair and Non-Executive Director remuneration* The remuneration paid to the Chair and Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial years ended 31 December 2019 and 31 December 2018 are as follows: 2019 2018 Director £000s Total fees Taxable benefits Total Total fees Taxable benefits Total Sidney Taurel 500 8 508 500 11 511 Elizabeth Corley 115 – 115 115 – 115 Sherry Coutu 56 – 56 – – – Vivienne Cox 128 1 129 128 3 131 Josh Lewis 88 2 90 88 4 92 Linda Lorimer 98 4 102 98 4 102 Michael Lynton 91 – 91 69 – 69 Harish Manwani – 1 1 29 1 30 Graeme Pitkethly 57 – 57 – – – Tim Score 116 1 117 116 – 116 Lincoln Wallen 91 4 95 91 5 96 Total 1,340 21 1,361 1,234 28 1,262 Note 1: A minimum of 25% of the Chair’s and Non-Executive Directors’ basic fee is paid in shares, effective from the 2017 AGM policy approval. Note 2: Taxable benefits refer to travel, accommodation and subsistence expenses incurred while attending Board meetings during the period that were paid or reimbursed by the company which are deemed by HMRC to be taxable in the UK. The amounts in the table above include the grossed-up cost of UK tax to be paid by the company on behalf of the Directors. Note 3: Sherry Coutu and Graeme Pitkethly joined the Pearson Board as Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 May 2019. Michael Lynton joined the Pearson Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February 2018. Harish Manwani retired from the Board at the AGM in May 2018 and his taxable benefits disclosed above relate to the UK tax year 2018/19. Payments to former Directors* Their contracts are dated 31 December 2012 (John Fallon) and 26 February 2015 (Coram Williams). Non-Executive Directors serve There were no payments to former Directors in 2019. Pearson under letters of appointment which are renewed annually and do not have service contracts. The Non-Executive Directors’ letters Payments for loss of office* of appointment do not contain provision for notice periods or for There were no payments for loss of office made to or agreed compensation if their appointments are terminated. The Chair’s for Directors in 2019. appointment may be terminated on 12 months’ notice. The CFO will not receive any payments for loss of office in 2020. Departure arrangements for the Chief Executive have not yet Executive Directors’ non-executive directorships been agreed. Coram Williams is engaged as a non-executive director of Guardian Media Group plc where he also chairs the audit committee. He received Service contracts fees of £39,000 during 2019 in respect of this role. In accordance with The terms and conditions of appointment of our Directors are our policy, he is permitted to retain these fees. available for inspection at the company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM. The Executive Directors have notice periods in their service contracts of 12 months from the company and six months from the Executives. 94 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2019 remuneration report Historical performance and remuneration Total shareholder return performance In accordance with the reporting regulations, this section also presents Below, we set out Pearson’s total shareholder return (TSR) Pearson’s TSR performance alongside the single figure of total performance relative to the FTSE All-Share index on an annual basis remuneration for the Chief Executive over the last ten years and a over the ten-year period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2019. summary of the variable pay outcomes relative to the prevailing This comparison has been chosen because the FTSE All-Share maximum at the time. represents the broad market index within which Pearson shares are traded. TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends (source: Datastream). Total shareholder return £ Pearson TSR 250 FTSE All-share TSR 200 150 100 50 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Chief Executive remuneration Marjorie Scardino John Fallon Total remuneration (single figure, £000s) 8,466 8,340 5,330 1,727 1,895 1,263 1,518 1,758 3,094 1,857 Annual incentive (% of maximum) 92% 76% 24% 34% 51% Nil 24% 44% 45% Nil Long-term incentive (% of maximum) 98% 68% 37% Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil 42% 33% Annual incentive is the actual annual incentive received by the incumbent Total remuneration is as reflected in the single total figure of remuneration table. as a percentage of maximum opportunity. John Fallon’s total remuneration opportunity is lower than that of the previous Long-term incentive is the payout of performance-related share awards under incumbent. Variable payouts under the Annual and Long-Term Incentive Plans the LTIP where the year shown is the final year of the performance period for the reflect performance for the relevant periods. purposes of calculating the single total figure of remuneration. Comparative information The following information is intended to provide additional context Average employee base salary, annual allowances and benefits have regarding the total remuneration for Executive Directors. decreased due to a reduction in the number of employees in higher cost locations. The change in Chief Executive base salary is in line Relative percentage change in remuneration for Chief Executive with the country budget increase for the UK in 2019 which other The following table sets out the change between 2018 and 2019 in UK-based employees were also eligible to receive. Annual incentives three elements of remuneration for the Chief Executive, in comparison for employees have not reduced as much as for the Chief Executive as with the average for all employees. While the Committee reviews the all employee AIP was partially funded. The Chief Executive did not base pay for the Chief Executive relative to the broader employee receive a payout under the AIP in relation to 2019. population, benefits are driven by local practices and eligibility is determined by level and individual circumstances which do not lend Change in Chief Executive remuneration 2018/19 themselves to comparison. Base salary Allowances and benefits Annual incentives 2% 30% 100% Change in employee remuneration 2018/19 Base salary Allowances and benefits Annual incentives 1% 14% 46% Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 95 Relative importance of pay spend There are limits on the amount of new-issue equity we can use. In any The Committee considers Directors’ remuneration in the context of rolling ten-year period, no more than 10% of Pearson equity will be the company’s allocation and disbursement of resources to different issued, or be capable of being issued, under all Pearson’s share plans, stakeholders. We chose adjusted operating profit because this is a and no more than 5% of Pearson equity will be issued, or be capable measure of our ability to reinvest in the company. We include dividends of being issued, under Executive or discretionary plans. The headroom because these constitute an important element of our return to available for all Pearson plans, Executive or discretionary, and shares shareholders. held in trust is as follows: Headline change Headroom 2019 All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 £m % All Pearson plans 6.8% Adjusted operating profit 581 546 35 6% Executive or discretionary plans 5.0% Dividends 147 136 11 8% Shares held in trust 4.6% Total wages and salaries 1,258 1,421 -163 -11% The Remuneration Committee in 2019 Note 1: Adjusted operating profit is as set out in the financial statements. Note 2: Wages and salaries include continuing operations only and include Role Name Title Directors. Average employee numbers for continuing operations for 2019 Chair Elizabeth Corley Independent were 22,734 (2018: 24,322). Further details are set out in note 5 to the financial statements on p146 Sherry Coutu Non-Executive Directors Note 3: Total wages and salaries would be -14% at constant exchange rates. Josh Lewis Chief Executive to employee pay ratio Tim Score The table below shows the ratio of Chief Executive to employee pay Sidney Taurel Chair of the Board for 2019, using the single total figure remuneration as disclosed on p88 Internal John Fallon Chief Executive compared to the full-time equivalent total reward of employees whose attendees Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer pay is ranked at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles (as identified by the gender pay gap methodology) in the GB workforce. Anna Vikström Persson Chief Human Chief Executive pay ratio Resources Officer Method 25th percentile 50th percentile 75th percentile Stuart Nolan SVP-Reward (to April 2019) B: Gender pay gap Paul Christian VP-Executive Reward methodology 65.9 47.2 36.0 Stephen Jones Company Secretary  he gender pay gap data from April 2019 was used to identify T External advisers Deloitte LLP employees at the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles. Data was analysed Sidney Taurel was a member of the Committee throughout 2019 as for a number of employees around each quartile figure to ensure permitted under the UK Corporate Governance Code. that there were no anomalies. T  he gender pay gap methodology to select the quartile employees is Advisers to the Remuneration Committee a good representation of the employee population at year end, and is During 2019, the Remuneration Committee received advice from the most practicable given the timing of the disclosure and final AIP independent Remuneration Committee advisers, Deloitte LLP. outcome decisions for the wider workforce. Deloitte LLP were appointed by the Committee in July 2017  ase salary and pension are based on full year figures taken B following a tender process. from payroll. Benefits have been taken from P11D in line with the Deloitte LLP supplied the Committee with advice on current methodology used for the Executive Directors. Annual bonus figures market trends and developments, incentive plan design and are based on the manager recommendations as at 25 February 2020 target setting, investor engagement and other general Executive relating to 2019. None of the employees at the 25th, 50th or 75th remuneration matters. In respect of their services to the Committee, percentiles had share awards vesting in 2019. Deloitte LLP were paid fees, which were charged on a time spent  otal remuneration for each employee has been compared to the T basis, of £95,900. During the year, separate teams within Deloitte LLP Chief Executive’s single figure as shown on p88. Total remuneration also provided Pearson PLC with certain tax and other advisory and figures for the 25th, 50th and 75th percentile employees are as consultancy services. follows: £28,164, £39,375, £51,575. Base salaries are as follows: Deloitte LLP are founding members of the Remuneration Consultants’ £26,000, £34,320, £43,763. Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct. T  he company considers the median pay ratio consistent with the The Committee remains satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte company’s wider policies on employee pay, reward and progression. LLP was objective and independent, and that the provision of other Dilution and use of equity services in no way compromised their independence. It is the view of the Committee that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team Pearson can use existing shares bought in the market, treasury shares that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have or newly issued shares to satisfy awards under the company’s various connections with Pearson or its Directors that may impair their share plans. For restricted stock awards under the LTIP, the company independence. The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts would normally expect to use existing shares. of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts. 96 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2019 remuneration report Terms of reference Remuneration Committee meeting focus during 2019 The Committee’s full charter and terms of reference are available on During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: the Governance page of the company’s website. A summary of the Reviewed remuneration philosophy for the company and how Committee’s responsibilities is set out below. this will apply to Executive Directors and senior management. The terms of reference have been updated to reflect the provisions Developed the Remuneration Policy for 2020, taking into of the 2018 Code. account Pearson’s strategy, Remuneration Principles, wider workforce remuneration, emerging best practice and corporate Committee responsibilities governance developments.  eviewed shareholder and shareholder representative body R Determine and review policy feedback on remuneration, shareholder voting at Pearson’s Determine and regularly review the remuneration policies for 2019 AGM and considered shareholder engagement strategy. the Executive Directors, the presidents and other members of Received input from investor relations on market expectations. Pearson’s Executive management (who report directly to the R  eceived updates on financial performance of the business and Chief Executive). These policies include base salary, annual and progress against strategic measures. Noted and reviewed the long-term incentives, pension arrangements, any other benefits status of in-flight incentives. and termination of employment. When setting remuneration policy, the Committee also takes into account remuneration R  eviewed and approved 2018 annual and long-term performance practices and related policies for the wider workforce. and payouts for Executive Directors and senior management. Reviewed and approved implementation of Remuneration Shareholder engagement Policy for 2020 for Executive Directors and senior management,  nsure the company maintains an appropriate level of engagement E including annual salary increases, incentive opportunities, with its shareholders and shareholder representative bodies in performance targets and strategic measures. relation to the remuneration policy and its implementation. N  oted updates on corporate governance, including a review of the 2019 AGM remuneration reporting season. Review and approve implementation N  oted the activity of the Standing Committee of the Board in relation  egularly review the implementation and operation of the R to the operation of the company’s equity-based reward programmes remuneration policy and approve the individual remuneration and noted the company’s use of equity for employee share plans. and benefits packages of Executive management. Committee evaluation Approve performance-related plans Annually, the Committee reviews performance, constitution and  pprove the design of, and determine targets for, any A charter and terms of reference to ensure it is operating at maximum performance-related pay plans operated by the Group for effectiveness and recommends any changes it considers necessary to Pearson Executive management and approve the total payments the Board for approval. The Committee participated in a review of its to be made under such plans. performance and effectiveness in October 2019, looking at areas such as the use of time, the opportunity for discussion and debate, dialogue Set termination arrangements with management and shareholders, and access to independent  dvise and decide on general and specific remuneration A advice. The Committee concluded that remuneration continues to be a arrangements in connection with the termination of employment sensitive and high-profile area but that the support provided and the of Executive management. calibre of the papers were good. That said, given the pace and the scale of strategic developments at Pearson, the Committee remains vigilant Determine Chair’s remuneration in assessing the extent to which its activities support and enable progress in the company.  elegated responsibility for determining the remuneration and D benefits package of the Chair of the Board. Voting on remuneration resolutions The following table summarises the details of votes cast in respect of Appoint remuneration consultants the remuneration resolutions: A  ppoint and set the terms of engagement for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee and monitor the cost of % of votes % of votes Votes cast for cast against withheld such advice. Annual remuneration 97.9% 2.1% votes (2019 AGM) (617,786,062) (13,041,115) 104,839 Talent, retention and gender pay gap 2017 Remuneration 68.8% 31.2% A  ppoint and set the terms of engagement for any remuneration Policy vote (2017 AGM) (404,615,934) (183,100,737) 43,738,267 review updates from management on talent, retention and gender pay gap. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 97 2020 remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee presents the 2020 Directors’ Remuneration Policy (2020 Policy), which will be put to shareholders for binding vote at the AGM to be held on 24 April 2020. Subject to shareholder approval, the effective date of this Policy will be 24 April 2020. However, it is proposed, subject to approval at the AGM, that changes to Executive Director incentives be made effective from the start of the 2020 performance periods. The intention of the Committee is that the Policy will remain in place for three years from the date of its approval. In 2019, Pearson reviewed its remuneration philosophy and developed a set of remuneration principles that govern the whole organisation. We have evolved our Remuneration Policy to align with these updated remuneration principles: 1 2 3 4 5 6 Aligned to longerPay for Market Targeted Tailored One part of the term strategy performance competitive differentiation employee value proposition Reward will be Remuneration Pay levels will be There will The approach to Remuneration is one linked to achieving framework and market competitive, be targeted reward may be part of our broader Pearson’s longeroutcomes are based on role, grade differentiation tailored in certain employee value term strategy, aligned with and contribution to of reward across circumstances to proposition and not growth and performance ensure individuals our employees address a specific the only reason to sustainability are fairly rewarded in linked to talent market/business work for Pearson line with the market and performance need but will be management designed in a way which is consistent with our underlying reward philosophy Pay and performance scenario analysis Chief Executive (John Fallon) £000 CFO (Sally Johnson) £000 Maximum 21% 32% 47% Base salary, allowances, Maximum 22% 31% 47% £4,757 £2,713 beneﬁts and pension Value of annual incentives Target 34% 24% 42% £3,078 Target 33% 25% 42% £1,747 Value of LTIPs Minimum 100% £1,036 Minimum 100% £577 Chief Executive ﬁxed vs variable at target CFO ﬁxed vs variable at target Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Salary 21% 10% 21% 48% 25% 5% 21% 49% Pension and beneﬁts Annual incentives LTIP Performance Consistent with its Policy, the Committee places considerable emphasis scenario Elements of remuneration and assumptions on the performance-linked elements, i.e. annual and long-term Maximum Fixed pay incentives. The charts above show what each Director could expect to receive in 2020 under different performance scenarios, based on M  aximum individual annual incentive (180% of salary the definitions of performance opposite. On this basis, the relative for Chief Executive and 170% of salary for CFO) weighting of fixed and performance-related remuneration and the Maximum value of 2020 long-term incentive award absolute size of the remuneration packages for the Chief Executive and (275% for Chief Executive and 245% for CFO) with the Chief Financial Officer are shown above. We will continue to review no share price growth assumed the mix of fixed and performance-linked remuneration on an annual Target Fixed pay basis, consistent with our overall Policy. 50% of the maximum individual annual incentive Note 1: Fixed pay includes 2020 base salary (Chief Executive £817,400, CFO 5  0% of the maximum value of 2020 long-term incentive £515,000); allowances and benefits and retirement benefits for Sally Johnson have award (no share price growth assumed) been included based on the same percentage of base salary as Coram Williams in 2019. Retirement benefits for John Fallon are included at 23% of his base salary. Minimum Fixed pay only Note 2: The value of long-term incentives does not take into account dividend awards that are payable on the release of LTIP shares or share price growth. Note 3: The maximum opportunity scenario plus 50% share price growth would result in overall opportunity of £5,882,000 for the Chief Executive and £3,348,000 for the CFO. Note 4: Coram Williams will step down as CFO at the AGM in 2020. Until this time, he will be paid his base salary and benefits. 98 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2020 remuneration policy Policy table for Executive Directors Total remuneration is made up of fixed and performance-linked elements, with each element supporting different strategic objectives. Remuneration is normally reviewed annually in the context of business performance and conditions prevailing, taking into account pay levels for similar positions in comparable companies as well as internal ratios. B Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Helps to recruit, reward and retain. Reflects level, role, skills, experience, the competitive market and individual contribution. Operation Opportunity Performance conditions and period Base salaries are set to provide the While there is no maximum salary W  here an Executive Director None, although performance appropriate rate of remuneration level or maximum increase that has been promoted or has had a of both the company and the for the job, taking into account may be offered, salary increases change in responsibilities. individual are taken into account relevant recruitment markets, will normally be in line with typical W  here there has been a when determining an appropriate business sectors and increases awarded to other significant change in market level of base salary increase geographic regions. employees in the Group. practice or where there has been each year. Base salaries are normally However, increases may be above a significant change in the size reviewed annually taking into this level in certain circumstances and/or scope of the business. account: general economic and such as: market conditions; the level  here a new Executive Director W of increases made across the has been appointed to the Board company as a whole; particular at a lower than typical market circumstances such as changes salary to allow for growth in the in role, responsibilities or role then larger increases may organisation; the remuneration be awarded to move salary and level of increases for positioning closer to typical executives in similar positions in market level as the Executive comparable companies in both Director gains experience. the UK, US and internationally; and individual performance. A&B Allowances and benefits Purpose and link to strategy Help to recruit, reward and retain. Reflect local competitive market. Operation Opportunity Allowances and benefits comprise Executive Directors are also eligible The Committee may introduce The cost of the provision of cash allowances and non-cash to participate in savings-related other benefits if it is considered allowances and benefits varies benefits which may include: share acquisition programmes, appropriate to do so, taking from year to year depending on t ravel-related benefits (such as which are not subject to any into account the individual the cost to Pearson and there is car allowance, company car performance conditions, on the circumstances, the country of no prescribed maximum limit. and private use of a driver) same terms and to the same residence of a Director, the benefits However, the Committee monitors value as other employees. available to all employees and the annually the overall cost of the  ealth-related benefits (such as h Where an Executive Director is wider external market. benefits provided, to ensure that healthcare, health assessment required to relocate to perform it remains appropriate. and gym subsidy) and their role, appropriate one-off r isk benefits (such as additional or ongoing expatriate/relocation life cover and long-term disability benefits may be provided insurance that are not covered by (e.g. housing, schooling, etc.) the company’s retirement plans). Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 99 R Retirement benefits Purpose and link to strategy Help to recruit, reward and retain. Recognise long-term commitment to the company. Operation Opportunity Employees in the UK are eligible to New appointments: new John Fallon attained the maximum CFO-elect: Sally Johnson is also a join the Money Purchase 2003 appointments to the Board are service accrual under the Final Pay member of the Final Pay section section of the Pearson Pension eligible to receive pension section of his pension benefit when of the Pearson Pension Plan. Plan. Executive Directors are contributions of up to 16% of he reached 20 years’ service in Her pension accrual rate is 1/60th eligible to join this plan or receive a pensionable salary or a cash October 2017. Since this time, of pensionable salary per annum, cash allowance of equivalent value. allowance of up to 16% of salary in John Fallon receives the pension restricted to the Plan earnings cap. If any Executive Director is from, line with the maximum company supplement of 26% of salary only. UK Executive Directors who are, or works, outside the UK, the contribution as a percentage of The Committee reviewed the or become, affected by the Committee retains a discretion salary that UK employees who are approach to John Fallon’s pension lifetime allowance may be to put in place retirement benefit over 45 are eligible to receive. in light of shareholder views and provided with appropriate arrangements for that Director Current Chief Executive: John Fallon best practice and agreed with the benefits, as an alternative to in line with local market practice is a member of the Final Pay section Chief Executive that his pension further accrual of pension benefits including defined benefit pension of the Pearson Pension Plan. His allowance would be reduced on a such as a cash supplement, in line arrangements operated by pension accrual rate is 1/30th phased basis over the next three with the treatment for the Pearson locally. The maximum of pensionable salary per annum, years to bring it in line with the UK employee population. value of such arrangement will restricted to the Plan earnings workforce of 16% of salary. reflect local market practice at cap. Until April 2006, the company Notwithstanding his planned the relevant time. also contributed to a Funded retirement, John Fallon’s cash The Committee may also honour Unapproved Retirement Benefits pension allowance has been all pre-existing retirement benefit Scheme (FURBS) on his behalf. reduced by 3 percentage points to obligations, commitments or other Since April 2006, he has received a 23% of salary as the first step on entitlements that were entered taxable and non-pensionable cash this planned phased reduction. into by a member of the Pearson supplement in replacement of the Group before that person became FURBS of 26% of salary. a Director, such as participation in the Final Pay section of the Pearson Pension Plan which is now closed to new members. SG Shareholding guidelines Purpose and link to strategy Align the interests of Executives and shareholders and encourage long-term shareholding and commitment to the company. Operation Opportunity Performance conditions and period Executive Directors are expected Post-employment shareholding: The target holding is 300% of Not applicable. to build up a shareholding in Executive Directors are expected to salary for the Chief Executive the company. retain their shareholding guideline and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors are expected (or actual holding if lower) for Executive Directors. to reach the guideline within two years following stepping five years from the date down as an Executive Director. of appointment. This provision does not apply to any shares purchased by the Executive Director. 100 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2020 remuneration policy AIP Annual incentive plan Purpose and link to strategy Help to recruit, reward and retain. Motivate the achievement of annual business goals and strategic objectives. Provide a focus on key financial and non-financial metrics. Reward individual contribution to the success of the company. Align to strategy execution priorities. Operation Opportunity Performance conditions and period Measures and performance targets Annual incentives will not exceed The Committee has the discretion Details of performance measures, are set by the Committee at the 200% of base salary. to select the performance weightings and targets will be start of the year with payment For the Chief Executive, the measures and relative weightings disclosed in the annual made after year end following the individual maximum incentive from year to year to ensure remuneration report for the Committee’s assessment of opportunity that will apply for continuing alignment with relevant financial year if and to performance relative to targets. 2020 is 180% of base salary and strategy and to ensure targets the extent that the Committee Annual incentive plans are 170% for the Chief Financial Officer are sufficiently stretching. deems them to be no longer discretionary. The Committee (which are the same opportunities The Committee sets performance commercially sensitive. reserves the right to adjust as applied for 2019). targets for each measure annually. The performance period is payments up or down if it believes There is normally no payout for Annual incentives will normally be one year. that the outcome does not performance at threshold. based on financial and strategic reflect underlying financial or performance targets. Financial 50% of the maximum opportunity non-financial performance or if metrics will account for at least is payable for on-target levels such other exceptional factors 75% of the total annual of performance. warrant doing so. opportunity with the remaining The Committee may apply malus portion normally being based on and/or clawback for a period of strategic and/or performance five years in certain circumstances, against personal objectives. such as financial misstatement, Financial measures currently individual misconduct or account for 80% of the total reputational damage to funding, The Committee would the company. intend to consult with shareholders in advance if there was to be a significant change in the weighting of financial and strategic measures. The plan is designed to incentivise and reward underlying performance. Actual results may be adjusted to remove the effect of foreign exchange and portfolio changes (acquisitions and disposals) and other relevant factors that the Committee considers do not reflect the underlying performance of the business in the performance year. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 101 LTIP Long-term incentive plan Purpose and link to strategy Help to recruit, reward and retain. Drive long-term earnings, share price growth and value creation. Align the interests of executives and shareholders. Encourage long-term shareholding and commitment to the company. Operation Opportunity Performance conditions and period Awards of shares are made on an The maximum award is 350% of The Committee will determine the The performance period is annual basis, which vest on a sliding base salary in respect of a performance measures, weightings three years. scale based on performance financial year. and targets governing an award against stretching corporate For 2020, the incoming CFO will be of shares prior to grant to ensure performance targets measured granted an award of 245% of salary. continuing alignment with strategy at the end of the three-year and to ensure that targets are performance period. sufficiently stretching. Awards are normally subject to a The Committee establishes a post vesting holding period for threshold below which no payout two years following the end of the is achieved and a maximum at or performance period. For awards above which the award pays out in granted prior to 2020, the holding full. The proportion of the award period applied will be in line with that vests at threshold may be up the approach set out in the to 25%. Directors’ Remuneration Policy Awards will normally be subject in place at the time of award. to the achievement of targets for Participants may receive additional earnings per share, a return on shares representing the gross value measure and relative total of dividends that would have been shareholder return (weighted paid on shares that vest during the equally). The Committee may performance period. determine that different measures The Committee reserves the right or weightings may apply for future to adjust payouts up or down awards; however, the Committee before they are released if it would intend to consult with believes that the vesting outcome shareholders in advance if there does not reflect underlying was to be a significant change in the financial or non-financial weighting of measures or the performance or if such other performance measures used. exceptional factors warrant doing so. In making such adjustments, the Committee is guided by the principle of aligning shareholder and management interests. The Committee may apply malus and/or clawback for a period of five years in certain circumstances, such as financial misstatement, individual misconduct or reputational damage to the company. 102 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2020 remuneration policy Notes to the Policy table Annual For 2020, the Committee identified sales, adjusted operating Changes to Policy incentive profit, operating cash flow and key strategic business plan imperatives as being relevant measures of Pearson’s The key changes to this Policy compared to the 2017 Policy are AIP performance against its shorter-term strategic objectives and summarised below: business priorities. Policy limits and measures – The exceptional maximum limits Long-term For 2020 awards, the Committee has judged the following to under base salary, benefits and LTIP have been removed to improve incentive be most closely matched to sustained delivery of strategy and transparency for shareholders around how we intend to implement plan alignment with shareholders’ interests: the Policy. Additional flexibility has been provided to allow for LTIP A  djusted earnings per share rewards the delivery of the changes to performance measures for future years. desired outcomes from our strategic growth objectives and is LTIP limit reduced – The normal maximum potential LTIP award imperative if the company is to improve our total shareholder has also been reduced from 400% of salary to 350% of salary to return and our return on invested capital. bring it more in-line with how we have implemented the Policy in R  eturn on invested capital is used to track investment recent years. returns and to help assess capital allocation decisions within the business. Target AIP – In order to align with shareholder expectations, Total shareholder return relative to the constituents of the the AIP paid for ‘on target’ performance will be no more than 50% FTSE 100 is used as the Committee believes, in line with many of the maximum potential. This results in a reduction in target of our shareholders, that part of Executive Directors’ rewards AIP opportunity for the Chief Executive from 100% of salary to should be linked to long-term performance relative to 90% of salary with no change to maximum opportunity. companies of comparable size, scale and maturity that are Simplified the holding period – We have simplified the structure similarly impacted by global macro-economic influences. of the LTIP holding period to reflect typical market practice. 100% of The performance ranges chosen set a careful balance between upside the LTIP award (for 2020 onwards) will be subject to a two-year opportunity and downside risk and are normally based on targets in holding period following the end of the three-year performance accordance with the company’s operating and strategic plans. period (i.e. five years from award). The charts on p97 illustrate how remuneration will be  est practice – Changes have been made to the Policy to reflect the B implemented in 2020 based on threshold, target and maximum adoption of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code (including to performance scenarios. incorporate changes outlined in previous Directors’ remuneration reports) as well as other areas of best practice. These include: Pre-existing commitments – Pensions for new appointments – Pension arrangements for new The Committee reserves the right to make remuneration payments appointments have been aligned with the pension arrangements and payments for loss of office (which includes exercising related available to the majority of UK employees of a similar age. discretions) that are not in line with this Policy if the terms of the payment were agreed: – Pension for the Chief Executive – Chief Executive pension opportunity is being reduced in stages over three years to 16% of 1. before the Policy came into effect, if the payment was agreed or base salary to align with the rate available to UK employees. made in line with the policy in force at the time or was otherwise approved by shareholders; and –P  ost-employment guideline – These guidelines have been formalised in the Policy and enhanced such that 100% of 2. at a time when the recipient was not subject to the Policy, provided in-employment guideline is expected to be retained for the Committee does not consider the payment to have been made two years following ceasing to be an Executive Director. in consideration of the recipient becoming subject to the Policy.  ther minor changes have been made to the wording of the Policy O For these purposes ‘payment’ means any payment that would to simplify and aid its operation and to increase clarity. otherwise be subject to the Policy and, in relation to a share award, will not be considered to have been ‘agreed’ any later than the date In determining the new Remuneration Policy, the Committee of grant. followed a robust process which included discussions on the content of the Policy at four Remuneration Committee meetings in Remuneration policy for other employees 2019. The Committee considered the input from our independent During the year, the Committee reviewed and developed a revised advisors and management, and sought the views of Pearson’s set of remuneration principles, which shape how we develop our major shareholders. Further information on the Committee’s remuneration policies. The principles are consistent across the decision-making process is set out in the remuneration report. employee population but how they are applied varies by business need, level and geography as required. Selection of performance measures and target setting In the selection and weighting of performance measures for the Our remuneration policy is as follows: annual and long-term incentive awards, the Committee takes into T  he approach to setting base salary increases elsewhere in the account Pearson’s strategic objectives and short and long-term company takes into account economic factors, competitive market business priorities. rates, roles, skills, experience and individual performance. A  llowances and benefits for employees reflect the local labour market in which they are based. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 103 A  round 1,200 employees participate in an Annual Incentive Plan. In making any decision on any aspect of the remuneration package for The funding for the plan is based on the same performance a new recruit, the Committee would balance shareholder expectations, conditions as those used for the Executive Directors. A number of current best practice and the requirements of any new recruit and other employees participate in other forms of cash-based annual would strive not to pay more than is necessary to achieve the incentive such as profit-share or sales commission plan based on recruitment. The Committee would give full details of the terms of the performance targets. package of any new recruit in the next annual remuneration report.  hare incentive plans for the Pearson Executive management team S Where an existing employee of the company is promoted to form the basis of the incentive plans throughout the organisation, the Board, the company may honour all existing contractual establishing performance measures and standards and setting the commitments including any outstanding share awards and ceiling for individual incentive opportunities. Approximately 5% of benefits, including pensions. the company’s employees below the Pearson Executive management Pearson expects any new Chair or Non-Executive Director to be team – selected on the basis of their role, performance and potential engaged on terms that are consistent with the general remuneration – participate in share incentive plans. principles outlined in the relevant sections of this Policy.  ll eligible employees (including Executive Directors) are also eligible A Service contracts and termination provisions to participate in savings-related share acquisition programmes in the UK, US and the rest of the world, which are not subject to any In accordance with long established policy, all Executive Directors performance conditions. have service agreements under which, other than by termination in accordance with the terms of these agreements, employment P  earson employees in the UK may participate in the same underlying continues indefinitely. pension arrangements as the Executive Directors, subject to certain age bands and legacy arrangements. There are no special provisions for notice or non-share-based compensation in the event of a change of control of Pearson. Recruitment It is the company’s policy that the company may terminate the The Committee expects any new Executive Directors to be engaged on Chair’s and Executive Directors’ service agreements by giving the same terms and to be awarded variable remuneration within the no more than 12 months’ notice. same normal limits and subject to the same conditions as for the current Executive Directors outlined in the policy. Payment in lieu of notice The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded As an alternative, for Executive Directors the company may at its (excluding any ‘buyout’ awards referred to above) in respect of discretion pay in lieu of that notice. Payment in lieu of notice may be recruitment is 550% of salary, which is in line with the current made in equal monthly instalments from the date of termination to maximum limit under the annual bonus and LTIP. the end of any unexpired notice period. Payment in lieu of notice in instalments may also be subject to mitigation and reduced taking into In setting the basic salary for any new Executive Director, the account earnings from alternative employment. Committee will apply a level appropriate to recruit a suitable candidate, having regard to the factors set out in the future policy table. For Executive Directors, payment in lieu of notice comprises 100% of the annual salary at the date of termination and the annual cost to the The Committee recognises that it cannot always predict accurately company of providing pension and all other benefits. For the Chair, the circumstances in which any new Directors may be recruited. payment in lieu of notice comprises 100% of the annual fees at the The Committee may determine that it is in the interests of the company date of termination. and shareholders to secure the services of a particular individual which may require the Committee to take account of the terms of that The company may, depending on the circumstances of the termination, individual’s existing employment and/or their personal circumstances. determine that it will not pay the Director in lieu of notice and may The Committee may do this in the following circumstances: instead terminate a Director’s contract in breach and make a damages payment, taking into account as appropriate the Director’s ability to W  here an individual is relocating in order to take up the role, in which mitigate his or her loss. case the company may provide certain benefits such as reasonable relocation expenses, accommodation for a short period following The company may also pay an amount considered to be reasonable by appointment and assistance with visa applications or other the Remuneration Committee in respect of fees for legal and tax advice immigration issues and ongoing arrangements such as tax and outplacement support for the departing Director. The Committee equalisation, annual flights home, schooling and housing allowance. reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Director’s cessation of office or employment where the payments  here an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities W are made in good faith, in discharge of an existing legal obligation or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate Director’s office or employment. taking into account all relevant factors including the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities. Share awards The Committee would require reasonable evidence of the nature and On cessation of employment, unless otherwise provided for under value of any forfeited award and would, to the extent practicable, the rules of Pearson’s discretionary share plans, Executive Directors’ ensure any compensation was provided on a like-for-like basis and entitlements to any unvested awards lapse automatically. In the case was no more valuable than the forfeited award. of injury, disability, ill-health or redundancy (as determined by the Committee), where a participant’s employing company ceases to be part of Pearson, or any other reason if the Committee so decides in its absolute discretion: 104 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 2020 remuneration policy a  wards will stay in force as if the participant had not ceased Non-Executive Directors serve Pearson under letters of appointment employment and shall ordinarily vest on the original vesting which are renewed annually and do not have service contracts. date/be released in line with normal time horizons subject to For Non-Executive Directors, there is no notice period or entitlement performance conditions. to compensation on the termination of their directorships. t he number of shares that are released shall be pro-rated for Executive Directors’ non-Executive Directorships the period of the participant’s service in the restricted period The Committee’s policy is that Executive Directors may, by agreement (although the Committee may in its absolute discretion waive or with the Board, serve as non-executives of other companies and retain vary the pro-rating). any fees payable for their services. In determining whether and how to exercise its discretion under Employment conditions Pearson’s discretionary share plans, the Committee will have regard to all relevant circumstances distinguishing between different types of Under the Committee’s charter and terms of reference, the leaver, the circumstances at the time the award was originally made, Committee’s remit includes determining remuneration for the the Director’s performance and the circumstances in which the Chief Executive, other Executive Directors and other members of the Director left employment. Pearson Executive management team. In addition, the Committee’s remit includes oversight of certain remuneration matters below this The rules of Pearson’s discretionary share plans also make provision level. Before the remuneration packages for the Pearson Executive for the treatment of awards in respect of corporate activity, including a management team are set for the year ahead, the Committee change of control of Pearson. The Committee would act in accordance considers reports from the Chief Executive on general morale and with the terms of the awards in these circumstances, which includes Chief Human Resources Officer on retention, general pay trends in terms as to the assessment of performance conditions and the market and the level of pay increases and incentives across the time apportionment. company as a whole. This helps to ensure that Executive remuneration Annual bonus packages are reviewed in the context of the wider organisation. On cessation of employment, Executive Directors may, at the The company consults with various employee representative bodies – Committee’s discretion, retain entitlement to a pro rata annual including trade unions and works councils in some jurisdictions – incentive for their period of service in the financial year prior to their about the company’s strategy, competitiveness and performance of leaving date. Such payout will normally be calculated in good faith the business and other matters affecting employees. The company on the same terms and paid at the same time as for continuing also conducts an employee engagement survey to find out how people Executive Directors. feel about working for Pearson, what they think about the work they Other elements of remuneration do, the opportunities they have and the rewards they get (including a Eligibility for allowances and benefits including retirement benefits section on pay and benefits). The company uses all of this feedback (other than pension payments in connection with subsequent to inform decisions on people-related activities, resources and retirement) normally ceases on retirement or on the termination investment, local management action plans and wider business of employment for any other reason. unit and organisational strategies. It is the company’s intention to continue to engage with employees Individual service agreements and employee representatives in this way in the future. Details of each individual’s service agreement are outlined in the table below. Employment agreements for other employees are determined The Committee has not consulted directly with employees on the according to local labour law and market practice. setting of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. Compensation on Shareholder views termination of employment The company consults regularly with shareholders on all matters by the company without Position Date of agreement Notice periods notice or cause affecting its strategy and business operations. As part of that Chair 25 October 2015 12 months from Payment in lieu of notice process, we also engage with shareholders on matters relating to the Director; of 100% of annual fees at Executive remuneration. The Committee continues to monitor 12 months from the date of termination and respond to best practice guidelines of shareholders and their the company representative bodies. Executive 31 December 6 months from Payment in lieu of Over the past three years, we have undertaken a thorough review of Directors 2012 (John Fallon) the Director; notice of 100% of annual our Executive Director Remuneration Policy and its implementation. 26 February 2015 12 months from salary at the date of As part of this review, we engaged extensively with our shareholders (Coram Williams) the company termination and the to ensure Executive remuneration is set appropriately, rewards for annual cost of pension performance and aligns management with the shareholder 15 January 2020 and all other benefits experience. We would like to thank our shareholders for the time (Sally Johnson) they have spent with us in this regard. Note Under payment in lieu of notice, the annual cost of pension for Executive Directors is normally calculated as the sum, where applicable, of: an amount equal In January 2020, we wrote to our key shareholders and the voting to the company’s cost of providing the Executive’s pension under the pension plan advisory agencies, seeking their views on the proposed changes to based on the Future Service Company Contribution Rate for the relevant section of the pension plan as stated in the most recent actuarial valuation (as at the date of Pearson’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy. We received valuable termination of employment) as limited by the earnings cap; and any cash allowance feedback on a number of points, which reflected a significant range in lieu of pension or to take account of the fact that pension benefits and life of opinions. This feedback has been helpful to the Committee in assurance cover are restricted by the earnings cap. formulating policy and is much appreciated. We are committed to continued engagement going forward. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 105 Future policy table for Chair’s and Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration The table below summarises policy with respect to the remuneration of the Chair and Non-Executive Directors: Chair and Non-Executive Director remuneration Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain high-calibre individuals, with appropriate experience or industry-relevant skills, by offering market competitive fee levels. Operation Opportunity Performance conditions and period The Chair is paid a single fee for all of their Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis. None. responsibilities. The total fees payable to the Non-Executive The Chair’s fee is set at a level that is competitive Directors (excluding the Chair) are subject to the with those of chairmen in similar positions in limit set out in the Articles of Association of the comparable companies. company (currently £750,000) and as increased The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee. by ordinary resolution from time to time. The Committee Chairs, members of the main Board Committees and the Senior Independent Director are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities. Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the full Board having regard to market practice. Additional fees or other payments may be paid to reflect additional responsibilities, roles or contribution, as appropriate. The Chair and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any annual or long-term incentive, retirement or other employee benefits. Selected benefits may be introduced, if considered appropriate. The company reimburses the Chair’s and Non-Executive Directors’ travel and other business expenses and any tax incurred thereon, if applicable. Normally a minimum of 25% of the Chair’s and Non-Executive Directors’ basic fee is paid in Pearson shares that the Non-Executive Directors have committed to retain for the period of their directorships. Shares are normally acquired quarterly at the prevailing market price with the individual’s after-tax fee payments. 106 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Implementation of remuneration in 2020 B Base salaries Targets are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in the 2020 Directors’ remuneration report. Given their planned departures from the Board, no salary increases were awarded for John Fallon and Coram Williams. Salaries effective LTIP Long-term incentive plan 1 April 2020: Coram Williams and John Fallon will not be eligible for an LTIP award John Fallon £817,400 (0%) in 2020. Coram Williams £539,500 (0%) The LTIP award level for the incoming CFO is 245% of base salary Sally Johnson will receive a salary of £515,000 per annum from her (which is the same award opportunity as for Coram Williams in appointment on 24 April 2020. This is in line with Coram Williams’ 2017, 2018 and 2019), reflecting the 2017 discounts to LTIP awards starting salary in 2015. in light of share price performance. The Committee believes that a further reduction in the incoming CFO’s A&B Allowances and benefits award level is not appropriate, beyond the discount already applied. There will be no changes to allowances and benefits allowances for This discount was set at a time when the share price was comparable to John Fallon and Coram Williams in 2020. Sally Johnson’s allowances the current share price and the Committee considered that alignment and benefits are in line with policy. between management and shareholders would be better supported by maintaining her level of grant at 245% of salary in 2020. R Retirement benefits Performance metrics, weightings and targets The Committee reviewed the approach to the Chief Executive’s pension Performance will continue to be tested over three years. in light of shareholder views and best practice and agreed with John Fallon that his pension allowance would be reduced on a phased basis At the time of writing, the strategic goals for the company over over the next three years to bring it in line with the UK workforce of the next three years were still under development by the Board. 16% of salary. Notwithstanding his planned retirement, John Fallon’s The targets for the 2020 LTIP grant will therefore be made available on cash pension allowance has been reduced by 3 percentage points to the website before the AGM and disclosed in the RNS announcement 23% of salary as the first step on this planned phased reduction. accompanying the grant, which is expected to be in May as normal. The Committee remains committed to timely/prompt disclosure of Coram Williams will continue to be a part of the Final Pay Section of targets once they have been confirmed. the Pearson Pension Plan until his leave date, accruing at 1/60th of pensionable salary per annum. Full details of the award will also be included in the annual remuneration report for 2020. Sally Johnson is a member of the Final Pay Section of the Pearson Pension Plan and will continue to accrue pension at a rate of 1/60th of pensionable salary per annum, restricted to the Plan earnings cap, Chair and Non-Executive Director fees in line with other participants in the Plan. The fees for the Reputation & Responsibility Committee have been increased to £15,000 and £8,000 to recognise the increasing AIP Annual incentive plan responsibilities of that Committee. There will be no other changes to fees for 2020: John Fallon will continue to participate in the AIP until his retirement date. Coram Williams will not be eligible for an AIP payment in respect Role Fees for 2020 of 2020. Chair of the Board £500,000 AIP opportunity will be pro-rated to reflect the period of the year Base fee for Non-Executive Directors £70,000 served for John Fallon and Sally Johnson. Additional SID fee £22,000 Maximum annual opportunity will remain unchanged for 2020: Role Chair Member Chief Executive 180% of base salary Audit Committee £27,500 £15,000 CFO 170% of base salary Remuneration Committee £22,000 £10,000 The Chief Executive’s target AIP opportunity will be reduced to 50% of Nomination & Governance Committee £15,000 £8,000 the maximum opportunity, from 100% of salary to 90% of salary. The CFO-elect’s target AIP opportunity will be unchanged at Reputation & Responsibility Committee £15,000 £8,000 50% of maximum opportunity (85% of salary). The Directors’ remuneration report has been approved by the Board For 2020, the mix of performance measures has been changed to on 6 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by: reflect Pearson’s focus on delivering top-line growth as well as operational efficiencies. The following financial and strategic measures will be used: Adjusted operating profit Sales Operating cash flow Strategic measures Elizabeth Corley 30% 30% 20% 20% Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 2020 strategic measures will align with our continued efforts to accelerate the digital transformation of the company (10%), make the most of Pearson’s world of talent (5%) and create a simpler and more sustainable organisation (5%). Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 107 Additional disclosures Pages 52–112 of this document comprise the Directors’ report for We have set out clear capital allocation priorities as follows: the year ended 31 December 2019. M  aintaining a strong balance sheet and solid investment-grade Set out below is other statutory and regulatory information that credit ratings through an appropriate capital structure. Accordingly, Pearson is required to disclose in its Directors’ report. we intend to maintain a year-end net debt/EBITDA of less than 2.2x on a post IFRS 16 basis and 1.5x on a pre IFRS 16 basis. Going concern Simplifying our portfolio and investing in the business to drive The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s ability to sustainable organic growth. continue as a going concern and consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.  elivering shareholder returns through a sustainable and D progressive dividend policy, returning surplus cash to shareholders Viability statement where appropriate through buybacks or special dividends. As set out on p50, the Board has also reviewed the prospects of In line with those priorities, the Board decided that we would use Pearson over the three-year period to December 2022 taking account the proceeds from the transaction to maintain a strong balance sheet of the company’s three-year plan, a ‘severe but plausible’ downside and invest in our business in addition to returning £350m of surplus case and further stress-testing based on the principal risks set out capital to shareholders following the closing of the transaction. from p40 The Board considered investor views on preferred methods of cash Based on the results of these procedures, and considering the return, the amount being returned and other factors and concluded a company’s strong balance sheet, the Directors have a reasonable share buyback was the most appropriate methodology to return that expectation that Pearson will be able to continue in operation and capital to our shareholders at that time. meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending We commenced a £350m share buyback programme on 16 January December 2022. Further details of the Group’s liquidity are shown 2020. As of 3 March 2020, being the latest practicable date before in the Financial review on p33 the publication of this report, we had repurchased for cancellation Share capital 18,356,161 shares at an average price of 574 pence per share. Details of share issues and cancellations are given in note 27 to Major shareholders the financial statements on p178. The company has a single class of Information provided to the company pursuant to the Financial shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each. The ordinary Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR) is shares are in registered form. As at 31 December 2019, 782,098,929 published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the ordinary shares were in issue. At the AGM held on 26 April 2019, the company’s website. company was authorised, subject to certain conditions, to acquire up to 78,141,414 ordinary shares by market purchase and to issue As at 31 December 2019, the company had been notified under up to 520,942,760 ordinary shares. Shareholders will be asked to DTR 5 of the following holders of significant voting rights in its shares. renew this authority at the AGM on 24 April 2020. Percentage Number of as at date of Share buyback voting rights notification In December, we announced the sale of our 25% stake in Penguin Schroders plc 97,302,791 12.44% Random House to Bertelsmann, generating total net proceeds of Lindsell Train Limited 78,465,444 10.04% approximately $675m. The partial divestment of our stake in Penguin Random House was in line with our strategy for simplification Silchester International Investors LLP 77,889,093 9.98% and allowed us to create significant shareholder value through the BlackRock, Inc. 50,946,154 6.51% synergies from the integration of the two businesses. Our stake in Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 41,236,375 5.02% Penguin Random House will have generated c.£1.9bn in net disposal proceeds and dividends. Libyan Investment Authority1 24,431,000 3.01% 1 Based on notification to the company dated 7 June 2010. We have been notified of no change to this holding since that date. Assets belonging to, or owned, held or controlled on 16 September 2011 by the Libyan Investment Authority and located outside Libya on that date, are frozen in accordance with Article 5(4) of Regulation 2016/44 of the Council of the European Union. 108 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Additional disclosures Between 31 December 2019 and 3 March 2020, being the latest Shareholders can declare a final dividend by passing an ordinary practicable date before the publication of this report, the company resolution but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the amount received further notifications under DTR 5, with the most recent recommended by the Board. The Board can pay interim dividends on positions being as follows: any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide. In all cases, the distributable profits of the company must Percentage be sufficient to justify the payment of the relevant dividend. Number of as at date of voting rights notification The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Schroders plc 101,370,711 13.00% shareholders, offer any shareholder the right to elect to receive new Silchester International Investors LLP 85,106,480 11.00% ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend. Annual General Meeting Any dividend which has not been claimed for 12 years after it became The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon on Friday, 24 April due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the company, 2020 at IET London, 2 Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL, is contained in a unless the Directors decide otherwise. circular to shareholders to be dated 23 March 2020. If the company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction Registered auditors of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company and he/she In accordance with section 489 of the Act, a resolution proposing the can value assets and determine how the division shall be carried out reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors to the as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders. company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level of remuneration to The liquidator can also, with the same sanction, transfer the whole or be agreed by the Audit Committee. any part of the assets to trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the shareholders. Amendment to Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the company Voting at general meetings (the Articles) may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Any form of proxy sent by the shareholders to the company in Act by way of a special resolution. relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the company (via its registrars), whether in written or electronic form, not less than Rights attaching to shares 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Articles. adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment A shareholder whose name appears on the company’s register of proposes to vote. members can choose whether his/her shares are evidenced by share certificates (i.e. in certificated form) or held electronically The Board may decide that a shareholder is not entitled to attend or (i.e. uncertificated form) in CREST (the electronic settlement system vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise in the UK). any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he/she or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend any general 793 of the Act (which confers upon public companies the power to meeting of the company and, on a show of hands, every shareholder require information with respect to interests in their voting shares) (or his/her representative) who is present at a general meeting has one and he/she or any interested person failed to supply the company vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every shareholder (whether an with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that individual or a corporation) present in person or by proxy shall have notice. The Board may also decide, where the relevant shareholding one vote for every 25p of nominal share capital held. A resolution put comprises at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued shares to the vote at a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless of that class, that no dividend is payable in respect of those default before, or on the declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered. hands, a poll is demanded. A poll can be demanded by the Chair of the meeting, or by at least three shareholders (or their representatives) Pearson operates an employee benefit trust to hold shares, pending present in person and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders employees becoming entitled to them under the company’s employee (or their representatives) present in person having at least 10% of the share plans. There were 2,095,272 shares held as at 31 December total voting rights of all shareholders, or by any shareholders (or their 2019. The trust has an independent trustee which has full discretion representatives) present in person holding ordinary shares on which in relation to the voting of such shares. A dividend waiver operates on an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least 10% of the total sum the shares held in the trust. paid up on all ordinary shares. At this year’s AGM, voting will again be conducted on a poll, consistent with best practice. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 109 Pearson also operates two nominee shareholding arrangements Appointment and replacement of Directors which hold shares on behalf of employees. There were 2,515,611 The Articles contain the following provisions in relation to Directors. shares held in the Sharestore account and 902,514 shares held in the Global Nominee account as at 31 December 2019. The beneficial Directors shall be no less than two in number. Directors may be owners of shares held in Sharestore are invited to submit voting appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the Board. instructions online at www.shareview.co.uk and Global Nominee A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next participants are invited to submit voting instructions by email to AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not be nominee@equiniti.com. If no instructions are given by the beneficial taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of owner by the date specified, the trustees holding these shares will Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting. The Board may not exercise the voting rights. from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold Executive office with the company for such period (subject to the provisions Transfer of shares of the Act) and upon such terms as the Board may decide and may The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share revoke or terminate any appointment so made. which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the company, at least dealings in shares in the company from taking place on an open and one-third of the Directors shall retire by rotation (or, if their number proper basis. The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third). The first certificated share unless: (i) the instrument of transfer is lodged, Directors to retire by rotation shall be those who wish to retire and duly stamped (if stampable), at the registered office of the company not offer themselves for re-election. Any further Directors so to retire or any other place decided by the Board, and is accompanied by the shall be those of the other Directors subject to retirement by rotation certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as who have been longest in office since they were last re-elected but, the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor as between persons who became or were last re-elected on the to make the transfer; (ii) it is in respect of only one class of shares; same day, those to retire shall (unless they otherwise agree among and (iii) it is in favour of not more than four transferees. themselves) be determined by lot. In addition, any Director who Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and would not otherwise be required to retire shall retire by rotation at the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in the third AGM after they were last re-elected. accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the Board has resolved that all Directors should offer themselves for re-election annually, Variation of rights in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the Code). If at any time the capital of the company is divided into different The company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director before classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be the expiration of his/her term of office. In addition, the Board may varied or revoked either: terminate an agreement or arrangement with any Director for the (i) w  ith the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal provision of his/her services to the company. value of the issued shares of the relevant class or Powers of the Directors (ii) w  ith the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the relevant class. Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the company will be managed by the Board Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the who may exercise all the powers of the company, including powers holders of any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be relating to the issue and/or buying back of shares by the company issued with such preferred, deferred or other special rights, or such (subject to any statutory restrictions or restrictions imposed by restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital shareholders in a general meeting). or otherwise as the company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine. 110 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Additional disclosures Directors’ indemnities Other statutory information A qualifying third-party indemnity (QTPI), as permitted by the Articles Other information that is required by the Companies Act 2006 and sections 232 and 234 of the Act, has been granted by the company (the Act) and by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups to each of its Directors. Under the provisions of the QTPI, the company (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (as amended) to be included undertakes to indemnify each Director against liability to third parties in the Directors’ report, and which is incorporated by reference, can be (excluding criminal and regulatory penalties) and to pay Directors’ costs located as follows: as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the company if the Summary disclosures index See more Director is found guilty, the court refuses to grant the relief sought or, in an action brought by the company, judgement is given against Dividend recommendation p30 the Director. The indemnity has been in force for the financial year Financial instruments and financial risk management p165 ended 31 December 2019 and is currently in force. The company has Important events since year end p34 purchased and maintains Directors’ and Officers’ insurance cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in connection with Future development of the business p6 any act or omission by such Directors and Officers in the execution of Research and development activities p27 their duties. Employment of disabled persons p22 Significant agreements Employee involvement p21 The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the Greenhouse gas emissions p22 counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a Statement describing employee engagement p28 change of control of the company. Statement describing regard to suppliers, At 31 December 2019, the Group had a $1,190m revolving credit facility customers and other stakeholders’ interests p28 agreement dated August 2014 (amended February 2019) which With the exception of the dividend waiver described on p108 there is matures in February 2024 between, among others, the company, no information to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.4. Barclays Bank plc (Agent) and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders (the Facility), under which any such bank No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure may, upon a change of control of the company, require its outstanding incurred by the company or its subsidiaries during the year. advances, together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Facility, and its commitments, to be Fair, balanced and understandable reporting and cancelled, each within 60 days of notification to the banks by the Agent. disclosure of information For these purposes, a ‘change of control’ occurs if the company As required by the Code, we have established arrangements to ensure becomes a subsidiary of any other company, or one or more persons that all information we report to investors and regulators is fair, acting either individually or in concert obtains control (as defined in balanced and understandable. A process and timetable for the section 1124 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010) of the company. production and approval of this year’s report was agreed by the Shares acquired through the company’s employee share plans rank Board at its meeting in December 2019. The full Board then had the pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights. For legal and opportunity to review and comment on the report as it progressed. practical reasons, the rules of these plans set out the consequences of Representatives from financial reporting, corporate affairs, company a change of control of the company. secretarial, legal and internal audit, compliance and risk are involved in the preparation and review of the annual report to ensure a cohesive and balanced approach and, as with all of our financial reporting, our Verification Committee conducts a thorough verification of narrative and financial statements. We also have procedures in place to ensure the timely release of inside information, through our Market Disclosure Committee. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 111 The Audit Committee is also available to advise the Board on certain aspects of the report, to enable the Directors to fulfil their responsibility in this regard. The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s position, performance, business model and strategy. The Directors also confirm that, for each Director in office at the date of this report: s o far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group and company’s auditors are unaware t hey have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group and the company’s auditors are aware of that information. Directors in office The following Directors were in office during the year and up until the signing of the financial statements: E P L Corley M M Lynton S L Coutu (appointed on 1 May 2019) G D Pitkethly (appointed on 1 May 2019) V Cox T Score J J Fallon S Taurel S J Lewis L A Wallen L K Lorimer C Williams The Directors’ report has been approved by the Board on 6 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by: Stephen Jones Company Secretary 112 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities Statement of Directors’ responsibilities The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from the Group and company financial statements in accordance with legislation in other jurisdictions. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. Under company law, the Directors must not approve Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true p54–56, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and company and of t he Group and company financial statements, which have been the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing the financial prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European statements, the Directors are required to: Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently position and profit of the Group and company s tate whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union t he Strategic report contained in the annual report includes a fair have been followed for the Group and company financial statements, review of the development and performance of the business and the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the position of the Group and company, together with a description of the financial statements principal risks and uncertainties that they face. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable This responsibility statement has been approved by the Board and prudent on 6 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by: p  repare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and company will continue in business. Coram Williams The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Chief Financial Officer that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 113 Financial statements In this section Consolidated financial statements 168 20 Intangible assets – pre-publication 114 Independent auditors’ report to the 168 21 Inventories members of Pearson plc 169 22 Trade and other receivables 122 Consolidated income statement 170 23 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 123 Consolidated statement of 170 24 Trade and other liabilities comprehensive income 171 25 Retirement benefit and other 124 Consolidated balance sheet post-retirement obligations 126 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 177 26 Share-based payments 127 Consolidated cash flow statement 178 27 Share capital and share premium 179 28 Treasury shares Notes to the consolidated 179 29 Other comprehensive income financial statements 180 30 Business combinations 128 1 Accounting policies 181 31 Disposals 137 2 Segment information 182 32 Held for sale 139 3 Revenue from contracts with customers 183 33 Cash generated from operations 144 4 Operating expenses 184 34 Contingencies and commitments 146 5 Employee information 184 35 Leases 146 6 Net finance costs 187 36 Related party transactions 147 7 Income tax 187 37 Events after the balance sheet date 148 8 Earnings per share 187 38 Accounts and audit exemptions 151 9 Dividends 151 10 Property, plant and equipment Company financial statements 152 11 Intangible assets 188 Company balance sheet 155 12 Investments in joint ventures and associates 189 Company statement of changes in equity 157 13 Deferred income tax 190 Company cash flow statement 158 14 Classification of financial instruments 191 Notes to the company financial statements 160 15 Other financial assets 160 16 Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 163 17 Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts) 164 18 Financial liabilities – borrowings 165 19 Financial risk management 114 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Pearson plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee. Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion, Pearson plc’s consolidated financial statements and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards company financial statements (the “financial statements”): on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law. Our responsibilities  ive a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the g under ISAs (UK) are further described in the auditors’ responsibilities company’s affairs at 31 December 2019 and of the Group’s profit and for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. the Group’s and the company’s cash flows for the year then ended; We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.  ave been properly prepared in accordance with International h Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Independence Union and, as regards the company financial statements, as applied We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006; and requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements h  ave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We have audited the financial statements, included within the To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit Annual Report and Accounts (the “Annual Report”), which comprise: services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the consolidated and company balance sheets at 31 December 2019; the Group or to the company. the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of Other than those disclosed in note 4 to the consolidated financial comprehensive income, the consolidated and company cash flow statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or to statements and the consolidated and company statements of the company in the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies. Our audit approach Overview Materiality Materiality Overall Group materiality: £27 million (2018: £25 million) based on approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax. Overall company materiality: £49 million (2018: £45 million) based on approximately 1% of net assets. Audit scope Audit scope We conducted work in four key territories, being the UK, US, Brazil and Italy. This included full scope audits at four reporting components and specific audit procedures at a further eight Areas of components. In addition, we obtained an audit opinion on the financial information reported focus by the US component of the Group’s associate, Penguin Random House. The territories where we conducted audit procedures, together with work performed at corporate functions and at the Group level, accounted for approximately: 73% of the Group’s revenue; 73% of the Group’s statutory profit before tax; and 73% of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax. Areas of focus for the 2019 audit were as follows: C  arrying values of goodwill and acquired intangible assets (Group) Returns provisioning (Group) Recoverability of pre-publication assets (Group) Provisions for uncertain tax positions (Group) Finance transformation (Group) Disposals (Group) Risk of fraud in revenue recognition (Group) Carrying values of investments in subsidiaries (company) Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 115 The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and the industry in which it operates, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to failure to comply with UK and international tax regulations and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006. We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override of controls) and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries, management bias in accounting for estimates including estimates relating to revenue recognition and manipulation of cut-off of shipments at major warehouse locations. The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work. Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and/or component auditors included:  iscussions with management, internal audit and the Group’s legal D advisors, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud;  valuation of the effectiveness of management’s controls designed to E prevent and detect irregularities; Identification and testing of significant manual journal entries; and  esting of assumptions and judgements made by management in T making significant accounting estimates. There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it. Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations or through collusion. 116 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Pearson plc Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit. Significant issues considered by the Audit Committee Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying values of goodwill and acquired intangible assets Refer to note 11 in the consolidated financial statements. We tested management’s CGU reassessment and reallocation of goodwill within The Group recorded goodwill of £2,139m (2018: £2,111m) these newly defined CGUs and we evaluated the methodology applied by and acquired intangible assets of £310m (2018: £451m) at management to reallocate goodwill. We assessed whether return on asset 31 December 2019, including acquired customer lists, measures encompassing goodwill are monitored or measured at a level lower contracts and relationships, acquired trademarks and than management’s revised CGU groupings. brands and acquired publishing rights. We obtained management’s value in use impairment model at 31 December 2019 The carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets are and we tested its mathematical integrity, including validating forecasts and carrying dependent on estimates of future cash flows of the underlying values included in management’s model. cash generating units (CGUs) and there is a risk that if Our procedures have been focused on the North American Courseware, OPM, management does not achieve these cash flow estimates it Core and Brazil CGUs where headroom is lower or more sensitive to changes in could give rise to further impairment charges. This risk key assumptions. increases in periods when the Group’s trading performance We agreed the forecast cash flows to Board approved budgets and strategic plans and projections do not meet expectations. and we assessed how these budgets and strategic plans are compiled. We evaluated The impairment reviews performed by management management’s related judgements and estimates, including short-term revenue contain a number of significant judgements and estimates. and operating profit growth rates, cash conversion, corporate cost allocations and Changes in these assumptions can result in materially restructuring savings. We compared management’s forecasts and key assumptions different impairment charges or available headroom. to industry projections and comparable companies where this information In addition, management has changed the level at which was available. certain reporting units are monitored and reported in 2019 Management has applied a longer forecast period extending until 2030 for as a result of the continued roll-out of the Group’s new ERP specific cash flow projections for the OPM CGU compared to the three year period system and following the disposal of the US K12 Courseware covered by the Group’s strategic planning process, which is applied to all other business, thereby requiring a change in CGU determination CGUs. We evaluated the rationale why a longer period was appropriate for OPM and and a reallocation of goodwill to the new CGU groupings. why management was able to prepare reliable forecasts over the longer-term. An impairment charge of £65m has been recorded in 2019 We deployed valuations experts to assess the perpetuity growth rate and discount relating to Brazil which has been applied against Brazil’s rate for each CGU by comparison with third party information, past performance acquired intangible assets. and relevant risk factors. We compared management’s valuations with third party valuations implied by trading and transaction multiples of the Group’s competitors where this information was available for specific CGUs. Where an impairment was identified by management relating to the Brazil CGU based on value in use, we tested the calculation of the impairment charge and we ensured that the fair value less costs of disposal would not give rise to a higher recoverable amount for this CGU. We performed our own independent sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions. We assessed the appropriateness of management’s decision to provide additional disclosures about sensitivities in note 11 of the financial statements in relation to the North American Courseware, OPM, Core and Brazil CGUs. More broadly, we considered whether the disclosures in note 11 complied with IAS 36. Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 117 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Returns provisioning Refer to notes 3 and 24 in the consolidated financial statements. We assessed management’s evaluation of market trends and the Group’s responses The Group has provided £122m (2018: £173m) for sales returns and we considered whether management’s revised provisioning methodology is at 31 December 2019. The most significant exposure to potential appropriate in this context. returns within the Group arises in the US Higher Education We tested the returns provision calculations at 31 December 2019 and we agreed Courseware business. Trends in the US market, including the inputs including historical sales and actual returns experience to underlying growth of textbook rentals and the availability of free online records. We performed detailed testing over shipment and returns levels around the content, continue to affect this business and have the potential year-end and we evaluated whether these gave rise to an increased risk of future to impact returns levels if shipping practices and arrangements returns. We considered the reduction in the provision for sales returns in 2019 by with retailers are not managed in response to these trends. reference to the related reduction in US Higher Education Courseware sales. Management provides for returns based on past experience We evaluated whether management had adopted methods and reached estimates by customer and channel. In 2019, management changed its for future returns that were supportable and appropriate. methodology to apply a two year historical returns average Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work. compared to three years previously in response to market changes and related changes to customer buying patterns. Recoverability of pre-publication assets Refer to note 20 in the consolidated financial statements. We assessed the appropriateness of capitalisation and amortisation policies and The Group holds £870m (2018: £817m) of pre-publication we considered whether these policies had been consistently applied. We selected a assets at 31 December 2019. Pre-publication assets represent sample of costs to test their magnitude and appropriateness for capitalisation. direct costs incurred in the development of education We evaluated the reasonableness of amortisation periods and profiles compared platforms, programmes and titles prior to their public release. to sales forecasts and historical sales experience, including considering the impact of the transition towards digital products. Judgement is required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of these assets. This judgement is further We challenged the carrying value of certain pre-publication assets where products are complicated by the transition to digital as the Group invests yet to be launched, are less proven or where sales are lower than originally anticipated. in new, less proven, inter-linked digital content and platforms. We assessed forecast cash flows against historical experience and we obtained supporting evidence for management’s explanations. Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work. Provisions for uncertain tax positions Refer to notes 7 and 34 in the consolidated financial We engaged our tax specialists in the US and UK and we obtained an understanding statements. of the Group’s tax strategy and risks. We assessed the tax impact of business The Group is subject to several tax regimes due to the developments in 2019, including the disposal of the US K12 Courseware business geographical diversity of its businesses. At 31 December and internal refinancing transactions. We recalculated the Group’s tax provisions 2019, the Group held provisions for uncertain tax positions and determined whether the treatments adopted were in line with the Group’s tax of £152m (2018: £181m). policies and had been applied consistently. Management is required to exercise significant judgement in We evaluated the key underlying assumptions, particularly in the US and UK. determining the appropriate amount to provide in respect In making this evaluation, we considered the status of tax authority audits and of potential tax exposures and uncertain tax positions. enquiries. We considered the basis and support in particular for provisions not The most significant provisions relate to US tax, transfer subject to tax audit in comparison with our experience of similar situations at pricing and tax on prior year disposals. In addition, there are comparable companies. We evaluated whether any risk of material misstatement material unprovided tax exposures related to EU state aid existed for uncertain tax position provisioning outside of the US and UK. and a Brazilian tax authority assessment related to goodwill We evaluated the consistency of management’s approach to establishing or amortisation deductions. changing prior provision estimates and we validated that changes in prior provisions Changes in assumptions about the views that might be taken reflected a change in facts and circumstances during 2019. Where provisions have by tax authorities can materially impact the level of provisions not been established, including for material potential exposures like EU state aid recorded in the consolidated financial statements. and the assessment from the Brazilian tax authority, we evaluated the basis for management’s judgements, including an assessment of the treatment of similar exposures at comparable companies. We evaluated third party advice obtained by the Group as we independently formed our own view about the likelihood of these possible tax risks crystallising in future cash outflows. We noted that the assumptions and judgements required to formulate these provisions mean that the range of possible outcomes is broad. We evaluated the disclosures in notes 7 and 34 in relation to uncertain tax provisions and we considered whether the disclosures were consistent with the underlying positions and with the requirements of IAS 1 and IAS 12. In addition, we considered the Group’s application of IFRIC 23 with effect from 1 January 2019. Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work. 118 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Pearson plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Finance transformation The Group has continued to implement significant change We centrally managed the work performed by component audit teams at Pearson across its finance function in 2019 with the continued roll-out Finance Services and in migrating markets like the US, which consisted of controls of The Enabling Programme (TEP) and the organisational and substantive transaction testing, and we conducted oversight visits to key sites change resulting from implementing the target operating impacted by the transformation activities to direct the work performed. model. The ERP system roll-out continued in 2019 with certain We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of key automated US businesses going live and finance transaction processing and manual controls after the migration including IT general controls and controls activities were migrated to offshore shared service centres. in respect of data migration into the new ERP system environment. We also tested This change represents a risk as controls and processes that balance sheet reconciliations for migrating entities to identify any migration issues. have been established and embedded over a number of years Where issues were identified, we performed testing of compensating controls and are changed and migrated to the new ERP system environment we increased the level of substantive transaction testing to address any residual risk. and into new shared service centres. There is an increased risk of break-down in internal control during the transition. Disposals Refer to note 31 in the consolidated financial statements. We reviewed the sale agreement and we vouched the cash received. We assessed the In March 2019, the Group completed the disposal of its net assets disposed by reference to the audited balance sheet of K12 at 31 December US K12 Courseware business, resulting in a pre-tax profit 2018, understanding and evaluating any subsequent movements in key balances. of £13m. Total proceeds amounted to £200m of which We validated the cash held on the completion balance sheet and we recalculated £180m is deferred. management’s goodwill allocation. We tested a sample of the transaction costs. Accounting for the transaction required management We focused our assessment on the valuation of the deferred proceeds at the date of judgement and estimation to establish the fair value of the disposal. The vendor note and earn-out receivables are measured at fair value which deferred proceeds related to an unconditional vendor note is calculated as the present value of the expected future cash flows, meaning that for $225m and an entitlement to 20% of future cash flows to the fair value is impacted by both the quantum and timing of any future payments equity holders and to 20% of net proceeds in the event of a from the vendor. We assessed management’s assumptions related to the expected subsequent sale of K12. Changes to the assumptions applied payment profile of the vendor note, the expected timing of the vendor’s potential by management in establishing the fair value of the deferred exit and the estimated equity value of K12 at that time. We compared management’s proceeds could have a material effect on the profit on disposal. assumptions against external evidence where available. We performed our own independent sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions. We deployed our treasury specialists to test the appropriateness of the discount rate used to present value the future cash flows and to assess management’s classification of these receivables as fair value through profit and loss as defined by IFRS 9. We have subsequently tested management’s remeasurement and disclosure of these receivables at 31 December 2019. We separately considered management’s decision to classify Penguin Random House (PRH) as held for sale at year-end and whether the announcement of the sale of the Group’s stake in December 2019 crystallised any impairment, comparing the carrying value of PRH’s net assets with the contracted disposal proceeds. Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work. Risk of fraud in revenue recognition Refer to note 3 in the consolidated financial statements. For a selection of the larger, more judgemental and more recent long-term contracts, Certain of the Group’s businesses in the US and UK enter covering both assessment activities and online delivery of teaching, we read the into long-term contracts that span year-end, where revenue contracts and we assessed the accounting methodologies being applied to calculate is recognised using estimated percentage of completion the proportion of revenue being recognised in 2019. We considered whether based on costs. These include contracts to design, develop management’s revenue recognition practices are in accordance with Group policies and deliver testing and accreditation services. and related accounting standards and have been consistently applied. These contracts generate material deferred revenue balances We tested costs incurred to date and management’s estimates of forecast costs and changes to the underlying assumptions or estimation and revenues by reference to historical experience and current contract status. calculations could have a material effect on the consolidated We recalculated management’s percentage of completion estimates and we financial statements. performed look-back tests to assess management’s historical accuracy of forecasting for these types of arrangement. In addition, we performed manual journals testing focusing on unusual or unexpected entries to revenue. Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 119 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying values of investments in subsidiaries Refer to note 2 in the company financial statements. We evaluated management’s assessment whether any indicators of impairment The company holds investments in subsidiaries amounting existed by comparing the carrying values of investments in subsidiaries with their to £6,664m (2018: £6,710m) at 31 December 2019. net assets at 31 December 2019. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less For investments where the net assets were lower than the carrying values, provision for impairment in the company balance sheet. we assessed their recoverable value by reference to the value in use of the Investments are tested for impairment if impairment investments compared to their carrying values at 31 December 2019. Where indicators exist. If such indicators exist, the recoverable applicable, we verified that the recoverable values of investments were consistent amounts of investments in subsidiaries are estimated in order with the recoverable values of the related CGUs tested for goodwill impairment to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. Any purposes, leveraging the audit work undertaken as part of the Group audit. such impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. We separately evaluated the difference between the investment carrying values The impairment assessment was identified as a key audit and the Group’s market capitalisation. matter given the size of the underlying investment carrying Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work. values and the differential to the Group’s market capitalisation. Further impairment indicators were identified in connection with certain of the investments in subsidiaries due to the carrying value of investments exceeding their net assets. The assessment required the application of management judgement, particularly in determining whether any impairment indicators have arisen that trigger the need for an impairment assessment and in assessing whether the carrying value of each investment can be supported by the recoverable amount. Changes to these judgements and estimates could have a material impact on the company financial statements. How we tailored the audit scope This ensured that sufficient and appropriate audit procedures were We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed performed to achieve sufficient coverage over these financial enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements statement line items. as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the In addition to instructing and reviewing the reporting from our company, the accounting processes and controls and the industry in component audit teams, we conducted visits to component teams which they operate. in the US (New York and Minneapolis), Italy, Brazil and the UK (Belfast) The consolidated financial statements are a consolidation of 565 which included file reviews and attendance at key meetings with local reporting units, each of which is considered to be a component. management. We also had regular dialogue with component teams We identified four components in the UK, US and Italy that required throughout the year. a full scope audit due to their size. Audit procedures over specific The Group consolidation, financial statement disclosures and financial statement line items were performed at a further eight corporate functions were audited by the Group engagement team. components in the UK, US and Brazil to achieve appropriate audit This included our work over taxation, goodwill and acquired intangible coverage. In addition, we obtained an audit opinion on the financial assets, post-retirement benefits and major transactions. information reported by the US component of the Group’s associate, Penguin Random House. Taken together, the components and corporate functions where we conducted audit procedures accounted for approximately 73% of the In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined Group’s revenue, 73% of the Group’s statutory profit before tax and the type of work that needed to be performed at the components 73% of the Group’s adjusted profit before tax. This provided the by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within evidence we needed for our opinion on the consolidated financial PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our statements taken as a whole. This was before considering the instruction. Where the work was performed by component auditors, contribution to our audit evidence from performing audit work at the we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit Group level, including disaggregated analytical review procedures, work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient which covered certain of the Group’s smaller and lower risk appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our components that were not directly included in our Group audit scope. opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. Materiality We performed full scope audits in respect of NCS Pearson, The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Pearson Education US, Pearson Education UK, Pearson Italy and We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together Penguin Random House US. with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of We performed specified procedures at a further eight components our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on over financial statement line items including revenue, trade and other the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in receivables and deferred income, cash, intangible assets, accruals, evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in provisions for returns, product development and amortisation, aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. fixed assets and depreciation, cost of sales and operating expenses. 120 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Pearson plc Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for Reporting on other information the financial statements as a whole as follows: The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Group financial statements Company financial statements Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other information. Overall £27 million £49 million Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other materiality (2018: £25 million) (2018: £45 million) information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, How we Approximately 5% of Approximately 1% of except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, determined it adjusted profit before tax net assets any form of assurance thereon. Rationale for The Group’s principal We consider net assets to be In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our benchmark measure of performance is an appropriate benchmark responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider applied adjusted operating profit for a Group holding company. whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the (£581m), which excludes Certain account balances one-off gains and losses, were included in scope for financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or costs of major restructuring the Group audit and were otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an and acquired intangible audited to a materiality level apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are asset amortisation and set below overall materiality required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a impairment charges, in order established for our audit material misstatement of the financial statements or a material to present results from of the consolidated misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we operating activities on a financial statements. have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement consistent basis. We have of this other information, we are required to report that fact. taken this measure into We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities. account in determining our With respect to the Strategic Report and Governance Report, we also materiality. From adjusted operating profit, we deducted considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act net finance costs. 2006 have been included. For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a Based on the responsibilities described above and our work materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The range undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 (CA06), of materiality allocated across components was £4 million to ISAs (UK) and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) £20 million. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described report to them misstatements identified during our audit above below (required by ISAs (UK) unless otherwise stated). £2 million (2018: £2 million) for the Group and company audits Strategic Report and Governance Report as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Governance Going concern Report for the year ended 31 December 2019 is consistent with the In accordance with ISAs (UK) we report as follows: financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. (CA06) Reporting obligation Outcome In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and We are required to report if we have We have nothing material to add or to company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, anything material to add or draw draw attention to. we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report attention to in respect of the However, because not all future and Governance Report. (CA06) Directors’ statement in the financial events or conditions can be predicted, statements about whether the this statement is not a guarantee as to The Directors’ assessment of the prospects of the Group and of Directors considered it appropriate the company’s ability to continue as a the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity to adopt the going concern basis of going concern. For example, the terms of the Group accounting in preparing the financial of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: statements and the Directors’ from the European Union are not identification of any material clear and it is difficult to evaluate all T  he Directors’ confirmation on p40 of the Annual Report that they uncertainties to the Group’s and the of the potential implications on the have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing company’s ability to continue as a Group’s trade, customers, suppliers the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, going concern over a period of at and the wider economy. future performance, solvency or liquidity; least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. T  he disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; and We are required to report if the We have nothing to report. Directors’ statement relating to going  he Directors’ explanation on p50 of the Annual Report as to T concern in accordance with Listing Rule how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with period they have done so and why they consider that period to be our knowledge obtained in the audit. appropriate and their statement on p107 of the Annual Report as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 121 We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors’ Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the financial statements principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the longer-term viability of the Group. Our review was substantially less financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that considering the Directors’ process supporting their statements; includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”); ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. and considering whether the statements are consistent with the Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered knowledge and understanding of the Group and company and their material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be environment obtained in the course of the audit. (Listing Rules) expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the Other Code provisions basis of these financial statements. We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of report when: the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms T  he statement given by the Directors, on p111, that they consider part of our auditors’ report the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for the Use of this report members to assess the Group’s and company’s position and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent for the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of with our knowledge of the Group and company obtained in the Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do course of performing our audit; not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any T  he section of the Annual Report on p80 and 81 describing other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee; and prior consent in writing.  he Directors’ statement relating to the company’s compliance with T Other required reporting the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant Companies Act 2006 exception reporting provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors. Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Directors’ Remuneration  e have not received all the information and explanations we require w In our opinion, the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to for our audit; or be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. (CA06) a  dequate accounting records have not been kept by the company or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches Responsibilities for the financial statements not visited by us; or and the audit c ertain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements not made; or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities t he company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ set out on p112, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and accounting records and returns. for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility. necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are Appointment free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for we were appointed by the members on 6 February 1996 to audit assessing the Group’s and the company’s ability to continue as a going the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1996 and concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either engagement is 24 years, covering the years ended 31 December intend to liquidate the Group or the company or to cease operations or 1996 to 31 December 2019. have no realistic alternative but to do so. Giles Hannam (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 6 March 2020 122 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Consolidated income statement Year ended 31 December 2019 All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Continuing operations Sales 2 3,869 4,129 Cost of goods sold 4 (1,858) (1,943) Gross profit 2,011 2,186 Operating expenses 4 (1,806) (1,907) Other net gains and losses 4 16 230 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 54 44 Operating profit 2 275 553 Finance costs 6 (84) (91) Finance income 6 41 36 Profit before tax 232 498 Income tax 7 34 92 Profit for the year 266 590 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 264 588 Non-controlling interest 2 2 Earnings per share attributable to equity holders of the company during the year (expressed in pence per share) – basic 8 34.0p 75.6p – diluted 8 34.0p 75.5p Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 123 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended 31 December 2019 All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Profit for the year 266 590 Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – Group (113) 91 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – associates (2) (1) Currency translation adjustment disposed 4 (4) Attributable tax 7 5 (4) Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Fair value gain on other financial assets 20 8 Attributable tax 7 (4) – Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations – Group 25 (145) 22 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations – associates (4) 3 Attributable tax 7 22 9 Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 29 (217) 124 Total comprehensive income for the year 49 714 Attributable to: Equity holders of the company 47 712 Non-controlling interest 2 2 124 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December 2019 All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 10 618 237 Intangible assets 11 2,900 3,009 Investments in joint ventures and associates 12 7 392 Deferred income tax assets 13 59 60 Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 16 29 67 Retirement benefit assets 25 429 571 Other financial assets 15 122 93 Trade and other receivables 22 313 100 4,477 4,529 Current assets Intangible assets – pre-publication 20 870 817 Inventories 21 169 164 Trade and other receivables 22 1,275 1,178 Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 16 25 1 Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts) 17 437 568 2,776 2,728 Assets classified as held for sale 32 397 648 Total assets 7,650 7,905 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities – borrowings 18 (1,572) (674) Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 16 (24) (36) Deferred income tax liabilities 13 (48) (136) Retirement benefit obligations 25 (92) (100) Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 (13) (145) Other liabilities 24 (86) (155) (1,835) (1,246) Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 125 Consolidated balance sheet continued As at 31 December 2019 All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Current liabilities Trade and other liabilities 24 (1,278) (1,400) Financial liabilities – borrowings 18 (92) (46) Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 16 (15) (23) Current income tax liabilities (55) (72) Provisions for other liabilities and charges 23 (52) (20) (1,492) (1,561) Liabilities classified as held for sale 32 – (573) Total liabilities (3,327) (3,380) Net assets 4,323 4,525 Equity Share capital 27 195 195 Share premium 27 2,614 2,607 Treasury shares 28 (24) (33) Capital redemption reserve 11 11 Fair value reserve 39 19 Translation reserve 567 678 Retained earnings 911 1,039 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 4,313 4,516 Non-controlling interest 10 9 Total equity 4,323 4,525 These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer 126 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 December 2019 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital NonShare Share Treasury redemption Fair value Translation Retained controlling Total All figures in £ millions capital premium shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity At 1 January 2019 195 2,607 (33) 11 19 678 1,039 4,516 9 4,525 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 net of tax (see note 1b) – – – – – – (83) (83) – (83) Adjustment on initial application of IFRIC 23 net of tax (see note 1c) – – – – – – 5 5 – 5 At 1 January 2019 (restated) 195 2,607 (33) 11 19 678 961 4,438 9 4,447 Profit for the year – – – – – – 264 264 2 266 Other comprehensive income/(expense) – – – – 20 (111) (126) (217) – (217) Total comprehensive income/(expense) – – – – 20 (111) 138 47 2 49 Equity-settled transactions – – – – – – 25 25 – 25 Tax on equity-settled transactions – – – – – – (5) (5) – (5) Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes – 7 – – – – – 7 – 7 Buyback of equity – – – – – – – – – – Purchase of treasury shares – – (52) – – – – (52) – (52) Release of treasury shares – – 61 – – – (61) – – – Transfer of gain on disposal of FVOCI investment – – – – – – – – – – Dividends – – – – – – (147) (147) (1) (148) At 31 December 2019 195 2,614 (24) 11 39 567 911 4,313 10 4,323 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital NonShare Share Treasury redemption Fair value Translation Retained controlling Total All figures in £ millions capital premium shares reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interest equity At 1 January 2018 200 2,602 (61) 5 13 592 544 3,895 8 3,903 Profit for the year – – – – – – 588 588 2 590 Other comprehensive income – – – – 8 86 30 124 – 124 Total comprehensive income – – – – 8 86 618 712 2 714 Equity-settled transactions – – – – – – 37 37 – 37 Tax on equity-settled transactions – – – – – – 4 4 – 4 Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes 1 5 – – – – – 6 – 6 Buyback of equity (6) – – 6 – – (2) (2) – (2) Purchase of treasury shares Release of treasury shares – – 28 – – – (28) – – – Transfer of gain on disposal of FVOCI investment – – – – (2) – 2 – – – Dividends – – – – – – (136) (136) (1) (137) At 31 December 2018 195 2,607 (33) 11 19 678 1,039 4,516 9 4,525 The capital redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of shares cancelled in the Group’s share buyback programme. The fair value reserve arises on revaluation of other financial assets. The translation reserve includes exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 127 Consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 31 December 2019 All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities Net cash generated from operations 33 480 547 Interest paid (81) (42) Tax paid (30) (43) Net cash generated from operating activities 369 462 Cash flows from investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 30 (45) (5) Additional capital invested in associates (40) – Purchase of investments (12) (10) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (55) (70) Purchase of intangible assets (138) (130) Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 31 (101) 83 Proceeds from sale of associates 31 – 18 Proceeds from sale of investments 5 6 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 33 1 128 Proceeds from sale of liquid resources – 10 Lease receivables repaid 26 – Loans (advance to)/repaid by related parties (49) 46 Investment in liquid resources – (2) Interest received 17 20 Investment income 2 – Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 64 117 Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (325) 211 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 27 7 6 Buyback of equity 27 – (153) Purchase of treasury shares (52) – Proceeds from borrowings 230 – Repayment of borrowings (48) (441) Repayment of lease liabilities (91) (4) Dividends paid to company’s shareholders 9 (147) (136) Dividends paid to non-controlling interest (1) (1) Net cash used in financing activities (102) (729) Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (33) (49) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (91) (105) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 525 630 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 434 525 128 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Pearson plc (the company), its subsidiaries and associates (together the The areas requiring a higher degree of judgement or complexity, Group) are international businesses covering educational courseware, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the assessments and services, and consumer publishing through its consolidated financial statements, are discussed in the relevant associate interest in Penguin Random House. accounting policies under the following headings and in the notes to the accounts where appropriate: The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England. The address of its registered office is Intangible assets: Goodwill 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL. Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets Taxation The company has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange Revenue: Provisions for returns and is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Employee benefits: Pensions These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by In addition, certain assumptions have been used and judgements the Board of Directors on 6 March 2020. exercised in the valuation of the other receivable which arose on the disposal of the US K12 Courseware business (see note 14). 1a. Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidation consolidated financial statements are set out below. 1. Business combinations – The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations. Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements, and the company financial The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is statements, have been prepared on the going concern basis and in the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and equity interest issued by the Group. The consideration transferred IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) interpretations as adopted by includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a the European Union (EU) and with those parts of the Companies Act contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS. In respect of the expensed as incurred in the operating expenses line of the income accounting standards applicable to the Group; there is no difference statement. Identifiable assets acquired and identifiable liabilities and between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS. contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The determination of These consolidated financial statements, and the company financial fair values often requires significant judgements and the use of statements, have been prepared under the historical cost convention estimates, and, for material acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities intangible assets is determined by an independent valuer. The excess (including derivative financial instruments) at fair value. of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling These accounting policies have been consistently applied to all years interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any presented, unless otherwise stated. previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill (see note 30). 1. Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective 2019 – The following standards were adopted in 2019: See the ‘Intangible assets’ policy for the accounting policy on goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary IFRS 16 Leases acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments directly in the income statement. IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 Amendments On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the The impact of the adoption of these new standards is set out in notes non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s 1b, 1c and 1d. net assets. A number of other new pronouncements are also effective from IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ has not been applied retrospectively 1 January 2019 but they do not have a material impact on the to business combinations before the date of transition to IFRS. consolidated financial statements, or the company financial statements. Additional disclosure has been given where relevant. Management exercises judgement in determining the classification of its investments in its businesses, in line with the following: 2. Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective – A number of other new standards and 2. Subsidiaries – Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, periods beginning after 1 January 2020, and have not been applied in or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity preparing these financial statements. None of these is expected to and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements, entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which or the company financial statements. control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. 3. Critical accounting assumptions and judgements – The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting assumptions. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 129 1a. Accounting policies continued Consolidation continued 2. Transactions and balances – Foreign currency transactions are 3. Transactions with non-controlling interests – Transactions with translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains accounted for as equity transactions, that is, as transactions with and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the owners in their capacity as owners. Any surplus or deficit arising the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and from disposals to a non-controlling interest is recorded in equity. liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the For purchases from a non-controlling interest, the difference between income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying net consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying investment hedges. value of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. 3. Group companies – The results and financial position of all Group 4. Joint ventures and associates – Joint ventures are entities in which companies that have a functional currency different from the the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and has rights to the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency net assets through contractually agreed sharing of control. Associates as follows: are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not i) A ssets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the power to control the financial and operating policies, generally the balance sheet accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Ownership percentage is likely to be the key indicator of ii) Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates investment classification; however, other factors, such as Board iii) A ll resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate representation, may also affect the accounting classification. component of equity. Judgement is required to assess all of the qualitative and quantitative factors which may indicate that the Group does, or does not, have On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation significant influence over an investment. Penguin Random House is of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other the Group’s only material associate – see note 12 for further details currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are on the judgements involved in its accounting classification. taken to shareholders’ equity. The Group treats specific inter-company Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for loan balances, which are not intended to be repaid in the foreseeable by the equity method and are initially recognised at the fair value future, as part of its net investment. When a foreign operation is sold, of consideration transferred. such exchange differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale. The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ and associates’ post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement and its share The principal overseas currency for the Group is the US dollar. of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves. The average rate for the year against sterling was $1.28 (2018: $1.34) and the year-end rate was $1.32 (2018: $1.27). The Group’s share of its joint ventures’ and associates’ results is recognised as a component of operating profit as these operations Property, plant and equipment form part of the core publishing business of the Group and are an Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost less integral part of existing wholly-owned businesses. The cumulative depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for of the investment. When the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture intended use. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is or associate equals or exceeds its interest in the joint venture or calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost less their associate, the Group does not recognise further losses unless the residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows: Group has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate. Buildings (freehold): 20–50 years Buildings (leasehold): over the period of the lease Unrealised gains and losses on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Plant and equipment: 3–10 years Group’s interest in these entities. The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted 5. Contribution of a subsidiary to an associate or joint venture – if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. The gain or loss resulting from the contribution or sale of a subsidiary The carrying value of an asset is written down to its recoverable to an associate or a joint venture is recognised in full. Where such amount if the carrying value of the asset is greater than its estimated transactions do not involve cash consideration, significant judgements recoverable amount. and estimates are used in determining the fair values of the consideration received. Foreign currency translation 1. Functional and presentation currency – Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the company’s functional and presentation currency. 130 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1a. Accounting policies continued Intangible assets 4. Acquired intangible assets – Acquired intangible assets include 1. Goodwill – For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on or after customer lists, contracts and relationships, trademarks and brands, 1 January 2010, goodwill represents the excess of the consideration publishing rights, content, technology and software rights. These transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and included in intangible and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity interest in assets. Intangible assets acquired in material business combinations the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. are capitalised at their fair value as determined by an independent For the acquisition of subsidiaries made from the date of transition to valuer. Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives IFRS to 31 December 2009, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of between two and 20 years, using an amortisation method that of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net reflects the pattern of their consumption. identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries 5. Pre-publication assets – Pre-publication assets represent direct is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisition of associates costs incurred in the development of educational programmes and and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition titles prior to their publication. These costs are recognised as current over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets intangible assets where the title will generate probable future acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is economic benefits and costs can be measured reliably. included in investments in associates and joint ventures. Pre-publication assets relating to content are amortised upon Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and carried at publication of the title over estimated economic lives of five years or cost less accumulated impairment losses. An impairment loss is less, being an estimate of the expected operating lifecycle of the title, recognised to the extent that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds with a higher proportion of the amortisation taken in the earlier years. the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of Pre-publication assets relating to product platforms are amortised fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. These calculations over ten years or less being an estimate of the expected useful life. require the use of estimates in respect of forecast cash flows and discount rates and significant management judgement in respect The assessment of the useful economic life and the recoverability of CGU and cost allocation; impairment is a key source of estimation of pre-publication assets involves a significant degree of judgement uncertainty and has a significant risk of resulting in a material based on historical trends and management estimation of future adjustment to the carrying amount of relevant assets within the next potential sales. An incorrect amortisation profile could result in financial year. A summary of these assets by CGU and a description of excess amounts being carried forward as intangible assets that the key assumptions and sensitivities is included in note 11. would otherwise have been written off to the income statement in an earlier period. Goodwill is allocated to aggregated cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those Reviews are performed regularly to estimate recoverability of aggregated cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from pre-publication assets. The carrying amount of pre-publication assets the business combination in which the goodwill arose. is set out in note 20. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying The investment in pre-publication assets has been disclosed as amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. part of cash generated from operations in the cash flow statement (see note 33). 2. Acquired software – Software separately acquired for internal use is capitalised at cost. Software acquired in material business Other financial assets combinations is capitalised at its fair value as determined by an Other financial assets are non-derivative financial assets classified and independent valuer. Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line measured at estimated fair value. basis over its estimated useful life of between three and eight years. Marketable securities and cash deposits with maturities of greater than 3. Internally developed software – Internal and external costs incurred three months are classified and subsequently measured at fair value during the preliminary stage of developing computer software for through profit and loss. internal use are expensed as incurred. Internal and external costs They are remeasured at each balance sheet date by using market data incurred to develop computer software for internal use during the and the use of established valuation techniques. Any movement in the application development stage are capitalised if the Group expects fair value is immediately recognised in finance income or finance costs economic benefits from the development. Capitalisation in the in the income statement. application development stage begins once the Group can reliably measure the expenditure attributable to the software development Investments in the equity instruments of other entities are and has demonstrated its intention to complete and use the software. classified and subsequently measured at fair value through other Internally developed software is amortised on a straight-line basis comprehensive income. Changes in fair value are recorded in equity in over its estimated useful life of between three and ten years. the fair value reserve via other comprehensive income. On subsequent disposal of the asset, the net fair value gains or losses are reclassified from the fair value reserve to retained earnings. Any dividends received from equity investments classified as fair value through other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement unless they represent a return of capital. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 131 1a. Accounting policies continued Inventories Where any Group company purchases the company’s equity share Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly Cost is determined using the weighted average method or an attributable incremental costs, net of income taxes, is deducted from approximation thereof, such as the first in first out (FIFO) method. equity attributable to the company’s equity holders until the shares The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of overheads. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the any directly attributable transaction costs and the related income ordinary course of business, less estimated costs necessary to make tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the company’s the sale. Provisions are made for slow-moving and obsolete stock. equity holders. Ordinary shares purchased under a buyback programme are cancelled Royalty advances and the nominal value of the shares is transferred to a capital Advances of royalties to authors are included within trade and other redemption reserve. receivables when the advance is paid less any provision required to adjust the advance to its net realisable value. The realisable value of Borrowings royalty advances relies on a degree of management estimation in Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which is proceeds determining the profitability of individual author contracts. If the received net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are estimated realisable value of author contracts is overstated, this will subsequently stated at amortised cost with any difference between have an adverse effect on operating profits as these excess amounts the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value being will be written off. recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon an annual detailed using the effective interest method. Accrued interest is included as management review of the age of the advance, the future sales part of borrowings. projections for new authors and prior sales history of repeat authors. Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging relationship, The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted or effective royalty an adjustment is made to its carrying value in the income statement rate as the related revenues are earned. Royalty advances which will be to reflect the hedged risk. consumed within one year are held in current assets. Royalty advances Where a debt instrument is in a net investment hedge relationship which will be consumed after one year are held in non-current assets. gains and losses on the effective portion of the hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement include cash in Derivative financial instruments hand, deposits held on call with banks, other short-term highly liquid Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured at each investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank balance sheet date. The fair value of derivatives is determined by using overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings in current market data and the use of established estimation techniques such as liabilities in the balance sheet. discounted cash flow and option valuation models. Short-term deposits and marketable securities with maturities of For derivatives in a hedge relationship, the currency basis spread greater than three months do not qualify as cash and cash equivalents is excluded from the designation as a hedging instrument. and are reported as financial assets. Movements on these financial assets are classified as cash flows from financing activities in the Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised immediately in cash flow statement where these amounts are used to offset the finance income or costs. However, derivatives relating to borrowings borrowings of the Group or as cash flows from investing activities and certain foreign exchange contracts are designated as part of a where these amounts are held to generate an investment return. hedging transaction. Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 132 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1a. Accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments continued Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the undistributed The accounting treatment is summarised as follows: earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures other than where it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not be Reporting of gains remitted in the foreseeable future. Typical reason and losses on effective Reporting of gains and for designation portion of the hedge losses on disposal Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, Net investment hedge except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly to The derivative creates Recognised in other On disposal, the equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also a foreign currency comprehensive accumulated value recognised in equity or other comprehensive income. liability which is used income. of gains and losses The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. to hedge changes in the reported in other Significant judgement is required in determining the estimates in value of a subsidiary comprehensive income relation to the worldwide provision for income taxes. There are many which transacts in is transferred to the transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination that currency. income statement. is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group Fair value hedges recognises tax provisions when it is considered probable that there The derivative Gains and losses If the debt and will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority. The provisions transforms the interest on the derivative derivative are disposed are based on management’s best judgement of the application of tax profile on debt from are reported in finance of, the value of the legislation and best estimates of future settlement amounts (see note fixed rate to floating rate. income or finance derivative and the debt 7). Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the Changes in the value of costs. However, an (including the fair value amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the the debt as a result of equal and opposite adjustment) are reset income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such changes in interest rates change is made to the to zero. Any resultant determination is made. and foreign exchange carrying value of the gain or loss is rates are offset by equal debt (a ‘fair value recognised in Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement and and opposite changes in adjustment’) with the finance income or estimation in determining the amounts to be recognised. In particular, the value of the benefit/cost reported finance costs. when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be derivative. When the in finance income or recognised, significant judgement is used when considering the timing Group’s debt is swapped finance costs. The net of the recognition and estimation is used to determine the level of to floating rates, the result should be a zero future taxable income together with any future tax planning strategies contracts used are charge on a perfectly (see note 13). designated as fair value effective hedge. hedges. Employee benefits Non-hedge accounted contracts 1. Pensions – The retirement benefit asset and obligation recognised These are not No hedge in the balance sheet represent the net of the present value of the designated as hedging accounting applies. defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the instruments. Typically balance sheet date. The defined benefit obligation is calculated these are short-term annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit contracts to convert method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is debt back to fixed rates determined by discounting estimated future cash flows using yields or foreign exchange on high-quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity contracts where a approximating the terms of the related liability. natural offset exists. When the calculation results in a potential asset, the recognition Taxation of that asset is limited to the asset ceiling – that is the present value Current tax is recognised at the amounts expected to be paid or of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or plan or a reduction in future contributions. Management uses substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. judgement to determine the level of refunds available from the plan in recognising an asset. Deferred income tax is provided, using the balance sheet liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts. Deferred income of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes depends on the tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to inflation rate, salary growth and longevity (see note 25). apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and income tax liability is settled. changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary The service cost, representing benefits accruing over the year, is differences can be utilised. included in the income statement as an operating cost. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit obligation and is presented as finance costs or finance income. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 133 1a. Accounting policies continued Employee benefits continued Revenue is recognised in order to depict the transfer of control of Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects are recognised as an operating expense in the income statement the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for as incurred. those goods and services. This process begins with the identification of our contract with a customer, which is generally through a master 2. Other post-retirement obligations – The expected costs of postservices agreement, customer purchase order, or a combination retirement medical and life assurance benefits are accrued over the thereof. Within each contract, judgement is applied to determine period of employment, using a similar accounting methodology as for the extent to which activities within the contract represent distinct defined benefit pension obligations. The liabilities and costs relating performance obligations to be delivered and the total amount of to significant other post-retirement obligations are assessed annually transaction price to which we expect to be entitled. by independent qualified actuaries. The transaction price determined is net of sales taxes, rebates and 3. Share-based payments – The fair value of options or shares granted discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group. Where a under the Group’s share and option plans is recognised as an employee contract contains multiple performance obligations such as the expense after taking into account the Group’s best estimate of the provision of supplementary materials or online access with textbooks, number of awards expected to vest. Fair value is measured at the revenue is allocated on the basis of relative standalone selling prices. date of grant and is spread over the vesting period of the option or Where a contract contains variable consideration significant estimation share. The fair value of the options granted is measured using an is required to determine the amount to which the Group is expected option model that is most appropriate to the award. The fair value to be entitled. of shares awarded is measured using the share price at the date of grant unless another method is more appropriate. Any proceeds Revenue is recognised on contracts with customers when or as received are credited to share capital and share premium when the performance obligations are satisfied which is the period or the point options are exercised. in time where control of goods or services transfers to the customer. Judgement is applied to determine first whether control passes over Provisions time and if not, then the point in time at which control passes. Where Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present legal or revenue is recognised over time judgement is used to determine the constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than method which best depicts the transfer of control. Where an input not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation method is used significant estimation is required to determine the and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are discounted progress towards delivering the performance obligation. to present value where the effect is material. Revenue from the sale of books is recognised net of a provision for Prior to 1 January 2019 the Group recognised a provision for onerous anticipated returns. This provision is based primarily on historical lease contracts when the expected benefits to be derived from a return rates, customer buying patterns and retailer behaviours contract were less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the including stock levels (see note 22). If these estimates do not reflect obligations under the contract. The calculation of onerous lease actual returns in future periods then revenues could be understated provisions involved estimates of potential sublet income, lease terms or overstated for a particular period. When the provision for returns including rent free periods, void periods, lease incentives and is remeasured at each reporting date to reflect changes in estimates, running costs. On the initial application of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, a corresponding adjustment is also recorded to revenue. onerous lease provisions have been offset against the relevant The Group may enter into contracts with another party in addition to right-of-use asset (see note 23). our customer. In making the determination as to whether revenue The provision was based on the present value of future payments for should be recognised on a gross or net basis, the contract with the surplus leased properties under non-cancellable operating leases, customer is analysed to understand which party controls the relevant net of estimated sub-leasing income. good or service prior to transferring to the customer. This judgement is informed by facts and circumstances of the contract in determining Revenue recognition whether the Group has promised to provide the specified good or The Group’s revenue streams are courseware, assessments and service or whether the Group is arranging for the transfer of the services. Courseware includes curriculum materials provided in specified good or service, including which party is responsible for book form and/or via access to digital content. Assessments includes fulfilment, has discretion to set the price to the customer and is test development, processing and scoring services provided to responsible for inventory risk. On certain contracts, where the Group governments, educational institutions, corporations and professional acts as an agent, only commissions and fees receivable for services bodies. Services includes the operation of schools, colleges and rendered are recognised as revenue. Any third party costs incurred on universities, including sistemas in Brazil, as well as the provision of behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual online learning services in partnership with universities and other arrangement are not included in revenue. academic institutions. Income from recharges of freight and other activities which are incidental to the normal revenue-generating activities is included in other income. Additional details on the Group’s revenue streams are also included in note 3. 134 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1a. Accounting policies continued Leases Policy applicable before 1 January 2019 Policy applicable from 1 January 2019 Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has The Group as a lessee substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease at the finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement inception of the contract. A contract is, or contains a lease, if the of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a present value of the minimum lease payments. Each lease payment period of time in exchange for consideration. The Group recognises a is allocated between the liability and finance charges to achieve a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date constant rate on the finance balance outstanding. The corresponding with respect to all lease arrangements except for short-term leases rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in financial (leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value liabilities – borrowings. The interest element of the finance cost is assets. For these leases, the lease payments are recognised as an charged to the income statement over the lease period to produce a operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipment acquired The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, comprising the initial under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life amount of the lease liability plus any initial direct costs incurred and of the asset or the lease term. an estimate of costs to restore the underlying asset, less any lease incentives received. The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases earlier of the end of the useful life of the asset or the end of the lease by the lessee. Payments made under operating leases (net of any term. The Group applies IAS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income asset is impaired. The lease liability is initially measured at the present statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement Dividends date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that Final dividends are recorded in the Group’s financial statements in rate cannot be readily determined, the incremental borrowing rate. the period in which they are approved by the company’s shareholders. The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective Interim dividends are recorded when paid. interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or a rate or a change Discontinued operations in the Group’s assessment of whether it will exercise an extension A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured, represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of a corresponding adjustment is made to the right-of-use asset. operations that has been disposed of or meets the criteria to be Management uses judgement to determine the lease term where classified as held for sale. extension and termination options are available within the lease. Discontinued operations are presented in the income statement as a The Group as a lessor: separate line and are shown net of tax. When the Group is an intermediate lessor, the head lease and Assets and liabilities held for sale sub-lease are accounted for as two separate contracts. The head lease is accounted for as per the lessee policy above. The sub-lease is Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale and stated at the classified as a finance lease or operating lease by reference to the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell if it is highly right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. Where the lease probable that the carrying amount will be recovered principally transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. lessee the contract is classified as a finance lease; all other leases are No depreciation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified classified as operating leases. Rental income from operating leases is as held for sale. Amounts relating to non-current assets and liabilities recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. held for sale are classified as discontinued operations in the income Amounts due from lessees under finance sub-leases are recognised as statement where appropriate. receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in the leases Trade receivables discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate Trade receivables are stated at fair value after provision for bad and cannot be readily determined, the discount rate used in the head lease. doubtful debts. Provisions for bad and doubtful debts are based on the expected credit loss model. The ‘simplified approach’ is used with the expected loss allowance measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses. Trade receivables are also stated after provision for anticipated future sales returns (also see Revenue recognition policy). Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 135 1b. Change of accounting policy: IFRS 16 The Group has adopted IFRS 16 ’Leases’ at 1 January 2019 and applied the modified retrospective approach. Comparatives for 2018 have not been restated and the cumulative impact of adoption has been recognised as a decrease to net assets with a corresponding decrease in retained earnings at 1 January 2019 as follows: 1 January All figures in £ millions 2019 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment (right-of-use assets) 424 Investment in joint ventures and associates (2) Deferred income tax assets 1 Trade and other receivables 185 Current assets Trade and other receivables 7 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities – borrowings (792) Deferred income tax liabilities 14 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 101 Other liabilities 58 Current liabilities Financial liabilities – borrowings (89) Trade and other liabilities 10 Total decrease in retained earnings at 1 January 2019 (83) The Group’s lease portfolio consists of approximately 750 property Adoption of the new standard has a material impact on the Group. leases together with a number of vehicle and equipment leases. The lease liability brought onto the balance sheet at transition was The lease liability has been measured at the present value of the £881m with the corresponding right-of-use asset valued at £424m. remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental In addition, certain subleases have been reclassified as finance leases borrowing rate at transition. The right-of-use asset has been measured resulting in an additional lease receivable of £215m being brought at the carrying amount as if the standard had been applied since on balance sheet. The net impact on the balance sheet is a reduction the commencement of the lease, discounted using the incremental of net assets of £83m after taking into account existing liabilities borrowing rate at transition. Where data was not available to enable relating to onerous lease provisions, lease incentives, prepayments, this measurement to be made, the right-of-use asset has been adjustments to tax and the net impact on associates. There were no measured at an amount equal to the lease liability. leases relating to held for sale assets at 1 January 2019. On transition the Group elected not to reassess whether a contract is, For leases previously classified as finance leases under IAS 17 ‘Leases’, or contains, a lease, instead relying on the assessment already made the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset and the lease liability at applying IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and IFRIC 4 ‘Determining whether and 1 January 2019 are determined at the carrying amount of the lease Arrangement contains a Lease’. In addition, the Group applied the asset and lease liability under IAS 17 immediately before that date. available practical expedients as follows: The impact on the income statement for 2019 was to reduce  elied on its assessment of whether leases are onerous immediately R profit before tax by £9m (increasing both adjusted and statutory prior to the date of initial application. operating profit by £25m and increasing net finance costs by £34m). The operating lease expense recognised under the previous A  pplied the short-term leases exemptions to leases with lease term accounting standards is now replaced by depreciation and net ending within 12 months at the date of the initial application. finance costs. The impact on the Group’s share of joint venture Excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the and associate profit is not material. right-to-use asset at the date of the initial application. There is no overall impact on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents  sed hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract U although there is a change to the classification of cash flows in the contains options to extend or terminate the lease. cash flow statement with lease payments and finance lease receipts previously categorised as net cash used in operations now being split between the principal element (categorised in financing activities for payments and investing activities for receipts) and the interest element (categorised as interest paid in operating activities or interest received in investing activities). In 2019 there were £91m of lease payments classified as financing cash flows, £26m of lease receipts classified as investing cash flows, £45m of lease interest payments and £11m of lease interest receipts. 136 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1b. Change of accounting policy: IFRS 16 continued The Group has also included the lease liability and investment in finance lease as part of its net debt which impacts the calculation of the Group’s non-GAAP measures for operating cash flow and free cash flow. The lease liabilities at 1 January 2019 can be reconciled to the operating lease commitments at 31 December 2018 as follows: 1 January All figures in £ millions 2019 Operating lease commitments disclosed at 31 December 2018 (note 35) 1,175 Discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application (290) (Less): commitments relating to short-term leases (7) Add: adjustments relating to the different treatment of extension and termination options 3 Additional lease liability recognised at 1 January 2019 881 Analysed at: Current lease liabilities 89 Non-current lease liabilities 792 In addition to the lease liabilities transitioned above, the Group had £5m of lease liabilities that were accounted for as finance leases at 31 December 2018. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on 1 January 2019 was 5.0%. 1c. Change of accounting policy: IFRIC 23 1d. Change of accounting policy: Amendments to The Group adopted IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’ IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 effective 1 January 2019. The interpretation clarifies the application The Group has considered the impact of IBOR reform on its hedge of the recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 ‘Income accounting. The Group has elected to early adopt amendments taxes’ where there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 ‘Interest Rate Benchmark Reform’ issued in The interpretation provides guidance to determine whether uncertain September 2019. In accordance with the transition provisions, tax positions should be considered separately or together, and that the amendments have been adopted retrospectively to hedging measurement should be whether the single most likely outcome or relationships that existed at the start of the reporting period or were the probability weighted sum of a range of outcomes, whichever better designated thereafter. The amendments provide temporary relief predicts the resolution. The reassessment of current tax liabilities from applying specific hedge accounting requirements to hedging resulted in a decrease in liabilities of £5m but does not have a material relationships directly affected by IBOR reform. The adoption of these impact on the income statement. amendments has not had a material impact on these financial statements (see note 19). Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 137 2. Segment information The primary segments for management and reporting are geographies as outlined below. In addition, the Group separately discloses the results from the Penguin Random House associate. The chief operating decision-maker is the Pearson Executive. North America – Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in the US and Canada. Core – Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in more mature markets including UK, Europe, Asia Pacific and North Africa. Growth – Courseware, Assessments and Services businesses in emerging markets including Brazil, India, South Africa, Hispano-America, Hong Kong and China, and the Middle East. For more detail on the services and products included in each business segment, refer to the strategic report. 2019 Penguin North Random All figures in £ millions Notes America Core Growth House Corporate Group Sales 2,534 838 497 – – 3,869 Adjusted operating profit 361 92 63 65 – 581 Cost of major restructuring (110) (28) (19) (2) – (159) Intangible charges (62) (7) (82) (12) – (163) Other net gains and losses 13 8 (5) – – 16 Operating profit (loss) 202 65 (43) 51 – 275 Finance costs 6 (84) Finance income 6 41 Profit before tax 232 Income tax 7 34 Profit for the year 266 Segment assets 4,316 1,957 484 – 489 7,246 Associates 12 – 7 – 397 – 404 Total assets 4,316 1,964 484 397 489 7,650 Other segment items Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 – 3 – 51 – 54 Capital expenditure 10, 11 176 35 51 – – 262 Pre-publication investment 20 189 81 49 – – 319 Depreciation 10 75 23 25 – – 123 Amortisation 11, 20 305 85 147 – – 537 138 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2. Segment information continued 2018 Penguin North Random All figures in £ millions Notes America Core Growth House Corporate Group Sales 2,784 806 539 – – 4,129 Adjusted operating profit 362 57 59 68 – 546 Cost of major restructuring (78) (16) – (8) – (102) Intangible charges (72) (8) (19) (14) – (113) Other net gains and losses 4 – 226 – – 230 UK pension GMP equalisation – (8) – – – (8) Operating profit 216 25 266 46 – 553 Finance costs 6 (91) Finance income 6 36 Profit before tax 498 Income tax 7 92 Profit for the year 590 Segment assets 4,366 1,975 536 – 636 7,513 Associates 12 – 5 – 387 – 392 Total assets 4,366 1,980 536 387 636 7,905 Other segment items Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 (4) 1 1 46 – 44 Capital expenditure 10, 11 135 25 36 – – 196 Pre-publication investment 20 234 90 64 – – 388 Depreciation 10 41 12 13 – – 66 Amortisation 11, 20 344 92 89 – – 525 Included in the North America segment in 2018 is £60m in Group’s property footprint in London. The costs of this restructuring pre-publication investment and £67m in amortisation relating programme are significant enough to exclude from the adjusted to assets held for sale. operating profit measure so as to better highlight the underlying performance (see note 4). There were no material inter-segment sales in either 2019 or 2018. Intangible charges – These represent charges relating to acquired For additional detailed information on the calculation of adjusted intangibles, acquisition costs and movements in contingent acquisition operating profit as shown in the above tables, see p201-204 and disposal consideration. These charges are excluded as they reflect (Financial key performance indicators). past acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect the current year Adjusted operating profit is shown in the above tables as it is performance of the Group. Intangible amortisation charges in 2019 the key financial measure used by management to evaluate the were £163m, including an impairment charge of £65m relating to performance of the Group and allocate resources to business acquired intangibles in Brazil, compared with a charge of £113m segments. The measure also enables investors to more easily, in 2018. and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of Other net gains and losses – These represent profits and losses on the Group and its business segments over time by separating out the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition assets and are excluded from adjusted operating profit as they distort and disposal transactions, major restructuring programmes and the performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis. certain other items that are also not representative of underlying Other net gains of £16m in 2019 mainly relate to the sale of the US K12 performance, which are explained below and reconciled in note 8. Courseware business. Other net gains of £230m in 2018 relate to Cost of major restructuring – In May 2017, the Group announced a the sale of the Wall Street English language teaching business (WSE), restructuring programme, to run between 2017 and 2019, to drive realising a gain of £207m, the disposal of the Group’s equity interest in significant cost savings. This programme began in the second half of UTEL, the online university partnership in Mexico, realising a gain of 2017 and costs incurred to date relate to delivery of cost efficiencies in £19m, and various other smaller disposal items for a net gain of £4m the US Higher Education Courseware business and enabling functions (see note 31). together with further rationalisation of the property and supplier UK pension GMP equalisation – In 2018, also excluded is the impact portfolio. The restructuring costs in 2019 of £159m mainly relate of adjustments arising from clarification of guaranteed minimum to staff redundancies while the restructuring costs in 2018 relate pension (GMP) equalisation legislation in the UK as this relates to predominantly to staff redundancies and the net cost of property historical circumstances. rationalisation including the net impact of the consolidation of the Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 139 2. Segment information continued Corporate costs are allocated to business segments on an appropriate basis depending on the nature of the cost and therefore the total segment result is equal to the Group operating profit. Segment assets, excluding corporate assets, consist of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, inventories, receivables, deferred taxation and other financial assets and exclude cash and cash equivalents and derivative assets. Corporate assets comprise cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and derivative financial instruments. Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and software (see notes 10 and 11). Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets acquired through business combinations were £23m (2018: £nil) (see note 30). The Group operates in the following main geographic areas: Sales Non-current assets All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 2019 2018 UK 385 377 694 900 Other European countries 244 246 125 143 US 2,417 2,627 2,604 2,162 Canada 105 126 163 250 Asia Pacific 441 455 149 146 Other countries 277 298 103 137 Total 3,869 4,129 3,838 3,738 Sales are allocated based on the country in which the customer is located. This does not differ materially from the location where the order is received. The geographical split of non-current assets is based on the subsidiary’s country of domicile. This is not materially different to the location of the assets. Non-current assets comprise property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, investments in joint ventures and associates and trade and other receivables. 3. Revenue from contracts with customers The following tables analyse the Group’s revenue streams. Courseware includes curriculum materials provided in book form and/or via access to digital content. Assessments includes test development, processing and scoring services provided to governments, educational institutions, corporations and professional bodies. Services includes the operation of schools, colleges and universities, including sistemas in Brazil, as well as the provision of online learning services in partnership with universities and other academic institutions. 2019 North All figures in £ millions America Core Growth Group Sales: Courseware School Courseware 86 169 118 373 Higher Education Courseware 975 81 44 1,100 English Courseware 14 56 107 177 1,075 306 269 1,650 Assessments School and Higher Education Assessments 309 264 26 599 Clinical Assessments 175 52 – 227 Professional and English Certification 390 168 80 638 874 484 106 1,464 Services School Services 319 2 46 367 Higher Education Services 266 45 26 337 English Services – 1 50 51 585 48 122 755 Total 2,534 838 497 3,869 140 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued 2018 North All figures in £ millions America Core Growth Group Sales: Courseware School Courseware 378 172 127 677 Higher Education Courseware 1,042 87 57 1,186 English Courseware 16 58 102 176 1,436 317 286 2,039 Assessments School and Higher Education Assessments1 298 237 23 558 Clinical Assessments 1 174 55 – 229 Professional and English Certification 344 150 64 558 816 442 87 1,345 Services School Services 288 2 47 337 Higher Education Services 244 40 29 313 English Services – 5 90 95 532 47 166 745 Total 2,784 806 539 4,129 1 The analysis of Assessments revenues in 2018 has been re-presented to reflect the transfer of a product from School to Clinical. The Group derived revenue from the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point in time in the following major product lines: 2019 North All figures in £ millions America Core Growth Total Courseware Products transferred at a point in time (sale or return) 448 291 178 917 Products transferred at a point in time (other) – – 37 37 Products and services transferred over time 627 15 54 696 1,075 306 269 1,650 Assessments Products transferred at a point in time 113 55 6 174 Products and services transferred over time 761 429 100 1,290 874 484 106 1,464 Services Products transferred at a point in time – 26 – 26 Products and services transferred over time 585 22 122 729 585 48 122 755 Total 2,534 838 497 3,869 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 141 3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued 2018 North All figures in £ millions America Core Growth Total Courseware Products transferred at a point in time (sale or return) 718 313 197 1,228 Products transferred at a point in time (other) – – 35 35 Products and services transferred over time 718 4 54 776 1,436 317 286 2,039 Assessments1 Products transferred at a point in time 106 52 – 158 Products and services transferred over time 710 390 87 1,187 816 442 87 1,345 Services Products transferred at a point in time – 26 38 64 Products and services transferred over time 532 21 128 681 532 47 166 745 Total 2,784 806 539 4,129 1 The analysis of Assessments revenues in 2018 has been re-presented to better reflect the nature of sales. a. Nature of goods and services the customer. For these reasons and the use of the practical expedient The following is a description of the nature of the Group’s performance on short-term financing, significant financing components are not obligations within contracts with customers broken down by revenue recognised within Courseware transactions. stream, along with significant judgements and estimates made within Revenue from the sale of physical books is recognised at a point in each of those revenue streams. time when control passes. This is generally at the point of shipment Courseware when title passes to the customer, when the Group has a present right Revenue is generated from customers through the sales of print and to payment and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have digital courseware materials to schools, bookstores and direct to passed to the customer. Revenue from physical books sold through the individual learners. Goods and services may be sold separately direct print rental method is recognised over the rental period, as the or purchased together in bundled packages. The goods and customer is simultaneously receiving and consuming the benefits of services included in bundled arrangements are considered distinct this rental service through the passage of time. performance obligations, except for where Pearson provides both a Revenue from the sale of digital courseware products is recognised licence of intellectual property and an on-going hosting service. on a straight-line basis over the subscription period, unless hosted As the licence of intellectual property is only available with the by a third party or representative of a downloadable product, in which concurrent hosting service, the licence is not treated as a distinct case Pearson has no on-going obligation and recognises revenue performance obligation separate from the hosting service. when control transfers as the customer is granted access to the The transaction price is allocated between distinct performance digital product. obligations on the basis of their relative standalone selling prices. Revenue from the sale of ‘oﬀ-the-shelf’ software is recognised on In determining the transaction price, variable consideration exists delivery or on installation of the software where that is a condition of in the form of discounts and anticipated returns. Discounts reduce the contract. In certain circumstances, where installation is complex, the transaction price on a given transaction. A provision for anticipated revenue is recognised when the customer has completed their returns is made based primarily on historical return rates, customer acceptance procedures. buying patterns and retailer behaviours including stock levels (see note Assessments 24). If these estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods Revenue is primarily generated from multi-year contractual then revenues could be understated or overstated for a particular arrangements related to large-scale assessment delivery, such as period. Variable consideration as described above is determined contracts to process qualifying tests for individual professions and using the expected value approach. The sales return liability at the government departments, and is recognised as performance occurs. end of 2019 was £122m (see note 24). This represents 3% of annual Under these arrangements, while the agreement spans multiple years, sales subject to sale or return. the contract duration has been determined to be each testing cycle While payment for these goods and services generally occurs at the based on contract structure, including clauses regarding termination. start of these arrangements, the length of time between payment While in some cases the customer may have the ability to terminate and delivery of the performance obligations is generally short-term in during the term for convenience, significant financial or qualitative nature or the reason for early payment relates to reasons other than barriers exist limiting the potential for such terminations in the middle financing, including customers securing a vendor in a longer-term of a testing cycle. arrangement or the transfer of goods or services is at the discretion of 142 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued In Assessments contracts driven primarily by transactions directly to end users, Pearson’s main obligation to the customer involves test a. Nature of goods and services continued delivery and scoring. Test delivery and scoring are defined as a single Within each testing cycle, a variety of service activities are performed performance obligation delivered over time whether the test is such as test administration, delivery, scoring, reporting, item subsequently manually scored or digitally scored on the day of the development, operational services and programme management. assessment. Customers may also purchase print and digital These services are not treated as distinct in the context of the customer supplemental materials. Print products in this revenue stream are contract as Pearson provides an integrated managed service offering recognised at a point in time when control passes to the customer and these activities are accounted for together as one comprehensive upon shipment. Recognition of digital revenue will occur based on performance obligation. the extent of Pearson’s on-going hosting obligation. Within each testing cycle, the transaction price may contain both fixed Services and variable amounts. Variable consideration within these transactions Revenue is primarily generated from multi-year contractual primarily relates to expected testing volumes to be delivered in the arrangements related to large-scale educational service delivery cycle. The assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent to long-term to academic institutions, such as schools and higher education contract accounting can aﬀect the amounts and timing of revenue and universities. Under these arrangements, while an agreement may related expenses reported. Variable consideration is measured using span multiple years, the contract duration has been determined to be the expected value method, except where amounts are contingent each academic period based on the structure of contracts, including upon a future event’s occurrence, such as performance bonuses. clauses regarding termination. While in some cases the customer Such event-driven contingency payments are measured using the may have the ability to terminate during the term for convenience, most likely amount approach. To the extent that a higher degree of significant financial or qualitative barriers exist limiting the potential for uncertainty exists regarding variable consideration, these amounts such terminations in the middle of an academic period. The academic are excluded from the transaction price and expensed when the period for this customer base is normally an academic year for schools uncertainty is reasonably removed. and a semester for higher education universities. Customer payments are generally defined in the contract through a Within each academic period, a variety of services are provided such as payment schedule, which may require customer acceptance for programme development, student acquisition, education technology services rendered. Pearson has a history of providing satisfactory and student support services. These services are not distinct in the services which are accepted by the customer. While a delay between context of the customer contract as Pearson provides an integrated rendering of services and payment may exist, payment terms are managed service offering and these activities are accounted for within 12 months and the Group has elected to use the practical together as a comprehensive performance obligation. expedient available in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and not identify a significant financing component Where Services are provided to university customers, volume and on these transactions. transaction price are fixed at the start of the semester. Where Services are provided to School customers, the transaction price may contain Revenue is recognised for Assessment contracts over time as the both fixed and variable amounts which require estimation during the customer is benefiting as performance takes place through a academic period. Estimation is required where consideration is based continuous transfer of control to the customer. This continuous upon average enrolments or other metrics which are not known at the transfer of control to the customer is supported by clauses in the start of the academic year. Variable consideration is measured using contracts which may allow the customer to terminate for convenience, the expected value method. To the extent that a higher degree of compensate us for work performed to date, and take possession of uncertainty exists regarding variable consideration, these amounts work in process. are excluded from the transaction price and recognised when the As control transfers over time, revenue is recognised based on the uncertainty is reasonably removed. extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Customer payments are generally defined in the contract as occurring The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion shortly after invoicing. Where there is a longer payment term offered requires judgement and is based on the nature of the services to a customer through a payment schedule, payment terms are within provided. Revenue is recognised on a percentage completion basis, 12 months and the Group has elected to use the practical expedient calculated using the proportion of the total estimated costs incurred available in IFRS 15 and not identify a significant financing component to date. Percentage of completion is used to recognise the transfer of on these transactions. control of services provided as these services are not provided evenly throughout the testing cycle and involve varying degrees of effort Revenue is recognised for Service contracts over time as the customer during the term. is benefiting as performance takes place through a continuous transfer of control to the customer. This continuous transfer of control to the Losses on contracts are recognised in the period in which the loss customer is supported by clauses in the contracts which may allow the first becomes foreseeable. Contract losses are determined to be the customer to terminate for convenience, compensate for work amount by which estimated total costs of the contract exceed the performed to date, and take possession of work in process. estimated total revenues that will be generated. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 143 3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued Transactions within the Assessments and Services revenue streams generally entail customer billings over time based on periodic intervals, a. Nature of goods and services continued progress towards milestones or enrolment census dates. As the As control transfers over time, revenue is recognised based on the performance obligations within these arrangements are delivered extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. over time, the extent of accrued income or deferred income will The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion ultimately depend upon the difference between revenue recognised requires judgement and is based on the nature of the products or and billings to date. services provided. Within the comprehensive service obligation, the timing of services occurs relatively evenly over each academic Refer to note 22 for opening and closing balances of accrued income. period and, as such, time elapsed is used to recognise the transfer Refer to note 24 for opening and closing balances of deferred income. of control to the customer on a straight-line basis. Revenue recognised during the period from changes in deferred income was driven primarily by the release of revenue over time Losses on contracts are recognised in the period in which the loss from digital subscriptions. first becomes foreseeable. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which estimated total costs of the contract exceed the d. Contract costs estimated total revenues that will be generated. The Group capitalises incremental costs to obtain contracts with customers where it is expected these costs will be recoverable. In cases of optional or add-on purchases, institutions may purchase Incremental costs to obtain contracts with customers are considered physical goods priced at their standalone value, which are accounted those which would not have been incurred if the contract had not for separately and recognised at the point in time when control passes been obtained. For the Group, these costs relate primarily to sales to the customer upon shipment. commissions. The Group has elected to use the practical expedient b. Disaggregation of revenue as allowable by IFRS 15 whereby such costs will be expensed as The tables in notes 2 and 3 show revenue from contracts with incurred where the expected amortisation period is one year or less. customers disaggregated by operating segment, geography and Where the amortisation period is greater than one year, these costs revenue stream. These disaggregation categories are appropriate as are amortised over the contract term on a systematic basis consistent they represent the key groupings used in managing and evaluating with the transfer of the underlying goods and services within the underlying performance of each of the businesses. The categories contract to which these costs relate, which will generally be on a ratable also reflect groups of similar types of transactional characteristics, basis. Impairment of capitalised contract costs was £nil in both 2019 among similar customers, with similar accounting conclusions. and 2018. c. Contract balances The Group does not recognise any material costs to fulfil contracts with customers as these types of activities are governed by other Transactions within the Courseware revenue stream generally entail accounting standards. customer billings at or near the contract’s inception and accordingly Courseware deferred income balances are primarily related to Refer to note 22 for further details of opening and closing balances of subscription performance obligations to be delivered over time. these costs reflected within deferred contract costs. e. Remaining transaction price The below table depicts the remaining transaction price on unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations from contracts with customers. 2019 Total remaining Deferred Committed transaction 2022 All figures in £ millions Sales income sales price 2020 2021 and later Courseware Products transferred at a point in time (sale or return) 917 1 – 1 1 – – Products transferred at a point in time (other) 37 1 – 1 1 – – Products and services transferred over time 696 118 – 118 82 13 23 Assessments Products transferred at a point in time 174 – – – – – – Products and services transferred over time 1,290 206 375 581 433 146 2 Services Products transferred at a point in time 26 3 – 3 3 – – Products and services transferred over time – subscriptions 310 11 – 11 11 – – Products and services transferred over time – other ongoing performance obligations 419 20 106 126 125 1 – Total 3,869 360 481 841 656 160 25 144 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. Revenue from contracts with customers continued e. Remaining transaction price continued 2018 Total remaining Deferred Committed transaction 2021 All figures in £ millions Sales income sales price 2019 2020 and later Courseware Products transferred at a point in time (sale or return) 1,228 1 – 1 1 – – Products transferred at a point in time (other) 35 – – – – – – Products and services transferred over time 776 679 8 687 272 131 284 Assessments1 Products transferred at a point in time 158 – – – – – – Products and services transferred over time 1,187 196 402 598 420 173 5 Services Products transferred at a point in time 64 – – – – – – Products and services transferred over time – subscriptions 310 17 – 17 13 3 1 Products and services transferred over time – other ongoing performance obligations 371 19 145 164 162 1 1 Total 4,129 912 555 1,467 868 308 291 1 The analysis of Assessments revenues in 2018 has been re-presented to better reflect the nature of sales. Committed sales amounts are equal to the transaction price from contracts with customers, excluding those amounts previously recognised as revenue and amounts currently recognised in deferred income. The total of committed sales and deferred income is equal to the remaining transaction price. Time bands stated above represent the expected timing of when the remaining transaction price will be recognised as revenue. 4. Operating expenses All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 By function: Cost of goods sold 1,858 1,943 Operating expenses Distribution costs 73 88 Selling, marketing and product development costs 631 759 Administrative and other expenses 999 1,039 Restructuring costs 157 90 Other income (54) (69) Total net operating expenses 1,806 1,907 Other net gains and losses (16) (230) Total 3,648 3,620 Included in other income is service fee income from Penguin Random House of £4m (2018: £3m). Included in administrative and other expenses are research and efficacy costs of £13m (2018: £14m). In addition to the restructuring costs shown above, there were major restructuring costs in relation to associates of £2m (2018: £12m). Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 145 4. Operating expenses continued An analysis of major restructuring costs is as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 By nature: Product costs 16 12 Employee costs 90 56 Depreciation and amortisation 14 1 Property and facilities 12 (5) Technology and communications 2 1 Professional and outsourced services 17 9 General and administrative costs 6 16 Total restructuring – operating expenses 157 90 Share of associate restructuring 2 12 Total 159 102 In May 2017, the Group announced a restructuring programme to run between 2017 and 2019 to drive further significant cost savings. The costs of this programme have been excluded from adjusted operating profit so as to better highlight the underlying performance (see note 8). In 2018, property and facilities costs include gains on the disposal of properties sold as part of the restructuring programme. All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 By nature: Royalties expensed 242 236 Other product costs 466 516 Employee benefit expense 5 1,452 1,637 Contract labour 139 161 Employee-related expense 94 115 Promotional costs 254 233 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 123 66 Amortisation of intangible assets – pre-publication 20 271 338 Amortisation of intangible assets – software 11 115 88 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets – other 11 151 99 Property and facilities 96 147 Technology and communications 196 192 Professional and outsourced services 480 396 Other general and administrative costs 104 85 Costs capitalised to intangible assets (465) (390) Other net gains and losses (16) (230) Other income (54) (69) Total 3,648 3,620 During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Group’s auditors: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 The audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 5 4 The audit of the company’s subsidiaries 2 2 Total audit fees 7 6 Audit-related and other assurance services – 1 Other non-audit services – – Total other services – 1 Total non-audit services – 1 Total 7 7 146 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4. Operating expenses continued Reconciliation between audit and non-audit service fees is shown below: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Group audit fees including fees for attestation under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 7 6 Non-audit fees – 1 Total 7 7 Fees for attestation under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act are allocated between fees payable for the audits of consolidated and subsidiary accounts. Included in Group audit fees for 2019 are additional fees in relation to prior year audit work. 5. Employee information All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Employee benefit expense Wages and salaries (including termination costs) 1,258 1,421 Social security costs 100 112 Share-based payment costs 26 25 37 Retirement benefits – defined contribution plans 25 57 56 Retirement benefits – defined benefit plans 25 13 23 Other post-retirement medical benefits 25 (1) (12) Total 1,452 1,637 The details of the emoluments of the Directors of Pearson plc are shown in the report on Directors’ remuneration. Average number employed 2019 2018 Employee numbers North America 13,564 14,113 Core 4,951 5,192 Growth 3,693 4,521 Other 526 496 Total 22,734 24,322 6. Net finance costs All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Interest payable on financial liabilities at amortised cost and associated derivatives (22) (42) Interest on lease liabilities (45) – Net foreign exchange losses (5) (36) Finance costs associated with transactions – (1) Derivatives not in a hedge relationship (12) (7) Derivatives in a hedge relationship – (5) Finance costs (84) (91) Interest receivable on financial assets at amortised cost 15 18 Interest on lease receivables 11 – Net finance income in respect of retirement benefits 25 13 11 Derivatives not in a hedge relationship 2 6 Derivatives in a hedge relationship – 1 Finance income 41 36 Net finance costs (43) (55) Analysed as: Net interest payable reflected in adjusted earnings (41) (24) Other net finance costs (2) (31) Total net finance costs (43) (55) Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 147 6. Net finance costs continued Included in interest receivable is £1m (2018: £1m) of interest receivable from related parties. Net movement in fair value of hedges is explained in note 16. For further information on adjusted measures above, see note 8. 7. Income tax All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Current tax (Charge)/credit in respect of current year (51) 92 Adjustments in respect of prior years 21 34 Total current tax (charge)/credit (30) 126 Deferred tax In respect of temporary differences 59 (6) Other adjustments in respect of prior years 5 (28) Total deferred tax credit/(charge) 13 64 (34) Total tax credit 34 92 The adjustments in respect of prior years in both 2019 and 2018 primarily arise from revising the previous year’s reported tax provision to reflect the tax returns subsequently filed. This results in a change between deferred and current tax as well as an absolute benefit to the total tax charge. The tax on the Group’s profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the UK tax rate as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Profit before tax 232 498 Tax calculated at UK rate (2019: 19%, 2018: 19%) (44) (94) Effect of overseas tax rates (2) (28) Joint venture and associate income reported net of tax 10 8 Intra-group financing benefit 11 25 Movement in provisions for tax uncertainties 3 111 Net expense not subject to tax (10) (29) Benefit from change in US tax accounting treatment – 25 Gains and losses on sale of businesses not subject to tax 57 77 Unrecognised tax losses (17) (9) Adjustments in respect of prior years 26 6 Total tax credit 34 92 UK (12) 37 Overseas 46 55 Total tax credit 34 92 Tax rate reflected in earnings (14.7)% (18.5)% Included in net expense not subject to tax are foreign taxes not potential disallowance of intra-Group recharges. The Group is creditable, the tax impact of share-based payments and other currently under audit in a number of countries, and the timing of expenses not deductible. any resolution of these audits is uncertain. Of the balance of £152m, £88m relates to 2015 and earlier and is mostly under audit. In most Factors which may affect future tax charges include changes in tax countries, tax years up to and including 2014 are now statute barred legislation, transfer pricing regulations, the level and mix of profitability from examination by tax authorities. Of the remaining balance, in different countries, and settlements with tax authorities. £18m relates to 2016, £30m to 2017, £4m to 2018 and £12m to 2019. The movement in provisions for tax uncertainties primarily reflects If relevant enquiry windows pass with no audit, management believes releases due to the expiry of relevant statutes of limitation, utilisation it is reasonably possible that provision levels will reduce by an of brought forward provisions and the establishment of provisions for estimated £3m within the next 12 months. However the tax authorities new uncertain tax positions. The current tax liability of £55m (2018: may take a different view from management and the final liability £72m) includes £152m (2018: £181m) of provisions for tax uncertainties may be greater than provided. For items currently under audit if tax principally in respect of a number of issues in the US, the UK and authorities are successful, any incremental exposure is not expected to China. The issues provided for include the allocation between be material this year (2018: £25m). Contingent liabilities relating to tax territories of proceeds of historical business disposals and the are disclosed in note 34. 148 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7. Income tax continued The tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings is calculated as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Profit before tax 232 498 Adjustments: Cost of major restructuring 159 102 Other net gains and losses (16) (230) Intangible charges 163 113 Other net finance costs/(income) 2 31 UK pension GMP equalisation – 8 Adjusted profit before tax 540 522 Total tax credit 34 92 Adjustments: Tax benefit on cost of major restructuring (35) (37) Tax benefit on other net gains and losses (68) (31) Tax benefit on intangible charges (48) (18) Tax benefit on other net finance costs – (6) Tax benefit on UK pension GMP equalisation – (2) Tax amortisation benefit on goodwill and intangibles 28 29 Adjusted income tax (charge)/credit (89) 27 Tax rate reflected in adjusted earnings 16.5% (5.2)% For further information on adjusted measures above, see note 8. The tax benefit/(charge) recognised in other comprehensive income is as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 5 (4) Fair value gain on other financial assets (4) – Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 22 9 23 5 8. Earnings per share Basic Diluted Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted to equity shareholders of the company by the weighted average average number of ordinary shares to take account of all dilutive number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary potential ordinary shares and adjusting the profit attributable, shares purchased by the company and held as treasury shares. if applicable, to account for any tax consequences that might arise from conversion of those shares. All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Earnings for the year 266 590 Non-controlling interest (2) (2) Earnings attributable to equity holders of the company 264 588 Weighted average number of shares (millions) 777.0 778.1 Effect of dilutive share options (millions) 0.5 0.6 Weighted average number of shares (millions) for diluted earnings 777.5 778.7 Earnings per share Basic 34.0p 75.6p Diluted 34.0p 75.5p Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 149 8. Earnings per share continued Adjusted Intangible charges – These represent charges in respect of intangible For additional detailed information on the calculation of adjusted assets acquired through business combinations and the direct costs measures, see p201-204 (Financial key performance indicators). of acquiring those businesses. These charges are excluded as they See note 2 for details of specific items excluded from or included reflect past acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect the in adjusted operating profit in 2019 and 2018. current year performance of the Group. Intangible amortisation charges in 2019 were £163m, including an impairment charge of In order to show results from operating activities on a consistent basis, £65m relating to acquired intangibles in Brazil, compared with a an adjusted earnings per share is presented. The Group’s definition charge of £113m in 2018. of adjusted earnings per share may not be comparable with other similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Other net finance income/costs – These include finance costs in respect of retirement benefits, finance costs of deferred consideration and Adjusted earnings is a non-GAAP (non-statutory) financial measure foreign exchange and other gains and losses. Finance income relating and is included as it is a key financial measure used by management to retirement benefits is excluded as management does not believe to evaluate the performance of the Group and allocate resources to that the consolidated income statement presentation under IAS 19 business segments. The measure also enables investors to more easily, reflects the economic substance of the underlying assets and liabilities. and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of the Finance costs associated with transactions are excluded as these relate Group and its business segments over time by separating out those to future earn-outs or acquisition expenses and are not part of the items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal underlying financing. Foreign exchange and other gains and losses are transactions, major restructuring programmes and certain other excluded as they represent short-term fluctuations in market value and items that are also not representative of underlying performance. are subject to significant volatility. Other gains and losses may not be Adjusted earnings per share is calculated as adjusted earnings realised in due course as it is normally the intention to hold the related divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue on an instruments to maturity. In 2019 and 2018 the foreign exchange gains undiluted basis. The following items are excluded from or included and losses largely relate to foreign exchange differences on unhedged in adjusted earnings: US dollar and euro loans, cash and cash equivalents. Cost of major restructuring – In May 2017, the Group announced a UK pension GMP equalisation – In 2018, also excluded is the impact of restructuring programme, to run between 2017 and 2019, to drive adjustments arising from clarification of guaranteed minimum pension significant cost savings. This programme began in the second half of (GMP) equalisation legislation in the UK as this relates to historical 2017 and costs incurred to date relate to delivery of cost efficiencies in circumstances. the US Higher Education Courseware business and enabling functions Tax – Tax on the above items is excluded from adjusted earnings. together with further rationalisation of the property and supplier Where relevant, the Group also excludes the benefit from recognising portfolio. The restructuring costs in 2019 of £159m mainly relate previously unrecognised pre-acquisition and capital losses. The tax to staff redundancies while the restructuring costs in 2018 relate benefit from tax deductible goodwill and intangibles is added to the predominantly to staff redundancies and the net cost of property adjusted income tax charge as this benefit more accurately aligns the rationalisation including the net cost of the consolidation of the adjusted tax charge with the expected rate of cash tax payments. Group’s property footprint in London. The costs of this restructuring programme are significant enough to exclude from the adjusted Non-controlling interest – Non-controlling interest for the above items operating profit measure so as to better highlight the underlying is excluded from adjusted earnings. performance (see note 4). Other net gains and losses – These represent profits and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial assets and are excluded from adjusted earnings as they distort the performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis. Other net gains of £16m in 2019 mainly relate to the sale of the US K12 Courseware business. Other net gains of £230m in 2018 relate to the sale of the Wall Street English language teaching business (WSE), realising a gain of £207m, the disposal of the Group’s equity interest in UTEL, the online university partnership in Mexico, realising a gain of £19m, and various other smaller disposal items for a net gain of £4m (see note 31). 150 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 8. Earnings per share continued Adjusted continued The following tables reconcile the statutory income statement to the adjusted income statement. 2019 Other net Statutory Cost of Other net finance UK pension Tax Adjusted income major gains and Intangible income/ GMP amortisation income All figures in £ millions statement restructuring losses charges costs equalisation benefit statement Operating profit 275 159 (16) 163 – – – 581 Net finance costs (43) – – – 2 – – (41) Profit before tax 232 159 (16) 163 2 – – 540 Income tax 34 (35) (68) (48) – – 28 (89) Profit for the year 266 124 (84) 115 2 – 28 451 Non-controlling interest (2) – – – – – – (2) Earnings 264 124 (84) 115 2 – 28 449 Weighted average number of shares (millions) 777.0 777.0 Weighted average number of shares (millions) for diluted earnings 777.5 777.5 Earnings per share (basic) 34.0p 57.8p Earnings per share (diluted) 34.0p 57.7p 2018 Other net Statutory Cost of Other net finance UK pension Tax Adjusted income major gains and Intangible income/ GMP amortisation income All figures in £ millions statement restructuring losses charges costs equalisation benefit statement Operating profit 553 102 (230) 113 – 8 – 546 Net finance costs (55) – – – 31 – – (24) Profit before tax 498 102 (230) 113 31 8 – 522 Income tax 92 (37) (31) (18) (6) (2) 29 27 Profit for the year 590 65 (261) 95 25 6 29 549 Non-controlling interest (2) – – – – – – (2) Earnings 588 65 (261) 95 25 6 29 547 Weighted average number of shares (millions) 778.1 778.1 Weighted average number of shares (millions) for diluted earnings 778.7 778.7 Earnings per share (basic) 75.6p 70.3p Earnings per share (diluted) 75.5p 70.2p Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 151 9. Dividends All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Final paid in respect of prior year 13p (2018: 12.0p) 101 93 Interim paid in respect of current year 6p (2018: 5.5p) 46 43 147 136 The Directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2019 of 13.5p per equity share which will absorb an estimated £106m of shareholders’ funds. It will be paid on 7 May 2020 to shareholders who are on the register of members on 27 March 2020. These financial statements do not reflect this dividend. 10. Property, plant and equipment Right-of-use assets Owned assets Assets in Land and Plant and Land and Plant and course of All figures in £ millions buildings equipment buildings equipment construction Total Cost At 1 January 2018 – – 330 527 29 886 Exchange differences – – 11 14 1 26 Additions – – 32 22 12 66 Disposals – – (75) (97) – (172) Reclassifications – – 19 (8) (11) – Transfer to intangible assets – – – – (11) (11) Transfer to intangible assets – pre-publication – – – – (2) (2) At 31 December 2018 – – 317 458 18 793 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (see note 1b) 418 6 – – – 424 Exchange differences (9) – (8) (15) – (32) Additions 64 2 – 18 40 124 Disposals (13) (4) (13) (108) (8) (146) Reclassifications – – 4 (4) – – Transfer of finance leases – 19 – (19) – – Transfer to intangible assets – – – (3) (4) (7) Transfer to intangible assets – pre-publication – – – (2) (10) (12) At 31 December 2019 460 23 300 325 36 1,144 Right-of-use assets Owned assets Assets in Land and Plant and Land and Plant and course of All figures in £ millions buildings equipment buildings equipment construction Total Depreciation At 1 January 2018 – – (197) (408) – (605) Exchange differences – – (5) (11) – (16) Charge for the year – – (20) (46) – (66) Disposals – – 34 97 – 131 Reclassifications – – (7) 7 – – At 31 December 2018 – – (195) (361) – (556) Exchange differences 2 – 6 13 – 21 Charge for the year (60) (4) (21) (38) – (123) Disposals – – 10 116 – 126 Transfer of finance leases – (12) – 12 – – Transfer to intangible assets – – – 3 – 3 Transfer to intangible assets – pre-publication – – – 3 – 3 At 31 December 2019 (58) (16) (200) (252) – (526) Carrying amounts At 1 January 2018 – – 133 119 29 281 At 31 December 2018 – – 122 97 18 237 At 31 December 2019 402 7 100 73 36 618 152 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10. Property, plant and equipment continued Depreciation expense of £42m (2018: £18m) has been included in the income statement in cost of goods sold and £81m (2018: £48m) in operating expenses. Prior to 1 January 2019 the Group leased certain equipment under a number of finance lease agreements. The net carrying amount of leased plant and equipment included within property, plant and equipment in 2018 was £7m. On the initial application of IFRS 16 these finance leases have been transferred from owned assets to right-of-use assets within property, plant and equipment. 11. Intangible assets Acquired customer lists, Acquired Acquired Other contracts and trademarks publishing intangibles All figures in £ millions Goodwill Software relationships and brands rights acquired Total Cost At 1 January 2018 2,030 882 889 281 184 489 4,755 Exchange differences 74 32 39 (2) – 1 144 Additions – internal development – 124 – – – – 124 Additions – purchased – 6 – – – – 6 Disposals – (94) (18) (12) – (33) (157) Disposal through business disposal – (2) – – – – (2) Transfer from property, plant and equipment – 11 – – – – 11 Transfer to assets classified as held for sale 7 – – – – – 7 At 31 December 2018 2,111 959 910 267 184 457 4,888 Exchange differences (57) (22) (29) (10) (5) (20) (143) Additions – internal development – 137 – – – – 137 Additions – purchased – 1 – – – – 1 Disposals – (15) (88) (19) – (47) (169) Acquisition through business combination 18 – – – – 23 41 Transfer from property, plant and equipment – 7 – – – – 7 Transfer to intangible assets – pre-publication – (28) – – – – (28) Movement in held for sale 67 – – – – – 67 At 31 December 2019 2,139 1,039 793 238 179 413 4,801 Acquired customer lists, Acquired Acquired Other contracts and trademarks publishing intangibles All figures in £ millions Goodwill Software relationships and brands rights acquired Total Amortisation At 1 January 2018 – (493) (580) (180) (178) (360) (1,791) Exchange differences – (23) (26) 1 2 (10) (56) Charge for the year – (88) (59) (14) (2) (24) (187) Disposals – 92 18 12 – 33 155 At 31 December 2018 – (512) (647) (181) (178) (361) (1,879) Exchange differences – 16 22 7 4 19 68 Charge for the year – (115) (51) (23) (2) (75) (266) Disposals – 10 88 19 – 46 163 Transfer from property, plant and equipment – (3) – – – – (3) Transfer to intangible assets – pre-publication – 16 – – – – 16 At 31 December 2019 – (588) (588) (178) (176) (371) (1,901) Carrying amounts At 1 January 2018 2,030 389 309 101 6 129 2,964 At 31 December 2018 2,111 447 263 86 6 96 3,009 At 31 December 2019 2,139 451 205 60 3 42 2,900 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 153 11. Intangible assets continued Goodwill Other intangibles acquired include content, technology and The goodwill carrying value of £2,139m relates to acquisitions software rights. completed after 1 January 1998. Prior to 1 January 1998 all goodwill Intangible assets are valued separately for each acquisition and was written off to reserves on the date of acquisition. For acquisitions the primary method of valuation used is the discounted cash flow completed between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 2002, no value method. The majority of acquired intangibles are amortised using was ascribed to intangibles other than goodwill which was amortised an amortisation profile based on the projected cash flows underlying over a period of up to 20 years. On adoption of IFRS on 1 January 2003, the acquisition date valuation of the intangible asset, which generally the Group chose not to restate the goodwill balance and at that date results in a larger proportion of amortisation being recognised in the the balance was frozen (i.e. amortisation ceased). If goodwill had been early years of the asset’s life. The Group keeps the expected pattern of restated, then a significant value would have been ascribed to other consumption under review. intangible assets, which would be subject to amortisation, and the carrying value of goodwill would be significantly lower. For acquisitions Amortisation of £19m (2018: £18m) is included in the income statement completed after 1 January 2003, value has been ascribed to other in cost of goods sold and £182m (2018: £169m) in operating expenses. intangible assets which are amortised. Impairment of £65m (2018: £nil), of which £53m relates to other intangibles acquired and £12m to acquired trademarks and brands, Other intangible assets is included in operating expenses. The range of useful economic lives for each major class of intangible asset (excluding goodwill and software) is shown below: 2019 Useful economic life Class of intangible asset Acquired customer lists, contracts and relationships 3–20 years Acquired trademarks and brands 2–20 years Acquired publishing rights 5–20 years Other intangibles acquired 2–20 years The expected amortisation profile of acquired intangible assets is shown below: 2019 One to Six to More than All figures in £ millions five years ten years ten years Total Class of intangible asset Acquired customer lists, contracts and relationships 154 49 2 205 Acquired trademarks and brands 42 14 4 60 Acquired publishing rights 3 – – 3 Other intangibles acquired 31 11 – 42 Impairment tests for cash-generating units (CGUs) containing goodwill Impairment tests have been carried out where appropriate as described below. Goodwill was allocated to CGUs, or an aggregation of CGUs, where goodwill could not be reasonably allocated to individual business units. CGUs have been revised in 2019. Impairment reviews were conducted on these revised CGUs as summarised below: 2019 CGUs 2019 All figures in £ millions Goodwill North American Courseware – OPM 18 Virtual Schools 386 Assessments 1,035 Core 700 Growth (includes the separate CGUs of Brazil, China, India and South Africa) – Total 2,139 Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment. The recoverable amount of each aggregated CGU is based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs of disposal. The value in use was higher than the fair value less costs of disposal in each of the CGUs. Other than goodwill there are no intangible assets with indefinite lives. 154 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 11. Intangible assets continued 2018 CGUs All figures in £ millions 2018 North America 930 Core 701 Growth (includes the separate CGUs of Brazil, China, India and South Africa) – Pearson VUE 480 Total 2,111 Following a reassessment of the relative risk in the Brazil CGU Discount rates – The discount rate is based on the risk-free rate compared to Pearson as a whole, it was determined in the course of for government bonds, adjusted for a risk premium to reflect the the impairment review that neither the value in use nor the fair value increased risk in investing in equities. The risk premium adjustment is less costs of disposal of the Brazil CGU supported the carrying value of assessed for each CGU. The average pre-tax discount rates range from the CGU. As the goodwill related to the Brazil CGU was fully impaired 9.5% to 17% (2018: post-tax 7.9% to 15.8%). Discount rates are lower in prior years, the acquired intangibles of the Brazil CGU were impaired for those businesses which operate in more mature markets with by £65m, bringing their carrying value to £27m. The Brazil CGU low inflation and higher for those operating in emerging markets incorporates all the Group’s trading operations in Brazil. A pre-tax with higher inflation. discount rate of 16.3% was used to determine the value in use of the Perpetuity growth rates – A perpetuity growth rate of 2% (2018: 2%) Brazil CGU. At 31 December 2018, the impairment review showed was used for cash flows subsequent to the approved budget period for headroom of £20m in the Brazil CGU. CGUs operating in mature markets. This perpetuity growth rate is a Determination of CGUs and reallocation of goodwill conservative rate and is considered to be lower than the long-term Pearson identifies its CGUs based on its operating model and how historical growth rates of the underlying territories in which the CGU data is collected and reviewed for management reporting and strategic operates and the long-term growth rate prospects of the sectors in planning purposes in accordance with IAS 36 “Impairment of assets”. which the CGU operates. CGU growth rates between 3.2% to 6.5% In 2019, the CGUs and aggregation of CGUs have been revised to take (2018: 3.0% and 6.5%) were used for cash flows subsequent to the account of the following: approved budget period for CGUs operating in emerging markets with high inflation. These growth rates are also below the long-term  he implementation of a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) T historical growth rates in these markets. system in North America meant that ledgers are structured on a legal entity basis rather than the previous divisional basis. This has meant The key assumptions used by management in setting the financial it is no longer possible to identify the carrying values of the Pearson budgets were as follows: VUE business separately from the wider Assessments business. Forecast sales growth rates – Forecast sales growth rates are based As a result, the Pearson VUE business has been combined with on past experience adjusted for the strategic direction and near-term the Assessments business as one CGU for impairment testing. investment priorities within each CGU. Key assumptions include T  he disposal of the US K12 Courseware business in 2019 has caused growth in Online Program Management, Virtual Schools and management to disaggregate the North America CGU. Professional Certification, stabilisation in UK Qualifications and US Assessments, and ongoing pressures in the US Higher Education At 1 January 2019, the goodwill of the previous North America Courseware market. The sales forecasts use average nominal growth and Pearson VUE CGUs was therefore reallocated between North rates between (5%) and 11% (2018: 2% and 3%) for mature markets and American Courseware, OPM, Virtual Schools and Assessments, between 5% and 11% (2018: (1)% and 12%) for emerging markets with based on their relative fair value at 1 January 2019 amended to take high inflation. into account previous impairments taken. No goodwill was allocated to the North American Courseware CGU reflecting the significant Operating profits – operating profits are forecast based on historical impairments taken in 2015 and 2016. experience of operating margins, adjusted for the impact of changes to product costs and the impact of the implementation of our 2017-2019 Key assumptions cost efficiency programme. Management applies judgement in For the purpose of estimating the value in use of the CGUs, allocating corporate costs in order to determine operating profit at a management has used an income approach based on present value CGU level. techniques. The calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period, whilst a projection to 2030 was available and used for the OPM CGU, as the three-year projection reflected the investment phase and not the longer-term return of this business, and because the long-term nature of OPM’s contracts allows for reliable forecasts to be prepared beyond three years. OPM relies on contracts with key customers and the forecast to 2030 assumes these are renewed or replaced. The key assumptions used by management in the value in use calculations were: Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 155 11. Intangible assets continued Key assumptions continued The table below shows the key assumptions for those CGUs for which the carrying value of goodwill is significant in comparison to the total carrying value of goodwill: Perpetuity Discount rate growth rate Virtual Schools 10% 2% Core 10% 2% Assessments 10% 2% Comparative figures have not been shown as CGUs have been changed in 2019. Sensitivities Impairment testing for the year ended 31 December 2019 has identified the following CGUs, or groups of CGUs, as being sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions. The table below shows the headroom at 31 December 2019 and the changes in the key assumptions required in order for the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value. Perpetuity Contribution* Headroom at Discount rate growth rate reduction p.a. 31 December for zero Perpetuity for zero for zero 2019 Discount rate headroom growth rate headroom headroom North American Courseware £115m 10.0% 10.3% 2.0% 1.6% £9m OPM £81m 10.0% 10.3% 2.0% 0.3% £7m Core £191m 10.0% 10.7% 2.0% 1.2% £15m Brazil – 16.3% 16.3% 4.1% 4.1% – * CGU contribution is operating profit excluding fixed costs and corporate overheads. 12. Investments in joint ventures and associates The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Associates 7 392 Joint ventures – – Associates classified as held for sale 397 – Total 404 392 The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Associates 54 43 Joint ventures – 1 Total 54 44 Investment in associates The Group has the following material associates: Principal place Ownership Nature of Measurement of business interest relationship method Penguin Random House Ltd UK/Global 25% See below Equity Penguin Random House LLC US 25% See below Equity On 1 July 2013, Penguin Random House was formed, upon the completion of an agreement between Pearson and Bertelsmann to merge their respective trade publishing companies, Penguin and Random House, with the parent companies owning 47% and 53% of the combined business respectively. On 5 October 2017, Pearson sold a 22% stake in Penguin Random House to Bertelsmann, retaining a 25% share. Pearson owns its 25% interest in Penguin Random House via 25% interests in each of the two entities listed in the table above. Despite the separate legal structures of the two Penguin Random House entities, Pearson regards Penguin Random House as one combined global business. Pearson discloses Penguin Random House separately, presenting disclosures related to its interests in Penguin Random House on a combined basis. 156 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 12. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Investment in associates continued The shareholder agreement includes protective rights for Pearson as the minority shareholder, including rights to dividends. Management considers ownership percentage, Board composition and the additional protective rights, and exercises judgement to determine that Pearson has significant influence over Penguin Random House and Bertelsmann has the power to direct the relevant activities and therefore control. Following the transaction in 2017 the assessment of significant influence did not change. Penguin Random House does not have a quoted market price. In December 2019, the Group announced the sale of its remaining 25% interest in Penguin Random House. At the end of 2019 the Group’s share of the assets of Penguin Random House has been classified as held for sale on the balance sheet (see note 32). The summarised financial information of the material associate is detailed below: 2019 2018 Penguin Penguin Random Random All figures in £ millions House House Assets Non-current assets 1,346 1,043 Current assets 2,273 1,929 Liabilities Non-current liabilities (1,357) (1,104) Current liabilities (1,874) (1,546) Net assets 388 322 Sales 2,916 2,775 Profit for the year 205 185 Other comprehensive (expense)/income (27) 13 Total comprehensive income 178 198 Dividends received from associate in relation to profits 63 67 Re-capitalisation dividends received from associate – 50 The information above reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the associate, adjusted for fair value and similar adjustments. The tax on Penguin Random House LLC is settled by the partners. For the purposes of clear and consistent presentation, the tax has been shown in the associate line items in the consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet, recording the Group’s share of profit after tax consistently for the Penguin Random House associates. A reconciliation of the full summarised financial information to the carrying value of the material associate is shown below: 2019 2018 Penguin Penguin Random Random All figures in £ millions House House Opening net assets 322 368 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (see note 1b) (7) – Exchange differences (9) 18 Profit for the year 205 185 Other comprehensive (expense)/income (27) 13 Dividends, net of tax paid (260) (262) Capital contribution 164 – Closing net assets 388 322 Share of net assets 97 80 Goodwill 300 307 Carrying value of associate (see note 32) 397 387 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 157 12. Investments in joint ventures and associates continued Investment in associates continued Information on other individually immaterial associates is detailed below: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Profit/(loss) for the year 3 (3) Total comprehensive income/(expense) 3 (3) Transactions with material associates From time to time the Group loans funds to Penguin Random House which are unsecured and interest is calculated based on market rates. The amount outstanding at 31 December 2019 was £49m (2018: £nil) and interest received was £1m (2018: £1m). The loans are provided under a working capital facility and fluctuate during the year. The Group also has a current asset receivable of £16m (2018: £17m) from Penguin Random House arising from the provision of services. Included in other income (note 4) is £4m (2018: £3m) of service fees. In 2018 the Group received a further re-capitalisation dividend of £50m which was triggered by the Group’s decision to sell a 22% stake in Penguin Random House in 2017. Investment in joint ventures Information on joint ventures, all of which are individually immaterial, is detailed below: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Profit for the year – 1 Total comprehensive income – 1 13. Deferred income tax All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Deferred income tax assets 59 60 Deferred income tax liabilities (48) (136) Net deferred income tax 11 (76) Substantially all of the deferred income tax assets are expected to be recovered after more than one year. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities shall be offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets with current income tax liabilities and where the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. At 31 December 2019, the Group has unrecognised deferred income tax assets of £28m (2018: £31m) in respect of UK losses, £20m (2018: £28m) in respect of US losses and approximately £100m (2018: £90m) in respect of losses in other territories. The UK losses are capital losses. The US losses relate to federal and state taxes. Federal tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely; state tax losses have expiry periods of between five and 20 years. Other deferred tax assets of £25m (2018: £12m) have not been recognised. Deferred tax assets of £41m (2018: £43m) have been recognised in countries that reported a tax loss in either the current or preceding year. The majority arises in Brazil in respect of tax deductible goodwill. It is considered more likely than not that there will be sufficient future taxable profits to realise these assets. The recognition of the deferred income tax assets is supported by management’s forecasts of the future profitability of the relevant countries. In some cases deferred income tax assets are forecast to be recovered through taxable profits over a period that exceeds five years. Management consider these forecasts are sufficiently reliable to support the recovery of the assets. 158 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13. Deferred income tax continued The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year is as follows: Retirement Trading Returns benefit Deferred Goodwill and All figures in £ millions losses provisions obligations revenue intangibles Other Total Deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) At 1 January 2018 9 34 (44) 42 (155) 64 (50) Exchange differences – 1 1 6 (16) (5) (13) Income statement (charge)/benefit 11 (4) (21) 20 (34) (14) (42) Disposal through business disposal – – – – – 16 16 Tax benefit in other comprehensive income – – 9 – – – 9 Tax benefit in equity – – – – – 4 4 At 31 December 2018 20 31 (55) 68 (205) 65 (76) Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (see note 1b) – – – – – 15 15 Exchange differences (1) (1) (1) (3) 6 (5) (5) Income statement benefit/(charge) 70 (10) (4) (24) – 32 64 Tax benefit/(charge) in other comprehensive income – – 22 – – (4) 18 Tax charge in equity – – – – – (5) (5) At 31 December 2019 89 20 (38) 41 (199) 98 11 Other deferred income tax items include temporary differences in respect of share-based payments, provisions, depreciation, interest limitation and royalty advances. As at 31 December 2019, no deferred tax assets or liabilities were classified as held for sale (2018: £98m asset). In 2018 there was a charge of £8m relating to assets and liabilities held for sale. 14. Classification of financial instruments The accounting classification of each class of the Group’s financial assets, and their carrying values, is as follows: 2019 2018 Amortised Amortised Fair value cost Fair value cost Fair value – Total Fair value – Total hedging Financial carrying hedging Financial carrying All figures in £ millions Notes FVOCI FVTPL instrument assets value FVOCI FVTPL instrument assets value Investments in unlisted securities 15 122 – – – 122 93 – – – 93 Cash and cash equivalents 17 – – – 437 437 – – – 568 568 Derivative financial instruments 16 – 6 48 – 54 – 4 64 – 68 Trade receivables 22 – – – 918 918 – – – 904 904 Other receivable – 182 – – 182 – – – – – Trade receivables – within assets classified as held for sale – – – – – – – – 49 49 Total financial assets 122 188 48 1,355 1,713 93 4 64 1,521 1,682 The carrying value of the Group’s financial assets is equal to, or approximately equal to, the market value. The other receivable relates to the receivable which arose on the disposal of the US K12 Courseware business and is included in other receivables, non-current and current, in note 22. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 159 14. Classification of financial instruments continued The accounting classification of each class of the Group’s financial liabilities, together with their carrying values and market values, is as follows: 2019 2018 Amortised Amortised Fair value cost Fair value cost Fair value – Other Total Total Fair value – Other Total Total hedging financial carrying market hedging financial carrying market All figures in £ millions Notes FVTPL instrument liabilities value value FVTPL instrument liabilities value value Derivative financial instruments 16 (7) (32) – (39) (39) – (59) – (59) (59) Trade payables 24 – – (358) (358) (358) – – (311) (311) (311) Trade payables – within liabilities classified as held for sale – – – – – – – (22) (22) (22) Bank loans and overdrafts 18 – – (3) (3) (3) – – (43) (43) (43) Other borrowings due within one year 18 – – (89) (89) (89) – – (3) (3) (3) Borrowings due after more than one year 18 – – (1,572) (1,572) (1,574) – – (674) (674) (663) Total financial liabilities (7) (32) (2,022) (2,061) (2,063) – (59) (1,053) (1,112) (1,101) The market value of leases has been stated at book value. Fair value measurement As shown above, the Group’s derivative assets and liabilities, unlisted securities and marketable securities are held at fair value. Financial instruments that are measured subsequently to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into levels 1 to 3, based on the degree to which the fair value is observable, as follows: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (as prices) or indirectly (derived from prices). Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The Group’s bonds valued at £595m (2018: £661m) are classified as level 1. The Group’s derivative assets valued at £54m (2018: £68m) and derivative liabilities valued at £39m (2018: £59m) are classified as level 2. The Group’s investments in unlisted securities are valued at £122m (2018: £93m) and holding in other receivable is valued at £182m (2018: £nil); both are classified as level 3. The following table analyses the movements in level 3 fair value remeasurements: 2019 2018 Investments Investments Other in unlisted in unlisted All figures in £ millions receivable securities Total securities At beginning of year – 93 93 77 Exchange differences 1 (3) (2) 4 Acquisition of investments and other receivable 181 12 193 13 Fair value movements – 20 20 7 Disposal of investments – – – (8) At end of year 182 122 304 93 The fair value of the investments in unlisted securities is determined by reference to the financial performance of the underlying asset, recent funding rounds and amounts realised on the sale of similar assets. The fair value of the other receivable, which arose on the disposal of the US K12 Courseware business, is determined using present value techniques whereby the expected value of future cash flows is discounted using a rate which is representative of the creditworthiness of the US K12 Courseware business. The key inputs used in the present value calculations are forecast sales, discount rate and the expected date of a subsequent sale of the US K12 Courseware business. If the forecast sales used in the calculations were increased/ decreased by 5%, the value of the receivable would increase/decrease by approximately £20m. If the discount rate used in the calculations of 3.25% was increased/decreased by 1%, the value of the receivable would decrease/increase by approximately £5m. The calculations are not materially sensitive to reasonable changes in the expected date of a subsequent sale of the K12 business. 160 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15. Other financial assets All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 At beginning of year 93 77 Exchange differences (3) 4 Acquisition of investments 12 13 Fair value movements 20 7 Disposal of investments – (8) At end of year 122 93 Other financial assets include unlisted securities of £122m (2018: £93m) that are classified at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). The assets, which are not held for trading, relate to the Group’s interests in new and innovative educational ventures across the world. These are strategic investments and the Group considers the classification as FVOCI to be more relevant. None of the investments are individually significant to the financial statements. In 2018, equities held at a fair value of £8m were disposed. The cumulative gain on disposal was £nil and £2m was recycled from the fair value reserve to retained earnings. 16. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group’s approach to the management of financial risks is set out in note 19. The Group’s outstanding derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2019 2018 Gross notional Gross notional All figures in £ millions amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives – in a fair value hedge relationship 336 13 – 404 13 – Interest rate derivatives – not in a hedge relationship 557 2 (6) 362 3 – Cross-currency rate derivatives – in a hedge relationship 502 29 (31) 577 51 (35) FX derivatives – in a hedge relationship 555 6 (1) 434 – (24) FX derivatives – not in a hedge relationship 386 4 (1) 473 1 – Total 2,336 54 (39) 2,250 68 (59) Analysed as expiring: In less than one year 1,167 25 (15) 771 1 (23) Later than one year and not later than five years 694 13 (6) 795 22 (1) Later than five years 475 16 (18) 684 45 (35) Total 2,336 54 (39) 2,250 68 (59) The Group’s treasury policies only allow derivatives to be traded The Group’s fixed rate USD debt is held as fixed rate instruments at where the objective is risk mitigation. These are then designated for amortised cost. hedge accounting using the following criteria: The majority of the Group’s fixed rate euro debt is converted to a If the derivative and the underlying hedged exposure would normally floating rate exposure using interest rate and cross-currency swaps. be revalued through the income statement and valuation changes The Group receives interest under its euro debt related swap contracts are expected to be perfectly or near perfectly equal and opposite, to match the interest on the bonds (ranging from a receipt of 1.375% these will not be classified in a hedge relationship. on its euro 2025 notes to 1.875% on its euro 2021 notes) and, in turn, pays either a floating US dollar or sterling variable rates of GBP Libor + Where interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps are 0.81% and US Libor + 1.36%. used to convert fixed rate debt to floating and we expect to receive inflows equal to the fixed rate debt interest, these are classified as fair value hedges.  here derivatives are used to create a future foreign currency liability W to provide protection against currency movements affecting the valuation of an overseas investment, these are designated as a net investment hedge. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 161 16. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued GBP and USD Interest rate swaps are subsequently used to fix Interest rate exposure arises from movements in the fair value of the an element of the interest charge. The all-in rates (including the Group’s euro debt attributable to movements in euro interest rates. spread above Libor) that the Group pays are between 2.2% and 3.6%. The hedged risk is the change in the euro bonds fair value attributable In addition to this the Group has executed additional interest rate to interest rate movements. The hedged items are the Group’s euro swaps to offset the floating rate borrowings paying between 0.83% and bonds which are issued at a fixed rate. The hedging instruments are 2.1%. At 31 December 2019, the Group had interest rate swap contracts fixed to floating euro interest rate swaps where the Group receives to fix £557m of debt and a further £246m of outstanding fixed rate fixed interest payments and pays three month Euribor. bonds bringing the total fixed rate debt to £803m. These fixed interest As the critical terms of the interest rate swaps match the bonds, there rate derivatives are not in designated hedging relationships. is an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument and the Additionally the Group uses FX derivatives including forwards, collars value of the hedged item will move in the opposite direction as a result and cross currency swaps to create synthetic USD debt as a hedge of of movements in the zero coupon Euribor curve. The hedge ratio is its USD assets and to achieve certainty of USD currency conversion therefore expected to be 100%. Sources of hedge ineffectiveness are a rates, in line with the Group’s FX hedging policy. Outstanding contracts reduction or modification in the hedged item or a material change in as at 31 December 2019 were held at an average GBP/USD rate of the credit risk of swap counterparties. 1.34. These derivatives are in designated net investment hedging relationships. The weighted average rate achieved for the bonds in a A foreign currency exposure arises from foreign exchange fluctuations net investment hedge relationship was GBP/USD 1.59 for the USD on translation of the Group’s euro debt into GBP. The hedged risk is the bonds and EUR/GBP 0.86 for the euro bonds. Outstanding contracts risk of changes in the GBPEUR spot rate that will result in changes in the on the cross currency swaps at 31 December 2019 were held at an value of the euro debt when translated into GBP. The hedged items are average EUR/GBP rate of 0.79. These derivatives are in designated fair a portion of the Group’s euro bonds. The hedging instruments are value hedging relationships. floating to floating cross currency swaps which creates an exposure to euro strengthening against GBP within the hedge item. The final At the end of 2019, the currency split of the mark-to-market values of exchange on the cross currency swap creates an exposure to euro rate derivatives, including the exchange of principal on cross currency weakening against GBP. rate derivatives, was US dollar £(167)m, sterling £(166)m and euro £336m (2018: US dollar £(185)m, sterling £(215)m and euro £432m). As the critical terms of the cross currency swap match the bonds there is an expectation that the value of the hedging instrument The Group’s portfolio of rate derivatives is diversified by maturity, and the value of the hedged item move in the opposite direction counterparty and type. Natural offsets between transactions as a result of movements in the EURGBP exchange rate. The hedge within the portfolio and the designation of certain derivatives as ratio is 100%. Sources of hedge ineffectiveness are a reduction or hedges significantly reduce the risk of income statement volatility. modification in the hedged item or a material change in the credit The sensitivity of the portfolio to changes in market rates is set out risk of swap counterparties. in note 19. The Group held the following instruments to hedge exposures to Fair value hedges changes in interest rates and foreign currency risk associated The Group uses Interest Rate Swaps and Cross Currency Swaps as with borrowings: Fair value hedges of the Groups euro issued debt. 2019 Change in fair value of hedging instrument Carrying amount of used to determine Nominal amounts of All figures in £ millions hedging instruments hedge ineffectiveness hedging instruments Derivative financial instruments for interest rate risk 13 – 336 Derivative financial instruments for currency risk 25 (21) 336 2018 Change in fair value of hedging instrument Carrying amount of used to determine Nominal amounts of All figures in £ millions hedging instruments hedge ineffectiveness hedging instruments Derivative financial instruments for interest rate risk 13 (7) 404 Derivative financial instruments for currency risk 51 3 404 162 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued The amounts at the reporting date relating to items designated as hedge items were as follows: 2019 Accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments on Change in fair value of the hedged item hedged item used to Line item in profit or Carrying amount of included in the determine hedge Hedge loss that includes All figures in £ millions hedged items carrying amount ineffectiveness ineffectiveness hedge ineffectiveness Interest rate risk Financial liabilities – borrowings (347) (9) – – n/a Currency risk Financial liabilities – borrowings (347) n/a 21 – n/a 2018 Accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments on Change in fair value of the hedged item hedged item used to Line item in profit or Carrying amount of included in the determine hedge Hedge loss that includes All figures in £ millions hedged items carrying amount ineffectiveness ineffectiveness hedge ineffectiveness Interest rate risk Financial liabilities – borrowings (416) (9) 7 – n/a Currency risk Financial liabilities – borrowings (416) n/a (3) – n/a Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation A foreign currency exposure arises from the translation of the Group’s net investments in its subsidiaries which have USD and euro functional currencies. The hedged risk is the risk of changes in the GBPUSD and GBPEUR spot rates that will result in changes in the value of the Group’s net investment in its USD and euro assets when translated into GBP. The hedged items are a portion of the Group’s assets which are denominated in USD and euro. The hedging instruments are debt and derivative financial instruments, including Cross Currency Swaps, FX Forwards and FX Collars which creates an exposure to USD and euro weakening against GBP. It is expected that the change in value of each of these items will mirror each other as there is a clear and direct economic relationship between the hedge and the hedged item in the hedge relationship. Hedge ineffectiveness would arise if the value of the hedged items fell below the value of the hedging instruments however this is unlikely as the value of the Group’s assets denominated in USD and euro are significantly greater than the proposed net investment programme. The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments were as follows: 2019 Change in value of hedging Carrying instrument used Nominal Hedging Hedge amount of to determine amounts gains/(losses) ineffectiveness hedged hedge of hedging recognised in recognised in All figures in £ millions instruments ineffectiveness instruments OCI profit or loss Derivative financial instruments (21) 13 (722) 13 – Financial liabilities – borrowings (246) 10 (246) 10 – Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 163 16. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting continued 2018 Change in value of hedging Carrying instrument used Nominal Hedging Hedge amount of to determine amounts gains/(losses) ineffectiveness hedged hedge of hedging recognised in recognised in All figures in £ millions instruments ineffectiveness instruments OCI profit or loss Derivative financial instruments (59) (22) (607) (22) – Financial liabilities – borrowings (256) (10) (256) (10) – In addition to the above, £3m of hedging gains were recognised in OCI in relation to derivative financial instruments that matured during the year. Included in the translation reserve is a cost of hedging reserve of £2m relating to the time value of FX collars which is not separately disclosed due to materiality. Offsetting arrangements with derivative counterparties All of the Group’s derivative financial instruments are subject to enforceable netting arrangements with individual counterparties, allowing net settlement in the event of default of either party. Derivative financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting arrangements are as follows: 2019 2018 Gross Gross Net derivative Gross Gross Net derivative derivative derivative assets/ derivative derivative assets/ All figures in £ millions assets liabilities liabilities assets liabilities liabilities Counterparties in an asset position 52 (34) 18 67 (44) 23 Counterparties in a liability position 2 (5) (3) 1 (15) (14) Total as presented in the balance sheet 54 (39) 15 68 (59) 9 All of the Group’s derivative financial instruments are subject to enforceable netting arrangements with individual counterparties, allowing net settlement in the event of default of either party. Offset arrangements in respect of cash balances are described in note 17. Counterparty exposure from all derivatives is managed, together with that from deposits and bank account balances, within credit limits that reflect published credit ratings and by reference to other market measures (e.g. market prices for credit default swaps) to ensure that there is no significant risk to any one counterparty. The Group has no material embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’. 17. Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts) All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cash at bank and in hand 401 533 Short-term bank deposits 36 35 437 568 Short-term bank deposits are invested with banks and earn interest at the prevailing short-term deposit rates. At the end of 2019, the currency split of cash and cash equivalents was US dollar 30% (2018: 18%), sterling 12% (2018: 30%), and other 58% (2018: 52%). Cash and cash equivalents have fair values that approximate to their carrying value due to their short-term nature. Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 437 568 Bank overdrafts (3) (43) 434 525 The Group has certain cash pooling arrangements in US dollars, sterling, euro and Canadian dollars where both the company and the bank have a legal right of offset. Offsetting amounts are presented gross in the balance sheet. Offset arrangements in respect of derivatives are shown in note 16. 164 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18. Financial liabilities – borrowings The Group’s current and non-current borrowings are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Non-current 1.875% euro notes 2021 (nominal amount €195m; 2018 nominal amount €250m) 170 233 3.75% US dollar notes 2022 (nominal amount $117m) 89 92 3.25% US dollar notes 2023 (nominal amount $94m) 72 74 1.375% euro notes 2025 (nominal amount €300m) 262 273 Revolving credit facility 230 – Lease liabilities (see note 35) 749 2 1,572 674 Current Due within one year or on demand: Bank loans and overdrafts 3 43 Lease liabilities (see note 35) 89 3 92 46 Total borrowings 1,664 720 Included in the non-current borrowings above is £5m of accrued interest (2018: £6m). Included in the current borrowings above is £nil of accrued interest (2018: £nil). Prior to 1 January 2019 the Group leased certain equipment under a number of finance lease agreements which were included within Financial liabilities – borrowings. On the application of IFRS 16 at 1 January 2019 (see note 1b) all lease liabilities are now included within Financial liabilities – borrowings. The maturities of the Group’s non-current borrowings are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Between one and two years 251 1 Between two and five years 609 400 Over five years 712 273 1,572 674 The carrying amounts and market values of borrowings are as follows: 2019 2018 Effective Carrying Market Effective Carrying Market All figures in £ millions interest rate value value interest rate value value Bank loans and overdrafts n/a 3 3 n/a 43 43 1.875% euro notes 2021 2.04% 170 170 2.04% 233 233 3.75% US dollar notes 2022 3.94% 89 90 3.94% 92 91 3.25% US dollar notes 2023 3.36% 72 72 3.36% 74 71 1.375% euro notes 2025 1.44% 262 263 1.44% 273 266 Revolving credit facility 1.075% 230 230 – – – Lease liabilities n/a 838 838 n/a 5 5 1,664 1,666 720 709 The market values stated above are based on clean market prices at the year end or, where these are not available, on the quoted market prices of comparable debt issued by other companies. The effective interest rates above relate to the underlying debt instruments. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 165 18. Financial liabilities – borrowings continued The carrying amounts of the Group’s borrowings before the effect of derivatives (see notes 16 and 19 for further information on the impact of derivatives) are denominated in the following currencies: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 US dollar 539 188 Sterling 576 23 Euro 442 506 Other 107 3 1,664 720 The Group has $0.9bn (£0.7bn) of undrawn capacity on its committed borrowing facilities as at 31 December 2019 (2018: $1.75bn (£1.4bn) undrawn). In addition, there are a number of short-term facilities that are utilised in the normal course of business. All of the Group’s borrowings are unsecured. In respect of lease obligations, the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default. 19. Financial risk management The Group’s approach to the management of financial risks together Capital risk with sensitivity analyses of its financial instruments is set out below. The Group’s objectives when managing capital are: Treasury policy  o maintain a strong balance sheet and a solid investment T Pearson’s treasury policies set out the Group’s principles for grade rating; addressing key financial risks including capital risk, liquidity risk, To continue to invest in the business organically and foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, and sets out measurable through acquisitions; targets for each. The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports incorporating compliance with measurable targets and review, To have a sustainable and progressive dividend policy, and; and approve, any changes to treasury policies annually. To return surplus cash to our shareholders where appropriate. The treasury function is permitted to use derivatives where their use The Group aimed to maintain net debt at a level less than 1.5 times reduces a risk or allows a transaction to be undertaken more cost adjusted EBITDA before the adoption of IFRS 16 and less than 2.2 times effectively. Derivatives permitted include swaps, forwards and adjusted EBITDA after the adoption of IFRS16. This is consistent collars to manage foreign exchange and interest rate risk, with foreign with a solid investment-grade rating (assuming no material exchange swap and forward contracts the most commonly executed. deterioration in trading performance) and provides comfortable Speculative transactions are not permitted. headroom against covenants. At 31 December 2019 the Group was rated BBB (negative outlook) with Standard and Poor’s and Baa2 (stable outlook) with Moody’s. Net debt The Group’s net debt position is set out below: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 437 568 Derivative financial instruments 15 9 Bank loans and overdrafts (3) (43) Bonds (593) (672) Revolving credit facility (230) – Investment in finance lease receivable 196 – Lease liabilities (838) (5) Net debt (1,016) (143) Interest and foreign exchange rate management See note 16 for details of the Group’s hedging programme which The Group’s principal currency exposure is to the US dollar which addresses interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. represents more than 60% of the Group’s sales. Overseas profits are converted to sterling to satisfy sterling cash The Group’s long-term debt is primarily held in US dollars to provide a outflows such as dividends at the prevailing spot rate at the time natural hedge of this exposure, which is achieved through issued US of the transaction. To the extent the Group has sufficient sterling, dollar debt or converting euro debt to US dollars using cross-currency US dollars may be held as dollar cash to provide a natural offset to swaps, forwards and collars. As at 31 December 2019, £1,641m of the the Group’s debt or to satisfy future US dollar cash outflows. Group’s debt is held at fixed rates (2018: £674m), with £23m held at The Group does not have significant cross-border foreign exchange floating rates (2018: £103m), partially offset by US dollar cash transactional exposures. balances which attract floating rate interest. 166 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 19. Financial risk management continued Interest and foreign exchange rate management continued As at 31 December 2019, the sensitivity of the carrying value of the Group’s financial instruments to fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates is as follows: 2019 Impact of 1% Impact of 1% Impact of 10% Impact of 10% Carrying increase in decrease in strengthening weakening in All figures in £ millions value interest rates interest rates in sterling sterling Investments in unlisted securities 122 – – (9) 11 Other receivable 182 – – (17) 20 Cash and cash equivalents 437 – – (32) 39 Derivative financial instruments 15 16 (18) 22 (23) Bonds (593) 11 (12) 53 (64) Other borrowings (1,071) 2 (2) 46 (56) Other net financial assets 560 – – (43) 52 Total financial instruments (348) 29 (32) 20 (21) 2018 Impact of 1% Impact of 1% Impact of 10% Impact of 10% Carrying increase in decrease in strengthening weakening in All figures in £ millions value interest rates interest rates in sterling sterling Investments in unlisted securities 93 – – (7) 9 Cash and cash equivalents 568 – – (36) 45 Derivative financial instruments 9 (3) 3 1 (1) Bonds (672) 17 (17) 61 (74) Other borrowings (48) – – 2 (3) Other net financial assets 620 – – (51) 62 Total financial instruments 570 14 (14) (30) 38 The table shows the sensitivities of the fair values of each class of The $1.19bn facility contains interest cover and leverage covenants financial instrument to an isolated change in either interest rates or which the Group has complied with for the year ended 31 December foreign exchange rates. Other net financial assets comprises trade 2019. The maturity of the carrying values of the Group’s borrowings receivables less trade payables. A significant proportion of the and trade payables are set out in notes 18 and 24 respectively. movements shown above would impact equity rather than the income At the end of 2019, the currency split of the Group’s trade payables statement due to the location and functional currency of the entities was US dollar £214m, sterling £57m and other currencies £87m in which they arise and the availability of net investment hedging. (2018: US dollar £178m, sterling £57m and other currencies £98m) . The Group’s income statement is reported at average rates for the Trade payables are all due within one year (2018: all due within year while the balance sheet is translated at the year-end closing one year). rate. Differences between these rates can distort ratio calculations The table opposite analyses the Group’s bonds and derivative assets such as debt to EBITDA and interest cover. Adjusted operating profit and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining translated at year-end closing rates would be £22m lower than the period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. reported figure of £581m at £559m. Adjusted EBITDA translated at Short dated derivative instruments have not been included in this year-end closing rates would be £26m lower than the reported figure table. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual of £804m at £778m. undiscounted cash flows (including interest) and as such may differ Liquidity and re-financing risk management from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet. The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities Financial counterparty and credit risk management required to fund its activities. This involves preparing a prudent Financial counterparty and credit risk arises from cash and cash cash flow forecast for the next three to five years, determining the equivalents, favourable derivative financial instruments and deposits level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to shareholder returns and repayments of maturing debt, and identifying customers, including outstanding receivables. Counterparty credit an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against limits, which take published credit rating and other factors into unexpected outflows. account, are set to cover the Group’s total aggregate exposure to a At 31 December 2019, the Group had cash of £0.4bn and an single financial institution. The limits applicable to published credit outstanding drawing of £230m on the US dollar denominated rating bands are approved by the Chief Financial Officer within revolving credit facility due 2024 of $1.19bn (£0.9bn). guidelines approved by the Board. Exposures and limits applicable to each financial institution are reviewed on a regular basis. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 167 19. Financial risk management continued Financial counterparty and credit risk management continued Analysed by maturity Analysed by currency Greater than Later than one month one year and less than but less than Five years All figures in £ millions one year five years or more Total USD GBP Other Total At 31 December 2019 Bonds 12 354 259 625 177 – 448 625 Rate derivatives – inflows (19) (223) (332) (574) (41) (172) (361) (574) Rate derivatives – outflows 23 237 331 591 242 344 5 591 FX forwards – inflows (186) (24) – (210) – (210) – (210) FX forwards – outflows 186 23 – 209 209 – – 209 Total 16 367 258 641 587 (38) 92 641 At 31 December 2018 Bonds 14 431 277 722 189 – 533 722 Rate derivatives – inflows (20) (288) (343) (651) (40) (167) (444) (651) Rate derivatives – outflows 23 289 341 653 254 390 9 653 FX forwards – inflows (251) (35) – (286) – (286) – (286) FX forwards – outflows 275 37 – 312 312 – – 312 Total 41 434 275 750 715 (63) 98 750 Cash deposits and derivative transactions are made with approved Change of accounting policy: Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 counterparties up to pre-agreed limits. To manage counterparty risk Pearson has considered the impact of IBOR reform on Pearson’s hedge associated with cash and cash equivalents, the Group uses a mixture accounting. The Group has elected to early adopt the ‘Amendments to of money market funds as well as bank deposits. As at 31 December IFRS 9, and IFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform’ issued in 2019, 84% of cash and cash equivalents was held with investment September 2019. In accordance with the transition provisions, grade bank counterparties, 12% with AAA money market funds the amendments have been adopted retrospectively to hedging and 4% held with non-investment grade bank counterparties. relationships that existed at the start of the reporting period or were For trade receivables and contract assets the Group’s exposure to designated thereafter. The amendments provide temporary relief credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of from applying specific hedge accounting requirements to hedging each customer. However, risk associated with the industry and relationships directly affected by IBOR reform. country in which customers operate may also influence the credit risk. The reliefs have the effect that IBOR reform should not generally cause The credit quality of customers is assessed by taking into account hedge accounting to terminate. However, any hedge ineffectiveness financial position, past experience and other relevant factors. continue should be recorded in the income statement. Furthermore, Individual credit limits are set for each customer based on internal the amendments set out triggers for when the reliefs will end, which ratings. The compliance with credit limits is regularly monitored by include the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform the Group. A default on a trade receivable is when the counterparty no longer being present. fails to make contractual payments within the stated payment terms. Trade receivables and contract assets are written off when there is Pearson has a limited exposure to changes in the EUR IBOR no reasonable expectation of recovery. The carrying amounts of benchmark. The Group has €395m (£336m) of Interest Rate Swaps financial assets, trade receivables and contract assets represent the which are in fair value hedge relationships of €395m (£336m). maximum credit exposure. Pearson has considered a IBOR transition plan. Pearson currently anticipates that the areas of greatest change will be amendments to Trade receivables and contract assets are subject to impairment using the contractual terms of EUR-IBOR-referenced floating-rate swaps, the expected credit loss model. The Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified and updating hedge designations approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract In summary, the reliefs provided by the amendments that apply to the assets. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables Group are: and contract assets have been grouped based on shared credit risk In assessing whether the hedge is expected to be highly effective on a characteristics and the days past due. See note 22 for further details forward-looking basis, the Group has assumed that the Euribor about trade receivables and contract assets including movements in interest rate on which the cash flows of the interest rate swap that provisions for bad and doubtful debts. hedges fixed-rate Euro bonds is not altered by IBOR reform. T  he Group will not discontinue hedge accounting during the period of IBOR-related uncertainty solely because the retrospective effectiveness demonstrates ineffectiveness due to IBOR reform. The Group has assessed whether the hedged Euribor risk component is a separately identifiable risk only when it first designates the hedge and not on an ongoing basis 168 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20. Intangible assets – pre-publication All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cost At beginning of year 2,096 1,854 Exchange differences (66) 70 Additions 306 328 Disposals (82) (158) Transfer from property, plant and equipment 9 2 Transfer from intangible assets 12 – At end of year 2,275 2,096 Amortisation At beginning of year (1,279) (1,113) Exchange differences 53 (53) Charge for the year (261) (271) Disposals 82 158 At end of year (1,405) (1,279) Carrying amounts at end of year 870 817 Included in the above are pre-publication assets amounting to £585m (2018: £577m) which will be realised in more than one year. Amortisation is included in the income statement in cost of goods sold. In addition to the above, in 2019 there was a £10m charge and additions of £13m relating to assets and liabilities held for sale. In 2018 £242m of pre-publication assets were included in assets classified as held for sale (see note 32) with a charge of £67m and additions of £60m in 2018 related to assets and liabilities held for sale. 21. Inventories All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Raw materials 5 5 Work in progress 2 – Finished goods 155 149 Returns asset 7 10 169 164 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the income statement in cost of goods sold amounted to £231m (2018: £375m). In 2019, £33m (2018: £39m) of inventory provisions was charged in the income statement. None of the inventory is pledged as security. Included within the inventory balance is the estimation of the right to receive goods from contracts with customers via returns. The value of the returns asset is measured at the carrying amount of the assets at the time of sale aligned to the Group’s normal inventory valuation methodology less any expected costs to recover the asset and any expected reduction in value. Impairment charges against the inventory returns asset are £nil in 2019 (2018: £nil). The returns asset all relates to finished goods. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 169 22. Trade and other receivables All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Current Trade receivables 903 874 Royalty advances 4 5 Prepayments 138 103 Investment in finance lease receivable 25 – Deferred contract costs – 1 Accrued income 11 2 Other receivables 194 193 1,275 1,178 Non-current Trade receivables 15 30 Royalty advances – 21 Prepayments 7 13 Investment in finance lease receivable 171 – Deferred contract costs – 1 Accrued income 5 10 Other receivables 115 25 313 100 Accrued income represents contract assets which are unbilled amounts generally resulting from assessments and services revenue streams where revenue to be recognised over time has been recognised in excess of customer billings to date. Impairment charges on accrued income assets are £nil (2018: £nil). The carrying value of the Group’s trade and other receivables approximates its fair value. Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts. The movements in the provision for bad and doubtful debts are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 At beginning of year (96) (116) Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 9 – (12) Exchange differences 3 2 Income statement movements (35) (1) Utilised 36 31 At end of year (92) (96) Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s large number of customers, who are internationally dispersed. The ageing of the Group’s trade receivables is as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Within due date 654 606 Up to three months past due date 155 172 Three to six months past due date 35 72 Six to nine months past due date 9 16 Nine to 12 months past due date 14 24 More than 12 months past due date 51 14 Net trade receivables 918 904 The Group reviews its bad debt provision at least twice a year following a detailed review of receivable balances and historical payment profiles, and assessment of forward looking risk factors. Management believes all the remaining receivable balances are fully recoverable. 170 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 23. Provisions for other liabilities and charges Deferred Disposals Legal All figures in £ millions consideration Property and closures and other Total At 1 January 2019 42 102 5 16 165 Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (see note 1b) – (101) – – (101) Exchange differences (1) – – (2) (3) Charged to income statement – 10 – 67 77 Released to income statement – – (5) (15) (20) Utilised (5) (1) – (17) (23) Transfer from trade and other liabilities – 6 – – 6 Transfer to other liabilities (36) – – – (36) At 31 December 2019 – 16 – 49 65 Analysis of provisions: 2019 Deferred Disposals Legal All figures in £ millions consideration Property and closures and other Total Current – 9 – 43 52 Non-current – 7 – 6 13 – 16 – 49 65 2018 Current 6 2 5 7 20 Non-current 36 100 – 9 145 42 102 5 16 165 Deferred consideration primarily related to the formation of a venture in North America in 2011. This provision was reclassified to other liabilities during 2019. Property provisions in 2018 predominantly related to restructuring and onerous leases. The main provisions related to the consolidation of London properties and were expected to be utilised from 2020. Uncertainties around property provisions related to prevailing market conditions including potential sublet income, lease terms including rent free periods, void periods, lease incentives and running costs. On the initial application of IFRS 16 (see note 1b) in 2019 onerous lease provisions have been offset against the relevant right-of-use asset. Property provisions in 2019 relate to restructuring and dilapidation provisions. Legal and other includes legal claims, contract disputes and potential contract losses with the provisions utilised as the cases are settled. Also included in legal and other are other restructuring provisions that are generally utilised within one year. 24. Trade and other liabilities All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Trade payables 358 311 Sales return liability 122 173 Social security and other taxes 13 16 Accruals 295 397 Deferred income 360 387 Interest payable 28 46 Other liabilities 188 225 1,364 1,555 Less: non-current portion Accruals – 15 Deferred income 55 66 Other liabilities 31 74 86 155 Current portion 1,278 1,400 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 171 24. Trade and other liabilities continued The carrying value of the Group’s trade and other liabilities approximates its fair value. The deferred income balance comprises contract liabilities in respect of advance payments in assessment, testing and training businesses; subscription income in school and college businesses; and obligations to deliver digital content in future periods. 25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations Background plan set up for auto-enrolment. The defined benefit section of the The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined UK Group plan is a final salary pension plan which provides benefits contribution retirement plans throughout the world. to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits depends on the length of service and final The largest plan is The Pearson Pension Plan (UK Group plan) pensionable pay. The UK Group plan is funded with benefit payments in the UK, which is sectionalised to provide both defined benefit and from trustee-administered funds. The UK Group plan is administered defined contribution pension benefits. The defined benefit section in accordance with the Trust Deed and Rules in the interests of its was closed to new members from 1 November 2006. The defined beneficiaries by Pearson Group Pension Trustee Limited. contribution section, opened in 2003, is open to new and existing employees. Finally, there is a separate section within the UK Group At 31 December 2019, the UK Group plan had approximately 26,000 members, analysed in the following table: All figures in % Active Deferred Pensioners Total Defined benefit – 20 33 53 Defined contribution 12 35 – 47 Total 12 55 33 100 The other major defined benefit plans are based in the US. These are The defined contribution section of the UK Group plan operates a also final salary pension plans which provide benefits to members in Reference Scheme Test (RST) pension underpin for its members. the form of a guaranteed pension payable for life, with the level of Where a member’s fund value is insufficient to purchase the RST benefits dependent on length of service and final pensionable pay. pension upon retirement, the UK Group plan is liable for the shortfall The majority of the US plans are funded. to cover the member’s RST pension. A liability of £33m (2018: £23m) in respect of the underpin is included in the UK Group plan’s defined The Group also has several post-retirement medical benefit plans benefit obligation, calculated as the present value of projected (PRMBs), principally in the US. PRMBs are unfunded but are accounted payments less the fund value. From 1 January 2018, members who for and valued similarly to defined benefit pension plans. have sufficient funds to purchase an RST pension are able to convert The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to actuarial risks, their fund value into a pension in the UK Group plan as an alternative to such as life expectancy, inflation risks, and investment risk including purchasing an annuity with an insurer. The Group does not recognise asset volatility and changes in bond yields. The Group is not exposed the assets and liabilities for members of the defined contribution to any unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks. section of the UK Group plan whose fund values are expected to be sufficient to purchase an RST pension without assistance from the UK Group plan. The defined contribution section of the UK Group plan had gross assets of £512m at 31 December 2019 (2018: £453m). 172 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Assumptions The principal assumptions used for the UK Group plan and the US PRMB are shown below. Weighted average assumptions have been shown for the other plans, which primarily relate to US pension plans. 2019 2018 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in % plan plans PRMB plan plans PRMB Inflation 3.0 1.7 1.5 3.3 1.6 1.5 Rate used to discount plan liabilities 2.0 3.0 3.1 2.8 4.0 4.1 Expected rate of increase in salaries 3.5 2.9 3.0 3.8 2.9 3.0 Expected rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 1.85 to 5.05 – – 2.1 to 5.1 – – Initial rate of increase in healthcare rate – – 6.8 – – 7.0 Ultimate rate of increase in healthcare rate – – 5.0 – – 5.5 The UK discount rate is based on corporate bond yields adjusted to The expected rate of increase in salaries has been set at 3.5% for 2019. reflect the duration of liabilities. For the UK Group plan, the mortality base table assumptions have The US discount rate is set by reference to a US bond portfolio been updated and are derived from the SAPS S2 for males and females, matching model. adjusted to reflect the observed experience of the plan, with CMI model improvement factors. A 1.5% long-term rate improvement on The inflation rate for the UK Group plan of 3% reflects the RPI rate. the CMI model is applied for both males and females. In line with changes to legislation in 2010, certain benefits have been calculated with reference to CPI as the inflationary measure and in For the US plans, the mortality table (Pri – 2012) and 2019 improvement these instances a rate of 2% has been used. scale (MP – 2019) with generational projection for male and female annuitants has been adopted. Using the above tables, the remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65 on the balance sheet date for the UK Group plan and US plans is as follows: UK US All figures in years 2019 2018 2019 2018 Male 24.0 23.8 20.6 20.7 Female 24.3 24.5 22.6 22.7 The remaining average life expectancy in years of a pensioner retiring at age 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date, for the UK and US Group plans is as follows: UK US All figures in years 2019 2018 2019 2018 Male 25.5 25.4 22.2 22.3 Female 26.1 26.3 24.1 24.2 Although the Group anticipates that plan surpluses will be utilised during the life of the plan to address member benefits, the Group recognises its pension surplus in full in respect of the UK Group plan on the basis that it is management’s judgement that there are no substantive restrictions on the return of residual plan assets in the event of a winding up of the plan after all member obligations have been met. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 173 25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: 2019 Defined UK Group benefit Defined All figures in £ millions plan other Sub-total contribution PRMB Total Current service cost 6 3 9 57 – 66 Past service cost – – – – – – Curtailments (2) – (2) – (1) (3) Administration expenses 6 – 6 – – 6 Total operating expense 10 3 13 57 (1) 69 Interest on plan assets (89) (5) (94) – – (94) Interest on plan liabilities 73 6 79 – 2 81 Net finance (income)/expense (16) 1 (15) – 2 (13) Net income statement charge (6) 4 (2) 57 1 56 2018 Defined UK Group benefit Defined All figures in £ millions plan other Sub-total contribution PRMB Total Current service cost 7 2 9 56 (1) 64 Past service cost 8 – 8 – – 8 Curtailments – – – – (11) (11) Administration expenses 6 – 6 – – 6 Total operating expense 21 2 23 56 (12) 67 Interest on plan assets (82) (5) (87) – – (87) Interest on plan liabilities 68 6 74 – 2 76 Net finance (income)/expense (14) 1 (13) – 2 (11) Net income statement charge 7 3 10 56 (10) 56 The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2019 2018 Other Other UK Group Other funded unfunded UK Group Other funded unfunded All figures in £ millions plan plans plans Total plan plans plans Total Fair value of plan assets 3,341 120 – 3,461 3,240 141 – 3,381 Present value of defined benefit obligation (2,912) (138) (19) (3,069) (2,671) (158) (19) (2,848) Net pension asset/(liability) 429 (18) (19) 392 569 (17) (19) 533 Other post-retirement medical benefit obligation (43) (49) Other pension accruals (12) (13) Net retirement benefit asset 337 471 Analysed as: Retirement benefit assets 429 571 Retirement benefit obligations (92) (100) The following gains/(losses) have been recognised in other comprehensive income: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Amounts recognised for defined benefit plans (148) 16 Amounts recognised for post-retirement medical benefit plans 3 6 Total recognised in year (145) 22 174 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued The fair value of plan assets comprises the following: 2019 2018 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in % plan funded plans Total plan funded plans Total Insurance 43 – 43 28 1 29 Equities 1 1 2 1 1 2 Bonds 5 2 7 – 2 2 Property 5 – 5 7 – 7 Pooled asset investment funds 30 – 30 44 – 44 Other 13 – 13 16 – 16 The plan assets do not include any of the Group’s own financial instruments, or any property occupied by the Group. The table below further disaggregates the plan assets into additional categories and those assets which have a quoted market price in an active market and those that do not: 2019 2018 Quoted No quoted Quoted No quoted All figures in % market price market price market price market price Insurance 43 – 29 – Non-UK equities – 2 – 2 Fixed-interest securities 7 – 2 – Property – 5 – 7 Pooled asset investment funds 30 – 44 – Other – 13 – 16 Total 80 20 75 25 The liquidity profile of the UK Group plan assets is as follows: All figures in % 2019 2018 Liquid – call <1 month 37 51 Less liquid – call 1–3 months – – Illiquid – call >3 months 63 49 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 175 25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Financial statement information continued Changes in the values of plan assets and liabilities of the retirement benefit plans are as follows: 2019 2018 UK Group Other UK Group Other All figures in £ millions plan plans Total plan plans Total Fair value of plan assets Opening fair value of plan assets 3,240 141 3,381 3,337 155 3,492 Exchange differences – (5) (5) – 4 4 Interest on plan assets 89 5 94 82 5 87 Return on plan assets excluding interest 133 13 146 (45) (13) (58) Contributions by employer 3 2 5 6 1 7 Benefits paid (124) (16) (140) (140) (11) (151) Other – (20) (20) – – – Closing fair value of plan assets 3,341 120 3,461 3,240 141 3,381 Present value of defined benefit obligation Opening defined benefit obligation (2,671) (177) (2,848) (2,792) (181) (2,973) Exchange differences – 5 5 – (3) (3) Current service cost (6) (3) (9) (7) (2) (9) Past service cost – – – (8) – (8) Curtailments 2 – 2 – – – Administration expenses (6) – (6) (6) – (6) Interest on plan liabilities (73) (6) (79) (68) (6) (74) Actuarial gains/(losses) – experience (6) (1) (7) (49) (2) (51) Actuarial gains/(losses) – demographic 18 1 19 (12) – (12) Actuarial gains/(losses) – financial (294) (12) (306) 131 6 137 Contributions by employee – – – – – – Other – 20 20 – – – Benefits paid 124 16 140 140 11 151 Closing defined benefit obligation (2,912) (157) (3,069) (2,671) (177) (2,848) The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 16 years for the UK and 8 years for the US. Changes in the value of the US PRMB are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Opening defined benefit obligation (49) (67) Exchange differences 1 (2) Current service cost – 1 Curtailments 1 11 Interest on plan liabilities (2) (2) Actuarial gains/(losses) – experience 4 4 Actuarial gains/(losses) – demographic 1 – Actuarial gains/(losses) – financial (2) 2 Benefits paid 3 4 Closing defined benefit obligation (43) (49) 176 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 25. Retirement benefit and other post-retirement obligations continued Funding The UK Group plan is self-administered with the plan’s assets being In February 2019, the UK Group plan purchased a further pensioner held independently of the Group in trust. The trustee of the plan is buy-in policy valued at approximately £500m with Legal & General. required to act in the best interest of the plan’s beneficiaries. This is in addition to the previous buy-in policies with Aviva and Legal & The most recent triennial actuarial valuation for funding purposes General totalling £1.2bn which were purchased in 2017. As a result of was completed as at 1 January 2018 and this valuation revealed a this latest transaction, 95% of the UK Group plan’s pensioner liabilities technical provisions funding surplus of £163m. The plan expects to are now matched with buy-in policies. These transfer significant be able to provide benefits (in accordance with the plan rules) longevity risk to Aviva and Legal & General, reducing the pension risks with a very low level of reliance on future funding from the Group. being underwritten by the Group and providing additional security for members. Assets of the plan are divided into two elements: matching assets, which are assets that produce cash flows that can be expected to Regular employer contributions to the plan in respect of the defined match the cash flows for a proportion of the membership, and include benefit sections are estimated to be £3m for 2020. a liability-driven investment mandate (UK bonds, interest rate/inflation swaps and other derivative instruments), pensioner buy-in insurance policies, inflation-linked property and infrastructure; and return seeking assets, which are assets invested with a longer-term horizon to generate the returns needed to provide the remaining expected cash flows for the beneficiaries, and include diversified growth funds, property and alternative asset classes. The plan’s long-term investment strategy allocates 91.5% to matching assets and 8.5% to return-seeking assets. Sensitivities The effect of a one percentage point increase and decrease in the discount rate on the defined benefit obligation and the total pension expense is as follows: 2019 All figures in £ millions 1% increase 1% decrease Effect: (Decrease)/increase in defined benefit obligation – UK Group plan (434) 591 (Decrease)/increase in defined benefit obligation – US plan (11) 13 The effect of members living one year more or one year less on the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 2019 One year One year All figures in £ millions increase decrease Effect: Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – UK Group plan 132 (126) Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – US plan 8 (8) The effect of a half percentage point increase and decrease in the inflation rate is as follows: 2019 All figures in £ millions 0.5% increase 0.5% decrease Effect: Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – UK Group plan 153 (136) Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation – US plan – – The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant, although in practice this is unlikely to occur and changes in some assumptions may be correlated. When calculating these sensitivities, the same method has been applied to calculate the defined benefit obligation as has been applied when calculating the liability recognised in the balance sheet. This methodology is the same as prior periods. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 177 26. Share-based payments The Group recognised the following charges in the income statement in respect of its equity-settled share-based payment plans: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Pearson plans 25 37 The Group operates the following equity-settled employee option and Long-Term Incentive Plan – The plan was first introduced in 2001, share plans: renewed again in 2006 and again in 2011. The plan consists of restricted shares. The vesting of restricted shares is normally dependent on Worldwide Save for Shares Plan – Since 1994, the Group has operated continuing service over a three to five-year period, and in the case of a Save-As-You-Earn plan for UK employees. In 1998, the Group executive directors and senior management upon the satisfaction of introduced a Worldwide Save for Shares Plan. Under these plans, corporate performance targets over a three-year period. These targets employees can save a portion of their monthly salary over periods of may be based on market and/or non-market performance criteria. three or five years. At the end of this period, the employee has the Restricted shares awarded to executive directors in May 2019 and option to purchase ordinary shares with the accumulated funds at a May 2018 vest dependent on relative total shareholder return, purchase price equal to 80% of the market price prevailing at the time return on invested capital and adjusted earnings per share growth. of the commencement of the employee’s participation in the plan. Other restricted shares awarded in 2019 and 2018 vest depending Options that are not exercised within six months of the end of the on continuing service over periods of up to three years. savings period lapse unconditionally. Management Incentive Plan – The plan was introduced in 2017 Employee Stock Purchase Plan – In 2000, the Group established an combining the Group’s Annual Incentive Plan and Long-Term Incentive Employee Stock Purchase Plan which allows all employees in the US to Plan for senior management. The number of shares to be granted to save a portion of their monthly salary over six-month periods. At the participants is dependent on Group performance in the calendar year end of the period, the employee has the option to purchase American preceding the date of grant (on the same basis as the Annual Incentive Depositary Receipts (ADRs) with their accumulated funds at a purchase Plan). Subsequently, the shares vest dependent on continuing service price equal to 85% of the lower of the market prices prevailing at the over a three-year period, and additionally in the case of Pearson beginning or end of the period. Executive management, upon satisfaction of non-market based performance criteria as determined by the Remuneration Committee. Restricted shares awarded as part of the 2018 Management Incentive Plan were granted in April 2019. Restricted shares awarded as part of the 2019 Management Incentive Plan will be granted in April 2020. The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options granted under the Group’s plans are as follows: 2019 2018 Number of share Weighted average Number of share Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price 000s £ 000s £ Outstanding at beginning of year 2,728 5.76 2,981 6.84 Granted during the year 660 6.77 729 5.80 Exercised during the year (419) 6.74 (70) 6.57 Forfeited during the year (492) 6.21 (668) 7.58 Expired during the year (83) 11.15 (244) 8.19 Outstanding at end of year 2,394 6.06 2,728 5.76 Options exercisable at end of year 161 7.14 169 11.31 Options were exercised regularly throughout the year. The weighted average share price during the year was £8.07 (2018: £8.45). Early exercises arising from redundancy, retirement or death are treated as an acceleration of vesting and the Group therefore recognises in the income statement the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the original vesting period. The options outstanding at the end of the year have weighted average remaining contractual lives and exercise prices as follows: 2019 2018 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average Range of exercise prices share options contractual life share options contractual life £ 000s Years 000s Years 5–10 2,376 1.94 2,553 2.29 >10 18 1.04 175 0.29 2,394 1.93 2,728 2.16 178 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26. Share-based payments In 2019 and 2018, options were granted under the Worldwide Save for Shares Plan. The weighted average estimated fair value for the options granted was calculated using a Black–Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average estimated fair values and the inputs into the Black–Scholes model are as follows: 2019 2018 Weighted average Weighted average Fair value £2.31 £1.88 Weighted average share price £8.30 £7.49 Weighted average exercise price £6.77 £5.80 Expected volatility 32.07% 35.78% Expected life 3.7 years 3.7 years Risk-free rate 0.66% 0.87% Expected dividend yield 2.11% 5.21% Forfeiture rate 3.2% 3.2% The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the company’s share price over the previous three to seven years depending on the vesting term of the options. The following shares were granted under restricted share arrangements: 2019 2018 Number of Weighted average fair Number of Weighted average fair shares value shares value 000s £ 000s £ Long-Term Incentive Plan 2,785 8.09 2,907 7.55 Management Incentive Plan 1,435 8.49 2,035 7.45 The fair value of shares granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Management Incentive Plan that vest unconditionally is determined using the share price at the date of grant. The number of shares expected to vest is adjusted, based on historical experience, to account for potential forfeitures. Participants under the plans are entitled to dividends during the vesting period and therefore the share price is not discounted. Restricted shares with a market performance condition were valued by an independent actuary using a Monte Carlo model. Restricted shares with a non-market performance condition were fair valued based on the share price at the date of grant. Non-market performance conditions are taken into consideration by adjusting the number of shares expected to vest based on the most likely outcome of the relevant performance criteria. 27. Share capital and share premium Number of Share Share shares capital premium 000s £m £m At 1 January 2018 802,054 200 2,602 Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes 864 1 5 Purchase of own shares (21,840) (6) – At 31 December 2018 781,078 195 2,607 Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes 1,021 – 7 Purchase of own shares – – – At 31 December 2019 782,099 195 2,614 The ordinary shares have a par value of 25p per share (2018: 25p per share). All issued shares are fully paid. All shares have the same rights. The £300m share buyback programme announced in October 2017 was completed on 16 February 2018. A further 22m shares were purchased under the programme in 2018. The shares bought back have been cancelled and the nominal value of these shares transferred to a capital redemption reserve. The nominal value of shares cancelled at 31 December 2019 was £11m (2018: £11m). The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 179 27. Share capital and share premium continued The capital structure of the Group consists of debt (see note 18), cash and cash equivalents (see note 17) and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings. The Group reviews its capital structure on a regular basis and will balance its overall capital structure through payments of dividends, new share issues as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt in line with the financial risk policies outlined in note 19. 28. Treasury shares Pearson plc Number of shares 000s £m At 1 January 2018 5,994 61 Purchase of treasury shares – – Release of treasury shares (2,769) (28) At 31 December 2018 3,225 33 Purchase of treasury shares 6,100 52 Release of treasury shares (6,067) (61) At 31 December 2019 3,258 24 The Group holds Pearson plc shares in trust to satisfy its obligations under its restricted share plans (see note 26). These shares, representing 0.4% (2018: 0.4%) of called-up share capital, are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes and have a par value of 25p per share. The nominal value of Pearson plc treasury shares amounts to £0.8m (2018: £0.8m). Dividends on treasury shares are waived. At 31 December 2019, the market value of Pearson plc treasury shares was £21m (2018: £30m). 29. Other comprehensive income 2019 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonFair value Translation Retained controlling All figures in £ millions reserve reserve earnings Total interest Total Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – Group – (113) – (113) – (113) Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – associates – (2) – (2) – (2) Currency translation adjustment disposed – 4 – 4 – 4 Attributable tax – – 5 5 – 5 Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Fair value gain on other financial assets 20 – – 20 – 20 Attributable tax – – (4) (4) – (4) Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations – Group – – (145) (145) – (145) Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations – associates – – (4) (4) – (4) Attributable tax – – 22 22 – 22 Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year 20 (111) (126) (217) – (217) 180 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29. Other comprehensive income continued 2018 Attributable to equity holders of the company NonFair value Translation Retained controlling All figures in £ millions reserve reserve earnings Total interest Total Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – Group – 91 – 91 – 91 Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – associates – (1) – (1) – (1) Currency translation adjustment disposed – (4) – (4) – (4) Attributable tax – – (4) (4) – (4) Items that are not reclassified to the income statement Fair value gain on other financial assets 8 – – 8 – 8 Attributable tax – – – – – – Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations – Group – – 22 22 – 22 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations – associates – – 3 3 – 3 Attributable tax – – 9 9 – 9 Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 8 86 30 124 – 124 30. Business combinations During the year the Group made some small acquisitions, including Lumerit Education and Smart Sparrow, for total consideration of £40m. Details of the assets acquired, and the associated consideration, are shown in the table below. all figures in £ millions 2019 Intangible assets 23 Trade and other receivables 1 Trade and other liabilities (2) Net assets acquired 22 Goodwill 18 Total 40 Satisfied by: Cash 40 Total consideration 40 There were no significant acquisitions in 2018. There were no material adjustments to prior year acquisitions in 2019. The net cash outflow relating to acquisitions in the year is shown below. All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cash flow on acquisitions Cash – current year acquisitions (40) – Deferred payments for prior year acquisitions and other items (5) (5) Net cash outflow (45) (5) During 2019, the Group’s associate, Penguin Random House raised additional capital from its owners in proportion to their equity interests with the Group’s share being £40m. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 181 31. Disposals In March 2019, the Group completed the sale of its US K12 Courseware business resulting in a pre-tax profit on sale of £13m. Total gross proceeds were £200m including £180m of deferred proceeds which include the fair value of an unconditional vendor note for $225m and an entitlement to 20% of future cash flows to equity holders and 20% of net proceeds in the event of a subsequent sale (see note 14 for further details). Tax on the disposal is a benefit of £51m. Other disposal items relate to investment sales and adjustments to prior year transactions. 2019 2018 All figures in £ millions Notes K12 Other Total Total Disposal of subsidiaries and associates Property, plant and equipment – – – (17) Intangible assets (101) – (101) (17) Investments in joint ventures and associates – – – (3) Net deferred income tax assets (100) – (100) – Intangible assets – pre-publication (238) – (238) (8) Inventories (64) – (64) (1) Trade and other receivables (70) – (70) (30) Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts) (104) – (104) (119) Net deferred income tax liabilities – – – 16 Trade and other liabilities 520 – 520 172 Provisions for other liabilities and charges – – – 1 Cumulative currency translation adjustment 29 (4) – (4) 4 Net assets disposed (161) – (161) (2) Cash received 20 – 20 243 Deferred proceeds 180 – 180 2 Fair value of financial asset acquired – – – 3 Costs (26) 3 (23) (16) Gain on disposal 13 3 16 230 All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cash flow from disposals Cash – current year disposals 20 243 Cash and cash equivalents disposed (104) (119) Costs and other disposal liabilities paid (17) (23) Net cash (outflow)/inflow (101) 101 Analysed as: Cash (outflow)/inflow from sale of subsidiaries (101) 83 Cash inflow from sale of joint ventures and associates – 18 182 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 32. Held for sale The held for sale asset in 2019 is the 25% holding in Penguin Random House following announcement of the sale in December 2019. Held for sale assets and liabilities in 2018 related to the US K12 Courseware business prior to disposal in 2019. 2019 2018 All figures in £ millions Total Total Non-current assets Intangible assets – 168 Investments in joint ventures and associates 397 – Deferred income tax assets – 98 Trade and other receivables – 25 397 291 Current assets Intangible assets – pre-publication – 242 Inventories – 55 Trade and other receivables – 60 – 357 Assets classified as held for sale 397 648 Non-current liabilities Other liabilities – (371) – (371) Current liabilities Trade and other liabilities – (202) – (202) Liabilities classified as held for sale – (573) Net assets classified as held for sale 397 75 Goodwill is allocated to the held for sale businesses on a relative fair value basis where these businesses form part of a larger cash generating unit (CGU). The Group has historically presented the results of PRH separately within segment information (see note 2) to provide further information about the composition of the Group outside of the primary segments. The Group has not viewed Penguin Random House as comprising a separate major line of business since the sale of 22% of the Group’s stake in Penguin Random House to Bertelsmann in 2017. On this basis, the Group has not classified Penguin Random House as a discontinued operation. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 183 33. Cash generated from operations All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Profit 266 590 Adjustments for: Income tax (34) (92) Depreciation 10 123 66 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles and goodwill 11 151 99 Amortisation of software 11 115 88 Net finance costs 6 43 55 Charges relating to GMP equalisation – 8 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 12 (54) (44) Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates, investments and fixed assets (9) (315) Net profit on disposal of right-of-use assets held under leases (4) – Net foreign exchange adjustment from transactions (21) 28 Investment income (2) – Share-based payment costs 26 25 37 Pre-publication (55) (37) Inventories (20) (10) Trade and other receivables 59 (15) Trade and other liabilities (157) 35 Retirement benefit obligations 5 (9) Provisions for other liabilities and charges 49 63 Net cash generated from operations 480 547 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 64 117 Re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House – (50) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (55) (74) Acquisition of new right-of-use lease assets (64) – Purchase of intangible software assets (138) (130) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets 1 128 Disposal of right-of-use lease assets 17 – Investment income 2 – Net cost paid for/(proceeds from) major restructuring 111 (25) Operating cash flow 418 513 Operating tax paid (9) (43) Net operating finance costs paid (64) (22) Operating free cash flow 345 448 Non-operating tax paid (21) – Net (cost paid for)/proceeds from major restructuring (111) 25 Free cash flow 213 473 Dividends paid (including to non-controlling interests) (148) (137) Net movement of funds from operations 65 336 Acquisitions and disposals (193) 92 Re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House – 50 Loans (advanced)/repaid (including to related parties) (49) 46 New equity 7 6 Buyback of equity – (153) Purchase of treasury shares (52) – Other movements on financial instruments (9) (6) Net movement of funds (231) 371 Exchange movements on net debt 24 (82) Total movement in net debt (207) 289 Opening net debt (143) (432) Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (666) – Closing net debt (1,016) (143) 184 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33. Cash generated from operations continued Net cash generated from operations is translated at an exchange rate approximating the rate at the date of cash flow. The difference between this rate and the average rate used to translate profit gives rise to a currency adjustment in the reconciliation between net profit and net cash generated from operations. This adjustment reflects the timing difference between recognition of profit and the related cash receipts or payments. Operating cash flow, operating free cash flow and total free cash flow are non-GAAP (non-statutory) measures and have been disclosed and reconciled in the above table as they are commonly used by investors to measure the cash performance of the Group. In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment comprise: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Net book amount 3 41 Profit/(loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment (2) 87 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1 128 The movements in the Group’s current and non-current borrowings are as follows: New leases/ Transfer from Foreign Fair value and IFRS 16 disposal of non-current Financing exchange other All figures in £ millions 2018 Transition leases to current cash flows movements movements 2019 Financial liabilities Non-current borrowings 643 792 61 (88) 230 (80) 9 1,567 Current borrowings 25 89 – 88 (139) 16 – 79 Total 668 881 61 – 91 (64) 9 1,646 Non-current borrowings include bonds, derivative financial instruments and leases. Current borrowings include loans repayable within one year and leases, but exclude overdrafts classified within cash and cash equivalents. 34. Contingencies and commitments There are contingent Group liabilities that arise in the normal course of business in respect of indemnities, warranties and guarantees in relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of guarantees in relation to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates. In addition, there are contingent liabilities of the Group in respect of unsettled or disputed tax liabilities, legal claims, contract disputes, royalties, copyright fees, permissions and other rights. None of these claims are expected to result in a material gain or loss to the Group. On 25 April 2019, the European Commission published the full decision that the United Kingdom controlled foreign company group financing partial exemption (FCPE) partially constitutes State Aid. The Group has lodged an appeal. The Group has benefited from the FCPE in 2018 and prior years by approximately £116m. At present the Group believes no provision is required in respect of this issue. During 2019 the Group received an assessment from the tax authorities in Brazil challenging the deduction for tax purposes of goodwill amortisation for the years 2013 to 2016. Similar assessments may be raised for other years. Potential total exposure could be up to £124m (BRL 656m) up to 31 December 2019, with additional potential exposure of £45m (BRL 239m) in relation to deductions expected to be taken in future periods. Such assessments are common in Brazil. The Group believes that the likelihood that the tax authorities will ultimately prevail is low, and that the Group’s position is strong. At present the Group believes no provision is required. At the balance sheet date there were no commitments for capital expenditure contracted for but not yet incurred. Commitments in respect of leases are shown in note 35. 35. Leases The Group’s lease portfolio consists of approximately 750 property leases, mainly offices and test centres, together with a number of vehicle and equipment leases. The Group has adopted IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ at 1 January 2019 and applied the modified retrospective approach. Comparatives for 2018 have not been restated. The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Disclosure required by IFRS 16: As a lessee: The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: All figures in £ millions Note 2019 Interest on lease liabilities 6 (45) Expenses relating to short-term leases (2) Depreciation of right-of-use assets 10 (64) Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 185 35. Leases continued Right-of-use assets comprise the following and are included within property, plant and equipment in the balance sheet: 2019 Land and Plant and All figures in £ millions buildings equipment Total Balance at 1 January 2019 – – – Adjustment on initial application of IFRS 16 (see note 1b) 418 6 424 Balance at 31 December 2019 402 7 409 For additional analysis of the right-of-use assets, including additions, depreciation and disposals, see note 10. Lease liabilities are included within financial liabilities – borrowings in the balance sheet, see note 18. The maturities of the Group’s lease liabilities are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 Less than one year 123 One to five years 420 More than five years 622 Total undiscounted lease liabilities 1,165 Lease liabilities included in the balance sheet 838 Analysed as: Current 89 Non-current 749 The amounts recognised in the cash flow statement are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 Total cash outflow for leases as a lessee 136 At the balance sheet date commitments for capital leases contracted for but not yet incurred were £25m. Extension and termination options and variable lease payments are not significant within the lease portfolio. Short-term leases to which the Group is committed at the balance sheet date are similar to the portfolio of short-term leases to which the short-term lease expense is disclosed above. As a lessor: In the event that the Group has excess capacity in its leased offices and warehouses, the Group sub-leases some of its properties under operating and finance leases. The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: All figures in £ millions Note 2019 Interest on finance lease receivable 6 11 Income from sub-leasing right-of-use assets (within other income) 17 The amounts recognised in the cash flow statement are as follows: All figures in £ millions 2019 Total cash inflow for leases as a lessor 37 During the year the investment in finance lease receivable decreased by £19m due to payments received. 186 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 35. Leases continued The following table sets out the maturity analysis of lease payments receivable for sub-leases classified as operating leases, showing the undiscounted lease payments to be received after the reporting date, and sub-leases classified as finance leases showing the undiscounted lease payments to be received after the reporting date and the net investment in the finance lease receivable. Operating Finance All figures in £ millions leases leases 2019 Total Less than one year 12 34 46 One to two years 4 40 44 Two to three years 4 33 37 Three to four years 3 30 33 Four to five years 3 31 34 More than five years 20 67 87 Total undiscounted lease payments receivable 46 235 281 Unearned finance income (39) Net investment in finance lease receivable 196 IAS 17 disclosure for 2018: The maturity of the Group’s finance lease obligations is as follows: All figures in £ millions 2018 Finance lease liabilities – minimum lease payments Not later than one year 3 Later than one year and not later than two years 1 Later than two years and not later than three years 1 Later than three years and not later than four years – Later than four years and not later than five years – Later than five years – Future finance charges on finance leases – Present value of finance lease liabilities 5 The present value of the Group’s finance lease obligations is as follows: All figures in £ millions 2018 Not later than one year 3 Later than one year and not later than five years 2 Later than five years – 5 The carrying amounts of the Group’s lease obligations approximate their fair value. In 2018 the Group leased various offices and warehouses under non-cancellable operating lease agreements. The leases had varying terms and renewal rights. The Group also leased various plant and equipment under operating lease agreements, also with varying terms. Lease expenditure charged to the income statement in 2018 was £128m. The future aggregate minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases were as follows: All figures in £ millions 2018 Not later than one year 143 Later than one year and not later than two years 130 Later than two years and not later than three years 115 Later than three years and not later than four years 101 Later than four years and not later than five years 91 Later than five years 595 1,175 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 187 35. Leases continued In the event that the Group had excess capacity in its leased offices and warehouses, it entered into sub-lease contracts in order to offset costs. The future aggregate minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases were as follows: All figures in £ millions 2018 Not later than one year 51 Later than one year and not later than two years 44 Later than two years and not later than three years 41 Later than three years and not later than four years 39 Later than four years and not later than five years 35 Later than five years 124 334 36. Related party transactions Joint ventures and associates Amounts advanced to joint ventures and associates during the year and at the balance sheet date are set out in note 12. Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Pearson executive (see p57). It is this Committee which had responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group in 2019. Key management personnel compensation is disclosed below: All figures in £millions 2019 2018 Short-term employee benefits 5 6 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payment costs 4 7 Total 10 14 There were no other material related party transactions. No guarantees have been provided to related parties. 37. Events after the balance sheet date In January 2020, the Group commenced a £350m share buyback programme in connection with the announcement in December 2019 of the sale of its remaining 25% interest in Penguin Random House. 38. Accounts and audit exemptions The Pearson plc subsidiary companies listed below are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual accounts by virtue of section 479A. Company number Company number Aldwych Finance Limited 04720439 Pearson Loan Finance No. 4 Limited 02635107 Edexcel Limited 04496750 Pearson Loan Finance No. 5 Limited 12017252 Education Development International plc 03914767 Pearson Loan Finance No. 6 Limited 12030662 Longman Group (Overseas Holdings) Limited 00690236 Pearson Loan Finance Unlimited 05144467 Major123 Limited 05333023 Pearson Management Services Limited 00096263 Pearson Australia Finance Unlimited 05578463 Pearson Overseas Holdings Limited 00145205 Pearson Books Limited 02512075 Pearson Pension Trustee Services Limited 10803853 Pearson Brazil Finance Limited 08848874 Pearson PRH Holdings Limited 08561316 Pearson Canada Finance Unlimited 05578491 Pearson Real Estate Holdings Limited 09768242 Pearson Dollar Finance plc 05111013 Pearson Services Limited 01341060 Pearson Dollar Finance Two Limited 06507766 Pearson Shared Services Limited 04623186 Pearson Education Holdings Limited 00210859 Pearson Strand Finance Limited 11091691 Pearson Education Investments Limited 08444933 PVNT Limited 08038068 Pearson Education Limited 00872828 TQ Catalis Limited 07307943 Pearson Funding Four Limited 07970304 TQ Clapham Limited 07307925 Pearson International Finance Limited 02496206 TQ Global Limited 07802458 Pearson Loan Finance No. 3 Limited 05052661 188 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Company balance sheet As at 31 December 2019 All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Assets Non-current assets Investments in subsidiaries 2 6,664 6,710 Amounts due from subsidiaries 2,122 2,269 Deferred income tax assets 21 – Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 6 29 67 8,836 9,046 Current assets Amounts due from subsidiaries 827 361 Amounts due from related parties 11 48 – Current income tax assets 2 28 Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts) 4 18 50 Financial assets – derivative financial instruments 6 25 1 Other assets 2 – 922 440 Total assets 9,758 9,486 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Amounts due to subsidiaries (2,740) (2,944) Financial liabilities – borrowings 5 (230) – Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 6 (24) (36) (2,994) (2,980) Current liabilities Amounts due to subsidiaries (1,800) (2,007) Financial liabilities – borrowings 5 – (11) Other liabilities (5) (8) Financial liabilities – derivative financial instruments 6 (15) (23) (1,820) (2,049) Total liabilities (4,814) (5,029) Net assets 4,944 4,457 Equity Share capital 7 195 195 Share premium 7 2,614 2,607 Treasury shares 8 21 12 Capital redemption reserve 11 11 Special reserve 447 447 Retained earnings – including profit for the year of £789m (2018: loss of £160m) 1,656 1,185 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 4,944 4,457 These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2020 and signed on its behalf by Coram Williams Chief Financial Officer Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 189 Company statement of changes in equity Year ended 31 December 2019 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital Share Share Treasury redemption Special Retained All figures in £ millions capital premium shares reserve reserve earnings Total At 1 January 2019 195 2,607 12 11 447 1,185 4,457 Profit for the year – – – – – 789 789 Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes 1 – 7 – – – – 7 Buyback of equity – – – – – – – Purchase of treasury shares – – (52) – – – (52) Release of treasury shares – – 61 – – (61) – Capital reduction – – – – – (110) (110) Dividends – – – – – (147) (147) At 31 December 2019 195 2,614 21 11 447 1,656 4,944 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company Capital Share Share Treasury redemption Special Retained All figures in £ millions capital premium shares reserve reserve earnings Total At 1 January 2018 200 2,602 (16) 5 447 1,511 4,749 Loss for the year – – – – – (160) (160) Issue of ordinary shares under share option schemes1 1 5 – – – – 6 Buyback of equity (6) – – 6 – (2) (2) Purchase of treasury shares – – – – – – – Release of treasury shares – – 28 – – (28) – Dividends – – – – – (136) (136) At 31 December 2018 195 2,607 12 11 447 1,185 4,457 The capital redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of shares cancelled in the Group’s share buyback programme. The special reserve represents the cumulative effect of cancellation of the company’s share premium account. Included within retained earnings is an amount of £162m (2018: £162m) relating to profit on intra-Group disposals that is not distributable. 1 Full details of the share-based payment plans are disclosed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements. 190 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Company cash flow statement Year ended 31 December 2019 All figures in £ millions Notes 2019 2018 Cash flows from operating activities Net profit/(loss) 789 (160) Adjustments for: Income tax – (26) Net finance costs 29 107 Disposals, liquidations and impairment charges – 57 Amounts due (to)/from subsidiaries (818) 302 Net cash generated from operations – 280 Interest paid (26) (68) Tax paid 7 (7) Net cash generated from operating activities (19) 205 Cash flows from investing activities Loans (advanced to) /repaid by related parties (49) 46 Interest received – 4 Net cash received (used in)/ from investing activities (49) 50 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 7 7 6 Buyback of equity (52) (153) Repayment of borrowings – (44) Proceeds from borrowings 230 – Dividends paid to company’s shareholders (147) (136) Net cash used in financing activities 38 (327) Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9 (5) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (21) (77) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 39 116 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 4 18 39 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 191 Notes to the company financial statements 1. Accounting policies Lending to/from subsidiaries is considered to be an operating activity and any movements are classified as cash flows from operating The financial statements on p188-198 comprise the separate financial activities in the cash flow statement. statements of Pearson plc. As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, only the Amounts owed by subsidiaries consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive Amounts owed by subsidiaries generally mature within five years, income have been presented. but can be called upon on short notice, or are repayable on demand. The company has assessed and concluded that these loans will be fully The company has no employees (2018: nil). recovered. Therefore credit losses are considered to be immaterial. The basis of preparation and accounting policies applied in the New accounting standards preparation of these company financial statements are the same as those set out in note 1a to the consolidated financial statements The following standards were adopted in 2019: with the addition of the following: IFRS 16 Leases Investments IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 impairment, with the exception of certain hedged investments that are held in a foreign currency and revalued at each balance sheet date. Adoption of these standards has not had a material impact on the company financial statements. 2. Investments in subsidiaries All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 At beginning of year 6,710 6,691 Impairments – (57) Currency revaluations (46) 76 At end of year 6,664 6,710 Impairments in 2018 related to the carrying value of intermediate holding company investments. There were no impairments in 2019. The recoverability of investments is considered annually and significant estimation is required to determine the recoverable amount. Recoverability is based upon financial information related to the subsidiaries including cash flow projections in conjunction with the goodwill impairment analysis performed by the Group (see note 11 of the consolidated financial statements). 3. Financial risk management The company’s financial instruments comprise amounts due to/from The carrying value of the company’s financial instruments is exposed subsidiary undertakings, cash and cash equivalents, derivative to movements in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates financial instruments and current borrowings. Derivative financial (primarily US dollars). The company estimates that a 1% increase in instruments are held at fair value, with all other financial instruments interest rates would result in a £16m increase in the carrying value of its held at amortised cost, which approximates fair value. The company’s financial instruments, with a 1% decrease in interest rates resulting in approach to the management of financial risks is consistent with the an £18m decrease in their carrying value. The company also estimates Group’s treasury policy, as discussed in note 19 to the consolidated that a 10% strengthening in sterling would decrease the carrying value financial statements. The company believes the value of its financial of its financial instruments by £23m, while a 10% weakening in the assets to be fully recoverable. value of sterling would increase the carrying value by £22m. These increases and decreases in carrying value would be recorded through the income statement. Sensitivities are calculated using estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models. Where modelling an interest rate decrease of 1% led to negative interest rates, these points on the yield curve were adjusted to 0%. 192 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the company financial statements 3. Financial risk management continued The following table analyses the company’s derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest) and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet. Analysed by maturity Analysed by currency Greater than Later than one month one year but and less than less than five Five years or All figures in £ millions one year years more Total USD GBP Other Total At 31 December 2019 Rate derivatives – inflows (19) (223) (332) (574) (41) (172) (361) (574) Rate derivatives – outflows 23 237 331 591 242 344 5 591 FX forwards – inflows (186) (24) – (210) – (210) – (210) FX forwards – outflows 186 23 – 209 209 – – 209 Total 4 13 (1) 16 410 (38) (356) 16 At 31 December 2018 Rate derivatives – inflows (20) (288) (343) (651) (40) (167) (444) (651) Rate derivatives – outflows 23 289 341 653 254 390 9 653 FX forwards – inflows (251) (35) – (286) – (286) – (286) FX forwards – outflows 275 37 – 312 312 – – 312 Total 27 3 (2) 28 526 (63) (435) 28 All cash flow projections shown above are on an undiscounted basis. between the hedge and the hedged item in the hedge relationship. Any cash flows based on a floating rate are calculated using interest The hedge ratio is 100%. Hedge ineffectiveness would arise if the value rates as set at the date of the last rate reset. Where this is not possible, of the hedged items fell below the value of the hedging instruments floating rates are based on interest rates prevailing at 31 December in however this is unlikely as the value of the company’s investments the relevant year. All derivative amounts are shown gross, although denominated in USD are significantly greater than the proposed fair the company net settles these amounts wherever possible. value hedge programme. Fair value hedge accounting The value of the hedged items and the hedging instruments are A foreign currency exposure arises from foreign exchange fluctuations £1.3bn (2018: £1.4bn) and the change in value during the year which on translation of the company’s investments in subsidiaries was used to assess hedge ineffectiveness was £46m (2018: £76m). denominated in USD into GBP. The hedged risk is the risk of changes There was no hedge ineffectiveness. in the GBPUSD spot rate that will result in changes in the value of Credit risk management the USD investments when translated into GBP. The hedged items The company’s main exposure to credit risk relates to lending to are a portion of the company’s equity investment in subsidiaries subsidiaries. Amounts due from subsidiaries are stated net of denominated in USD. The hedging instruments are a portion of the provisions for bad and doubtful debts. The credit risk of each company’s intercompany loans due from subsidiaries which are subsidiary is influenced by the industry and country in which denominated in USD. they operate, however, the company considers the credit risk of It is expected that the change in value of each of these items will subsidiaries to be low as it has visibility of, and the ability to influence, mirror each other as there is a clear and direct economic relationship their cash flows. 4. Cash and cash equivalents (excluding overdrafts) All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cash at bank and in hand 18 50 18 50 At the end of 2019 the currency split of cash and cash equivalents was US dollar 2% (2018: 0%), sterling 59% (2018: 79%) and other 39% (2018: 21%). Cash and cash equivalents have fair values that approximate their carrying amounts due to their short-term nature. Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purpose of the cash flow statement: All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 18 50 Bank overdrafts – (11) 18 39 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 193 5. Financial liabilities – borrowings All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Non-current Revolving credit facility 230 – 230 – Current Due within one year or on demand: Bank loans and overdrafts – 11 – 11 Total borrowings 230 11 Current borrowings are classified within cash and cash equivalents and do not give rise to financing cash flows. The carrying amounts of the company’s borrowings is equal to, or approximately equal to, the market value. The carrying amounts of the company’s borrowings in 2018 are denominated in US dollars. 6. Derivative financial instruments The company’s outstanding derivative financial instruments are as follows: 2019 2018 Gross notional Gross notional All figures in £ millions amounts Assets Liabilities amounts Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives 893 15 (6) 766 16 – Cross-currency rate derivatives 502 29 (31) 577 51 (35) FX derivatives 941 10 (2) 907 1 (24) Total 2,336 54 (39) 2,250 68 (59) Analysed as expiring: In less than one year 1,167 25 (15) 771 1 (23) Later than one year and not later than five years 694 13 (6) 795 22 (1) Later than five years 475 16 (18) 684 45 (35) Total 2,336 54 (39) 2,250 68 (59) The carrying value of the above derivative financial instruments equals their fair value. Derivatives are categorised as Level 2 on the fair value hierarchy. Fair values are determined by using market data and the use of established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models. 7. Share capital and share premium Number of Share Share shares capital premium 000s £m £m At 1 January 2018 802,054 200 2,602 Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes 864 1 5 Purchase of own shares (21,840) (6) – At 31 December 2018 781,078 195 2,607 Issue of ordinary shares – share option schemes 1,021 – 7 Purchase of own shares – – – At 31 December 2019 782,099 195 2,614 The ordinary shares have a par value of 25p per share (2018: 25p per share). All issued shares are fully paid. All shares have the same rights. The £300m share buyback programme announced in October 2017 was completed on 16 February 2018. A further 22m shares were purchased under the programme in 2018. The shares bought back have been cancelled and the nominal value of these shares transferred to a capital redemption reserve. The nominal value of shares cancelled at 31 December 2019 was £11m (2018: £11m). 194 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the company financial statements 8. Treasury shares Number of shares 000s £m At 1 January 2018 5,994 16 Release of treasury shares (2,769) (28) At 31 December 2018 3,225 (12) Purchase of treasury shares 6,100 52 Release of treasury shares (6,067) (61) At 31 December 2019 3,258 (21) The company holds its own shares in trust to satisfy its obligations under its restricted share plans. These shares are treated as treasury shares for accounting purposes and have a par value of 25p per share. The nominal value of the company’s treasury shares amounts to £0.8m (2018: £0.8m). At 31 December 2019, the market value of the company’s treasury shares was £21m (2018: £30m). The gross book value of the shares at 31 December 2019 amounts to £24m. This value has been netted off with contributions received from operating companies of £45m, resulting in a net credit value of £21m. 9. Contingencies 11. Related party transactions There are contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of Subsidiaries business in respect of indemnities, warranties and guarantees in The company transacts and has outstanding balances with its relation to former subsidiaries and in respect of guarantees in relation subsidiaries. Amounts due from subsidiaries and amounts due to to subsidiaries. In addition, there are contingent liabilities in respect of subsidiaries are disclosed on the face of the company balance sheet. legal claims. None of these claims are expected to result in a material gain or loss to the company. These loans are generally unsecured and interest is calculated based on market rates. The company has interest payable to subsidiaries 10. Audit fees for the year of £104m (2018: £105m) and interest and guarantee fees Statutory audit fees relating to the company were £35,000 receivable from subsidiaries for the year of £91m (2018: £105m). (2018: £35,000). Management fees payable to subsidiaries in respect of centrally provided services amounted to £45m (2018: £59m). Management fees receivable from subsidiaries in respect of centrally provided services amounted to £35m (2018: £35m). Dividends received from subsidiaries were £803m (2018: £nil). Associates Amounts due from related parties, disclosed on the face of the company balance sheet, relate to loans to Penguin Random House, an associate of the Group. These loans are unsecured and interest is calculated based on market rates. The amount outstanding at 31 December 2019 was £48m (2018: £nil). The loans are provided under a working capital facility and fluctuate during the year. Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be the members of the Pearson executive. It is this committee which had responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the company in 2019. Key management personnel compensation is disclosed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 195 12. Group companies In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates, joint ventures and joint arrangements, the country of incorporation, the registered address and the effective percentage of equity owned, as at 31 December 2019 is disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated, the shares are all indirectly held by Pearson plc. Unless otherwise stated, all wholly-owned and partly-owned subsidiaries are included in the consolidation and all associated undertakings are included in the Group’s financial statements using the equity method of accounting. Principal Group companies are identified in bold. Wholly-owned subsidiaries Country Reg Country Reg Country Reg Registered company name of Incorp. office Registered company name of Incorp. office Registered company name of Incorp. office Addison Wesley Longman, Inc. US 3 Guangzhou Crescent Software Co., Ltd † CN 64 Pearson (Beijing) Management CN 83 Addison-Wesley Educational Publishers Inc. US 4 Heinemann Education Botswana BW 65 Consulting Co., Ltd. AEL (S) PTE Limited SG 5 (Publishers) (Proprietary) Limited Pearson (Guizhou) Education Technology CN 84 IndiaCan Education Private Limited IN 2 Co., Ltd.* Aldwych Finance Limited UK 1 Integral 7, Inc. US 4 Pearson Affordable Learning Fund Limited UK 1 ATI Professional Development LLC US 4 INTELLIPRO, INC. US 14 Pearson America LLC US 4 Atkey Finance Limited IE 7 Kagiso Education Pty Ltd* ZA 50 Pearson Amsterdam B.V. NL 85 Axis Finance Inc. US 4 Knowledge Analysis Technologies, LLC US 20 Pearson Australia Finance Unlimited UK 1 Camsaw, Inc. US 4 LCCIEB Training Consultancy., Ltd CN 69 Pearson Australia Group Pty Ltd AU 51 CAMSAWUSA, Inc. US 31 LessonLab, Inc. US 19 Pearson Australia Holdings Pty Ltd AU 51 Casapsi Livraria e Editora Ltda BR 12 Lignum Oil Company US 4 Pearson Australia Pty Ltd AU 51 Centro Cultural Americano Franquias e BR 16 Comércio Ltda. Pearson Benelux B.V. NL 85 LION SG PTE. LTD SG 5 Century Consultants Ltd. US 14 Pearson Books Limited† UK 1 Longman (Malawi) Limited MW 70 Certiport China Holding, LLC US 4 Pearson Brazil Finance Limited UK 1 Longman Australasia Pty Ltd AU 71 Certiport, Inc. US 4 Pearson Business Services Inc. US 4 Longman Group(Overseas Holdings) Limited UK 1 Cogmed Systems AB SE 15 Pearson Canada Assessment Inc CA 86 Longman Indochina Acquisition, L.L.C. US 4 Connections Academy of Florida, LLC US 22 Pearson Canada Finance Unlimited UK 1 Longman Kenya Limited KE 72 Connections Academy of Iowa, LLC US 26 Pearson Canada Holdings Inc CA 86 Longman Mocambique Ltda MZ 45 Connections Academy of Maine, LLC US 30 Pearson Canada Inc. CA 86 Longman Swaziland (Pty) Limited SZ 73 Connections Academy of Maryland, LLC US 31 Pearson Central Europe Spółka z PL 42 Longman Tanzania Limited* TZ 74 ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością Connections Academy of Nevada, LLC US 34 Longman Zambia Educational Publishers ZM 75 Pearson College Limited UK 1 Connections Academy of New Mexico, LLC US 35 Pty Ltd Pearson DBC Holdings Inc. US 4 Connections Academy of Oregon, LLC US 40 Longman Zambia Limited ZM 75 Pearson Desarrollo y Capacitación CL 87 Connections Academy of Pennsylvania LLC US 41 Longman Zimbabwe (Private) Ltd ZW 76 Profesional Chile Limitada Connections Academy of Tennessee, LLC US 43 Longmaned Ecuador S.A. EC 77 Pearson Deutschland GmbH DE 88 Connections Academy of Texas LLC US 44 Lumerit Education, LLC US 44 Pearson Digital Learning Puerto Rico, Inc. PR 82 Connections Education LLC US 4 Major123 Limited UK 1 Pearson Dollar Finance plc† UK 1 Connections Education of Florida, LLC US 22 MeasureUp, LLC US 4 Pearson Dollar Finance Two Limited UK 1 Connections Education, Inc. US 4 Modern Curriculum Inc. US 19 Pearson Educacion de Chile Limitada CL 87 CTI Education Group (Pty) Limited ZA 50 Multi Treinamento e Editora Ltda BR 17 Pearson Educacion de Colombia S A S CO 90 Dominie Press, Inc. US 19 National Computer Systems Japan Co. Ltd JP 80 Pearson Educacion de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. MX 91 Dorian Finance Limited IE 7 NCS Information Services Technology CN 81 Pearson Educacion de Panama SA PA 92 (Beijing) Co Ltd Dorling Kindersley Australasia Pty Limited AU 51 Pearson Educacion de Peru S.A. PE 93 NCS Pearson Pty Ltd AU 51 EBNT Canada Holdings ULC CA 61 Pearson Educacion SA ES 94 NCS Pearson Puerto Rico, Inc. PR 82 EBNT Holdings Limited CA 60 Pearson Education (Singapore) Pte Ltd SG 5 NCS Pearson, Inc. US 32 EBNT USA Holdings Inc. US 4 Pearson Education Africa (Pty) Ltd ZA 50 Ordinate Corporation US 19 eCollege.com US 4 Pearson Education Asia Limited CN 56 Edexcel Limited† UK 52 Pearson Education Botswana BW 8 Éditions Du Renouveau Pédagogique Inc. CA 53 (Proprietary) Limited Education Development International Plc† UK 1 Pearson Education do Brasil Ltda BR 63 Education Resources (Cyprus) Limited CY 54 Pearson Education Hellas SA GR 28 Educational Management Group, Inc. US 55 Pearson Education Holdings Limited† UK 1 Embanet ULC CA 47 Pearson Education Indochina Limited TH 95 Embanet-Compass Knowledge Group Inc. US 22 Pearson Education Investments Limited UK 1 English Language Learning and US 57 Pearson Education Korea Limited KR 96 Instruction System, Inc. Pearson Education Limited UK 1 Escape Studios Limited* UK 6 Pearson Education Namibia (Pty) Limited NA 97 Falstaff Holdco Inc. US 4 Pearson Education Publishing Limited NG 98 Falstaff Inc. US 58 Pearson Education S.A. UY 99 FBH, Inc. US 4 Pearson Education SA AR 100 George (Shanghai) Commercial CN 23 Pearson Education South Africa (Pty) Ltd ZA 50 Information Consulting Co., Ltd Pearson Education South Asia Pte. Ltd. SG 5 Global George II limited CN 56 Globe Fearon Inc. US 19 196 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the company financial statements Country Reg Country Reg Subsidiary addresses Registered company name of Incorp. office Registered company name of Incorp. office Pearson Education Taiwan Ltd TW 101 Pearson Sweden AB SE 15 The following list includes all Pearson Pearson Education, Inc. US 4 Pearson VUE Philippines, Inc. PH 29 registered offices worldwide. Please see Pearson Educational Measurement CA 39 Penguin Capital, LLC US 4 wholly-owned subsidiaries list opposite Canada, Inc. Phumelela Publishers (Pty) Ltd* ZA 50 for each subsidiary’s registered office code. Pearson Educational Publishers, LLC US 4 PN Holdings Inc. US 4 Registered office address Pearson Egitim Cozumleri Tikaret TR 102 ProctorCam, Inc. US 33 Limited Sirketi 1 80 Strand, London, WC2R 0RL, England PT Efficient English Services ID 89 Pearson Falstaff (Holdings) Inc. US 4 2 The HIVE, 3rd Floor, No 44, Pilliayar Koil Street, PVNT Limited UK 1 Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Anna Nagar, Chennai, Pearson Falstaff Holdco LLC US 4 Reading Property Holdings LLC US 79 TN 600040, India Pearson France FR 103 Rebus Planning Associates, Inc. US 10 3 C T Corporation System, 155 Federal St., Suite 700, Pearson Funding Four Limited† UK 1 Boston, MA, 02110, United States Reston Publishing Company, Inc. US 4 Pearson Funding plc † UK 1 4 The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Rycade Capital Corporation US 4 Pearson Holdings Inc. US 4 Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle, Shanghai AWL Education Software Ltd* CN 78 DE, 19801, United States Pearson Holdings Southern Africa ZA 50 (Pty) Limited Silver Burdett Ginn Inc. US 4 5 9, #13-05/06, North Buona Vista Drive, Skylight Training and Publishing Inc. US 55 The Metropolis Tower One, 138588, Singapore Pearson Hungary LLC HU 27 Smarthinking, Inc. US 4 6 Evergreen House North, Grafton Place, London, Pearson India Education Services IN 2 NW1 32DX England Private Limited Sound Holdings Inc. US 4 7 1st Floor The Liffey Trust Centre, 117-126 Sheriff Street Pearson India Support Services IN 18 Sparrow Phoenix Pty Ltd AU 25 Upper, Dublin 1, Ireland Private Limited* Spear Insurance Company Limited † BM 48 8 Unit 3, Lot 20613, Gaborone, Botswana Pearson Institute of Higher Education ZA 50 Stark Verlag GmbH DE 88 9 3F, Building R2 China Merchants Tower, No.118 Jianguo Pearson International Finance Limited † UK 1 The Financial Times (I) Pvt Ltd IN 24 Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China Pearson Investment Holdings, Inc. US 4 The Learning Edge International pty Ltd AU 71 10 The Corporation Company, 40600 Ann Arbor Rd Pearson IOKI Spółka z ograniczoną PL 104 The Waite Group Inc US 19 E Suite 201, Plymouth, MI, 48170, United States odpowiedzialnością TQ Catalis Limited UK 1 11 The Corporation Trust Company, 2405 York Road, Pearson Italia S.p.A IT 105 Suite 201, Lutherville Timonium, MD, 21093-2264, TQ Clapham Limited UK 1 Pearson Japan KK JP 68 United States TQ Education and Training Limited UK 1 Pearson Lanka (Private) Limited LK 67 12 No 1400, Francisco Matarazzo Avenue 7th and 8th floor, TQ Education and Training Limited SA 59 São Paulo, SP, 05001-903, Brazil Pearson Lanka Support Services LK 13 (Private) Limited TQ Global Limited UK 1 13 #1, 3, 5th Floor, East Tower, World Trade Centre, TQ Group Limited UK 1 Echelon Square, Colombo, O1, Sri Lanka Pearson Learning China (HK) Limited* CN 56 TQ Holdings Limited UK 1 14 820, Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, Mercer, Pearson Lesotho (Pty) Ltd LS 66 NJ, 08628, United States Pearson Loan Finance No. 3 Limited UK 1 Trio Parent Holdings LLC US 4 15 Gustavslundsvägen 137, 167 51 Bromma, Pearson Loan Finance No. 4 Limited UK 1 Vue Testing Services Israel Ltd IL 49 Stockholm, Sweden Pearson Loan Finance No.5 Limited UK 1 Vue Testing Services Korea Limited KR 38 16 Comendador Aladino Selmi Avenue, 4630, Galpão 1, Pearson Loan Finance No. 6 Limited UK 1 Williams Education GmbH DE 88 Sala 3, Parque Cidade Campinas, City of Campinas, São Paulo 13069-036, Brazil Pearson Loan Finance Unlimited UK 1 * In liquidation 17 Comendador Aladino Selmi Avenue, 4630, Galpão 1, e 2, Pearson Longman Uganda Limited UG 46 † Directly owned by Pearson plc Sala 10, Parque Cidade Campinas, City of Campinas, Pearson Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. MY 62 São Paulo 13069-036, Brazil Pearson Management Services Limited† UK 1 18 7th Floor, SDB2, ODC 7, 8 & 9, Survey No.01 ELCOT IT/ Pearson Management Services PH 36 ITES-SEZ, Shollinganallur, Chennai, TN, TN 600119, India Philippines Inc. 19 C T Corporation System, 818 West Seventh Street, Pearson Maryland Inc. US 11 Suite 930, Los Angeles, CA, 90017, United States Pearson Netherlands B.V. NL 85 20 The Corporation Company, 7700 E Arapahoe Rd Suite 220, Centennial, CO, 80112-1268, United States Pearson Netherlands Holdings B.V. NL 85 21 500, 401, Calle de la Tanca Edificio Ochoa, San Juan, Pearson Nominees Limited† UK 1 00901-1969, Puerto Rico Pearson Online Tutoring LLC US 4 22 1200, South Pine Island Road, Plantation, FL, 33324, Pearson Overseas Holdings Limited† UK 1 United States Pearson PEM P.R., Inc. PR 21 23 Room 1658, Suites 1604-06, 16/F, 588 Dalian Road, Pearson Pension Nominees Limited UK 1 Yangpu District, Shanghai, China Pearson Pension Property Fund Limited UK 1 24 N-94, S-2 Outer Ring Road Panchsheel Park, Panchsheel Club, New Delhi, South Delhi, DL 110017, India Pearson Pension Trustee Limited UK 1 25 Suite 201, 25 Cooper Street, Surry Hills, Pearson Pension Trustee Services Limited† UK 1 NSW, 2010, Australia Pearson Phoenix Pty Ltd AU 51 26 C T Corporation System, 400 E Court Ave, Pearson PRH Holdings Limited UK 1 Des Moines, IA, 50309, United States Pearson Professional Assessments Limited UK 1 27 Hermina út 17. 8th floor, Budapest, 1146, Hungary Pearson Real Estate Holdings Inc. US 4 28 4 Zalogou Str., 15343 Agia Paraskevi, Athens, Greece Pearson Real Estate Holdings Limited† UK 1 29 27/F Trident Tower, 312 Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue, Pearson Schweiz AG CH 37 Makati City, Metro Manila, Philippines Pearson Services Limited† UK 1 30 C T Corporation System, 128 State St #3, Augusta, ME, 04330, United States Pearson Shared Services Limited† UK 1 31 7 St. Paul Street, Suite 1660, Baltimore, MD, 21202, Pearson Strand Finance Limited† UK 1 United States 32 C T Corporation System Inc., 1010 Dale Street North, St Paul, MN, 55117-5603, United States Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 197 Registered office address Registered office address Registered office address 33 National Registered Agents, inc., 160 Greentree 60 44 Chipman Hill, Suite 1000, Saint Jon, NB, 85 Gatwickstraat 1, Amsterdam, 1043 GK, Netherlands Dr Ste 101, Dover, Kent, DE, 19904, United States E2L 4S6, Canada 86 26 Prince Andrew Place, Don Mills, Toronto, ON, 34 The Corporation Trust Company of Nevada, 61 Suite 2600, Three Bentall Centre, P.O. Box 49314, M3C 2T8, Canada 701 S Carson St, Suite 200, Carson City, NV, 89701, 595 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V7X 1L3, Canada 87 Oficina N°117, edificio Casa Colorada, calle Merced United States 62 Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, N°838-A Santiago Centro, Santiago, Chile 35 C T Corporation System, 206 S Coronado Ave, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 88 2, Lilienthalstrasse, Hallbergmoos, 85399, Germany Espanola, NM, 87532-2792, United States 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 89 30th Floor, Ratu Plaza Office Tower, Jl. Jend. Sudirman 36 7/F North Tower, Rockwell Business Center COR. 63 Comendador Aladino Selmi Avenue, 4630, Kav 9, Jakarta, 10270, Indonesia Sheridan & United Street, Brgy. Highway Hills, Galpão 1, Mezanino, Sala 5, Parque Cidade Campinas, Mandaluyong, Philippines City of Campinas,São Paulo, 13069-036, Brazil 90 Carrera 7 Nro 156 – 68, Piso 26, Bogota, Colombia 37 10 Gewerbestrasse, Cham, 6330, Switzerland 64 Suite 1201 (site: self-made No. 1219), No. 85 Huacheng 91 Calle Antonio Dovali jaime #70, Torre B, Piso 6, Avenue, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, China Col. Zedec ed Plaza Santa Fe, del. Álvaro Obregon, 38 21, Mugyo-ro Jung-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Ciudad de Mexico, CP 01210, Mexico 39 199 Bay Street, Commerce Court West, Suite 2800, 65 Plot 50371, Fairground Office Park, Gaborone, Botswana 92 Punta Pacifica, Torres de las Americas, Toronto, ON, M5L1A9, Canada 66 C/o Du Preez, LIebetrau & Co, 252 Kingsway, Torre A Piso 15 Ofic. 1517, Panama, 0832-0588, Panama 40 C T Corporation System, 388 State St Suite 420, Next to USA Embassy, Maseru, Lesotho 93 Cal. Los Halcones, no. 275, Urb. Limatombo, Lima, Perú Salem, OR, 97301, United States 67 MAGA ONE-Level 22, No. 200, Nawala Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05, 11222, Sri Lanka 94 16, Ribera del Loira, Madrid, 28042, Spain 41 C T Corporation System, 116 Pine Street, Suite 320, Harrisburg, Dauphin, PA, 17101, United States 68 1-5-15, Kanda-Sarugakucho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan 95 87/1 Capital Tower Building, All Seasons Place unit 1604 – 6 16th floor, Wireless Road, Lumpini, 42 Ulica Szamocka 8 01-748, Warszawa, Poland 69 Room 305, Building 2, 6555 Shangchuan Road, Pathumwan, Bangkok, Thailand 43 C T Corporation System, 800 S Gay St, Suite 2021, Pudong District, Shanghai, China 96 6F Kwanjeong Building, 35, Cheonggyecheon-Ro, Knoxville, TN, 37929-9710, United States 70 Parkway House, Hannover Avenue, Blantyre, Malawi Jongno-gu, Seoul, 03188, Republic of Korea 44 CT Corporation System, 1999 Bryan Street, 71 707 Collins Street, Docklands, Melbourne, VIC, 97 Unit 7 Kingland Park, 98 Nickel Street, Prosperita, Suite 900, Dallas, TX, 75201, United States 3008, Australia Windhoek, Namibia 45 Numero 776, Avenida 24 de Julho, Maputo, Mozambique 72 Queensway House, Kaunda Street, Nairobi, Kenya 98 8, Secretariat Road, Obafemi Awolowo Way, 46 Plot 8, Berkley Road, Old Kampala, Uganda 73 Robinson Bertram, 3rd Floor, Sokhzmlilio Bldg, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos State, Nigeria 47 3500, 855 – 2nd Street, S.W., Calgary, AB, Mbabane, Swaziland 99 Juan Benito Blanco 780 – Plaza Business Center T2P 4K7, Canada 74 P O Box 45, IPS Building, Maktaba Street, Montevideo, Uruguay 48 Thistle House, 4 Burnaby Street, Hamilton, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania 100 Humboldt 1509 piso 6 (C1414CTM), Ciudad Autonoma HM11, Bermuda 75 Mlungushi Conference Centre, Centre Annex, de Buenos Aires, Argentina 49 Derech Ben Gurion 2, BSR Building 9th Floor, Great East Road, Lusaka, Zambia 101 No 219, Room D, 11F, Sec 3, Beixin Road, New Taipei City, Ramat Gan, 52573, Israel 76 Stand 1515, Cnr Tourle Road/Harare Drive, Xindian District, 23143, Taiwan 50 Auto Atlantic, 4th Floor, Corner Hertzog Boulevard Ardbennie, Harare, Zimbabwe 102 Nida Kule Kozyatagi, Kozatagi Mahallesi, Degirmen and Heerengracht, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 77 Andalucía y cordero E12-35. Edificio CYEDE Sokak No:18, Kat:6, D:15 Kadikoy 34742, Istanbul, Turkey 51 707 Collins Street, Docklands, Melbourne, VIC, piso 1, Oficina 11, Sector “La Floresta”, Quito, 103 3-15, Immeuble Terra Nova II, Rue Henri Rol Tanguy, 3008, Australia Pichincha, Ecuador Montreuil, 93100, France 52 190, High Holborn, London, WC1V 7BH, England 78 Suite 302-9,Block 3, No. 333 Weining Road, 104 Ulica Jana Henryka Dąbrowskiego 77A 60-529, Changning District, Shanghai, China Poznań, Poland 53 1611, Boul. Cremazie Est, 10th Floor, Montréal, PQ, H2M 2P2, Canada 79 C/O Pearson Education, 501 Boylston St, Boston, 105 16, Corso Trapani, Turin, 10100, Italy MA, 02116, United States 54 195, Archbishop Makarios III Avenue, Neocleous House, Limassol, 3030, Cyprus 80 Teikoku Hotel Tower 18F, 1-1-1 Uchi Saiwai-Cho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan 55 Illinois Corporation Service Company, 700 S 2nd Street, Springfield, IL, 62703, United States 81 Suite 1201, Tower 2, No. 36 North Third Ring East Road, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China 56 28/F, 1063 King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong 82 268 Munoz Rivera Avenue, Suite 1400, San Juan, 57 C/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville 00918, Puerto Rico Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808, United States 83 Suite 1208, 12/F, Tower 2, No. 36 North Third Ring East Road, Dongcheng District, Beijing, China 58 111, 13th Floor, Eighth Avenue, New York, NY, 10011, United States 84 Suites 3-28 (2:3), Shi Guang Jun Yuan, No. 89 Hubin Road, Goden Sun Technology Industrial Park, High Technical & 59 King Fahad Road, Olaya, Riyadh, 58774, 11515, Industrial Development District, Guiyang City, Saudi Arabia Guizhou Province, China 198 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Notes to the company financial statements Partly-owned subsidiaries Partly-owned subsidiaries & associated Country % Reg undertakings company addresses Registered company Name of Incorp. Owned office Registered office address Certiport China Co Ltd CN 50.69 1 1 Suite 1804, No.99 Huichuan Road, Changning District, Educational Publishers LLP UK 85 2 Shanghai City, China GED Domains LLC US 70 3 2 80 Strand, London, WC2R 0RL, England GED Testing Service LLC US 70 4 3 C T Corporation System, 4701 Cox Road, Suite 285, Heinemann Publishers (Pty) Ltd SA 75 5 Glen Allen, Henrico, VA, 23060-0000, United States Maskew Miller Longman SA 75 5 4 The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust (Pty) Limited Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle, Pearson Education Achievement SA 97.3 5 DE, 19801, United States Solutions (RF) (Pty) Limited 5 Auto Atlantic, 4th Floor, Corner Hertzog Boulevard Pearson South Africa (Pty) Ltd SA 75 5 and Heerengracht, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 6 C/o Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808, United States Associated undertakings 7 16 Paschimi Marg, Vasant Vihar, New Delhi, DL, India Country % Reg 8 Office 201, Parktown Quarter, Corner 3rd & 7th Avenue, Registered company Name of Incorp. Owned office Parktown North, Johannesburg, 2193. South Africa ACT Aspire LLC US 50 6 9 P.O. Box No. 6320, 32038 Hawalli, Kuwait City, Kuwait Avanti Learning Centres IN 23.06 7 10 Campbells Corporate Services Limited, Floor 4, Private Limited‡ Willow House, Cricket Square, Grand Cayman, eAdvance Proprietary Limited‡ ZA 29.03 8 KY1-9010, Cayman Islands Institute for Private Education KU 49.02 9 11 3A Dev Regency II, First Main Road, Gandhinagar, & Training KSCC* Adyar, Chennai, TN, India Karadi Path learning IN 24.96 11 12 2nd Floor OTS Building, off Accra-Winneba Road, Kasoa Company Private Limited‡ second, Kasoa P.O. Box WJ973, Weija, Accra. Ghana Learn Capital Special US 99.59 16 13 Suite 216, No. 127-1 Zhongguancun North Street, Opportunities Fund I, L.P.‡ Haidian District, Beijing, China Learn Capital Venture US 72.93 16 14 10a Hussein Wassef St, Midan Missaha, Dokki Giza, Partners II, L.P.‡ 12311, Egypt Learn Capital Venture KY 99.00 10 15 Unit No. 404, New Udyog Mandir 2, Mogul Lane, Partners IIIA, L.P.‡ Mahim(West), Mumbai, MH, 400016, India Learn Capital Venture Partners, L.P.‡ US 99.15 16 16 Incorporating Services, Ltd. 3500 S Dupont Way, Omega Schools Franchise Limited GH 49.05 12 Dover, Kent, DE, United States Peking University Pearson (Beijing) CN 45 13 17 28/F, 1063 King’s Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong Cultural Development Co., Ltd Penguin Random House Limited UK 25 2 Penguin Random House LLC US 25 6 Tenyi Education Company Limited CN 49 17 The Egyptian International EG 49 14 Publishing Company-Longman Zaya Learning Labs Private Limited‡ IN 20 15 * In liquidation ‡ Accounted for as an ‘Other financial asset’ within non-current assets Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 199 Five-year summary All figures in £ millions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sales: By geography North America 2,940 2,981 2,929 2,784 2,534 Core 815 803 815 806 838 Growth 713 768 769 539 497 Continuing 4,468 4,552 4,513 4,129 3,869 Discontinued 312 – – – – Total sales 4,780 4,552 4,513 4,129 3,869 Adjusted operating profit: By geography North America 480 420 394 362 361 Core 105 57 50 57 92 Growth (3) 29 38 59 63 Penguin Random House 90 129 94 68 65 Continuing 672 635 576 546 581 Discontinued 51 – – – – Total adjusted operating profit 723 635 576 546 581 All figures in £ millions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating margin – continuing 15.0% 13.9% 12.8% 13.2% 15.0% Adjusted earnings Total adjusted operating profit 723 635 576 546 581 Net finance costs (46) (59) (79) (24) (41) Income tax (105) (95) (55) 27 (89) Non-controlling interest – (2) (2) (2) (2) Adjusted earnings 572 479 440 547 449 Weighted average number of shares (millions) 813.3 814.8 813.4 778.1 777.0 Adjusted earnings per share 70.3p 58.8p 54.1p 70.3p 57.8p Prior periods have not been restated to reflect the adoption of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 in 2018 and IFRS 16 in 2019. 200 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Five-year summary All figures in £ millions 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Cash flow Operating cash flow 435 663 669 513 418 Operating cash conversion 60% 104% 116% 94% 72% Operating free cash flow 255 549 525 448 345 Operating free cash flow per share 31.4p 67.4p 64.5p 57.6p 44.4p Free cash flow 152 310 227 473 213 Free cash flow per share 18.7p 38.0p 27.9p 60.8p 27.4p Net assets 6,418 4,348 4,021 4,525 4,323 Net debt 654 1,092 432 143 1,016 Return on invested capital Total adjusted operating profit 723 635 576 546 581 Operating tax paid (129) (63) (75) (43) (9) Return 594 572 501 503 572 Gross basis: Average invested capital 10,317 11,464 11,568 10,672 11,096 Return on invested capital 5.8% 5.0% 4.3% 4.7% 5.2% Net basis: Average invested capital 9,422 7,906 8,126 7,544 8,097 Return on invested capital 6.3% 7.2% 6.2% 6.7% 7.1% Dividend per share 52.0p 52.0p 17.0p 18.5p 19.5p Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 201 Financial key performance indicators The following tables and narrative provide further analysis of the financial key performance indicators which are described in the financial review of the annual report on p29-34, are shown within the key performance indicators on p2 of the annual report and shown in notes 2 and 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Adjusted performance measures The annual report and accounts reports results and performance on a headline basis which compares the reported results both on a statutory and on a non-GAAP (non-statutory) basis. The Group’s adjusted performance measures are non-GAAP (non-statutory) financial measures and are also included in the annual report as they are key financial measures used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources to business segments. The measures also enable investors to more easily, and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of the Group and its business segments by separating out those items of income and expenditure relating to acquisition and disposal transactions, major restructuring programmes and certain other items that are also not representative of underlying performance. The Group’s definition of adjusted performance measures may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures reported by other companies. A reconciliation of the adjusted measures to their corresponding statutory measures is shown below. Sales Underlying sales movements exclude the effect of exchange, the impact of portfolio changes arising from acquisitions and disposals and the impact of adopting new accounting standards that are not retrospectively applied. Portfolio changes are calculated by taking account of the additional sales (at constant exchange rates) from acquisitions made in both the current year and the prior year. For acquisitions made in the prior year the additional sales excluded is calculated as the sales made in the period of the current year that corresponds to the pre-acquisition period in the prior year. Sales made by businesses disposed in either the current year or the prior year are also excluded. Constant exchange rates are calculated by assuming the average exchange rates in the prior year prevailed throughout the current year. These non-GAAP measures enable management and investors to track more easily, and consistently, the underlying sales performance of the Group. North All figures in £ millions America Core Growth Total Statutory sales 2019 2,534 838 497 3,869 Statutory sales 2018 2,784 806 539 4,129 Statutory sales (decrease)/increase (250) 32 (42) (260) Comprising: Underlying (decrease)/increase (64) 37 17 (10) Portfolio changes (289) (2) (56) (347) Exchange differences 103 (3) (3) 97 Statutory sales (decrease)/increase (250) 32 (42) (260) Statutory (decrease)/increase (9)% 4% (8)% (6)% Constant exchange rate (decrease)/increase (13)% 4% (7)% (9)% Underlying (decrease)/increase (3)% 5% 4% 0% 202 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Financial key performance indicators Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit excludes the cost of major restructuring; other net gains and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial assets; intangible charges, including impairment, relating only to goodwill and intangible assets acquired through business combinations and the direct costs of acquiring those businesses; and the impact of UK pension GMP equalisation in 2018. Further details are given below under ‘Adjusted earnings per share’. Underlying adjusted operating profit movements exclude the effect of exchange, the impact of portfolio changes arising from acquisitions and disposals and the impact of adopting new accounting standards that are not retrospectively applied. Portfolio changes are calculated by taking account of the additional contribution (at constant exchange rates) from acquisitions made in both the current year and the prior year. For acquisitions made in the prior year the additional contribution excluded is calculated as the operating profit made in the period of the current year that corresponds to the pre-acquisition period in the prior year. Operating profit made by businesses disposed in either the current year or the prior year is also excluded. Constant exchange rates are calculated by assuming the average exchange rates in the prior year prevailed throughout the current year. This non-GAAP measure enables management and investors to track more easily, and consistently, the underlying operating profit performance of the Group. All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Operating profit 275 553 Cost of major restructuring 159 102 Other net gains and losses (16) (230) Intangible charges 163 113 UK pension GMP equalisation – 8 Adjusted operating profit 581 546 North All figures in £ millions America Core Growth PRH Total Adjusted operating profit (decrease)/increase (1) 35 4 (3) 35 Comprising: Underlying (decrease)/increase (11) 33 11 (1) 32 Portfolio changes (24) – (13) – (37) Impact of new accounting standards (IFRS 16 see note 1b) 14 5 6 – 25 Exchange differences 20 (3) – (2) 15 Adjusted operating profit (decrease)/increase (1) 35 4 (3) 35 Constant exchange rate (decrease)/increase (6)% 67% 7% (1)% 4% Underlying increase (3)% 58% 24% (1)% 6% Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings includes adjusted operating profit and adjusted finance and tax charges. Adjusted earnings is included as a non-GAAP measure as it is used by management to evaluate performance and allocate resources to business segments and by investors to more easily, and consistently, track the underlying operational performance of the Group over time. Adjusted earnings per share is calculated as adjusted earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue on an undiluted basis. The following items are excluded from adjusted earnings: Cost of major restructuring – In May 2017, the Group announced a restructuring programme to run between 2017 and 2019 to drive significant cost savings. The costs of this restructuring programme are significant enough to exclude from the adjusted operating profit measure so as to better highlight the underlying performance (see note 4). Other net gains and losses – These represent profits and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other financial assets and are excluded from adjusted earnings as they distort the performance of the Group as reported on a statutory basis. Intangible charges – These represent charges in respect of intangible assets acquired through business combinations and the direct costs of acquiring those businesses. These charges are excluded as they reflect past acquisition activity and do not necessarily reflect the current year performance of the Group. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 203 Other net finance income/costs – These include finance costs in respect of retirement benefits, finance costs of deferred consideration and foreign exchange and other gains and losses. Finance income relating to retirement benefits are excluded as management does not believe that the consolidated income statement presentation under IAS 19 reflects the economic substance of the underlying assets and liabilities. Finance costs relating to acquisition transactions are excluded as these relate to future earn outs or acquisition expenses and are not part of the underlying financing. Foreign exchange and other gains and losses are excluded as they represent short-term fluctuations in market value and are subject to significant volatility. Other gains and losses may not be realised in due course as it is normally the intention to hold the related instruments to maturity. UK pension GMP equalisation – In 2018 the impact of adjustments arising from clarification of guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) equalisation legislation in the UK was excluded as this related to historical circumstances. Tax – Tax on the above items is excluded from adjusted earnings. Where relevant the Group also excludes the benefit from recognising previously unrecognised pre-acquisition and capital losses. The tax benefit from tax deductible goodwill and intangibles is added to the adjusted income tax charge as this benefit more accurately aligns the adjusted tax charge with the expected rate of cash tax payments. All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Profit for the year 266 590 Non-controlling interest (2) (2) Cost of major restructuring 159 102 Other net gains and losses (16) (230) Intangible charges 163 113 Other net finance income 2 31 UK pension GMP equalisation – 8 Tax (123) (65) Adjusted earnings 449 547 Weighted average number of shares (millions) 777.0 778.1 Adjusted earnings per share 57.8p 70.3p Return on invested capital Return on invested capital (ROIC) is included as a non-GAAP measure as it is used by management to help inform capital allocation decisions within the business. ROIC is calculated as adjusted operating profit less operating cash tax paid expressed as a percentage of average invested capital. Invested capital includes the original unamortised goodwill and intangibles. Average values for total invested capital are calculated as the average monthly balance for the year. ROIC is also presented on a net basis after removing impaired goodwill from the invested capital balance. The net approach assumes that goodwill which has been impaired is treated consistently to goodwill disposed as it is no longer being used to generate returns. The adoption of IFRS 16 has impacted adjusted operating profit and average tangible fixed assets in 2019, however the overall impact on ROIC is not material. 2019 2018 2019 2018 All figures in £ millions Gross Gross Net Net Adjusted operating profit 581 546 581 546 Operating tax paid (9) (43) (9) (43) Return 572 503 572 503 Average goodwill 6,645 6,675 3,646 3,547 Average other non-current intangibles 2,394 2,438 2,394 2,438 Average intangible assets – pre-publication 889 999 889 999 Average tangible fixed assets and working capital 1,168 560 1,168 560 Average invested capital 11,096 10,672 8,097 7,544 Return on invested capital 5.2% 4.7% 7.1% 6.7% 204 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Financial key performance indicators Operating cash flow Operating cash flow is calculated as net cash generated from operations before the impact of items excluded from the adjusted income statement plus dividends from joint ventures and associates (less the re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House); less capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (including leased assets) and intangible software assets; plus proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets; plus special pension contributions paid; and plus cost of major restructuring paid. Operating cash flow is included as a non-GAAP measure in order to align the cash flows with the corresponding adjusted operating profit measures. All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Net cash generated from operations 480 547 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 64 117 Re-capitalisation dividends from Penguin Random House – (50) Purchase of property, plant and equipment (55) (74) Acquisition of new right-of-use lease assets (64) – Purchase of intangible software assets (138) (130) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible software assets 1 128 Disposal of right-of-use lease assets 17 – Investment income 2 – Net costs paid for/(proceeds from) major restructuring 111 (25) Operating cash flow 418 513 For information, cash conversion, calculated as operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit, is also shown as a non-GAAP measure as this is used by management and investors to measure cash generation by the Group. All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Adjusted operating profit 581 546 Operating cash flow 418 513 Cash conversion 72% 94% For information, operating cash flow, operating free cash flow and total free cash flow, which are non-GAAP measures, are disclosed and reconciled in note 33 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements as they are commonly used by investors to measure the cash performance of the Group. Net debt and adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) For information, the net debt/adjusted EBITDA ratio is shown as a non-GAAP measure as it is commonly used by investors to measure balance sheet strength. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as adjusted operating profit less depreciation on property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and less amortisation on intangible software assets. All figures in £ millions 2019 2018 Adjusted operating profit 581 546 Depreciation (excluding items included in ‘cost of major restructuring’) 122 66 Amortisation on intangible software assets (excluding items included in ‘cost of major restructuring’) 101 87 Adjusted EBITDA 804 699 Cash and cash equivalents 437 568 Investment in finance lease receivable 196 – Derivative financial instruments 15 9 Bank loans and overdrafts (3) (43) Revolving credit facility (230) – Bonds (593) (672) Lease liabilities (838) (5) Net debt (1,016) (143) Net debt/adjusted EBITDA ratio 1.3x 0.2x Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 205 Glossary of major products and services AcceleratED pathways: a corporate education B  TEC Level 2 Technicals: designed in G  oldman-Fristoe Test of Articulation-Third benefit, where Pearson partners with companies collaboration with employers and industry Edition (GFTA-3): a systematic means of to improve employee development by focusing professionals, BTEC Level 2 Technicals provide assessing an individual’s ability to pronounce on the educational needs of a specific business career-focused, applied courses for post-16 different speech sounds of Standard American and its people, helping to strategically align level 2 learners in a specialist occupational area. English in order to diagnose different disorders educational assistance spending to the talent They support progression to an apprenticeship, which can inhibit an individual’s articulation. objectives of the organisation. to further technical study, or into the workplace. It provides information about an individual’s speech sound ability by sampling both ACCUPLACER®/MyFoundationsLab®: BTEC Level 3 Nationals: allow level 3 learners spontaneous and imitative sound production this all-in-one diagnostics and intervention to apply their learning in real-life scenarios to in single words and connected speech. programme combines The College Board’s develop the specialist knowledge and skills assessment programme with Pearson’s proven they need to progress towards their chosen Q  -Interactive: a digital system for administering online intervention solution. It identifies the career path, whether that is through further or and scoring tests in a one-on-one setting areas where a student needs work and then higher education, an apprenticeship or directly between an examiner and examinee. Testing takes a personalised learning path that helps into the workplace. takes place on two iPads with an app called them work on their individual skills deficit. Assess. The simplicity of the system improves BTEC Higher Nationals: available at levels 4 and Last year alone, Pearson delivered 9.2M accuracy and speed in providing real-time 5, BTEC Higher Nationals are internationally tests on the ACCUPLACER® platform. scoring and allows for greater flexibility. recognised, career-focused higher education Artificial intelligence (AI): describes machines courses which are the same level as the first and Connections Academy: The Connections Academy that can sense and interact with environments second years of a degree course. Co-designed online school programme for grades K-12 is a in a perception-planning-action cycle, or with with employers and representing the most comprehensive collection of online learning other machines, without explicit programming. up-to-date professional standards, they support products and school support services for online This is typically accomplished through Machine learners to develop the real-world knowledge, public schools across the US, most of which carry Learning (ML) which is the development, and skills and behaviours needed to succeed, the Connections Academy name. In addition, application of algorithms that improve their allowing them to move on to complete degree International Connections Academy is a private performance (inference) at some task based and progress in their chosen career path. online school for grades K-12 and serves on experience (training). Pearson takes a students worldwide. Clinical Assessment: our Clinical Assessment human-centric perspective of AI that considers business provides assessments to help Digitally–enabled learning: learning that is enabled the entire learning ecosystem when developing professionals improve lives by providing valuable through digital media, tools or technology. AI capabilities including ethics, privacy, information that can identify and manage an appropriate uses and user needs. Edexcel GCSE/A level: AS and A levels – sometimes individual learner’s strengths and weaknesses called General Certificates of Education (GCE) or Bug Club: a core reading programme for 4-11 year and learning barriers. For example, AimsWeb Advanced levels – are normally studied after olds, which has everything needed to deliver the Plus provides universal screening, benchmarking, level 2 in a BTEC or GCSEs. They mainly involve 2014 UK primary curriculum and includes over and progress monitoring assessments to give studying the theory of a subject, combined with 590 finely levelled titles, available in print and educators the reliable data they need to improve some investigative work, and are usually studied eBook format and a unique online learning students’ maths and reading skills. full time over two years at school or college. platform with in-built assessment. The Clinical Assessment portfolio also offers a AS and A levels are at level 3 on the National BTEC: taught in colleges, schools and university range of assessments serving a diverse audience Qualifications Framework. throughout the world, a BTEC gives learners of of professionals including Psychologists, Speech English Benchmark Young Learners: a motivating all levels and ages the knowledge and skills they Language Pathologists, Occupational Therapists English test for young learners aged 6-13, which need for career success, now and into the future. and more. These professionals rely on leading proves students’ English abilities to parents, The unique experience BTEC learners get of measures like the Wechsler Scales of Intelligence, monitors learning progress, and ensures teaching having to apply the knowledge and skills they’ve which assess an individual’s cognitive strengths targets the right skills. English Benchmark learned to real-life scenarios means more and weaknesses or the Minnesota Multiphasic measures students’ speaking, listening, reading, employers and learners are choosing BTEC. Personality Inventory (MMPI), a world renowned and writing skills, through fun and interactive measure of psychopathology and personality.  TEC Level 1/Level 2 Firsts: BTEC Firsts allow B tablet-based activities, and uses AI-based level 2 learners to develop knowledge and Other examples of our Clinical products include: automated scoring to provide immediate understanding by applying their learning and detailed reports for teachers and parents that Behaviour Assessment System for Children: skills in real-life scenarios. Combined with include students’ strengths, suggestions for a comprehensive set of rating scales and forms other qualifications, they enable learners to improvement, and recommended activities to to help children thrive in their school and home progress to further study, an apprenticeship, improve their skills. environments through effective behaviour or into employment. assessment. BASC provides a complete picture ePen: an assessment scoring tool with various  TEC Level 1/Level 2 Tech Awards: studied B of child and adolescent behaviour. School and features designed for use by a variety of alongside GCSE, BTEC Tech Awards provide clinical psychologists have depended on education stakeholders, including Education a great introduction to a professional sector BASC for more than 20 years. Agency officials, educators, independent where students learn transferable skills they’ll contractors, and Pearson employees. use if they progress to further study, and in their future career. 208 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Share dealing facilities and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Equiniti offers telephone and internet services for dealing in Pearson Depositary Receipts. shares. For further information, please contact their telephone dealing helpline on 03456 037 037* or, for online dealing, log on to Corporate website www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder The investors’ section of our corporate website www.pearson.com/ reference number as shown on your share certificate. corporate/investors.html provides a wealth of information for shareholders. It is also possible to sign up to receive email alerts for A postal dealing service is also available through Equiniti. reports and press releases relating to Pearson at www.pearson.com/ Please telephone 0371 384 2248* for details or log on to news-and-research/announcements.html www.shareview.co.uk to download a form. * Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays). Shareholder information online ShareGift Shareholder information can be found on our website Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose value makes www.pearson.com/corporate/investors.html them uneconomic to sell, may wish to donate them to ShareGift, Our registrar, Equiniti, also provides a range of shareholder information the share donation charity (registered charity number 1052686). online. You can check your holding and find practical help on Further information about ShareGift and the charities it has supported transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk. may be obtained from their website, www.ShareGift.org, or by For more information, please contact our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect contacting them at ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ. House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Telephone 0371 384 2233* or, for those shareholders with hearing difficulties, American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) textphone number 0371 384 2255*. Pearson’s ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO. Each ADR represents one ordinary Information about the Pearson share price share. For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts The company’s share price can be found on our website at and dividends, please contact Bank of New York Mellon, www.pearson.com/corporate/investors.html It also appears in the Shareholder Correspondence (ADR), PO Box 505000, Louisville, financial columns of the national press. KY 40233-5000, telephone 1 (866) 259 2289 (toll free within the US) or 001 201 680 6825 (outside the US). Alternatively, you may email 2019 dividends shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com Payment date Amount per share Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through Bank Interim 13 September 2019 6 pence of New York Mellon, and for beneficial ADR holders (and/or nominee accounts) through your US brokerage institution. Pearson will file with Final1 7 May 2020 13.5 pence the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F. 1 Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 2020 financial calendar Share register fraud: protecting your investment Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide Ex-dividend date 26 March recommendations or investment advice and neither does it Record date 27 March appoint third parties to do so. As required by law, our shareholder Last date for dividend reinvestment election 16 April register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information obtained by persons inspecting the register. Annual General Meeting 24 April Please treat any approaches purporting to originate from Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for Pearson with caution. dividend reinvestment 7 May For more information, please log on to our website at Payment of dividends to mandated accounts www.pearson.com/corporate/investors/share-management/ share-register-fraud.html Should you elect to have your dividends paid through BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or building society account, with the tax Tips on protecting your shares voucher sent to the shareholder’s registered address. Equiniti can be  eep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference K contacted for information on 0371 384 2043*. number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) Inform our registrar, Equiniti, promptly when you change address The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the company’s shares Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar on the London stock market with their cash dividend. For further if you do not receive your dividend cheque or, better still, information, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2268*. make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) Equiniti offers ISAs in Pearson shares. For more information, Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account please go to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call customer via a nominee. services on 0345 300 0430*. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Other information 207 Remote proctoring: in our Pearson VUE business, TestNav: an innovative online test delivery F  or-Profit Universities: a university that remote proctoring is when a proctor and a platform that is part of Pearson’s comprehensive is owned and run by a private organisation test-taker are not physically located in the same assessment solution. TestNav delivers millions or corporation. room. In most cases, the person takes their entire of secure, high-stakes state and national tests US School Assessment Business: helps young exam on a computer while the proctor watches in K12 schools every year. Secure, scalable, children and students reach their educational through an online video camera. “Remote and reliable, TestNav provides engaging and aspirations through meaningful feedback. proctoring” is often synonymous with “online interactive testing to students who learn and Testing plays an integral role in determining proctoring”. Pearson VUE’s online proctoring play in a digital environment. educator and student success, and we are the solution is called OnVUE. The Enabling Programme (TEP): one of Pearson’s largest provider of educational assessment Revel: replaces traditional texts with an engaging largest business transformation projects. services in the US. We partner with departments learning experience that prepares students Its aim is to make us a simpler organisation, of education and educators to develop for class. It presents an affordable, seamless with globally consistent ways of working across customised, effective, and scalable assessments blend of author-created digital text, media, HR, finance, procurement, supply chain, that measure 21st century skills and inform and assessment based on learning science. and rights and royalties. instruction throughout the school year. We also Students can read, practice, and study anywhere, partner with test providers to deliver their paper Top Notch: part of our English Language Teaching anytime, and on any device. With assignment and and/or online assessments. Examples of the product portfolio, Top Notch is a communicative tracking tools, Revel also allows instructors to tests we support include: English course that prepares students to gauge student understanding and engagement communicate in English with an emphasis on S  AT: an entrance exam used by most colleges with the material inside and outside the cultural fluency that enables students to navigate and universities to make admissions decisions. classroom, empowering them to spend class the social, travel and business situations that they It is a multiple-choice, pencil-and-paper test with time on meaningful instruction. For example, will encounter in their lives. Top Notch makes the purpose to measure a high school student’s each additional five hours a student spent on English unforgettable through the right input readiness for college, and provide colleges with Revel Psychology readings was associated with of language, intensive practice, and systematic one common data point that can be used to an increase of 2.19 (±1.10) percentage points on recycling using a diverse array of speakers around compare all applicants. unit exams. the world who have a wide range of native and N  ational Assessment of Educational Sistemas: a complete package of products and non-native accents. Progress (NAEP): The National Assessment services for private and public K12 schools in Wiz.me: an English language learning app of Educational Progress (NAEP) is the largest Brazil. With a single price per student, we provide within Wizard schools that gives students the nationally representative and continuing courseware, educational assistance, professional opportunity to continue to learn and practice assessment of what America’s students know development, management consulting, and their skills outside the classroom. and can do in various subject areas. marketing support, as well as digital content. Wizard: a franchise of language-learning schools A  CT: The ACT® test is the nation’s most popular Smarthinking: expert online tutoring and writing that offers eight different language courses college entrance exam accepted and valued review that gives students 24x7 access to and uses the international certification, TOEIC, by all universities and colleges in the US. academic help from live professional educators as a teaching mode. TOEIC is the Test of English and uses a proven, problem-solving approach to for International Communication (TOEIC®), help students learn, gain confidence, and handle an examination for international communication, future assignments on their own. Complementing which measures the English proficiency of a Pearson content and technology solutions, foreigner in everyday situations, and especially Smarthinking’s human delivered services have in situations related to the job market. 30 years of experience improving student performance, course persistence, and overall In the US Higher Education landscape, we partner retention. Karen Reilly, Campus Dean of Learning and provide products and services to a diverse Support at Valencia College, said that “The results array of educational institutions including: of our analysis show that Smarthinking is an C  ommunity College: sometimes called junior important component in our overall academic colleges, are two-year schools that provide support programme; it is essential that students affordable postsecondary education as a have access to tutoring assistance after hours pathway to a four-year degree. and on weekends – whenever a learning moment is happening.”  rivate Not For Profit: a private foundation that P is engaged in social or public benefit activities Speak Out: part of our English Language Teaching and is registered as such with the IRS. It derives product portfolio, Speak Out is an English its revenue from a small group of donors language course that includes video content from without any intention of earning income for the BBC to engage students and make teaching its owners. All the profits and donations easier by exposing students to a wide array of of a not-for-profit organisation are used in words and accents, familiarising students with operating the organisation as per its objectives English as it is spoken. By watching many such (i.e., charity or public service). videos, students learn proper pronunciation, expand their vocabulary bank and reinforce 4  Year Public Universities: a university offering their English-language confidence. a Bachelor’s degree that is predominantly funded by public means through a national or subnational government, as opposed to private universities. 208 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Shareholder information Pearson ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange Share dealing facilities and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Equiniti offers telephone and internet services for dealing in Pearson Depositary Receipts. shares. For further information, please contact their telephone dealing helpline on 03456 037 037* or, for online dealing, log on to Corporate website www.shareview.co.uk/dealing. You will need your shareholder The investors’ section of our corporate website www.pearson.com/ reference number as shown on your share certificate. corporate/investors.html provides a wealth of information for shareholders. It is also possible to sign up to receive email alerts for A postal dealing service is also available through Equiniti. reports and press releases relating to Pearson at www.pearson.com/ Please telephone 0371 384 2248* for details or log on to news-and-research/announcements.html www.shareview.co.uk to download a form. * Lines open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays). Shareholder information online ShareGift Shareholder information can be found on our website Shareholders with small holdings of shares, whose value makes www.pearson.com/corporate/investors.html them uneconomic to sell, may wish to donate them to ShareGift, Our registrar, Equiniti, also provides a range of shareholder information the share donation charity (registered charity number 1052686). online. You can check your holding and find practical help on Further information about ShareGift and the charities it has supported transferring shares or updating your details at www.shareview.co.uk. may be obtained from their website, www.ShareGift.org, or by For more information, please contact our registrar, Equiniti, Aspect contacting them at ShareGift, PO Box 72253, London, SW1P 9LQ. House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA. Telephone 0371 384 2233* or, for those shareholders with hearing difficulties, American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) textphone number 0371 384 2255*. Pearson’s ADRs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol PSO. Each ADR represents one ordinary Information about the Pearson share price share. For enquiries regarding registered ADR holder accounts The company’s share price can be found on our website at and dividends, please contact Bank of New York Mellon, www.pearson.com/corporate/investors.html It also appears in the Shareholder Correspondence (ADR), PO Box 505000, Louisville, financial columns of the national press. KY 40233-5000, telephone 1 (866) 259 2289 (toll free within the US) or 001 201 680 6825 (outside the US). Alternatively, you may email 2019 dividends shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com Payment date Amount per share Voting rights for registered ADR holders can be exercised through Bank Interim 13 September 2019 6 pence of New York Mellon, and for beneficial ADR holders (and/or nominee accounts) through your US brokerage institution. Pearson will file with Final1 7 May 2020 13.5 pence the Securities and Exchange Commission a Form 20-F. 1 Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 2020 financial calendar Share register fraud: protecting your investment Pearson does not contact its shareholders directly to provide Ex-dividend date 26 March recommendations or investment advice and neither does it Record date 27 March appoint third parties to do so. As required by law, our shareholder Last date for dividend reinvestment election 16 April register is available for public inspection but we cannot control the use of information obtained by persons inspecting the register. Annual General Meeting 24 April Please treat any approaches purporting to originate from Payment date for dividend and share purchase date for Pearson with caution. dividend reinvestment 7 May For more information, please log on to our website at Payment of dividends to mandated accounts www.pearson.com/corporate/investors/share-management/ share-register-fraud.html Should you elect to have your dividends paid through BACS, this can be done directly into a bank or building society account, with the tax Tips on protecting your shares voucher sent to the shareholder’s registered address. Equiniti can be  eep any documentation that contains your shareholder reference K contacted for information on 0371 384 2043*. number in a safe place and shred any unwanted documentation Dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) Inform our registrar, Equiniti, promptly when you change address The DRIP gives shareholders the right to buy the company’s shares Be aware of dividend payment dates and contact the registrar on the London stock market with their cash dividend. For further if you do not receive your dividend cheque or, better still, information, please contact Equiniti on 0371 384 2268*. make arrangements to have the dividend paid directly into your bank account Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) Equiniti offers ISAs in Pearson shares. For more information, Consider holding your shares electronically in a CREST account please go to www.shareview.co.uk/dealing or call customer via a nominee. services on 0345 300 0430*. Principal offices 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, UK T +44 (0)20 7010 2000 F +44 (0)20 7010 6060 221 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, USA T +1 201 236 7000 Pearson plc Registered number 53723 (England) www.pearson.com @pearson Reliance on this document Designed and produced by Friend www.friendstudio.com The intention of this document is to provide information to shareholders and is Print: Pureprint Group not designed to be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose. As part of its offsetting commitments Pearson has offset the carbon dioxide Forward-looking statements generated by the production of this report and associated documents. This document includes forward-looking statements concerning Pearson’s financial This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger Offset which is FSC® certified condition, business and operations and its strategy, plans and objectives. In and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp. The mill and the printer particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections, are both certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system. The report including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market was printed using vegetable-based inks by a CarbonNeutral® printer. trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of financing, anticipated cost savings and synergies and the execution of Pearson’s strategy, are forward-looking statements. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may occur in the future. They are based on numerous expectations, assumptions and beliefs regarding Pearson’s present and future business strategies and the environment in which it will operate in the future. There are various factors which could cause Pearson’s actual financial condition, results and development to differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements, many of which are outside Pearson’s control. These include international, national and local conditions, as well as the impact of competition. They also include other risks detailed from time to time in Pearson’s publicly-filed documents and, in particular, the risk factors set out in this document, which you are advised to read. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except as required by law, Pearson gives no undertaking to update any forward-looking statements in this document whether as a result of new information, future developments, changes in its expectations or otherwise. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. SKILLS PROGRESS P E R S O N A L I S E D ONLINE THE TALENT ECONOMY COLL ABOR ATION EFFICACY SUSTAINABILITY E F F I C A C Y A S S E S S M EN T S CRE ATI V IT Y C AREER S LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP CRITICAL LIFELONG LEARNING L E A R N E R S CRE ATI V IT Y E XPERIENTIAL PERSONALISED THINKING C AREERS P ROG R E S S SUSTAINABILITY L E A R N E R S CONTENT PROGRESS PR O G R E S S OUTCOMES LEARNING D I G I T A L D I G I TA L PERSONALISED DIGITAL COLLABORATION T A L E N T EFFICACY LEARNING E C O N O M Y UNIQUE GROW TH C R E AT I V I T Y OUTCOMES PERSONALISED S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y C O L L A B O R AT I O N GROW TH OS UUS TTA ICN OA BMI L IET YS DIG I TA L CONTENT SKILLS O N L I N E C O L L A B O R AT I O N CRE ATI V IT Y TALENT ECONOMY LIFELONG LEARNING C AREERS LCOEMAM URNNI C AT I N G LIFELONG ION UNIQUE PERSONALISED CONTENT LE ARNER S LEARNING EFFICACY DIGITA L C R I T I C A L T H I N K I N G CAREERS D I G I T A L L E A R N I N G SUSTAINABILIT Y C A REER S LEADERSHIP A S S E S S M E N T S EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING TALENT LEADERSHIP E F F I C A C Y CRITICAL P R O G R E S S COLLABORATION LEADERSHIP LEARNING L E A R N E R S ONLINE C R I T I C A L THINKING EXPERIENTIAL THINKING EXPERIENTIAL EXPERIENTIAL SKILLS SOF T COLLABORATION LEARNING EF F I C AC Y SKILLS COMMUNICATION PERSONALISED DIGITAL COLLABORATION TALENT UNIQUE TALENT ECONOMY SKILLS LIFELONG LE ARNING DIGITAL SUSTAINABILIT Y SUS TA IN A BILI T Y
